PXD040399	10117404	Rural hospitals' viability and strategic responses. 	Systemic LRG1 expression in melanoma is associated with disease progression and recurrence	LRG1, checkpoint inhibitor, melanoma, serum, systemic immune suppression	In 1989 the Catholic Health Association, in conjunction with the University of Iowa Center for Health Services Research, surveyed chief executive officers (CEOs) of rural hospitals regarding their hospital's viability and strategic behaviors and orientations. An extensive questionnaire was sent to the CEOs of all Catholic, all other religious not-for-profit, and all investor-owned rural hospitals, as well as to a 50 percent random sample of government and other not-for-profit rural hospitals. CEOs on average perceived that their hospital's viability relative to that of other rural hospitals was higher in 1989 than it had been in 1987. Ninety-four percent of hospitals whose CEOs perceived an increase in viability had been medium- or low-viability hospitals two years earlier. Thus, despite reports of deteriorating conditions for rural hospitals, rural hospital CEOs appeared to be relatively optimistic regarding their institution's viability. Changes in strategic direction accompanied these perceived increases in viability. The predominant strategic orientation adopted by rural hospitals in 1987 was that of the defender, but many hospitals that used this approach switched to the analyzer orientation by 1989. Significant shifts also occurred toward the reactor orientation from the analyzer and defender orientations. A greater percentage of hospitals with a perceived increase in viability between 1987 and 1989 altered their organizational role. The most common change for these hospitals was from limited care to basic care.
PXD040486	10222127	Ectopic overexpression of Drosophila lamin C is stage-specific lethal. 	Mepiquat chloride (DPC) is a white powder, odorless and stable chemical compound. Physiology and Proteomics Reveal the Regulatory Mechanism of DPC on Soybean	growth, mepilium, physiology, resilience1, soybean	To gain insight into the function of the developmentally regulated A-type lamins we transformed Drosophila melanogaster with a construct containing the hsp70 promoter followed by the Drosophila lamin C (an analog of vertebrate A-type lamins) cDNA. Lamin C was expressed ectopically after heat shock of embryos and localized to the nucleus. No phenotypic change was observed after lamin C expression in embryos that normally do not contain lamin C. However, ectopic expression of lamin C during most larval (but not pupal) stages stalled growth, inhibited ecdysteroid signaling (in particular during the larval-prepupal transition), resulted in development of melanotic tumors, and finally caused death. During pupation in control animals, when massive apoptosis of larval tissues takes place, lamin C is proteolyzed into a fragment with a size similar to that predicted by caspase cleavage. The ectopically expressed lamin C is identically cleaved, resulting in a large increase of the steady-state level of the lamin C fragment. A null mutation of the dcp-1 gene, one of the two known Drosophila caspase genes, also results in development of melanotic tumors and larval death, suggesting that the ectopically expressed lamin C inhibits apoptosis through competitive inhibition of caspase activity.
PXD043709	10563155	[Evaluation of the scientific activity through bibliometric indices]. 	Chemical acetylation of ligands and two-step digestion protocol for reducing co-digestion in affinity purification-mass spectrometry	GFP, Sulfo-NHS-Acetate, affinity purification, chemical acetylation, immunopurification, ligand, nanobody, streptavidin	The scope of bibliometric studies is the treatment and quantitative analysis of scientific publications. They belong to the so-called "social studies of science", and science policy constitutes one of its main applied fields. These studies efficiently complement the opinions and judgements of experts, thus providing objective and useful tools for evaluating the results of scientific activity. Nevertheless, given the impact that these evaluations have on the assignment of funding for research and even on the professional career of investigators, it becomes essential to know in detail the characteristics of bibliometric indicators and the limitations of their use. The Science Citation Index database is one of the most employed. In the case of biomedical research it is useful to analyze the most internationally visible scientific production, since it satisfactorily covers biomedical journals; however, clinical research with local interest published in Spanish journals is not included in that database. Widely employed bibliometric indicators are those measuring scientific activity through the number of publications, those based on the citations received by published studies and, in between them, the impact of journals. The impact factor is an indicator very used in bibliometric studies; though occasionally a high impact factor is assumed to reflect high quality, this indicator specifically measures visibility and diffusion of the works published by these journals rather than their scientific quality.
PXD052758	11549365	Solid-phase Mannich condensation of amines, aldehydes, and alkynes: investigation of diverse aldehyde inputs. 	Proteomic analysis of Tmem232-/- and wild type mice sperm	Proteomic analysis, Tmem232-/-, mice sperm	Terminal alkynes, secondary amines, and aldehydes undergo "solid-phase Mannich condensation". A set of diverse aldehyde inputs was examined. Aliphatic, aralkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl carboxaldehydes give good yields of Mannich adduct of high purity. Benzaldehydes containing electron-donating substituents that decrease the electrophilicity of the carbonyl center, or heteroaryl aldehydes that are similarly deactivated by resonance effects, do not undergo reaction.
PXD031015	1828340	Biosynthesis of the 67 kDa high affinity laminin receptor. 	Gut bacterial nutrient preferences quantified in vivo	Cecal Content, Isotope, Microbiome	High affinity interactions between cells and laminin are mediated, at least in part, by the 67 kDa laminin receptor (67 LR). A 37 kDa nascent polypeptide (37 LRP), predicted by a full length cDNA clone and obtained by in vitro translation of hybrid-selected laminin receptor mRNA, has been immunologically identified in cancer cell extracts as the putative precursor of the 67 LR. In this study, we used affinity purified antibodies developed against cDNA-deduced 37 LRP synthetic peptides in pulse chase experiments and demonstrated a precursor-product relationship between the 37 LRP and the 67 LR. Immunoblot, pulse chase and immunofluorescence experiments showed that transient transfection of the full length 37 LRP cDNA clone induced a dramatic increase in the synthesis of the 37 LRP but not of the mature 67 LR. We propose that the 67 LR results from the association of two gene products: the 37 LRP and a polypeptide yet to be identified.
PXD000699	18546472	Gene expansion in Trichomonas vaginalis: a case study on transmembrane cyclases. 	Trichomonas vaginalis         .	Con-A, Trichomonas vaginalis, trichomoniasis	The draft genome of Trichomonas vaginalis was recently published, but not much is known on why it has such a large genome. In part this size is due to many gene family expansions. For example we found over 100 members in the adenylyl cyclase family. About half are complete full length genes, and nearly half are initially confirmed to be pseudogenes, the remaining are either incomplete or the apparent result of assembly or sequencing problems. The family can be divided into two subgroups by sequence similarity. These can then be divided into functional and pseudo genes. Among all four of these sets the cyclase domain is very well conserved. We gave three possible hypotheses for that observation: a) Sequencing error or stop-codon read-through; b) Recency of duplication and mutation; c) The likelihood of functional pseudogene.
PXD020449	19155217	Ribosomal protein S19 interacts with macrophage migration inhibitory factor and attenuates its pro-inflammatory function. 	Interactomes of Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) and its homologue D-dopachrome tautomerase (D-DT )	D-DT, Interactome, MIF, NIH 3T3	Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a pleiotropic cytokine that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory disorders such as infection, sepsis, and autoimmune disease. MIF exists preformed in cytoplasmic pools and exhibits an intrinsic tautomerase and oxidoreductase activity. MIF levels are elevated in the serum of animals and patients with infection or different inflammatory disorders. To elucidate how MIF actions are controlled, we searched for endogenous MIF-interacting proteins with the potential to interfere with key MIF functions. Using in vivo biotin-tagging and endogenous co-immunoprecipitation, the ribosomal protein S19 (RPS19) was identified as a novel MIF binding partner. Surface plasmon resonance and pulldown experiments with wild type and mutant MIF revealed a direct physical interaction of the two proteins (K(D) = 1.3 x 10(-6) m). As RPS19 is released in inflammatory lesions by apoptotic cells, we explored whether it affects MIF function and inhibits its binding to receptors CD74 and CXCR2. Low doses of RPS19 were found to strongly inhibit MIF-CD74 interaction. Furthermore, RPS19 significantly compromised CXCR2-dependent MIF-triggered adhesion of monocytes to endothelial cells under flow conditions. We, therefore, propose that RPS19 acts as an extracellular negative regulator of MIF.
PXD006484	20615873	Immune responses are characterized by specific shared immunoglobulin peptides that can be detected by proteomic techniques. 	Immune repertoire after immunization as seen by next generation sequencing and proteomics	Immune repertoire, NGS, immunization, immunoglobulins, proteogenomics	In the adaptive immune response, immunoglobulins develop that bind specifically to the antigens to which the organism was exposed. Immunoglobulins may bind to known or unknown antigens in a variety of diseases and have been used in the past to identify novel antigens for use as a biomarker. We propose that the immunoglobulins themselves could also be used as biomarkers in antibody-mediated disease. In this proteomic study, rats were immunized with one of two purified antigens, and immunoglobulins from pre- and postimmune sera were analyzed with nano-LC coupled mass spectrometry. It was found that the two treatment groups could be distinguished based on cluster analysis of the immunoglobulin peptides from the immune sera. In addition, we identified 684 specific peptides that were differentially present in one of the two treated groups. We could find an amino acid sequence for 44% of the features in the mass spectra by combining database-driven and de novo sequencing techniques. The latter were essential for sequence identification, as the more common database-driven approach suffers from a poor representation of immunoglobulins in the available databases. Our data show that the development of immunoglobulins during an immune response is not a fully random process, but that instead selection pressures exist that favor the best binding amino acid sequences, and that this selection is shared between different animals. This finding implies that immunoglobulin peptides could indeed be a powerful and easily accessible class of biomarkers.
PXD006148	21189417	Discovery of mouse spleen signaling responses to anthrax using label-free quantitative phosphoproteomics via mass spectrometry. 	Discovery of Mouse Spleen Signaling Responses to Anthrax using Label-Free Quantitative Phosphoproteomics via Mass Spectrometry	Anthrax, Label-Free, Phosphoproteomics, Spleen	Inhalational anthrax is caused by spores of the bacterium Bacillus anthracis (B. anthracis), and is an extremely dangerous disease that can kill unvaccinated victims within 2 weeks. Modern antibiotic-based therapy can increase the survival rate to ~50%, but only if administered presymptomatically (within 24-48 h of exposure). To discover host signaling responses to presymptomatic anthrax, label-free quantitative phosphoproteomics via liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry was used to compare spleens from uninfected and spore-challenged mice over a 72 h time-course. Spleen proteins were denatured using urea, reduced using dithiothreitol, alkylated using iodoacetamide, and digested into peptides using trypsin, and the resulting phosphopeptides were enriched using titanium dioxide solid-phase extraction and analyzed by nano-liquid chromatography-Linear Trap Quadrupole-Orbitrap-MS(/MS). The fragment ion spectra were processed using DeconMSn and searched using both Mascot and SEQUEST resulting in 252,626 confident identifications of 6248 phosphopeptides (corresponding to 5782 phosphorylation sites). The precursor ion spectra were deisotoped using Decon2LS and aligned using MultiAlign resulting in the confident quantitation of 3265 of the identified phosphopeptides. ANOVAs were used to produce a q-value ranked list of host signaling responses. Late-stage (48-72 h postchallenge) Sterne strain (lethal) infections resulted in global alterations to the spleen phosphoproteome. In contrast, DeltaSterne strain (asymptomatic; missing the anthrax toxin) infections resulted in 188 (5.8%) significantly altered (q<0.05) phosphopeptides. Twenty-six highly tentative phosphorylation responses to early-stage (24 h postchallenge) anthrax were discovered (q<0.5), and ten of these originated from eight proteins that have known roles in the host immune response. These tentative early-anthrax host response signaling events within mouse spleens may translate into presymptomatic diagnostic biomarkers of human anthrax detectable within circulating immune cells, and could aid in the identification of pathogenic mechanisms and therapeutic targets.
PXD010215	21191032	Proteomic pathway analysis reveals inflammation increases myeloid-derived suppressor cell resistance to apoptosis. 	Proteomic Pathway Analysis Reveals Inflammation Increases Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cell Resistance to Apoptosis	Apoptosis, Inflammation, MDSC	Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) accumulate in patients and animals with cancer where they mediate systemic immune suppression and obstruct immune-based cancer therapies. We have previously demonstrated that inflammation, which frequently accompanies tumor onset and progression, increases the rate of accumulation and the suppressive potency of MDSC. To determine how inflammation enhances MDSC levels and activity we used mass spectrometry to identify proteins produced by MDSC induced in highly inflammatory settings. Proteomic pathway analysis identified the Fas pathway and caspase network proteins, leading us to hypothesize that inflammation enhances MDSC accumulation by increasing MDSC resistance to Fas-mediated apoptosis. The MS findings were validated and extended by biological studies. Using activated caspase 3 and caspase 8 as indicators of apoptosis, flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, and Western blot analyses demonstrated that inflammation-induced MDSC treated with a Fas agonist contain lower levels of activated caspases, suggesting that inflammation enhances resistance to Fas-mediated apoptosis. Resistance to Fas-mediated apoptosis was confirmed by viability studies of MDSC treated with a Fas agonist. These results suggest that an inflammatory environment, which is frequently present in tumor-bearing individuals, protects MDSC against extrinsic-induced apoptosis resulting in MDSC with a longer in vivo half-life, and may explain why MDSC accumulate more rapidly and to higher levels in inflammatory settings.
PXD041958	21285414	Quantitative tracking of isotope flows in proteomes of microbial communities. 	Quantitative Tracking of Isotope Flows in Proteomes of Microbial Communities	15N labeling, SIP, stable isotope	Stable isotope probing (SIP) has been used to track nutrient flows in microbial communities, but existing protein-based SIP methods capable of quantifying the degree of label incorporation into peptides and proteins have been demonstrated only by targeting usually less than 100 proteins per sample. Our method automatically (i) identifies the sequence of and (ii) quantifies the degree of heavy atom enrichment for thousands of proteins from microbial community proteome samples. These features make our method suitable for comparing isotopic differences between closely related protein sequences, and for detecting labeling patterns in low-abundance proteins or proteins derived from rare community members. The proteomic SIP method was validated using proteome samples of known stable isotope incorporation levels at 0.4%, ~50%, and ~98%. The method was then used to monitor incorporation of (15)N into established and regrowing microbial biofilms. The results indicate organism-specific migration patterns from established communities into regrowing communities and provide insights into metabolism during biofilm formation. The proteomic SIP method can be extended to many systems to track fluxes of (13)C or (15)N in microbial communities.
PXD010152	21472528	A novel two-stage tandem mass spectrometry approach and scoring scheme for the identification of O-GlcNAc modified peptides. 	A Novel Two-Stage Tandem Mass Spectrometry Approach and Scoring Scheme for the Identification of O-GlcNAc Modified Peptides	O-GlcNAc	The modification of serine and threonine residues in proteins by a single N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) residue is an emerging post-translational modification (PTM) with broad biological implications. However, the systematic or large-scale analysis of this PTM is hampered by several factors, including low stoichiometry and the lability of the O-glycosidic bond during tandem mass spectrometry. Using a library of 72 synthetic glycopeptides, we developed a two-stage tandem MS approach consisting of pulsed Q dissociation (PQD) for O-GlcNAc peptide detection and electron transfer dissociation (ETD) for identification and site localization. Based on a set of O-GlcNAc specific fragment ions, we further developed a score (OScore) that discriminates O-GlcNAc peptide spectra from spectra of unmodified peptides with 95% sensitivity and >99% specificity. Integrating the OScore into the two-stage LC-MS/MS approach detected O-GlcNAc peptides in the low fmol range and at 10-fold better sensitivity than a single data-dependent ETD tandem MS experiment.
PXD034877	21714549	Proteomic characterization of human milk fat globule membrane proteins during a 12 month lactation period. 	Proteomic Characterization of Human Milk Fat Globule Membrane Proteins during a 12 Month Lactation Period	Human Milk, Lactation, MFGM	The milk fat globule membrane (MFGM) contains proteins which have been implicated in a variety of health benefits. Milk fat globule membrane proteins were isolated from human milk during a 12 month lactation period and subjected to in-solution digestion and liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry analysis. Data were pooled, and our results showed that 191 proteins were identified. Relative quantification of the identified MFGM proteins during the course of lactation was performed by label free spectral counting and differentiation expression analysis, which showed some proteins decreasing during the course of lactation whereas some increased or remained at a relatively constant level. The human MFGM proteins are distributed between intracellular, extracellular, and membrane-associated proteins, and they are mainly involved in cell communication and signal transduction, immune function, metabolism and energy production. This study provides more insights into the dynamic composition of human MFGM proteins, which in turn will enhance our understanding of the physiological significance of MFGM proteins.
PXD015756	21842862	PUB-MS: a mass spectrometry-based method to monitor protein-protein proximity in vivo. 	Development of a method for quantitative analysis of in vivo interactions of pluripotency transcription factors Sox2, Oct4, Nanog by mass spectrometry	Oct4, Pluripotency, Sox2, proximity utilizing biotinylation, transcription factors	The common techniques to study protein-protein proximity in vivo are not well adapted to the capabilities and the expertise of a standard proteomics laboratory, typically based on the use of mass spectrometry. With the aim of closing this gap, we have developed PUB-MS (for proximity utilizing biotinylation and mass spectrometry), an approach to monitor protein-protein proximity, based on biotinylation of a protein fused to a biotin-acceptor peptide (BAP) by a biotin-ligase, BirA, fused to its interaction partner. The biotinylation status of the BAP can be further detected by either Western analysis or mass spectrometry. The BAP sequence was redesigned for easy monitoring of the biotinylation status by LC-MS/MS. In several experimental models, we demonstrate that the biotinylation in vivo is specifically enhanced when the BAP- and BirA-fused proteins are in proximity to each other. The advantage of mass spectrometry is demonstrated by using BAPs with different sequences in a single experiment (allowing multiplex analysis) and by the use of stable isotopes. Finally, we show that our methodology can be also used to study a specific subfraction of a protein of interest that was in proximity with another protein at a predefined time before the analysis.
PXD008969	21963274	Depletion of highly abundant proteins in blood plasma by ammonium sulfate precipitation for 2D-PAGE analysis. 	AS precipitation and protein A affinity chromatography for abundant plasma protein depletion	Plasma, abundant protein depletion	Ammonium sulfate precipitation (ASP) was explored as a method for depleting some highly abundant proteins from blood plasma, in order to reduce the dynamic range of protein concentration and to improve the detection of low abundance proteins by 2D-PAGE. 40% ammonium sulfate saturation was chosen since it allowed depleting 39% albumin and 82% alpha-1-antitrypsin. ASP-depletion showed high reproducibility in 2D-PAGE analysis (4.2% variation in relative abundance of albumin), similar to that offered by commercial affinity-depletion columns. Besides, it allowed detecting 59 spots per gel, very close to the number of spots detected in immuno-affinity-depleted plasma. Thus, ASP at 40% saturation is a reliable depletion method that may help in proteomic analysis of blood plasma. Finally, ASP-depletion seems to be complementary to hydrophobic interaction chromatography (HIC)-depletion, and therefore an ASP-step followed by a HIC-step could probably deplete the most highly abundant plasma proteins, thus improving the detection of low abundance proteins by 2D-PAGE.
PXD003919	22261194	Proteomics analysis of cardiac extracellular matrix remodeling in a porcine model of ischemia/reperfusion injury. 	Proteomics analysis of cardiac extracellular matrix remodeling in a porcine model of ischemia/reperfusion injury: Infarcted, Guanidine	Cardiovascular, extracellular matrix, heart, pig	BACKGROUND: After myocardial ischemia, extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition occurs at the site of the focal injury and at the border region. METHODS AND RESULTS: We have applied a novel proteomic method for the analysis of ECM in cardiovascular tissues to a porcine model of ischemia/reperfusion injury. ECM proteins were sequentially extracted and identified by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. For the first time, ECM proteins such as cartilage intermediate layer protein 1, matrilin-4, extracellular adipocyte enhancer binding protein 1, collagen alpha-1(XIV), and several members of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan family, including asporin and prolargin, were shown to contribute to cardiac remodeling. A comparison in 2 distinct cardiac regions (the focal injury in the left ventricle and the border region close to the occluded coronary artery) revealed a discordant regulation of protein and mRNA levels; although gene expression for selected ECM proteins was similar in both regions, the corresponding protein levels were much higher in the focal lesion. Further analysis based on >100 ECM proteins delineated a signature of early- and late-stage cardiac remodeling with transforming growth factor-beta1 signaling at the center of the interaction network. Finally, novel cardiac ECM proteins identified by proteomics were validated in human left ventricular tissue acquired from ischemic cardiomyopathy patients at cardiac transplantation. CONCLUSION: Our findings reveal a biosignature of early- and late-stage ECM remodeling after myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury, which may have clinical utility as a prognostic marker and modifiable target for drug discovery.
PXD008302	22393262	Glycomic and proteomic profiling of pancreatic cyst fluids identifies hyperfucosylated lactosamines on the N-linked glycans of overexpressed glycoproteins. 	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Pancreatic Cyst Fluid Proteins Associated with Malignancy in Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasms	IPMN dysplasia, biomarker candidates, intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN), mucinous cystic neoplasm (MCN), pancreatic cyst fluid	Pancreatic cancer is now the fourth leading cause of cancer deaths in the United States, and it is associated with an alarmingly low 5-year survival rate of 5%. However, a patient's prognosis is considerably improved when the malignant lesions are identified at an early stage of the disease and removed by surgical resection. Unfortunately, the absence of a practical screening strategy and clinical diagnostic test for identifying premalignant lesions within the pancreas often prevents early detection of pancreatic cancer. To aid in the development of a molecular screening system for early detection of the disease, we have performed glycomic and glycoproteomic profiling experiments on 21 pancreatic cyst fluid samples, including fluids from mucinous cystic neoplasms and intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms, two types of mucinous cysts that are considered high risk to undergo malignant transformation. A total of 80 asparagine-linked (N-linked) glycans, including high mannose and complex structures, were identified. Of special interest was a series of complex N-linked glycans containing two to six fucose residues, located predominantly as substituents on beta-lactosamine extensions. Following the observation of these "hyperfucosylated" glycans, bottom-up proteomics experiments utilizing a label-free quantitative approach were applied to the investigation of two sets of tryptically digested proteins derived from the cyst fluids: 1) all soluble proteins in the raw samples and 2) a subproteome of the soluble cyst fluid proteins that were selectively enriched for fucosylation through the use of surface-immobilized Aleuria aurantia lectin. A comparative analysis of these two proteomic data sets identified glycoproteins that were significantly enriched by lectin affinity. Several candidate glycoproteins that appear hyperfucosylated were identified, including triacylglycerol lipase and pancreatic alpha-amylase, which were 20- and 22-fold more abundant, respectively, following A. aurantia lectin enrichment.
PXD002098	22442255	Super-SILAC allows classification of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma subtypes by their protein expression profiles. 	Super-SILAC Allows Classification of Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma Subtypes by Their Protein Expression Profiles	DLBCL, classification, lymphoma, super SILAC	Correct classification of cancer patients into subtypes is a prerequisite for acute diagnosis and effective treatment. Currently this classification relies mainly on histological assessment, but gene expression analysis by microarrays has shown great promise. Here we show that high accuracy, quantitative proteomics can robustly segregate cancer subtypes directly at the level of expressed proteins. We investigated two histologically indistinguishable subtypes of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL): activated B-cell-like (ABC) and germinal-center B-cell-like (GCB) subtypes, by first developing a general lymphoma stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) mix from heavy stable isotope-labeled cell lines. This super-SILAC mix was combined with cell lysates from five ABC-DLBCL and five GCB-DLBCL cell lines. Shotgun proteomic analysis on a linear ion trap Orbitrap mass spectrometer with high mass accuracy at the MS and MS/MS levels yielded a proteome of more than 7,500 identified proteins. High accuracy of quantification allowed robust separation of subtypes by principal component analysis. The main contributors to the classification included proteins known to be differentially expressed between the subtypes such as the transcription factors IRF4 and SPI1/PU.1, cell surface markers CD44 and CD27, as well as novel candidates. We extracted a signature of 55 proteins that segregated subtypes and contained proteins connected to functional differences between the ABC and GCB-DLBCL subtypes, including many NF-kappaB-regulated genes. Shortening the analysis time to single-shot analysis combined with use of the new linear quadrupole Orbitrap analyzer (Q Exactive) also clearly differentiated between the subtypes. These results show that high resolution shotgun proteomics combined with super-SILAC-based quantification is a promising new technology for tumor characterization and classification.
PXD000575	22707618	Isolation and proteomic characterization of the mouse sperm acrosomal matrix. 	Mouse Acrosomal Matrix LC-MS/MS	Acrosomal matrix, Acrosome, Spermatozoa	A critical step during fertilization is the sperm acrosome reaction in which the acrosome releases its contents allowing the spermatozoa to penetrate the egg investments. The sperm acrosomal contents are composed of both soluble material and an insoluble material called the acrosomal matrix (AM). The AM is thought to provide a stable structure from which associated proteins are differentially released during fertilization. Because of its important role during fertilization, efforts have been put toward isolating the AM for biochemical study and to date AM have been isolated from hamster, guinea pig, and bull spermatozoa. However, attempts to isolate AM from mouse spermatozoa, the species in which fertilization is well-studied, have been unsuccessful possibly because of the small size of the mouse sperm acrosome and/or its fusiform shape. Herein we describe a procedure for the isolation of the AM from caput and cauda mouse epididymal spermatozoa. We further carried out a proteomic analysis of the isolated AM from both sperm populations and identified 501 new proteins previously not detected by proteomics in mouse spermatozoa. A comparison of the AM proteome from caput and cauda spermatozoa showed that the AM undergoes maturational changes during epididymal transit similar to other sperm domains. Together, our studies suggest the AM to be a dynamic and functional structure carrying out a variety of biological processes as implied by the presence of a diverse group of proteins including proteases, chaperones, hydrolases, transporters, enzyme modulators, transferases, cytoskeletal proteins, and others.
PXD014834	22810696	Comprehensive molecular characterization of human colon and rectal cancer. 	CPTAC, TCGA Cancer Proteome Study of Colorectal Tissue / Global Proteome Analysis of Normal Colon Epithelium Samples	CPTAC	To characterize somatic alterations in colorectal carcinoma, we conducted a genome-scale analysis of 276 samples, analysing exome sequence, DNA copy number, promoter methylation and messenger RNA and microRNA expression. A subset of these samples (97) underwent low-depth-of-coverage whole-genome sequencing. In total, 16% of colorectal carcinomas were found to be hypermutated: three-quarters of these had the expected high microsatellite instability, usually with hypermethylation and MLH1 silencing, and one-quarter had somatic mismatch-repair gene and polymerase epsilon (POLE) mutations. Excluding the hypermutated cancers, colon and rectum cancers were found to have considerably similar patterns of genomic alteration. Twenty-four genes were significantly mutated, and in addition to the expected APC, TP53, SMAD4, PIK3CA and KRAS mutations, we found frequent mutations in ARID1A, SOX9 and FAM123B. Recurrent copy-number alterations include potentially drug-targetable amplifications of ERBB2 and newly discovered amplification of IGF2. Recurrent chromosomal translocations include the fusion of NAV2 and WNT pathway member TCF7L1. Integrative analyses suggest new markers for aggressive colorectal carcinoma and an important role for MYC-directed transcriptional activation and repression.
PXD000005	22864569	Proteomic screen reveals Fbw7 as a modulator of the NF-kappaB pathway. 	Proteomic screen reveals Fbw7 as a modulator of the NF-kB pathway	LC-MSMS Orbitrap human colon epithelium Fbw7 HiRIEF	Fbw7 is a ubiquitin-ligase that targets several oncoproteins for proteolysis, but the full range of Fbw7 substrates is not known. Here we show that by performing quantitative proteomics combined with degron motif searches, we effectively screened for a more complete set of Fbw7 targets. We identify 89 putative Fbw7 substrates, including several disease-associated proteins. The transcription factor NF-kappaB2 (p100/p52) is one of the candidate Fbw7 substrates. We show that Fbw7 interacts with p100 via a conserved degron and that it promotes degradation of p100 in a GSK3beta phosphorylation-dependent manner. Fbw7 inactivation increases p100 levels, which in the presence of NF-kappaB pathway stimuli, leads to increased p52 levels and activity. Accordingly, the apoptotic threshold can be increased by loss of Fbw7 in a p100-dependent manner. In conclusion, Fbw7-mediated destruction of p100 is a regulatory component restricting the response to NF-kappaB2 pathway stimulation.
PXD002287	22865919	Proteome-wide analysis of lysine acetylation suggests its broad regulatory scope in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Proteome-wide analysis of lysine acetylation suggests its broad regulatory scope in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, acetylation, acetylome, rpd3	Post-translational modification of proteins by lysine acetylation plays important regulatory roles in living cells. The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a widely used unicellular eukaryotic model organism in biomedical research. S. cerevisiae contains several evolutionary conserved lysine acetyltransferases and deacetylases. However, only a few dozen acetylation sites in S. cerevisiae are known, presenting a major obstacle for further understanding the regulatory roles of acetylation in this organism. Here we use high resolution mass spectrometry to identify about 4000 lysine acetylation sites in S. cerevisiae. Acetylated proteins are implicated in the regulation of diverse cytoplasmic and nuclear processes including chromatin organization, mitochondrial metabolism, and protein synthesis. Bioinformatic analysis of yeast acetylation sites shows that acetylated lysines are significantly more conserved compared with nonacetylated lysines. A large fraction of the conserved acetylation sites are present on proteins involved in cellular metabolism, protein synthesis, and protein folding. Furthermore, quantification of the Rpd3-regulated acetylation sites identified several previously known, as well as new putative substrates of this deacetylase. Rpd3 deficiency increased acetylation of the SAGA (Spt-Ada-Gcn5-Acetyltransferase) complex subunit Sgf73 on K33. This acetylation site is located within a critical regulatory domain in Sgf73 that interacts with Ubp8 and is involved in the activation of the Ubp8-containing histone H2B deubiquitylase complex. Our data provides the first global survey of acetylation in budding yeast, and suggests a wide-ranging regulatory scope of this modification. The provided dataset may serve as an important resource for the functional analysis of lysine acetylation in eukaryotes.
PXD000014	22915824	Adenoviral E4 gene stimulates secretion of pigmental epithelium derived factor (PEDF) that maintains long-term survival of human glomerulus-derived endothelial cells. 	human 293 cells PEDF LC-MS/MS -  Adenoviral E4 gene stimulates secretion of pigmental epithelium derived factor (PEDF) that maintains long-term survival of human glomerulus-derived endothelial cells	adenovirus, angiogenesis, endothelium, pigmental epithelium derived factor, senecence	Renal glomerular endothelial cells are specialized cells with an important role in physiological filtration and glomerular disease. However, maintenance of human primary endothelial cells requires stimulation with serum and growth factors that often results in modification of the cells properties. Previously, expression of early adenovirus region E4 was shown to help maintaining long-term survival of human endothelial cells in serum free media without addition of growth factors. In the current study, we showed that media conditioned with human epithelial cells stably transfected with Ad E4 region also supported survival of human glomerulus-derived endothelial cells in serum-free media. Mass-spectrometry analysis of the conditioned media identified pigmental epithelium derived factor (PEDF) as a major component of the conditioned media. PEDF expression in 293-E4 cells was validated by RT-PCR, Western blot and ELISA analysis. PEDF expression was detected in mouse glomeruli. Supplementation with recombinant PEDF supported survival of primary endothelial cells and the cells transformed with SV40 large T antigen in serum-free media, and extended the life-span of both cell cultures. PEDF did not inhibit FGF-2 stimulated growth and tubulogenesis of endothelial cells. Thus we demonstrated that adenoviral E4 region stimulated expression and secretion of PEDF by human renal epithelial cells that acted as a survival factor for glomerulus-derived endothelial cells.
PXD000004	22942359	Biochemical fractionation and stable isotope dilution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry for targeted and microdomain-specific protein quantification in human postmortem brain tissue. 	Identification and quantification of human postmortem frontal cortex proteome with a SILAM mouse brain standard	Brain, SILAM	Synaptic architecture and its adaptive changes require numerous molecular events that are both highly ordered and complex. A majority of neuropsychiatric illnesses are complex trait disorders, in which multiple etiologic factors converge at the synapse via many signaling pathways. Investigating the protein composition of synaptic microdomains from human patient brain tissues will yield valuable insights into the interactions of risk genes in many disorders. These types of studies in postmortem tissues have been limited by the lack of proper study paradigms. Thus, it is necessary not only to develop strategies to quantify protein and post-translational modifications at the synapse, but also to rigorously validate them for use in postmortem human brain tissues. In this study we describe the development of a liquid chromatography-selected reaction monitoring method, using a stable isotope-labeled neuronal proteome standard prepared from the brain tissue of a stable isotope-labeled mouse, for the multiplexed quantification of target synaptic proteins in mammalian samples. Additionally, we report the use of this method to validate a biochemical approach for the preparation of synaptic microdomain enrichments from human postmortem prefrontal cortex. Our data demonstrate that a targeted mass spectrometry approach with a true neuronal proteome standard facilitates accurate and precise quantification of over 100 synaptic proteins in mammalian samples, with the potential to quantify over 1000 proteins. Using this method, we found that protein enrichments in subcellular fractions prepared from human postmortem brain tissue were strikingly similar to those prepared from fresh mouse brain tissue. These findings demonstrate that biochemical fractionation methods paired with targeted proteomic strategies can be used in human brain tissues, with important implications for the study of neuropsychiatric disease.
PXD000017	22997143	Analysis of the rat hypothalamus proteome by data-independent label-free LC-MS/MS. 	Analysis of the rat hypothalamus proteome by data independent label-free liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry	hypothalamus, rat	Studies of neuronal, endocrine, and metabolic disorders would be facilitated by characterization of the hypothalamus proteome. Protein extracts prepared from 16 whole rat hypothalami were measured by data-independent label-free nano LC-MS/MS. Peptide features were detected, aligned, and searched against a rat Swiss-Prot database using ProteinLynx Global Server v.2.5. The final combined dataset comprised 21 455 peptides, corresponding to 622 unique proteins, each identified by a minimum of two distinct peptides. The majority of the proteins (69%) were cytosolic, and 16% were membrane proteins. Important proteins involved in neurological and synaptic function were identified including several members of the Ras-related protein family and proteins involved in glutamate biosynthesis.
PXD000025	23030682	Phosphoproteomic analysis of Rhodopseudomonas palustris reveals the role of pyruvate phosphate dikinase phosphorylation in lipid production. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of Rhodopseudomonas palustris	Phosphoprotemics, Rhodopseudomonas palustris	Rhodopseudomonas palustris  (R. palustris) is a purple nonsulfur anoxygenic phototrophic bacterium with metabolic versatility and is able to grow under photoheterotrophic and chemoheterotrophic states. It has uses in carbon management, carbon recycling, hydrogen generation, and lipid production; therefore, it has the potential for bioenergy production and biodegradation. This study is the first to identify the phosphoproteome of R. palustris including 100 phosphopeptides from 54 phosphoproteins and 74 phosphopeptides from 42 phosphoproteins in chemoheterotrophic and photoheterotrophic growth conditions, respectively. In the identified phosphoproteome, phosphorylation at the threonine residue, Thr487, of pyruvate phosphate dikinase (PPDK, RPA1051) was found to participate in the regulation of carbon metabolism. Here, we show that PPDK enzyme activity is higher in photoheterotrophic growth, with Thr487 phosphorylation as a possible mediator. Under the same photoheterotrophic conditions, R. palustris with overexpressed wild-type PPDK showed an enhanced accumulation of total lipids than those with mutant PPDK (T487V) form. This study reveals the role of the PPDK in the production of biodiesel material, lipid content, with threonyl-phosphorylation as one of the possible regulatory events during photoheterotrophic growth in R. palustris.
PXD000007	23081703	Comprehensive mapping of the bull sperm surface proteome. 	Comprehensive mapping of the bull sperm surface proteome	5600 TripleTOF, QSTAR Elite, UltrafleXtreme, bovine, plasma membrane, sperm	While the mechanisms that underpin maturation, capacitation, and sperm-egg interactions remain elusive it is known that these essential fertilisation events are driven by the protein complement of the sperm surface. Understanding these processes is critical to the regulation of animal reproduction, but few studies have attempted to define the full repertoire of sperm surface proteins in animals of agricultural importance. Recent developments in proteomics technologies, subcellular fractionation, and optimised solubilisation strategies have enhanced the potential for the comprehensive characterisation of the sperm surface proteome. Here we report the identification of 419 proteins from a mature bull sperm plasma membrane fraction. Protein domain enrichment analyses indicate that 67% of all the proteins identified may be membrane associated. A large number of the proteins identified are conserved between mammalian species and are reported to play key roles in sperm-egg communication, capacitation and fertility. The major functional pathways identified were related to protein catabolism (26S proteasome complex), chaperonin-containing TCP-1 (CCT) complex and fundamental metabolic processes such as glycolysis and energy production. We have also identified 118 predicted transmembrane proteins, some of which are implicated in cell adhesion, acrosomal exocytosis, vesicle transport and immunity and fertilisation events, while others have not been reported in mammalian LC-MS-derived sperm proteomes to date. Comparative proteomics and functional network analyses of these proteins expand our system's level of understanding of the bull sperm proteome and provide important clues toward finding the essential conserved function of these proteins.
PXD000711	23090971	Comparative proteomics of two life cycle stages of stable isotope-labeled Trypanosoma brucei reveals novel components of the parasite's host adaptation machinery. 	Comparative proteomics of two life cycle stages of stable isotope-labeled Trypanosoma brucei reveals novel components of the parasite's host adaptation machinery.	ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, trypanosomes	Trypanosoma brucei developed a sophisticated life cycle to adapt to different host environments. Although developmental differentiation of T. brucei has been the topic of intensive research for decades, the mechanisms responsible for adaptation to different host environments are not well understood. We developed stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture in trypanosomes to compare the proteomes of two different life cycle stages. Quantitative comparison of 4364 protein groups identified many proteins previously not known to be stage-specifically expressed. The identification of stage-specific proteins helps to understand how parasites adapt to different hosts and provides new insights into differences in metabolism, gene regulation, and cell architecture. A DEAD-box RNA helicase, which is highly up-regulated in the bloodstream form of this parasite and which is essential for viability and proper cell cycle progression in this stage is described as an example.
PXD003914	23145051	Identification of proteins sensitive to thermal stress in human neuroblastoma and glioma cell lines. 	Identification of Proteins Sensitive to Thermal Stress in Human Neuroblastoma and Glioma Cell Lines	CCF-STTG1, SH-SY5Y, cultured cell, detergent insoluble, heatshock	Heat-shock is an acute insult to the mammalian proteome. The sudden elevation in temperature has far-reaching effects on protein metabolism, leads to a rapid inhibition of most protein synthesis, and the induction of protein chaperones. Using heat-shock in cells of neuronal (SH-SY5Y) and glial (CCF-STTG1) lineage, in conjunction with detergent extraction and sedimentation followed by LC-MS/MS proteomic approaches, we sought to identify human proteins that lose solubility upon heat-shock. The two cell lines showed largely overlapping profiles of proteins detected by LC-MS/MS. We identified 58 proteins in detergent insoluble fractions as losing solubility in after heat shock; 10 were common between the 2 cell lines. A subset of the proteins identified by LC-MS/MS was validated by immunoblotting of similarly prepared fractions. Ultimately, we were able to definitively identify 3 proteins as putatively metastable neural proteins; FEN1, CDK1, and TDP-43. We also determined that after heat-shock these cells accumulate insoluble polyubiquitin chains largely linked via lysine 48 (K-48) residues. Collectively, this study identifies human neural proteins that lose solubility upon heat-shock. These proteins may represent components of the human proteome that are vulnerable to misfolding in settings of proteostasis stress.
PXD000027	23172588	Comparative analysis of salt-responsive phosphoproteins in maize leaves using Ti(4+)--IMAC enrichment and ESI-Q-TOF MS. 	maize leaf ESI-Q-TOF MS -  Comparative analysis of salt-responsive phosphoproteins in maize leaves using Ti(4+)--IMAC enrichment and ESI-Q-TOF MS	ESI-Q-TOF MS, leaf, maize(cv. nongda 108)	Salinity is one of the most common abiotic stresses encountered by plants. Reversible protein phosphorylation is involved in plant defense processes against salinity stress. Here, we performed global phosphopeptide mapping through enrichment by our synthesized PVA-phosphate-Ti(4+)  IMAC coupled with subsequent identification by ESI-Q-TOF MS. A total of 104 peptide sequences containing 139 phosphorylation sites were determined from 70 phosphoproteins of the control leaves. In contrast, 124 phosphopeptides containing 143 phosphorylated sites from 92 phosphoproteins were identified in salt-stressed maize leaves. Compared with the control, 47 proteins were phosphorylated, 25 were dephosphorylated, and 45 overlapped. Among the 72 differential phosphoproteins, 35 were known salt stress response proteins and the rest had not been reported in the literature. To dissect the differential phosphorylation, gene ontology annotations were retrieved for the differential phosphoproteins. The results revealed that cell signaling pathway members such as calmodulin and 14-3-3 proteins were regulated in response to 24-h salt stress. Multiple putative salt-responsive phosphoproteins seem to be involved in the regulation of photosynthesis-related processes. These results may help to understand the salt-inducible phosphorylation processes of maize leaves.
PXD000048	23172892	Identification of novel in vivo MAP kinase substrates in Arabidopsis thaliana through use of tandem metal oxide affinity chromatography. 	Tandem MOAC identifies novel in vivo MAP kinase substrates in Arabidopsis thaliana.	MAP Kinases, PTM	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MPK) cascades are important for eukaryotic signal transduction. They convert extracellular stimuli (e.g. some hormones, growth factors, cytokines, microbe- or damage-associated molecular patterns) into intracellular responses while at the same time amplifying the transmitting signal. By doing so, they ensure proper performance, and eventually survival, of a given organism, for example in times of stress. MPK cascades function via reversible phosphorylation of cascade components MEKKs, MEKs, and MPKs. In plants the identity of most MPK substrates remained elusive until now. Here, we provide a robust and powerful approach to identify and quantify, with high selectivity, site-specific phosphorylation of MPK substrate candidates in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Our approach represents a two-step chromatography combining phosphoprotein enrichment using Al(OH)(3)-based metal oxide affinity chromatography, tryptic digest of enriched phosphoproteins, and TiO(2)-based metal oxide affinity chromatography to enrich phosphopeptides from complex protein samples. When applied to transgenic conditional gain-of-function Arabidopsis plants supporting in planta activation of MPKs, the approach allows direct measurement and quantification ex vivo of site-specific phosphorylation of several reported and many yet unknown putative MPK substrates in just a single experiment.
PXD000083	23258535	Glycosyltransferases from oat (Avena) implicated in the acylation of avenacins. 	Glycosyltransferases from oat (Avena) implicated in the acylation of avenacins	Terpenes, cereals, glycosyltransferase, saponin	Plants produce a huge array of specialized metabolites that have important functions in defense against biotic and abiotic stresses. Many of these compounds are glycosylated by family 1 glycosyltransferases (GTs). Oats (Avena spp.) make root-derived antimicrobial triterpenes (avenacins) that provide protection against soil-borne diseases. The ability to synthesize avenacins has evolved since the divergence of oats from other cereals and grasses. The major avenacin, A-1, is acylated with N-methylanthranilic acid. Previously, we have cloned and characterized three genes for avenacin synthesis (for the triterpene synthase SAD1, a triterpene-modifying cytochrome P450 SAD2, and the serine carboxypeptidase-like acyl transferase SAD7), which form part of a biosynthetic gene cluster. Here, we identify a fourth member of this gene cluster encoding a GT belonging to clade L of family 1 (UGT74H5), and show that this enzyme is an N-methylanthranilic acid O-glucosyltransferase implicated in the synthesis of avenacin A-1. Two other closely related family 1 GTs (UGT74H6 and UGT74H7) are also expressed in oat roots. One of these (UGT74H6) is able to glucosylate both N-methylanthranilic acid and benzoic acid, whereas the function of the other (UGT74H7) remains unknown. Our investigations indicate that UGT74H5 is likely to be key for the generation of the activated acyl donor used by SAD7 in the synthesis of the major avenacin, A-1, whereas UGT74H6 may contribute to the synthesis of other forms of avenacin that are acylated with benzoic acid.
PXD000026	23297349	The nuclear protein ALY binds to and modulates the activity of transcription factor E2F2. 	Analysis of E2F2 interacting proteins	E2F2, immunoprecipitation	E2F transcription factors control the expression of genes involved in a variety of essential cellular processes and consequently their activity needs to be tightly regulated. Protein-protein interactions are thought to be key modulators of E2F activity. To gain insight into the mechanisms that regulate the activity of E2F2, we searched for novel proteins that associate with this transcription factor. We show that the nuclear protein ALY (THO complex 4), originally described as a transcriptional co-activator, associates with DNA-bound E2F2 and represses its transcriptional activity. The capacity of ALY to modulate gene expression was analyzed with expression microarrays by characterizing the transcriptome of E2F2 expressing HEK293T cells in which ALY was either overexpressed or silenced. We show that ALY influences the expression of more than 400 genes, including 98 genes bearing consensus E2F motifs. Thus, ALY emerges as a novel E2F2-interacting protein and a relevant modulator of E2F-responsive gene expression.
PXD000036	23300121	A fast and reproducible method for albumin isolation and depletion from serum and cerebrospinal fluid. 	Albuminome from human serum and CSF	CSF, albumin, albuminome, cerebrospinal fluid, serum	Analysis of serum and plasma proteomes is a common approach for biomarker discovery, and the removal of high-abundant proteins, such as albumin and immunoglobins, is usually the first step in the analysis. However, albumin binds peptides and proteins, which raises concerns as to how the removal of albumin could impact the outcome of the biomarker study while ignoring the possibility that this could be a biomarker subproteome itself. The first goal of this study was to test a new commercially available affinity capture reagent from Protea Biosciences and to compare the efficiency and reproducibility to four other commercially available albumin depletion methods. The second goal of this study was to determine if there is a highly efficient albumin depletion/isolation system that minimizes sample handling and would be suitable for large numbers of samples. Two of the methods tested (Sigma and ProteaPrep) showed an albumin depletion efficiency of 97% or greater for both serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Isolated serum and CSF albuminomes from ProteaPrep spin columns were analyzed directly by LC-MS/MS, identifying 128 serum (45 not previously reported) and 94 CSF albuminome proteins (17 unique to the CSF albuminome). Serum albuminome was also isolated using Vivapure anti-HSA columns for comparison, identifying 105 proteins, 81 of which overlapped with the ProteaPrep method.
PXD000821	23375375	In vivo SILAC-based proteomics reveals phosphoproteome changes during mouse skin carcinogenesis. 	In vivo SILAC-based proteomics reveals phosphoproteome changes during mouse skin carcinogenesis	SILAC, phosphoproteomics, skin carcinogenesis	Cancer progresses through distinct stages, and mouse models recapitulating traits of this progression are frequently used to explore genetic, morphological, and pharmacological aspects of tumor development. To complement genomic investigations of this process, we here quantify phosphoproteomic changes in skin cancer development using the SILAC mouse technology coupled to high-resolution mass spectrometry. We distill protein expression signatures from our data that distinguish between skin cancer stages. A distinct phosphoproteome of the two stages of cancer progression is identified that correlates with perturbed cell growth and implicates cell adhesion as a major driver of malignancy. Importantly, integrated analysis of phosphoproteomic data and prediction of kinase activity revealed PAK4-PKC/SRC network to be highly deregulated in SCC but not in papilloma. This detailed molecular picture, both at the proteome and phosphoproteome level, will prove useful for the study of mechanisms of tumor progression.
PXD000047	23403292	Endogenous purification reveals GREB1 as a key estrogen receptor regulatory factor. 	Endogenous Purification Reveals GREB1 as a Key Estrogen Receptor Regulatory Factor	RIME	Estrogen receptor-alpha (ER) is the driving transcription factor in most breast cancers, and its associated proteins can influence drug response, but direct methods for identifying interacting proteins have been limited. We purified endogenous ER using an approach termed RIME (rapid immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry of endogenous proteins) and discovered the interactome under agonist- and antagonist-liganded conditions in breast cancer cells, revealing transcriptional networks in breast cancer. The most estrogen-enriched ER interactor is GREB1, a potential clinical biomarker with no known function. GREB1 is shown to be a chromatin-bound ER coactivator and is essential for ER-mediated transcription, because it stabilizes interactions between ER and additional cofactors. We show a GREB1-ER interaction in three xenograft tumors, and using a directed protein-protein approach, we find GREB1-ER interactions in half of ER(+) primary breast cancers. This finding is supported by histological expression of GREB1, which shows that GREB1 is expressed in half of ER(+) cancers, and predicts good clinical outcome. These findings reveal an unexpected role for GREB1 as an estrogen-specific ER cofactor that is expressed in drug-sensitive contexts.
PXD000020	23408684	The metabolic regulation of sporulation and parasporal crystal formation in Bacillus thuringiensis revealed by transcriptomics and proteomics. 	The metabolic regulation of sporulation and parasporal crystal formation in Bacillus thuringiensis revealed by transcriptomics and proteomics	Bacillus thuringiensis LC-MS/MS	Bacillus thuringiensis is a well-known entomopathogenic bacterium used worldwide as an environmentally compatible biopesticide. During sporulation, B. thuringiensis accumulates a large number of parasporal crystals consisting of insecticidal crystal proteins (ICPs) that can account for nearly 20-30% of the cell's dry weight. However, the metabolic regulation mechanisms of ICP synthesis remain to be elucidated. In this study, the combined efforts in transcriptomics and proteomics mainly uncovered the following 6 metabolic regulation mechanisms: (1) proteases and the amino acid metabolism (particularly, the branched-chain amino acids) became more active during sporulation; (2) stored poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoin, together with some low-quality substances provided considerable carbon and energy sources for sporulation and parasporal crystal formation; (3) the pentose phosphate shunt demonstrated an interesting regulation mechanism involving gluconate when CT-43 cells were grown in GYS medium; (4) the tricarboxylic acid cycle was significantly modified during sporulation; (5) an obvious increase in the quantitative levels of enzymes and cytochromes involved in energy production via the electron transport system was observed; (6) most F0F1-ATPase subunits were remarkably up-regulated during sporulation. This study, for the first time, systematically reveals the metabolic regulation mechanisms involved in the supply of amino acids, carbon substances, and energy for B. thuringiensis spore and parasporal crystal formation at both the transcriptional and translational levels.
PXD000043	23416132	Proteomic profiling of thermal acclimation in Drosophila melanogaster. 	Proteomic profiling of thermal acclimation in Drosophila melanogaster	acclimation, fruit fly, thermotolerance	Thermal acclimation drastically alters thermotolerance of ectotherms, but the mechanisms determining this plastic response are not fully understood. The present study investigates the proteomic response (2D-DIGE) of adult Drosophila melanogaster acclimated at 11, 25 or 31 degreesC. As expected 11 degreesC-acclimation improved cold tolerance and 31 degreesC-acclimation improved heat tolerance. We hypothesized that the marked organismal responses to acclimation could be detected at the proteomic level assuming that changes in the abundance of specific proteins are linked to the physiological changes underlying the phenotypic response. The 31 degreesC-acclimated flies displayed a particular divergent proteomic profile where molecular chaperones made up a large number of the proteins that were modulated during heat acclimation. Many other proteins showed significant modulation during acclimation including proteins involved in iron ion and cell redox homeostasis, carbohydrate and energy metabolism, chromatin remodeling and translation, and contractile machinery. Interestingly the changes in protein abundance were often unrelated to transcriptional activity of the genes coding for the proteins, except for the most strongly expressed proteins (e.g. Hsp70). The 11 degreesC-acclimation evoked weak proteomic response despite the marked effect on the organismal phenotype. Thus the acquired cold tolerance observed here may involve regulatory process such as posttranslational regulation rather than de novo protein synthesis.
PXD000143	23434322	Dynamic readers for 5-(hydroxy)methylcytosine and its oxidized derivatives. 	Dynamic readers for 5-(hydroxy)methylcytosine and its oxidized derivatives	5-hydroxymethylcytosine, chromatin readers, differentiation, quantitative mass spectrometry, stem cells	Tet proteins oxidize 5-methylcytosine (mC) to generate 5-hydroxymethyl (hmC), 5-formyl (fC), and 5-carboxylcytosine (caC). The exact function of these oxidative cytosine bases remains elusive. We applied quantitative mass-spectrometry-based proteomics to identify readers for mC and hmC in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESC), neuronal progenitor cells (NPC), and adult mouse brain tissue. Readers for these modifications are only partially overlapping, and some readers, such as Rfx proteins, display strong specificity. Interactions are dynamic during differentiation, as for example evidenced by the mESC-specific binding of Klf4 to mC and the NPC-specific binding of Uhrf2 to hmC, suggesting specific biological roles for mC and hmC. Oxidized derivatives of mC recruit distinct transcription regulators as well as a large number of DNA repair proteins in mouse ES cells, implicating the DNA damage response as a major player in active DNA demethylation.
PXD000113	23460852	Proteomic profiling of cereal aphid saliva reveals both ubiquitous and adaptive secreted proteins. 	GeLC-MS/MS analysis of cereal aphid saliva	Aphids, LTQ-FT, Metopolophium dirhodum, Saliva, Sitobion avenae	The secreted salivary proteins from two cereal aphid species, Sitobion avenae and Metopolophium dirhodum, were collected from artificial diets and analysed by tandem mass spectrometry. Protein identification was performed by searching MS data against the official protein set from the current pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum) genome assembly and revealed 12 and 7 proteins in the saliva of S. avenae and M. dirhodum, respectively. When combined with a comparable dataset from A. pisum, only three individual proteins were common to all the aphid species; two paralogues of the GMC oxidoreductase family (glucose dehydrogenase; GLD) and ACYPI009881, an aphid specific protein previously identified as a putative component of the salivary sheath. Antibodies were designed from translated protein sequences obtained from partial cDNA sequences for ACYPI009881 and both saliva associated GLDs. The antibodies detected all parent proteins in secreted saliva from the three aphid species, but could only detect ACYPI009881, and not saliva associated GLDs, in protein extractions from the salivary glands. This result was confirmed by immunohistochemistry using whole and sectioned salivary glands, and in addition, localised ACYPI009881 to specific cell types within the principal salivary gland. The implications of these findings for the origin of salivary components and the putative role of the proteins identified are discussed in the context of our limited understanding of the functional relationship between aphid saliva and the plants they feed on. The mass spectrometry data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange and can be accessed under the identifier PXD000113.
PXD000127	23503746	Limitations in detection of 15N incorporation by mass spectrometry in protein-based stable isotope probing (protein-SIP). 	15N Limitation of detection in Pseudomonas fluorescens	15N, protein-SIP	The method of protein-based stable isotope probing (protein-SIP) has previously been shown to allow the modeling of carbon fluxes in microbial communities, thus tackling one of the key questions in microbial ecology. The method allows the analysis of stable isotope distribution in peptides, revealing metabolic activities of the species present in an ecosystem. Besides carbon, an application of protein-SIP with nitrogen is of interest for resolving the nitrogen fluxes in microbial communities. Thus, the sensitivity and reliability of a protein-SIP approach employing (15)N was analyzed. For this, cultivations of Pseudomonas fluorescens ATCC 17483 with different ratios of (14)N/(15)N were performed, from 10 % down to 0.1 % (15)N. After incubation leading to complete labeling of biomass, proteins were extracted and separated by one-dimensional gel electrophoresis, followed by tryptic digest and UPLC Orbitrap MS/MS analysis. (15)N relative isotope abundance (RIA) was calculated based on isotopic patterns from identified peptides in mass spectra. Proteomics data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000127. The distribution of (15)N RIA values among peptides was analyzed in samples with different (15)N amount, and potential causes for variations within individual samples of either technical or biological origin were investigated. Using a number of 50 peptides, significant differences (p <= 0.05) in (15)N incorporation were found between samples of different (15)N RIA down to 0.1 %. The study demonstrates that protein-SIP using (15)N is sufficiently sensitive for quantitative investigation of microbial activity in nitrogen cycling processes.
PXD000172	23508102	Quantitative dissection and stoichiometry determination of the human SET1/MLL histone methyltransferase complexes. 	Quantitative dissection and stoichiometry determination of the human SET1/MLL histone methyltransferase complexes	COMPASS, MLL, MS, SET1, histone methylation	Methylation of lysine 4 on histone H3 (H3K4) at promoters is tightly linked to transcriptional regulation in human cells. At least six different COMPASS-like multisubunit (SET1/MLL) complexes that contain methyltransferase activity for H3K4 have been described, but a comprehensive and quantitative analysis of these SET1/MLL complexes is lacking. We applied label-free quantitative mass spectrometry to determine the subunit composition and stoichiometry of the human SET1/MLL complexes. We identified both known and novel, unique and shared interactors and determined their distribution and stoichiometry over the different SET1/MLL complexes. In addition to being a core COMPASS subunit, the Dpy30 protein is a genuine subunit of the NURF chromatin remodeling complex. Furthermore, we identified the Bod1 protein as a discriminator between the SET1B and SET1A complexes, and we show that the H3K36me-interactor Psip1 preferentially binds to the MLL2 complex. Finally, absolute protein quantification in crude lysates mirrors many of the observed SET1/MLL complex stoichiometries. Our findings provide a molecular framework for understanding the diversity and abundance of the different SET1/MLL complexes, which together establish the H3K4 methylation landscape in human cells.
PXD000109	23510160	The shotgun proteomic study of the human ThinPrep cervical smear using iTRAQ mass-tagging and 2D LC-FT-Orbitrap-MS: the detection of the human papillomavirus at the protein level. 	ThinPrep Cervical Smear iTRAQ LC-MS/MS	HPV, Orbitrap Elite, ThinPrep, iTRAQ	The ThinPrep cervical smear is widely used in clinical practice for the cytological and molecular screening against abnormal cells and Human Papillomavirus (HPV) infection. Current advancements made to LC-MS proteomics include the use of stable isotope labeling for the in-depth analysis of proteins in complex clinical specimens. Such approaches have yet to be realized for ThinPrep clinical specimens. In this study, an LC-MS method based on isobaric (iTRAQ) labeling and high-resolution FT-Orbitrap mass spectrometry was used for the proteomic analysis of 23 human ThinPrep smear specimens. Tandem mass spectrometry analysis was performed with both nitrogen high collision dissociation (HCD MS/MS) and helium collision induced dissociation (CID MS/MS) peptide fragmentation modes. The analysis of three 8-plex sample sets yielded the identification of over 3200 unique proteins at FDR < 1%, of which over 2300 proteins were quantitatively profiled in at least one of the three experiments. The interindividual variability served to define the required sample size needed to identify significant protein expression differences. The degree of in-depth proteome coverage allowed the detection of 6 HPV-derived proteins including the high-risk HPV16 type in the specimens tested. The presence of the HPV strains of origin was also confirmed with PCR-hybridization molecular methods. This proof-of-principle study constitutes the first ever report on the nontargeted analysis of HPV proteins in human ThinPrep clinical specimens with high-resolution mass spectrometry. A further testament to the sensitivity and selectivity of the proposed study method was the confident detection of a significant number of phosphopeptides in these specimens.
PXD005299	23519614	Translating mRNAs strongly correlate to proteins in a multivariate manner and their translation ratios are phenotype specific. 	Translating mRNAs strongly correlate to proteins in a multivariate manner and their translation ratios are phenotype specific	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP), Translation ratios,Translating mRNAs	As a well-known phenomenon, total mRNAs poorly correlate to proteins in their abundances as reported. Recent findings calculated with bivariate models suggested even poorer such correlation, whereas focusing on the translating mRNAs (ribosome nascent-chain complex-bound mRNAs, RNC-mRNAs) subset. In this study, we analysed the relative abundances of mRNAs, RNC-mRNAs and proteins on genome-wide scale, comparing human lung cancer A549 and H1299 cells with normal human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells, respectively. As discovered, a strong correlation between RNC-mRNAs and proteins in their relative abundances could be established through a multivariate linear model by integrating the mRNA length as a key factor. The R(2) reached 0.94 and 0.97 in A549 versus HBE and H1299 versus HBE comparisons, respectively. This correlation highlighted that the mRNA length significantly contributes to the translational modulation, especially to the translational initiation, favoured by its correlation with the mRNA translation ratio (TR) as observed. We found TR is highly phenotype specific, which was substantiated by both pathway analysis and biased TRs of the splice variants of BDP1 gene, which is a key transcription factor of transfer RNAs. These findings revealed, for the first time, the intrinsic and genome-wide translation modulations at translatomic level in human cells at steady-state, which are tightly correlated to the protein abundance and functionally relevant to cellular phenotypes.
PXD000171	23538226	The effect of proteasome inhibition on the generation of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) peptidome. 	The effect of proteasome inhibition on the HLA peptidome	HLA peptidome, dynamic SILAC, proteasome inhibitors	The Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I peptidome is thought to be generated mostly through proteasomal degradation of cellular proteins, a notion that is based on the alterations in presentation of selected peptides following proteasome inhibition. We evaluated the effects of proteasome inhibitors, epoxomicin and bortezomib, on human cultured cancer cells. Because the inhibitors did not reduce the level of presentation of the cell surface human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules, we followed their effects on the rates of synthesis of both HLA peptidome and proteome of the cells, using dynamic stable isotope labeling in tissue culture (dynamic-SILAC). The inhibitors reduced the rates of synthesis of most cellular proteins and HLA peptides, yet the synthesis rates of some of the proteins and HLA peptides was not decreased by the inhibitors and of some even increased. Therefore, we concluded that the inhibitors affected the production of the HLA peptidome in a complex manner, including modulation of the synthesis rates of the source proteins of the HLA peptides, in addition to their effect on their degradation. The collected data may suggest that the current reliance on proteasome inhibition may overestimate the centrality of the proteasome in the generation of the MHC peptidome. It is therefore suggested that the relative contribution of the proteasomal and nonproteasomal pathways to the production of the MHC peptidome should be revaluated in accordance with the inhibitors effects on the synthesis rates of the source proteins of the MHC peptides.
PXD004107	23541715	Quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry using isotope-labelled cross-linkers. 	A model dataset for quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry using isotope-labeled cross-linkers	HSA, Quantitative cross-linking/mass spectromentry, isotope-labeled cross-linkers, model dataset	Dynamic proteins and multi-protein complexes govern most biological processes. Cross-linking/mass spectrometry (CLMS) is increasingly successful in providing residue-resolution data on static proteinaceous structures. Here we investigate the technical feasibility of recording dynamic processes using isotope-labelling for quantitation. We cross-linked human serum albumin (HSA) with the readily available cross-linker BS3-d0/4 in different heavy/light ratios. We found two limitations. First, isotope labelling reduced the number of identified cross-links. This is in line with similar findings when identifying proteins. Second, standard quantitative proteomics software was not suitable for work with cross-linking. To ameliorate this we wrote a basic open source application, XiQ. Using XiQ we could establish that quantitative CLMS was technically feasible. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Cross-linking/mass spectrometry (CLMS) has become a powerful tool for providing residue-resolution data on static proteinaceous structures. Adding quantitation to CLMS will extend its ability of recording dynamic processes. Here we introduce a cross-linking specific quantitation strategy by using isotope labelled cross-linkers. Using a model system, we demonstrate the principle and feasibility of quantifying cross-linking data and discuss challenges one may encounter while doing so. We then provide a basic open source application, XiQ, to carry out automated quantitation of CLMS data. Our work lays the foundations of studying the molecular details of biological processes at greater ease than this could be done so far.
PXD041695	23557852	Extensive inter- and intraspecific venom variation in closely related parasites targeting the same host: the case of Leptopilina parasitoids of Drosophila. 	Convergent origin and accelerated evolution of vesicle-associated RhoGAP proteins in two unrelated parasitoid wasps	RhoGAP, evolution, gene duplication, ovarian calyx, parasitoids, positive selection, venom	The arms race between immune suppressive parasites that produce virulence factors and hosts that evolve resistance to these factors is suggested to be a key driver for the diversification of both partners. However, little is known regarding the diversity of virulence factors in closely related parasites or the mechanisms underlying the variation of virulence. One of the best-described model to address this issue is the interaction between Leptopilina parasitic wasps and their Drosophila hosts, in which variation of virulence is well documented. Thanks to a combined transcriptomic and proteomic approach, we have identified the main secreted proteins in the venom of Leptopilina heterotoma (Gotheron strain, 66 proteins) and of two well-characterized strains of Leptopilina boulardi, ISm and ISy (65 and 49 proteins, respectively). Results revealed significant quantitative differences in venom components between the L. boulardi strains, in agreement with their different virulence properties. Strikingly, the two related Leptopilina species did not share any abundant venom protein. The main identified proteins in L. boulardi were RhoGAPs and serpins while an aspartylglucosaminidase (AGA) was found abundant in L. heterotoma. The extensive quantitative variation observed between these species may be related with their use of different virulence strategies and/or to differences in their host range (specialist versus generalist). Altogether, our data suggests that parasitoid venom can quickly evolve, mainly through rapid changes in regulation of gene expression. It also evidences venom evolutionary processes largely described in other venomous animals i.e. the convergent recruitment of venom proteins between phylogenetically unrelated organisms, and the role of duplications in the emergence of multigenic families of virulence factors.
PXD000361	23583077	A general molecular affinity strategy for global detection and proteomic analysis of lysine methylation. 	3xMBT protein pull-down -  A general molecular affinity strategy for global detection and proteomic analysis of lysine methylation	3xMBT, Dimethylation, L3MBTL1, Methylation	Lysine methylation of histone proteins regulates chromatin dynamics and plays important roles in diverse physiological and pathological processes. However, beyond histone proteins, the proteome-wide extent of lysine methylation remains largely unknown. We have engineered the naturally occurring MBT domain repeats of L3MBTL1 to serve as a universal affinity reagent for detecting, enriching, and identifying proteins carrying a mono- or dimethylated lysine. The domain is broadly specific for methylated lysine ("pan-specific") and can be applied to any biological system. We have used our approach to demonstrate that SIRT1 is a substrate of the methyltransferase G9a both in vitro and in cells, to perform proteome-wide detection and enrichment of methylated proteins, and to identify candidate in-cell substrates of G9a and the related methyltransferase GLP. Together, our results demonstrate a powerful new approach for global and quantitative analysis of methylated lysine, and they represent the first systems biology understanding of lysine methylation.
PXD000006	23606334	Proteomic identification of the candidate target proteins of 15-deoxy-delta12,14-prostaglandin J2. 	Identification of 15d-PGJ2 target proteins	15d-PGJ2, covalent modification of proteins, endothelial cell	15-Deoxy-delta12, 14-prostaglandin J(2) (15d-PGJ(2)) is an endogenous anti-inflammatory lipid derived from PGD(2). One potential mechanism for its activity is the covalent modification of cellular proteins, via a reactive alpha,beta-unsaturated carbonyl group in its cyclopentenone ring, which in turn alters protein function. In order to identify the candidate target proteins covalently modified by 15d-PGJ(2) in human aortic endothelial cell (EC), EC was treated with biotinylated-15d-PGJ(2), the modified proteins extracted by Neutravidin affinity-purification and the proteins identified by LTQ Orbitrap mass spectrometer. Classification of the 358 identified proteins was performed using PANTHER classification system (www.pantherdb.org), showing that the proteins mapped to metabolic process, cellular process, and transport activity. This protein data set highlights the potential for 15d-PGJ(2) to covalently modify cellular proteins and provides a source of data that will aid further studies on the mechanism of action of this endogenous regulator of inflammation.
PXD000222	23612710	Comparative phosphoproteomic analysis of checkpoint recovery identifies new regulators of the DNA damage response. 	Comparative Phosphoproteomic Analysis of G2-checkpoint Recovery	DNA damage, G2-checkpoint Recovery, PLK1, Phosphoproteomics	How cells recover from a DNA damage-induced arrest is currently poorly understood. We performed large-scale quantitative phosphoproteomics to identify changes in protein phosphorylation that occurred during recovery from arrest in the G2 phase of the cell cycle caused by DNA damage. We identified 154 proteins that were differentially phosphorylated, and systematic depletion of each of these differentially phosphorylated proteins by small interfering RNA (siRNA) identified at least 10 potential regulators of recovery. Astrin, a protein associated with the mitotic spindle, was among the potential regulators of recovery. We found that astrin controlled the abundance of the cell cycle regulator p53 during DNA damage-induced arrest. Cells in which astrin was depleted had decreased murine double minute 2 (MDM2) abundance and increased p53 at the later stages of the DNA damage response. Astrin was required for continued expression of genes encoding proteins that promote cell cycle progression in arrested cells. Thus, by controlling p53 abundance in cells recovering from DNA damage, astrin maintains the cells in a state competent to resume the cell cycle.
PXD000158	23619294	Characterization of the cardiac myosin binding protein-C phosphoproteome in healthy and failing human hearts. 	Characterization of the Cardiac Myosin Binding Protein-C Phosphoproteome in Healthy and Failing Human Hearts	Cardiovascular, cMybpC, cardiac, cardiac myosin binding protein C, phosphoprotein, phosphoproteome	INTRODUCTION: Cardiac myosin binding protein-C (cMyBP-C) becomes dephosphorylated in the failing heart and reduced phosphorylation-dependent regulation of cMyBP-C has been implicated in contractile dysfunction. To date, several phosphorylation sites have been identified for human cMyBP-C; however, a comprehensive characterization of the cMyBP-C phosphoproteome is lacking. This study aimed to characterize the cMyBP-C phosphoproteome using two different proteomic-based methods in explanted donor and end-stage failing hearts. METHODS: The first approach used to characterize the cMyBP-C phosphoproteome employed a strong-cation exchange chromatography (SCX) fractionation method (10 pooled samples, technical replicates=4) and the second employed a sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis method (n=10; technical replicates=2). Each subsequently underwent titanium dioxide (TiO2) affinity chromatography to enrich for the tryptic phosphopeptides, which were analyzed using an LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometer. Moreover, recombinant C0-C2 fragment of mouse cMyBP-C incubated with PKA, PKC, CaMKII and CK2 was analyzed to identify the kinases involved with phosphorylation of cMyBP-C. RESULTS: Seventeen phosphorylation sites on cMyBP-C were identified in vivo, with the majority localized in the N-terminal domains C0-C2. The three most abundant phosphorylated sites, Ser284, Ser286 and Thr290, are located in the regulatory M-domain of cMyBP-C. Ser284 showed a significant reduction in phosphorylation in HF. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that cMyBP-C harbors more phosphorylation sites than previously known, with a total of 17 (9 novel) identified phosphorylation sites in vivo. Most sites were primarily located within the N-terminal side of the protein. The most highly phosphorylated site on cMyBP-C was Ser284 and this site showed decreased phosphorylation in the failing heart, which implicates importance for fine-tuning contractility. To date, the functional importance of Ser286 and Thr290 is unknown. In addition, 16 sites were identified after in vitro kinase incubation. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000158.
PXD000217	23628362	Phosphoproteomics data classify hematological cancer cell lines according to tumor type and sensitivity to kinase inhibitors. 	Phosphoproteomics data classify haematological cancer cell lines according to tumour type and sensitivity to kinase inhibitors	Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Blood Malignancies, Drug sensitivity, Hierarchical Clustering Analysis, IMAC, Kinase inhibitor, Phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: Tumor classification based on their predicted responses to kinase inhibitors is a major goal for advancing targeted personalized therapies. Here, we used a phosphoproteomic approach to investigate biological heterogeneity across hematological cancer cell lines including acute myeloid leukemia, lymphoma, and multiple myeloma. RESULTS: Mass spectrometry was used to quantify 2,000 phosphorylation sites across three acute myeloid leukemia, three lymphoma, and three multiple myeloma cell lines in six biological replicates. The intensities of the phosphorylation sites grouped these cancer cell lines according to their tumor type. In addition, a phosphoproteomic analysis of seven acute myeloid leukemia cell lines revealed a battery of phosphorylation sites whose combined intensities correlated with the growth-inhibitory responses to three kinase inhibitors with remarkable correlation coefficients and fold changes (> 100 between the most resistant and sensitive cells). Modeling based on regression analysis indicated that a subset of phosphorylation sites could be used to predict response to the tested drugs. Quantitative analysis of phosphorylation motifs indicated that resistant and sensitive cells differed in their patterns of kinase activities, but, interestingly, phosphorylations correlating with responses were not on members of the pathway being targeted; instead, these mainly were on parallel kinase pathways. CONCLUSION: This study reveals that the information on kinase activation encoded in phosphoproteomics data correlates remarkably well with the phenotypic responses of cancer cells to compounds that target kinase signaling and could be useful for the identification of novel markers of resistance or sensitivity to drugs that target the signaling network.
PXD000182	23630285	Arabidopsis nanodomain-delimited ABA signaling pathway regulates the anion channel SLAH3. 	Arabidopsis nanodomain-delimited ABA signaling pathway regulates the anion channel SLAH3	ion channel, membrane microdomain, remorin	The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) plays a key role in the plant response to drought stress. Hence, ABA-dependent gene transcription and ion transport is regulated by a variety of protein kinases and phosphatases. However, the nature of the membrane-delimited ABA signal transduction steps remains largely unknown. To gain insight into plasma membrane-bound ABA signaling, we identified sterol-dependent proteins associated with detergent resistant membranes from Arabidopsis thaliana mesophyll cells. Among those, we detected the central ABA signaling phosphatase ABI1 (abscisic-acid insensitive 1) and the calcium-dependent protein kinase 21 (CPK21). Using fluorescence microscopy, we found these proteins to localize in membrane nanodomains, as observed by colocalization with the nanodomain marker remorin Arabidopsis thaliana remorin 1.3 (AtRem 1.3). After transient coexpression, CPK21 interacted with SLAH3 [slow anion channel 1 (SLAC1) homolog 3] and activated this anion channel. Upon CPK21 stimulation, SLAH3 exhibited the hallmark properties of S-type anion channels. Coexpression of SLAH3/CPK21 with ABI1, however, prevented proper nanodomain localization of the SLAH3/CPK21 protein complex, and as a result anion channel activation failed. FRET studies revealed enhanced interaction of SLAH3 and CPK21 within the plasma membrane in response to ABA and thus confirmed our initial observations. Interestingly, the ABA-induced SLAH3/CPK21 interaction was modulated by ABI1 and the ABA receptor RCAR1/PYL9 [regulatory components of ABA receptor 1/PYR1 (pyrabactin resistance 1)-like protein 9]. We therefore propose that ABA signaling via inhibition of ABI1 modulates the apparent association of a signaling and transport complex within membrane domains that is necessary for phosphorylation and activation of the S-type anion channel SLAH3 by CPK21.
PXD000201	23659366	Identification of indicator proteins associated with flooding injury in soybean seedlings using label-free quantitative proteomics. 	Proteomic Change Associated with Flooding Injury of Soybean	Soybean Flooding Injury Severity Label-Free Quantitative Proteomics	Flooding injury is one of the abiotic constraints on soybean growth. An experimental system established for evaluating flooding injury in soybean seedlings indicated that the degree of injury is dependent on seedling density in floodwater. Dissolved oxygen levels in the floodwater were decreased by the seedlings and correlated with the degree of injury. To understand the molecular mechanism responsible for the injury, proteomic alterations in soybean seedlings that correlated with severity of stress were analyzed using label-free quantitative proteomics. The analysis showed that the abundance of proteins involved in cell wall modification, such as polygalacturonase inhibitor-like and expansin-like B1-like proteins, which may be associated with the defense system, increased dependence on stress at both the protein and mRNA levels in all organs during flooding. The manner of alteration in abundance of these proteins was distinct from those of other responsive proteins. Furthermore, proteins also showing specific changes in abundance in the root tip included protein phosphatase 2A subunit-like proteins, which are possibly involved in flooding-induced root tip cell death. Additionally, decreases in abundance of cell wall synthesis-related proteins, such as cinnamyl-alcohol dehydrogenase and cellulose synthase-interactive protein-like proteins, were identified in hypocotyls of seedlings grown for 3 days after flooding, and these proteins may be associated with suppression of growth after flooding. These flooding injury-associated proteins can be defined as indicator proteins for severity of flooding stress in soybean.
PXD004338	23665000	Moving from unsequenced to sequenced genome: reanalysis of the proteome of Leishmania donovani. 	Moving from unsequenced to sequenced genome: reanalysis of the proteome of Leishmania donovani	Leishmania donovani, protoemics and proteogenomics	The kinetoplastid protozoan parasite, Leishmania donovani, is the causative agent of kala azar or visceral leishmaniasis. Kala azar is a severe form of leishmaniasis that is fatal in the majority of untreated cases. Studies on proteomic analysis of L. donovani thus far have been carried out using homology-based identification based on related Leishmania species (L. infantum, L. major and L. braziliensis) whose genomes have been sequenced. Recently, the genome of L. donovani was fully sequenced and the data became publicly available. We took advantage of the availability of its genomic sequence to carry out a more accurate proteogenomic analysis of L. donovani proteome using our previously generated dataset. This resulted in identification of 17,504 unique peptides upon database-dependent search against the annotated proteins in L. donovani. These peptides were assigned to 3999 unique proteins in L. donovani. 2296 proteins were identified in both the life stages of L. donovani, while 613 and 1090 proteins were identified only from amastigote and promastigote stages, respectively. The proteomic data was also searched against six-frame translated L. donovani genome, which led to 255 genome search-specific peptides (GSSPs) resulting in identification of 20 novel genes and correction of 40 existing gene models in L. donovani. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Leishmania donovani genome sequencing was recently completed, which permitted us to use a proteogenomic approach to map its proteome and to carry out annotation of it genome. This resulted in mapping of 50% (3999 proteins) of L. donovani proteome. Our study identified 20 novel genes previously not predicted from the L. donovani genome in addition to correcting annotations of 40 existing gene models. The identified proteins may help in better understanding of stage-specific protein expression profiles in L. donovani and to identify novel stage-specific drug targets in L. donovani which could be used in the treatment of leishmaniasis. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Trends in Microbial Proteomics.
PXD042999	23669031	A fast workflow for identification and quantification of proteomes. 	A Fast Workflow for Identification and Quantification of Proteomes	proteome coverage	The current in-depth proteomics makes use of long chromatography gradient to get access to more peptides for protein identification, resulting in covering of as many as 8000 mammalian gene products in 3 days of mass spectrometer running time. Here we report a fast sequencing (Fast-seq) workflow of the use of dual reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography - mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS) with a short gradient to achieve the same proteome coverage in 0.5 day. We adapted this workflow to a quantitative version (Fast quantification, Fast-quan) that was compatible to large-scale protein quantification. We subjected two identical samples to the Fast-quan workflow, which allowed us to systematically evaluate different parameters that impact the sensitivity and accuracy of the workflow. Using the statistics of significant test, we unraveled the existence of substantial falsely quantified differential proteins and estimated correlation of false quantification rate and parameters that are applied in label-free quantification. We optimized the setting of parameters that may substantially minimize the rate of falsely quantified differential proteins, and further applied them on a real biological process. With improved efficiency and throughput, we expect that the Fast-seq/Fast-quan workflow, allowing pair wise comparison of two proteomes in 1 day may make MS available to the masses and impact biomedical research in a positive way.
PXD010535	23689285	Design, implementation and multisite evaluation of a system suitability protocol for the quantitative assessment of instrument performance in liquid chromatography-multiple reaction monitoring-MS (LC-MRM-MS). 	Design, Implementation and Multisite Evaluation of a System Suitability Protocol for the Quantitative Assessment of Instrument Performance in Liquid Chromatography-Multiple Reaction Monitoring-MS (LC-MRM-MS)	quantification, selected reaction monitoring, skyline, system suitability	Multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mass spectrometry coupled with stable isotope dilution (SID) and liquid chromatography (LC) is increasingly used in biological and clinical studies for precise and reproducible quantification of peptides and proteins in complex sample matrices. Robust LC-SID-MRM-MS-based assays that can be replicated across laboratories and ultimately in clinical laboratory settings require standardized protocols to demonstrate that the analysis platforms are performing adequately. We developed a system suitability protocol (SSP), which employs a predigested mixture of six proteins, to facilitate performance evaluation of LC-SID-MRM-MS instrument platforms, configured with nanoflow-LC systems interfaced to triple quadrupole mass spectrometers. The SSP was designed for use with low multiplex analyses as well as high multiplex approaches when software-driven scheduling of data acquisition is required. Performance was assessed by monitoring of a range of chromatographic and mass spectrometric metrics including peak width, chromatographic resolution, peak capacity, and the variability in peak area and analyte retention time (RT) stability. The SSP, which was evaluated in 11 laboratories on a total of 15 different instruments, enabled early diagnoses of LC and MS anomalies that indicated suboptimal LC-MRM-MS performance. The observed range in variation of each of the metrics scrutinized serves to define the criteria for optimized LC-SID-MRM-MS platforms for routine use, with pass/fail criteria for system suitability performance measures defined as peak area coefficient of variation <0.15, peak width coefficient of variation <0.15, standard deviation of RT <0.15 min (9 s), and the RT drift <0.5min (30 s). The deleterious effect of a marginally performing LC-SID-MRM-MS system on the limit of quantification (LOQ) in targeted quantitative assays illustrates the use and need for a SSP to establish robust and reliable system performance. Use of a SSP helps to ensure that analyte quantification measurements can be replicated with good precision within and across multiple laboratories and should facilitate more widespread use of MRM-MS technology by the basic biomedical and clinical laboratory research communities.
PXD023825	23690612	Parasitoid wasp venom SERCA regulates Drosophila calcium levels and inhibits cellular immunity. 	Ganaspis hookeri (strain GhFl, formerly 'G1') venom gland proteome	parasitoid wasp Drosophila Ganaspis venom	Because parasite virulence factors target host immune responses, identification and functional characterization of these factors can provide insight into poorly understood host immune mechanisms. The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster is a model system for understanding humoral innate immunity, but Drosophila cellular innate immune responses remain incompletely characterized. Fruit flies are regularly infected by parasitoid wasps in nature and, following infection, flies mount a cellular immune response culminating in the cellular encapsulation of the wasp egg. The mechanistic basis of this response is largely unknown, but wasps use a mixture of virulence proteins derived from the venom gland to suppress cellular encapsulation. To gain insight into the mechanisms underlying wasp virulence and fly cellular immunity, we used a joint transcriptomic/proteomic approach to identify venom genes from Ganaspis sp.1 (G1), a previously uncharacterized Drosophila parasitoid species, and found that G1 venom contains a highly abundant sarco/endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA) pump. Accordingly, we found that fly immune cells termed plasmatocytes normally undergo a cytoplasmic calcium burst following infection, and that this calcium burst is required for activation of the cellular immune response. We further found that the plasmatocyte calcium burst is suppressed by G1 venom in a SERCA-dependent manner, leading to the failure of plasmatocytes to become activated and migrate toward G1 eggs. Finally, by genetically manipulating plasmatocyte calcium levels, we were able to alter fly immune success against G1 and other parasitoid species. Our characterization of parasitoid wasp venom proteins led us to identify plasmatocyte cytoplasmic calcium bursts as an important aspect of fly cellular immunity.
PXD000239	23692254	Characterization of the novel broad-spectrum kinase inhibitor CTx-0294885 as an affinity reagent for mass spectrometry-based kinome profiling. 	Characterization of the novel broad-spectrum kinase inhibitor CTx-0294885 as an affinity reagent for mass spectrometry-based kinome profiling	CTx-0294885, Kinome profiling, LCMSMS, MDA-MB-231	Kinase enrichment utilizing broad-spectrum kinase inhibitors enables the identification of large proportions of the expressed kinome by mass spectrometry. However, the existing inhibitors are still inadequate in covering the entire kinome. Here, we identified a novel bisanilino pyrimidine, CTx-0294885, exhibiting inhibitory activity against a broad range of kinases in vitro, and further developed it into a Sepharose-supported kinase capture reagent. Use of a quantitative proteomics approach confirmed the selectivity of CTx-0294885-bound beads for kinase enrichment. Large-scale CTx-0294885-based affinity purification followed by LC-MS/MS led to the identification of 235 protein kinases from MDA-MB-231 cells, including all members of the AKT family that had not been previously detected by other broad-spectrum kinase inhibitors. Addition of CTx-0294885 to a mixture of three kinase inhibitors commonly used for kinase-enrichment increased the number of kinase identifications to 261, representing the largest kinome coverage from a single cell line reported to date. Coupling phosphopeptide enrichment with affinity purification using the four inhibitors enabled the identification of 799 high-confidence phosphosites on 183 kinases, ~10% of which were localized to the activation loop, and included previously unreported phosphosites on BMP2K, MELK, HIPK2, and PRKDC. Therefore, CTx-0294885 represents a powerful new reagent for analysis of kinome signaling networks that may facilitate development of targeted therapeutic strategies. Proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium ( http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org ) via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier PXD000239.
PXD000001	23692960	Using R and Bioconductor for proteomics data analysis. 	TMT spikes -  Using R and Bioconductor for proteomics data analysis	Eriwinia, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, TMT, spikes	This review presents how R, the popular statistical environment and programming language, can be used in the frame of proteomics data analysis. A short introduction to R is given, with special emphasis on some of the features that make R and its add-on packages premium software for sound and reproducible data analysis. The reader is also advised on how to find relevant R software for proteomics. Several use cases are then presented, illustrating data input/output, quality control, quantitative proteomics and data analysis. Detailed code and additional links to extensive documentation are available in the freely available companion package RforProteomics. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Computational Proteomics in the Post-Identification Era. Guest Editors: Martin Eisenacher and Christian Stephan.
PXD000247	23707235	Proteomic analysis of the testa from developing soybean seeds. 	Proteomic analysis of the testa from developing soybean seeds	Soybean, seed coat	Soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr. cv Jack) seed development was separated into nine defined stages (S1 to S9). Testa (seed coats) were removed from developing seeds at stages S2, 4, 6, 8, and 9, and subjected to shotgun proteomic profiling. For each stage "total proteins" were isolated from 150 mg dry weight of seed coat using a phenol-based method, then reduced, alkylated, and digested with trypsin. The tryptic peptides were separated using a C18-reversed phase matrix, then analyzed using an LTQ Orbitrap Mass Spectrometer. Spectra were searched against the Phytozome G. max DB using the Sorcerer 2 IDA Sequest-based search algorithm. Identities were verified using Scaffold 3. A total of 306 (S2), 328 (S4), 273 (S6), 193 (S8), and 272 (S9) proteins were identified in three out of three biological replicates, and sorted into 11 functional groups: Primary Metabolism, Secondary Metabolism, Cellular Structure, Stress Responses, Nucleic Acid metabolism, Protein Synthesis, Protein Folding, Protein Targeting, Hormones and Signaling, Seed Storage Proteins, and Proteins of Unknown Function. In selected instances, individual seed coat proteins were quantified by spectral counting. The number of proteins involved in intermediary metabolism, flavonoid biosynthesis, protein folding and degradation are discussed as they relate to seed coat function. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Most previous analyses of seed coats have either targeted individual enzymes or used the results from high-throughput transcript profiling to infer biological function. Because there is seldom a linear correlation between transcript and protein levels, we have undertaken a shotgun proteomics-based description of soybean (G. max (L.) Merr. cv Jack) seed coats, as a function of development, in order to bridge this gap and to establish the baseline for a more comprehensive understanding of seed biology.
PXD023824	23717546	Integrative approach reveals composition of endoparasitoid wasp venoms. 	Leptopilina heterotoma (strain Lh14) venom gland proteome	parasitoid wasp Drosophila Leptopilina venom	The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster and its endoparasitoid wasps are a developing model system for interactions between host immune responses and parasite virulence mechanisms. In this system, wasps use diverse venom cocktails to suppress the conserved fly cellular encapsulation response. Although numerous genetic tools allow detailed characterization of fly immune genes, lack of wasp genomic information has hindered characterization of the parasite side of the interaction. Here, we use high-throughput nucleic acid and amino acid sequencing methods to describe the venoms of two related Drosophila endoparasitoids with distinct infection strategies, Leptopilina boulardi and L. heterotoma. Using RNA-seq, we assembled and quantified libraries of transcript sequences from female wasp abdomens. Next, we used mass spectrometry to sequence peptides derived from dissected venom gland lumens. We then mapped the peptide spectral data against the abdomen transcriptomes to identify a set of putative venom genes for each wasp species. Our approach captured the three venom genes previously characterized in L. boulardi by traditional cDNA cloning methods as well as numerous new venom genes that were subsequently validated by a combination of RT-PCR, blast comparisons, and secretion signal sequence search. Overall, 129 proteins were found to comprise L. boulardi venom and 176 proteins were found to comprise L. heterotoma venom. We found significant overlap in L. boulardi and L. heterotoma venom composition but also distinct differences that may underlie their unique infection strategies. Our joint transcriptomic-proteomic approach for endoparasitoid wasp venoms is generally applicable to identification of functional protein subsets from any non-genome sequenced organism.
PXD000069	23734209	Transcriptome and proteome data reveal candidate genes for pollinator attraction in sexually deceptive orchids. 	Shotgun proteomics of Ophrys orchid flowers	LTQ, Ophrys, flower labellum, plant-pollinator interaction, sexually deceptive orchids	BACKGROUND: Sexually deceptive orchids of the genus Ophrys mimic the mating signals of their pollinator females to attract males as pollinators. This mode of pollination is highly specific and leads to strong reproductive isolation between species. This study aims to identify candidate genes responsible for pollinator attraction and reproductive isolation between three closely related species, O. exaltata, O. sphegodes and O. garganica. Floral traits such as odour, colour and morphology are necessary for successful pollinator attraction. In particular, different odour hydrocarbon profiles have been linked to differences in specific pollinator attraction among these species. Therefore, the identification of genes involved in these traits is important for understanding the molecular basis of pollinator attraction by sexually deceptive orchids. RESULTS: We have created floral reference transcriptomes and proteomes for these three Ophrys species using a combination of next-generation sequencing (454 and Solexa), Sanger sequencing, and shotgun proteomics (tandem mass spectrometry). In total, 121 917 unique transcripts and 3531 proteins were identified. This represents the first orchid proteome and transcriptome from the orchid subfamily Orchidoideae. Proteome data revealed proteins corresponding to 2644 transcripts and 887 proteins not observed in the transcriptome. Candidate genes for hydrocarbon and anthocyanin biosynthesis were represented by 156 and 61 unique transcripts in 20 and 7 genes classes, respectively. Moreover, transcription factors putatively involved in the regulation of flower odour, colour and morphology were annotated, including Myb, MADS and TCP factors. CONCLUSION: Our comprehensive data set generated by combining transcriptome and proteome technologies allowed identification of candidate genes for pollinator attraction and reproductive isolation among sexually deceptive orchids. This includes genes for hydrocarbon and anthocyanin biosynthesis and regulation, and the development of floral morphology. These data will serve as an invaluable resource for research in orchid floral biology, enabling studies into the molecular mechanisms of pollinator attraction and speciation.
PXD000151	23734825	Adaptation of a commonly used, chemically defined medium for human embryonic stem cells to stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture. 	Adaptation of a commonly used, chemically defined medium for human embryonic stem cells to stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)	SILAC, Stable Isotope Labeling by Amino Acids in Cell Culture, hESC, human embryonic stem cells	Metabolic labeling with stable isotopes is a prominent technique for comparative quantitative proteomics, and stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) is the most commonly used approach. SILAC is, however, traditionally limited to simple tissue culture regimens and only rarely employed in the context of complex culturing conditions as those required for human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). Classic hESC culture is based on the use of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) as a feeder layer, and as a result, possible xenogeneic contamination, contribution of unlabeled amino acids by the feeders, interlaboratory variability of MEF preparation, and the overall complexity of the culture system are all of concern in conjunction with SILAC. We demonstrate a feeder-free SILAC culture system based on a customized version of a commonly used, chemically defined hESC medium developed by Ludwig et al. and commercially available as mTeSR1 [mTeSR1 is a trade mark of WiCell (Madison, WI) licensed to STEMCELL Technologies (Vancouver, Canada)]. This medium, together with adjustments to the culturing protocol, facilitates reproducible labeling that is easily scalable to the protein amounts required by proteomic work flows. It greatly enhances the usability of quantitative proteomics as a tool for the study of mechanisms underlying hESCs differentiation and self-renewal. Associated data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD000151.
PXD000163	23744945	Stepwise evolution of essential centromere function in a Drosophila neogene. 	Anti-FLAG-affinity purification of Umbrea associated factors	Drosophila melanogaster, Fruitfly, Umbrea	Evolutionarily young genes that serve essential functions represent a paradox; they must perform a function that either was not required until after their birth or was redundant with another gene. How young genes rapidly acquire essential function is largely unknown. We traced the evolutionary steps by which the Drosophila gene Umbrea acquired an essential role in chromosome segregation in D. melanogaster since the gene's origin less than 15 million years ago. Umbrea neofunctionalization occurred via loss of an ancestral heterochromatin-localizing domain, followed by alterations that rewired its protein interaction network and led to species-specific centromere localization. Our evolutionary cell biology approach provides temporal and mechanistic detail about how young genes gain essential function. Such innovations may constantly alter the repertoire of centromeric proteins in eukaryotes.
PXD000129	23749869	Landscape of protein-protein interactions in Drosophila immune deficiency signaling during bacterial challenge. 	Drosophila immune response -  Landscape of protein-protein interactions in Drosophila immune deficiency signaling during bacterial challenge	IMD, LCMS/MS, drosophila	The Drosophila defense against pathogens largely relies on the activation of two signaling pathways: immune deficiency (IMD) and Toll. The IMD pathway is triggered mainly by Gram-negative bacteria, whereas the Toll pathway responds predominantly to Gram-positive bacteria and fungi. The activation of these pathways leads to the rapid induction of numerous NF-kappaB-induced immune response genes, including antimicrobial peptide genes. The IMD pathway shows significant similarities with the TNF receptor pathway. Recent evidence indicates that the IMD pathway is also activated in response to various noninfectious stimuli (i.e., inflammatory-like reactions). To gain a better understanding of the molecular machinery underlying the pleiotropic functions of this pathway, we first performed a comprehensive proteomics analysis to identify the proteins interacting with the 11 canonical members of the pathway initially identified by genetic studies. We identified 369 interacting proteins (corresponding to 291 genes) in heat-killed Escherichia coli-stimulated Drosophila S2 cells, 92% of which have human orthologs. A comparative analysis of gene ontology from fly or human gene annotation databases points to four significant common categories: (i) the NuA4, nucleosome acetyltransferase of H4, histone acetyltransferase complex, (ii) the switching defective/sucrose nonfermenting-type chromatin remodeling complex, (iii) transcription coactivator activity, and (iv) translation factor activity. Here we demonstrate that sumoylation of the IkappaB kinase homolog immune response-deficient 5 plays an important role in the induction of antimicrobial peptide genes through a highly conserved sumoylation consensus site during bacterial challenge. Taken together, the proteomics data presented here provide a unique avenue for a comparative functional analysis of proteins involved in innate immune reactions in flies and mammals.
PXD000030	23754495	Identification of Annexin A1 interacting proteins in chronic myeloid leukemia KCL22 cells. 	Annexin A1 interacting proteins in chronic myeloid leukemia KCL22 cells	Annexin A1, chronic myeloid leukemia, protein interaction	In the present study, we used a functional proteomic approach to identify Annexin A1 (Anxa1) interacting proteins in the Philadelphia-positive KCL22 cell line. We focused on Anxa1 because it is one of the major proteins upregulated in imatinib-sensitive KCL22S cells versus imatinib-resistant KCL22R. Our proteomic strategy revealed 21 interactors. Bioinformatic analysis showed that most of these proteins are involved in cell death processes. Among the proteins identified, we studied the interaction of Anxa1 with two phosphatases, Shp1 and Shp2, which were recently identified as biomarkers of imatinib sensitivity in patients affected by chronic myeloid leukemia. Our data open new perspectives in the search for annexin-mediated signaling pathways and may shed light on mechanisms of resistance to imatinib that are unrelated to Bcr-Abl activity. All mass spectrometry data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000030.
PXD000214	23763710	Identification of autocrine growth factors secreted by CHO cells for applications in single-cell cloning media. 	Identification of Autocrine Growth Factors Secreted by CHO cells for Applications in Single Cell Cloning Media	Autocrine Growth Factors, Chinese Hamster Ovary Cells, Secreted Proteins, Shotgun Proteomics	Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell lines are widely used for the expression of therapeutic recombinant proteins, including monoclonal antibodies and other biologics. For manufacturing, cells derived from a single-cell clone are typically used to ensure product consistency. Presently, fetal bovine serum (FBS) is commonly used to support low cell density cultures to obtain clonal cell populations because cells grow slowly, or even do not survive at low cell densities in protein-free media. However, regulatory authorities have discouraged the use of FBS to reduce the risk of contamination by adventitious agents from animal-derived components. In this study, we demonstrated how a complementary mass spectrometry-based shotgun proteomics strategy enabled the identification of autocrine growth factors in CHO cell-conditioned media, which has led to the development of a fully defined single-cell cloning media that is serum and animal component-free. Out of 290 secreted proteins that were identified, eight secreted growth factors were reported for the first time from CHO cell cultures. By supplementing a combination of these growth factors to protein-free basal media, single cell growth of CHO cells was improved with cloning efficiencies of up to 30%, a 2-fold improvement compared to unsupplemented basal media. Complementary effects of these autocrine growth factors with other paracrine growth factors were also demonstrated when the mixture improved cloning efficiency to 42%, similar to that for the conditioned medium.
PXD000275	23770244	PLK1 signaling in breast cancer cells cooperates with estrogen receptor-dependent gene transcription. 	Phosphoproteome of MCF7 breast cancer cells treated with estradiol and BI2536	BI2536, Estradiol, MCF7, PLK1, SILAC, gene regulation, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation	Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) is a key regulator of cell division and is overexpressed in many types of human cancers. Compared to its well-characterized role in mitosis, little is known about PLK1 functions in interphase. Here, we report that PLK1 mediates estrogen receptor (ER)-regulated gene transcription in human breast cancer cells. PLK1 interacts with ER and is recruited to ER cis-elements on chromatin. PLK1-coactivated genes included classical ER target genes such as Ps2, Wisp2, and Serpina3 and were enriched in developmental and tumor-suppressive functions. Performing large-scale phosphoproteomics of estradiol-treated MCF7 cells in the presence or absence of the specific PLK1 inhibitor BI2536, we identified several PLK1 end targets involved in transcription, including the histone H3K4 trimethylase MLL2, the function of which on ER target genes was impaired by PLK1 inhibition. Our results propose a mechanism for the tumor-suppressive role of PLK1 in mammals as an interphase transcriptional regulator.
PXD000235	23779086	bHLH transcription factors that facilitate K+ uptake during stomatal opening are repressed by abscisic acid through phosphorylation. 	bHLH Transcription Factors that Facilitate K+ Uptake During Stomatal Opening are Repressed by Abscisic Acid through Phosphorylation	LTQ, stomatal guard cells	Stomata open in response to light and close after exposure to abscisic acid (ABA). They regulate gas exchange between plants and the atmosphere, enabling plants to adapt to changing environmental conditions. ABA binding to receptors initiates a signaling cascade that involves protein phosphorylation. We show that ABA induced the phosphorylation of three basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors, called AKSs (ABA-responsive kinase substrates; AKS1, AKS2, and AKS3), in Arabidopsis guard cells. In their unphosphorylated state, AKSs facilitated stomatal opening through the transcription of genes encoding inwardly rectifying K+ channels. aks1aks2-1 double mutant plants showed decreases in light-induced stomatal opening, K+ accumulation in response to light, activity of inwardly rectifying K+ channels, and transcription of genes encoding major inwardly rectifying K+ channels without affecting ABA-mediated stomatal closure. Overexpression of potassium channel in Arabidopsis thaliana 1 (KAT1), which encodes a major inwardly rectifying K+ channel in guard cells, rescued the phenotype of aks1aks2-1 plants. AKS1 bound directly to the promoter of KAT1, an interaction that was attenuated after ABA-induced phosphorylation. The ABA agonist pyrabactin induced phosphorylation of AKSs. Our results demonstrate that the AKS family of bHLH transcription factors facilitates stomatal opening through the transcription of genes encoding inwardly rectifying K+ channels and that ABA suppresses the activity of these channels by triggering the phosphorylation of AKS family transcription factors.
PXD000386	23793238	Tightly anchored tissue-mimetic matrices as instructive stem cell microenvironments. 	Extracellular Matrix Proteome -  Tightly anchored tissue-mimetic matrices as instructive stem cell microenvironments	Extracellular Matrix of Stem cells	A major obstacle in defining the exact role of extracellular matrix (ECM) in stem cell niches is the lack of suitable in vitro methods that recapitulate complex ECM microenvironments. Here we describe a methodology that permits reliable anchorage of native cell-secreted ECM to culture carriers. We validated our approach by fabricating two types of human bone marrow-specific ECM substrates that were robust enough to support human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells in vitro. We characterized the molecular composition, structural features and nanomechanical properties of the MSC-derived ECM preparations and demonstrated their ability to support expansion and differentiation of bone marrow stem cells. Our methodology enables the deciphering and modulation of native-like multicomponent ECMs of tissue-resident stem cells and will therefore prepare the ground for a more rational design of engineered stem cell niches.
PXD000194	23797974	Proteomics analysis of human pericardial fluid. 	Proteomics analysis of human pericardial fluid	Biomarkers, Cardiovascular, Cardiovascular diseases, Heart, Pericardial fluid	Pericardial fluid (PF) is considered as a biochemical window of heart. To date, there have been limited attempts to perform an in-depth analysis of the PF proteome. In this study, an SDS-PAGE-LC-MS/MS platform was utilized to explore depleted PF, which showed great coverage of low-abundant proteins. In total, 1007 nonredundant proteins were identified with at least two peptides. This is the first comprehensive analysis of human PF proteome and provides a foundation for further application of PF in cardiovascular research. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000194.
PXD000160	23808807	Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis of abscisic acid effect in early-stage soybean under flooding. 	Soybean root tip proteins under flooding with ABA	ABA nuclear, Soybean root tip, flooding	Flooding is a serious problem for soybean cultivation because it markedly reduces growth. To investigate the role of phytohormones in soybean under flooding stress, gel-free proteomic technique was used. When 2-day-old soybeans were flooded, the content of abscisic acid (ABA) did not decrease in the root, though its content decreased in untreated plant. When ABA was added during flooding treatment, survival ratio was improved compared with that of soybeans flooded without ABA. When 2-day-old soybeans were flooded with ABA, the abundance of proteins related to cell organization, vesicle transport and glycolysis decreased compared with those in root of soybeans flooded without ABA. Furthermore, the nuclear proteins were analyzed to identify the transcriptional regulation. The abundance of 34 nuclear proteins such as histone deacetylase and U2 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein increased by ABA supplementation under flooding; however, 35 nuclear proteins such as importin alpha, chromatin remodeling factor, zinc finger protein, transducin, and cell division 5 protein decreased. Of them, the mRNA expression levels of cell division cycle 5 protein, C2H2 zinc finger protein SERRATE, CCCH type zinc finger family protein, and transducin were significantly down-regulated under the ABA treatment. These results suggest that ABA might be involved in the enhancement of flooding tolerance of soybean through the control of energy conservation via glycolytic system and the regulation on zinc finger proteins, cell division cycle 5 protein and transducin.
PXD000219	23828894	Systems-level overview of host protein phosphorylation during Shigella flexneri infection revealed by phosphoproteomics. 	Protein abundance comparison of human cells infected with Shigella flexneri over different time periods	Infection, Phosphoproteomics, S. flexneri	The enteroinvasive bacterium Shigella flexneri invades the intestinal epithelium of humans. During infection, several injected effector proteins promote bacterial internalization, and interfere with multiple host cell responses. To obtain a systems-level overview of host signaling during infection, we analyzed the global dynamics of protein phosphorylation by liquid chromatography-tandem MS and identified several hundred of proteins undergoing a phosphorylation change during the first hours of infection. Functional bioinformatic analysis revealed that they were mostly related to the cytoskeleton, transcription, signal transduction, and cell cycle. Fuzzy c-means clustering identified six temporal profiles of phosphorylation and a functional module composed of ATM-phosphorylated proteins related to genotoxic stress. Pathway enrichment analysis defined mTOR as the most overrepresented pathway. We showed that mTOR complex 1 and 2 were required for S6 kinase and AKT activation, respectively. Comparison with a published phosphoproteome of Salmonella typhimurium-infected cells revealed a large subset of coregulated phosphoproteins. Finally, we showed that S. flexneri effector OspF affected the phosphorylation of several hundred proteins, thereby demonstrating the wide-reaching impact of a single bacterial effector on the host signaling network.
PXD000406	23832136	Candida albicans induces pro-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic signals in macrophages as revealed by quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics. 	Candida albicans induces pro-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic signals in macrophages as revealed by quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics.	Apoptosis, Candida albicans, Inflammation, Macrophages, Phosphoproteins, Quantification, SILAC	Macrophages play a pivotal role in the prevention of Candida albicans infections. Yeast recognition and phagocytosis by macrophages is mediated by Pattern Recognition Receptors (PRRs) that initiate downstream signal transduction cascades by protein phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. We exposed RAW 264.7 macrophages to C. albicans for 3h and used SILAC to quantify macrophage proteins and phosphoproteins by mass spectrometry to study the effects of infection. We identified 53 macrophage up-regulated proteins and 15 less abundant in the presence of C. albicans out of a total of 2071 identified proteins. 922 unique protein phosphorylation sites were identified by phosphopeptide enrichment and mass spectrometry, including 327 previously unidentified mouse protein phosphorylation sites. 126 peptides showed an increase and 70 a decrease in their phosphorylation level. The majority of the differentially expressed and phosphorylated proteins are receptors, mitochondrial ribosomal proteins, cytoskeletal proteins, and transcription factor activators involved in inflammatory and oxidative responses. In addition, we identified 22 proteins and phosphoproteins related to apoptosis. The analysis of apoptotic markers revealed that anti-apoptotic signals prevailed during the interaction of the yeast. Our proteomics study suggests that besides inflammation, apoptosis is a central pathway in the immune defense against C. albicans infection. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This work uses SILAC and SIMAC methodology combined with CPP (+ TiO2) to study protein and phosphopeptide changes in RAW 264.7 macrophages in response to coincubation with Candida albicans for 3h. We show that the presence of C. albicans induces inflammatory responses and inhibits apoptosis in the macrophages. Our phosphoproteomic analysis identified 327 new mouse protein phosphorylation sites.
PXD012614	23839912	Can thrombin-activated platelet releasate compensate the age-induced decrease in cell proliferation of MSC? 	Intra-surgical Protein Layer on Titanium Arthroplasty Explants	Total hip arthroplasty, osteointegration, protein adsorption	Mesenchymal progenitor cells (MSCs) are promising for cell-based regeneration therapies. In elderly patients a reduced proliferation of MSCs has been described. Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) contains important factors necessary for osteogenic regeneration. The aim of this study was to find out whether the age-induced decrease in cell proliferation can be compensated by the use of supernatant of centrifuged, activated PRP (tPR). MSCs of donors of three age groups (A: young, 14-16 years, B: middle age, 36-46 years, C: older, 74-83 years) were expanded with 20% FCS alone or supplemented with thrombin-activated platelet releasate (tPR) (1%, 2.5%, and 5%) or platelet-poor plasma (PPP 5%). Cell proliferation and differentiation was measured on days 0, 3, and 7. Proliferation increased significantly in groups A and B with tPR, and non-significantly in group C. The generation times of MSCs of elderly patients were significantly increased in group C compared to groups A and B. Addition of 1% or 2.5% tPR significantly reduced population doubling times of all age groups. Adding tPR stimulates the proliferation rate of MSCs independent of donor age. For juvenile and middle-aged patients this influence was significant. Cells differentiation into osteoblasts was not influenced by addition of tPR.
PXD000190	23869555	Quantitative proteomics reveals diverse roles of miR-148a from gastric cancer progression to neurological development. 	Quantitative Proteomics of miR-148a in gastric cancer cells	iTRAQ, miR-148a, quantitative proteome	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are noncoding RNAs that control gene expression either by degradation of mRNAs or inhibition of protein translation. miR-148a has been reported to have the impacts on tumor progression. Here, a quantitative proteomics combined with stable isotope labeling was applied to identify the global profile of miR-148a-regulated downstream proteins. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000190. A total of 2938 proteins were quantified, and 55 proteins were considered to be regulated by miR-148a. We found that not only proteins associated with cancer progression but also molecules involved in neural development were regulated by miR-148a. This study is the first to identify the function of miR-148a in neural development by using a proteomic approach. Analysis of a public clinical database also showed that the patients with neural diseases could display abnormal expression of miR-148a. Moreover, silencing of miR-148a led to the abnormal morphology and decreased expression of neuron-related markers in the developing brain of zebrafish. These results provided important insight into the regulation of neurological development elicited by miR-148a.
PXD000225	23879269	Phosphoproteomics study on the activated PKCdelta-induced cell death. 	Phosphoproteomics study on protein kinase C delta induced cell death	pkcdelta phosphoproteomics apoptosis	The proteolytic activation of protein kinase Cdelta (PKCdelta) generates a catalytic fragment called PKCdelta-CF, which induces cell death. However, the mechanisms underlying PKCdelta-CF-mediated cell death are largely unknown. On the basis of an engineering leukemic cell line with inducible expression of PKCdelta-CF, here we employ SILAC-based quantitative phosphoproteomics to systematically and dynamically investigate the overall phosphorylation events during cell death triggered by PKCdelta-CF expression. Totally, 3000 phosphorylation sites were analyzed. Considering the fact that early responses to PKCdelta-CF expression initiate cell death, we sought to identify pathways possibly related directly with PKCdelta by further analyzing the data set of phosphorylation events that occur in the initiation stage of cell death. Interacting analysis of this data set indicates that PKCdelta-CF triggers complicated networks to initiate cell death, and motif analysis and biochemistry verification reveal that several kinases in the downstream of PKCdelta conduct these networks. By analysis of the specific sequence motif of kinase-substrate, we also find 59 candidate substrates of PKCdelta from the up-regulated phosphopeptides, of which 12 were randomly selected for in vitro kinase assay and 9 were consequently verified as substrates of PKCdelta. To our greatest understanding, this study provides the most systematic analysis of phosphorylation events initiated by the cleaved activated PKCdelta, which would vastly extend the profound understanding of PKCdelta-directed signal pathways in cell death. The MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000225.
PXD000184	23901841	Acetylome with structural mapping reveals the significance of lysine acetylation in Thermus thermophilus. 	Acetylome of Thermus thermophilus HB8	T.thermophilus, acetylome, anti-acetyllysine antibody	Lysine acetylation in proteins has recently been globally identified in bacteria and eukaryotes. Even though acetylproteins are known to be involved in various cellular processes, its physiological significance has not yet been resolved. Using a proteomics approach in combination with immunoprecipitation, we identified 197 lysine acetylation sites and 4 N-terminal acetylation sites from 128 proteins in Thermus thermophilus HB8, an extremely thermophilic eubacterium. Our analyses revealed that identified acetylproteins are well conserved across all three domains of life and are mainly involved in central metabolism and translation. To characterize the functional significance further, we successfully mapped 172 acetylation sites on their 59 authentic and 54 homologous protein structures. Although the percentage of acetylation on ordered structures was higher than that of the disordered structure, no tendency of acetylation in T. thermophilus was detected in secondary structures. However, the acetylated lysine was situated near the negatively charged glutamic acid residues. In tertiary structure analyses, 58 sites of 103 acetylations mapped on 59 authentic structures of T. thermophilus were located within a considerable distance that can disrupt electrostatic interactions and hydrogen bonding networks on protein surfaces, demonstrating the physiological significance of the acetylation that can directly alter the protein structure. In addition, we found 16 acetylation sites related to Schiff base formation, ligand binding, and protein-RNA and protein-protein interactions that involve the potential function of the proteins. The structural mapping of acetylation sites provides new molecular insight into the role of lysine acetylation in the proteins.
PXD000095	23905541	Determination of phosphorylation sites in the DivIVA cytoskeletal protein of Streptomyces coelicolor by targeted LC-MS/MS. 	Determination of Phosphorylation Sites in the DivIVA Protein of Streptomyces coelicolor by Targeted LC-MS/MS	Ascore, DivIVA, Orbitrap, ScaffoldPTM, phosphopeptides, phosphorylation site localization, targeted LC-MS/MS	The filamentous bacterium Streptomyces coelicolor modulates polar growth and branching by phosphorylating the cytoskeletal protein DivIVA. Previous MALDI-TOF analysis of DivIVA showed that a large 7.2 kDa tryptic peptide was multiply phosphorylated. To aid localization of the phosphorylation sites, we introduced additional tryptic cleavage sites into DivIVA, and the resulting phosphopeptides were analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Phosphopeptide isomers could be separated chromatographically, but because of overlapping elution and spectrum quality, site assignment by standard software tools was ambiguous. Because fragment ions carrying the phosphate group are essential for confident localization, large numbers of spectra were collected using targeted LC-MS/MS, and a special script was developed for plotting the elution of site-determining fragments from those spectra under the XIC of the parent ions. Where multiple phosphopeptide isomers were present, the elution of the site-determining y-ions perfectly coincided with the elution of the corresponding phosphopeptide isomer. This method represents a useful tool for user inspection of spectra derived from phosphopeptide isomers and significantly increases confidence when defining phosphorylation sites. In this way, we show that DivIVA is phosphorylated in vivo on five sites in the C-terminal part of the protein (T304, S309, S338, S344, and S355). The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with identifier PXD000095.
PXD000258	23907812	Metabolic response of Alicycliphilus denitrificans strain BC toward electron acceptor variation. 	Proteomic response of Alicycliphilus denitrificans strain BC towards the different electron acceptors chlorate, nitrate and oxygen.	Alicycliphilus denitrificans electron acceptors LTQ-Orbitrap	Alicycliphilus denitrificans is a versatile, ubiquitous, facultative anaerobic bacterium. Alicycliphilus denitrificans strain BC can use chlorate, nitrate, and oxygen as electron acceptor for growth. Cells display a prolonged lag-phase when transferred from nitrate to chlorate and vice versa. Furthermore, cells adapted to aerobic growth do not easily use nitrate or chlorate as electron acceptor. We further investigated these responses of strain BC by differential proteomics, transcript analysis, and enzyme activity assays. In nitrate-adapted cells transferred to chlorate and vice versa, appropriate electron acceptor reduction pathways need to be activated. In oxygen-adapted cells, adaptation to the use of chlorate or nitrate is likely difficult due to the poorly active nitrate reduction pathway and low active chlorate reduction pathway. We deduce that the Nar-type nitrate reductase of strain BC also reduces chlorate, which may result in toxic levels of chlorite if cells are transferred to chlorate. Furthermore, the activities of nitrate reductase and nitrite reductase appear to be not balanced when oxygen-adapted cells are shifted to nitrate as electron acceptor, leading to the production of a toxic amount of nitrite. These data suggest that strain BC encounters metabolic challenges in environments with fluctuations in the availability of electron acceptors. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000258.
PXD008914	23912277	The RNA-binding protein repertoire of embryonic stem cells. 	RNA-binding protein repertoire of embryonic stem cells	LC-MS, RNA-binding, mECS	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) have essential roles in RNA-mediated gene regulation, and yet annotation of RBPs is limited mainly to those with known RNA-binding domains. To systematically identify the RBPs of embryonic stem cells (ESCs), we here employ interactome capture, which combines UV cross-linking of RBP to RNA in living cells, oligo(dT) capture and MS. From mouse ESCs (mESCs), we have defined 555 proteins constituting the mESC mRNA interactome, including 283 proteins not previously annotated as RBPs. Of these, 68 new RBP candidates are highly expressed in ESCs compared to differentiated cells, implicating a role in stem-cell physiology. Two well-known E3 ubiquitin ligases, Trim25 (also called Efp) and Trim71 (also called Lin41), are validated as RBPs, revealing a potential link between RNA biology and protein-modification pathways. Our study confirms and expands the atlas of RBPs, providing a useful resource for the study of the RNA-RBP network in stem cells.
PXD000082	23933159	Large precursor tolerance database search - a simple approach for estimation of the amount of spectra with precursor mass shifts in proteomic data. 	Monitor precursor mass shifts of Halobacterium salinarum	CL1-5 Lysate, H23 Lysate, Halobacterium salinarum NRC-1, Human NSCLC cell line, LTQ-orbitrap Discovery, LTQ-orbitrap XL, NRC-1 GVD Lysate, NRC-1 Lysate	Mass measurement and precursor mass assignment are independent processes in proteomic data acquisition. Due to misassignments to C-13 peak, or for other reasons, extensive precursor mass shifts (i.e., deviations of the measured from calculated precursor neutral masses) in LC-MS/MS data obtained with the high-accuracy LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometers have been reported in previous studies. Although computational methods for post-acquisition reassignment to monoisotopic mass have been developed to curate the MS/MS spectra prior to database search, a simpler method for estimating the fraction of spectra with precursor mass shift so as to determine whether the data require curation remains desirable. Here, we provide the evidence that an easy approach, which applies a large precursor tolerance (2.1Da or higher) in SEQUEST search against a forward and decoy protein sequence database and then filters the data with PeptideProphet peptide identification probability (p>=0.9), could detect most of the MS/MS spectra containing inaccurate precursor masses. Furthermore, through the implementation of artificial mass shifts on 4000 randomly selected MS/MS spectra, which originally had accurate precursor mass assigned by the mass spectrometers, we demonstrated that the accuracy of the precursor mass has almost negligible influence on the efficacy and fidelity of peptide identification. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Integral precursor mass shift is a known problem and thus proteomic data should be handled and analyzed properly to avoid losing important protein identification and/or quantification information. A quick and easy approach for estimating the number of MS/MS spectra with inaccurate precursor mass assignments would be helpful for evaluating the performance of the instrument, determining whether the data requires curation prior to database search or should be searched with specific search parameter(s). Here we demonstrated most of the MS/MS spectra with inaccurate mass assignments (integral or non-integral changes) that could be easily identified by database search with large precursor tolerance windows.
PXD012727	23934657	Novel proteomic approach (PUNCH-P) reveals cell cycle-specific fluctuations in mRNA translation. 	Novel proteomic approach (PUNCH-P) reveals cell cycle-specific fluctuations in mRNA translation	PUNCH-P, Translatome, ribosome	Monitoring protein synthesis is essential to our understanding of gene expression regulation, as protein abundance is thought to be predominantly controlled at the level of translation. Mass-spectrometric and RNA sequencing methods have been recently developed for investigating mRNA translation at a global level, but these still involve technical limitations and are not widely applicable. In this study, we describe a novel system-wide proteomic approach for direct monitoring of translation, termed puromycin-associated nascent chain proteomics (PUNCH-P), which is based on incorporation of biotinylated puromycin into newly synthesized proteins under cell-free conditions followed by streptavidin affinity purification and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis. Using PUNCH-P, we measured cell cycle-specific fluctuations in synthesis for >5000 proteins in mammalian cells, identified proteins not previously implicated in cell cycle processes, and generated the first translational profile of a whole mouse brain. This simple and economical technique is broadly applicable to any cell type and tissue, enabling the identification and quantification of rapid proteome responses under various biological conditions.
PXD000078	23937099	Extracytoplasmic proteases determining the cleavage and release of secreted proteins, lipoproteins, and membrane proteins in Bacillus subtilis. 	'Life and death' of extracytoplasmic proteins	Bacillus subtilis, extracytoplasmic proteases, lipoprotein, membrane protein, protein secretion	Gram-positive bacteria are known to export many proteins to the cell wall and growth medium, and accordingly, many studies have addressed the respective protein export mechanisms. In contrast, very little is known about the subsequent fate of these proteins. The present studies were therefore aimed at determining the fate of native exported proteins in the model organism Bacillus subtilis. Specifically, we employed a gel electrophoresis-based liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry approach to distinguish the roles of the membrane-associated quality control proteases HtrA and HtrB from those of eight other proteases that are present in the cell wall and/or growth medium of B. subtilis. Notably, HtrA and HtrB were previously shown to counteract potentially detrimental "protein export stresses" upon overproduction of membrane or secreted proteins. Our results show that many secreted proteins, lipoproteins, and membrane proteins of B. subtilis are potential substrates of extracytoplasmic proteases. Moreover, potentially important roles of HtrA and HtrB in the folding of native secreted proteins into a protease-resistant conformation, the liberation of lipoproteins from the membrane-cell wall interface, and the degradation of membrane proteins are uncovered. Altogether, our observations show that HtrA and HtrB are crucial for maintaining the integrity of the B. subtilis cell even under nonstress conditions.
PXD000335	23940778	Proteomic analysis of signaling network regulation in renal cell carcinomas with differential hypoxia-inducible factor-2alpha expression. 	VHL Cancer -  Proteomic analysis of signaling network regulation in renal cell carcinomas with differential hypoxia-inducible factor-2alpha expression	Cancer, HIF-2a, VHL	BACKGROUND: The loss of von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) protein function leads to highly vascular renal tumors characterized by an aggressive course of disease and refractoriness to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Loss of VHL in renal tumors also differs from tumors of other organs in that the oncogenic cascade is mediated by an increase in the levels of hypoxia-inducible factor-2alpha (HIF2alpha) instead of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF1alpha). METHODS AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We used renal carcinoma cell lines that recapitulate the differences between mutant VHL and wild-type VHL genotypes. Utilizing a method relying on extracted peptide intensities as a label-free approach for quantitation by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, our proteomics study revealed regulation of key proteins important for cancer cell survival, proliferation and stress-resistance, and implicated differential regulation of signaling networks in VHL-mutant renal cell carcinoma. We also observed upregulation of cellular energy pathway enzymes and the stress-responsive mitochondrial 60-kDa heat shock protein. Finding reliance on glutaminolysis in VHL-mutant renal cell carcinoma was of particular significance, given the generally predominant dependence of tumors on glycolysis. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000335. CONCLUSIONS AND SIGNIFICANCE: Pathway analyses provided corroborative evidence for differential regulation of molecular and cellular functions influencing cancer energetics, metabolism and cell proliferation in renal cell carcinoma with distinct VHL genotype. Collectively, the differentially regulated proteome characterized by this study can potentially guide translational research specifically aimed at effective clinical interventions for advanced VHL-mutant, HIF2alpha-over-expressing tumors.
PXD000168	23943505	In-depth proteomic analysis of mouse microglia using a combination of FASP and StageTip-based, high pH, reversed-phase fractionation. 	mouse microglia using High-pH fractionation and LC-MS/MS	High-pH fractionation, Microglia	Microglia are major immune cells in the central nervous system. A characterization of microglia proteome would facilitate on the study of microglial functions in association with various neurodegenerative diseases. To build a reference proteome, we established a BV-2 microglial proteome to a depth of 5494 unique protein groups using a novel strategy that combined FASP, StageTip-based high pH fractionation, and high-resolution MS quickly and cost efficiently. By bioinformatics analysis, the BV-2 proteome is a valuable resource for studies of microglial function, such as in the immune response, inflammatory response, and phagocytosis. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000168.
PXD000353	23946468	Selective targeting of the cysteine proteome by thioredoxin and glutathione redox systems. 	BSO and Auranofin Redox ICAT: Dataset of peptide identification results from a Redox ICAT experiment including rawfiles from LTQ-Orbitrap XL	Auranofin, BSO, ICAT, Redox	Thioredoxin (Trx) and GSH are the major thiol antioxidants protecting cells from oxidative stress-induced cytotoxicity. Redox states of Trx and GSH have been used as indicators of oxidative stress. Accumulating studies suggest that Trx and GSH redox systems regulate cell signaling and metabolic pathways differently and independently during diverse stressful conditions. In the current study, we used a mass spectrometry-based redox proteomics approach to test responses of the cysteine (Cys) proteome to selective disruption of the Trx- and GSH-dependent systems. Auranofin (ARF) was used to inhibit Trx reductase without detectable oxidation of the GSH/GSSG couple, and buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) was used to deplete GSH without detectable oxidation of Trx1. Results for 606 Cys-containing peptides (peptidyl Cys) showed that 36% were oxidized more than 1.3-fold by ARF, whereas BSO-induced oxidation of peptidyl Cys was only 10%. Mean fold oxidation of these peptides was also higher by ARF than BSO treatment. Analysis of potential functional pathways showed that ARF oxidized peptides associated with glycolysis, cytoskeleton remodeling, translation and cell adhesion. Of 60 peptidyl Cys oxidized due to depletion of GSH, 41 were also oxidized by ARF and included proteins of translation and cell adhesion but not glycolysis or cytoskeletal remodeling. Studies to test functional correlates showed that pyruvate kinase activity and lactate levels were decreased with ARF but not BSO, confirming the effects on glycolysis-associated proteins are sensitive to oxidation by ARF. These data show that the Trx system regulates a broader range of proteins than the GSH system, support distinct function of Trx and GSH in cellular redox control, and show for the first time in mammalian cells selective targeting peptidyl Cys and biological pathways due to deficient function of the Trx system.
PXD000278	23957277	Quantitative proteomic analysis of microdissected breast cancer tissues: comparison of label-free and SILAC-based quantification with shotgun, directed, and targeted MS approaches. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of breast cancer tissues	human breast cancer, laser capture microdissection, nanoLC-Orbitrap-MS, quantitative proteomics	Quantitative proteomics plays an important role in validation of breast-cancer-related biomarkers. In this study, we systematically compared the performance of label-free quantification (LFQ) and SILAC with shotgun and directed methods for quantifying breast-cancer-related markers in microdissected tissues. We show that LFQ leads to slightly higher coefficient of variation (CV) for protein quantification (median CV = 16.3%) than SILAC quantification (median CV = 13.7%) (P < 0.0001), but LFQ method enables ~60% more protein quantification and is also more reproducible (~20% more proteins were quantified in all replicate samples). Furthermore, we describe a method to accurately quantify multiple proteins within one pathway, that is, "focal adhesion pathway", in trace amounts of breast cancer tissues using a SILAC-based SRM assay. Using this SILAC-based SRM assay, we precisely quantified five "focal adhesion" proteins with good quantitative precision (CV range: 2.4-5.9%) in replicate whole tissue lysate samples and replicate microdissected samples (CV range: 5.8-16.1%). Our results show that in microdissected breast cancer tissues LFQ in combination with shotgun proteomics performed the best overall and is therefore suitable for both biomarker discovery and validation in these types of specimens. The SILAC-based SRM method can be used for the development of clinically relevant protein assays in tumor biopsies.
PXD000035	23970489	Proteomic identification of Listeria monocytogenes surface-associated proteins. 	Surface Proteins of Listeria monocytogenes	Listeria monocytogenes surface proteins	This study aimed to identify proteins exposed on the surface of Listeria monocytogenes cells for diagnostic reagent development. Brief trypsin treatment of L. monocytogenes cells followed by peptide separation and identification by nano-LC and online-MS/MS was performed. In parallel, as a negative control, proteins secreted into the digest buffer as well as proteins from cell lysis were identified. One hundred and seventy-four proteins were identified in at least two of three trials in either the negative control or during cell digest. Nineteen surface, 21 extracellularly secreted, 132 cytoplasmic, and two phage proteins were identified. Immunofluorescence microscopy of L. monocytogenes cells revealed the surface localization of two potential candidates for L. monocytogenes isolation and detection: lipoprotein LMOf2365_0546 and PBPD1 (LMOf2365_2742). In this report, we present the first data set of surface-exposed L. monocytogenes proteins currently available. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with identifier PXD000035.
PXD000713	23977254	Plant SILAC: stable-isotope labelling with amino acids of arabidopsis seedlings for quantitative proteomics. 	Plant SILAC: Stable-Isotope Labelling with Amino Acids of Arabidopsis Seedlings for Quantitative Proteomics.	Silac	Stable Isotope Labelling by Amino acids in Cell culture (SILAC) is a powerful technique for comparative quantitative proteomics, which has recently been applied to a number of different eukaryotic organisms. Inefficient incorporation of labelled amino acids in cell cultures of Arabidopsis thaliana has led to very limited use of SILAC in plant systems. We present a method allowing, for the first time, efficient labelling with stable isotope-containing arginine and lysine of whole Arabidopsis seedlings. To illustrate the utility of this method, we have combined the high labelling efficiency (>95%) with quantitative proteomics analyses of seedlings exposed to increased salt concentration. In plants treated for 7 days with 80 mM NaCl, a relatively mild salt stress, 215 proteins were identified whose expression levels changed significantly compared to untreated seedling controls. The 92 up-regulated proteins included proteins involved in abiotic stress responses and photosynthesis, while the 123 down-regulated proteins were enriched in proteins involved in reduction of oxidative stress and other stress responses, respectively. Efficient labelling of whole Arabidopsis seedlings by this modified SILAC method opens new opportunities to exploit the genetic resources of Arabidopsis and analyse the impact of mutations on quantitative protein dynamics in vivo.
PXD000233	23988828	The influence of angiotensin-(1-7) Mas receptor agonist (AVE 0991) on mitochondrial proteome in kidneys of apoE knockout mice. 	Mouse kidney mitochondria LC-MS/MS	Angiotensin (1-7), Apolipoprotein E, Kidney, Mitochondrion	Excessive action of angiotensin II on mitochondria has been shown to play an important role in mitochondrial dysfunction, a common feature of atherogenesis and kidney injury. Angiotensin-(1-7)/Mas receptor axis constitutes a countermeasure to the detrimental effects of angiotensin II on AT1 receptors. The aim of the study was to assess the effects of angiotensin-(1-7) peptidomimetic AVE0991 on the kidney mitochondrial proteome in widely used animal model of atherosclerosis (apoE(-/-) mice). Proteins changed in apoE(-/-) mice belonged to the groups of antioxidant enzymes, apoptosis regulators, inflammatory factors and metabolic enzymes. Importantly, AVE0991 partially reversed atherosclerosis-related changes in apoE(-/-) mice.
PXD000383	23991666	Plasma low-molecular-weight proteome profiling identified neuropeptide-Y as a prostate cancer biomarker polypeptide. 	QUEST-MS for plasma biomarkers complementing the specificity of PSA test	Plasma	In prostate cancer diagnosis, PSA test has greatly contributed to the early detection of prostate cancer; however, expanding overdiagnosis and unnecessary biopsies have emerged as serious issues. To explore plasma biomarkers complementing the specificity of PSA test, we developed a unique proteomic technology QUEST-MS (Quick Enrichment of Small Targets for Mass Spectrometry). The QUEST-MS method based on 96-well formatted sequential reversed-phase chromatography allowing efficient enrichment of <20 kDa proteins quickly and reproducibly. Plasma from 24 healthy controls, 19 benign prostate hypertrophy patients, and 73 prostate cancer patients were purified with QUEST-MS and analyzed by LC/MS/MS. Among 153 057 nonredundant peptides, 189 peptides showed prostate cancer specific detection pattern, which included a neurotransmitter polypeptide neuropeptide-Y (NPY). We further validated the screening results by targeted multiple reaction monitoring technology using independent sample set (n = 110). The ROC curve analysis revealed that logistic regression-based combination of NPY, and PSA showed 81.5% sensitivity and 82.2% specificity for prostate cancer diagnosis. Thus QUEST-MS technology allowed comprehensive and high-throughput profiling of plasma polypeptides and had potential to effectively uncover very low abundant tumor-derived small molecules, such as neurotransmitters, peptide hormones, or cytokines.
PXD000420	24007660	Proteomic analysis of human dental cementum and alveolar bone. 	Human alveolar bone and dental cementum LC-MSMS	alveolar bone, dental cementum	Dental cementum (DC) is a bone-like tissue covering the tooth root and responsible for attaching the tooth to the alveolar bone (AB) via the periodontal ligament (PDL). Studies have unsuccessfully tried to identify factors specific to DC versus AB, in an effort to better understand DC development and regeneration. The present study aimed to use matched human DC and AB samples (n=7) to generate their proteomes for comparative analysis. Bone samples were harvested from tooth extraction sites, whereas DC samples were obtained from the apical root portion of extracted third molars. Samples were denatured, followed by protein extraction reduction, alkylation and digestion for analysis by nanoAcquity HPLC system and LTQ-FT Ultra. Data analysis demonstrated that a total of 318 proteins were identified in AB and DC. In addition to shared proteins between these tissues, 105 and 83 proteins exclusive to AB or DC were identified, respectively. This is the first report analyzing the proteomic composition of human DC matrix and identifying putative unique and enriched proteins in comparison to alveolar bone. These findings may provide novel insights into developmental differences between DC and AB, and identify candidate biomarkers that may lead to more efficient and predictable therapies for periodontal regeneration. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Periodontal disease is a highly prevalent disease affecting the world population, which involves breakdown of the tooth supporting tissues, the periodontal ligament, alveolar bone, and dental cementum. The lack of knowledge on specific factors that differentiate alveolar bone and dental cementum limits the development of more efficient and predictable reconstructive therapies. In order to better understand cementum development and potentially identify factors to improve therapeutic outcomes, we took the unique approach of using matched patient samples of dental cementum and alveolar bone to generate and compare a proteome list for each tissue. A potential biomarker for dental cementum was identified, superoxide dismutase 3 (SOD3), which is found in cementum and cementum-associated cells in mouse, pig, and human tissues. These findings may provide novel insights into developmental differences between alveolar bone and dental cementum, and represent the basis for improved and more predictable therapies.
PXD000305	24012629	Proteomics identifies ubiquitin-proteasome targets and new roles for chromatin-remodeling in the Arabidopsis response to phosphate starvation. 	Proteomics identifies ubiquitin-proteasome targets and new roles for chromatin-remodelling in the Arabidopsis response to phosphate starvation	2, DIGE, NAP1, Phosphate signaling, Phosphate starvation, histone chaperone, nuclear proteome, ubiquitin-proteasome system	In order to identify new regulators of the phosphate (Pi) starvation signaling pathway in plants, we analyzed variation in the abundance of nuclear-enriched proteins isolated from Arabidopsis roots that depends on Pi supply. We used 2-D fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis and MALDI-TOF/TOF techniques for proteome separation, visualization and relative protein abundance quantification and identification. Pi-controlled proteins identified in our analysis included components of the chromatin remodeling, DNA replication, and mRNA splicing machineries. In addition, by combining Pi starvation conditions with proteasome inhibitor treatments, we characterized the role of the ubiquitin-proteasome system, a major mechanism for targeted protein degradation in eukaryotes, in the control of the stability of Pi-responsive proteins. Among Pi-responsive proteins, the histone chaperone NAP1;2 was selected for further characterization, and was shown to display differential nucleo-cytoplasmic accumulation in response to Pi deprivation. We also found that mutants affecting three members of the NAP1 family accumulate lower Pi levels and display reduced expression of Pi starvation-inducible genes, reflecting a potential regulatory role for these chromatin-remodeling proteins in Pi homeostasis. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: In this study, we explore the feasibility of nuclear proteomics to identify regulatory proteins and ubiquitin-proteasome targets within a specific stress signaling pathway in plants, in our case phosphate starvation signaling in Arabidopsis. It will be of interest for researchers involved in the dissection of any signaling pathway in plants, in particular those with an interest in the ubiquitin-proteasome functions, and for the plant nutrition community.
PXD000280	24019145	New Arabidopsis thaliana cytochrome c partners: a look into the elusive role of cytochrome c in programmed cell death in plants. 	Arabidopsis thaliana Cytochrome c Novel Partners Identification by LTQ	Cytochrome c, H2O2, Programmed cell death, Protein-Protein Interactions	Programmed cell death is an event displayed by many different organisms along the evolutionary scale. In plants, programmed cell death is necessary for development and the hypersensitive response to stress or pathogenic infection. A common feature in programmed cell death across organisms is the translocation of cytochrome c from mitochondria to the cytosol. To better understand the role of cytochrome c in the onset of programmed cell death in plants, a proteomic approach was developed based on affinity chromatography and using Arabidopsis thaliana cytochrome c as bait. Using this approach, ten putative new cytochrome c partners were identified. Of these putative partners and as indicated by bimolecular fluorescence complementation, nine of them bind the heme protein in plant protoplasts and human cells as a heterologous system. The in vitro interaction between cytochrome c and such soluble cytochrome c-targets was further corroborated using surface plasmon resonance. Taken together, the results obtained in the study indicate that Arabidopsis thaliana cytochrome c interacts with several distinct proteins involved in protein folding, translational regulation, cell death, oxidative stress, DNA damage, energetic metabolism, and mRNA metabolism. Interestingly, some of these novel Arabidopsis thaliana cytochrome c-targets are closely related to those for Homo sapiens cytochrome c (Martinez-Fabregas et al., unpublished). These results indicate that the evolutionarily well-conserved cytosolic cytochrome c, appearing in organisms from plants to mammals, interacts with a wide range of targets on programmed cell death. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000280.
PXD000067	24023061	U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein complex and RNA splicing alterations in Alzheimer's disease. 	U1 Small Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein Complex and RNA Splicing Alterations in Alzheimer Disease	Splicing, U170K	Deposition of insoluble protein aggregates is a hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases. The universal presence of beta-amyloid and tau in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has facilitated advancement of the amyloid cascade and tau hypotheses that have dominated AD pathogenesis research and therapeutic development. However, the underlying etiology of the disease remains to be fully elucidated. Here we report a comprehensive study of the human brain-insoluble proteome in AD by mass spectrometry. We identify 4,216 proteins, among which 36 proteins accumulate in the disease, including U1-70K and other U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (U1 snRNP) spliceosome components. Similar accumulations in mild cognitive impairment cases indicate that spliceosome changes occur in early stages of AD. Multiple U1 snRNP subunits form cytoplasmic tangle-like structures in AD but not in other examined neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson disease and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Comparison of RNA from AD and control brains reveals dysregulated RNA processing with accumulation of unspliced RNA species in AD, including myc box-dependent-interacting protein 1, clusterin, and presenilin-1. U1-70K knockdown or antisense oligonucleotide inhibition of U1 snRNP increases the protein level of amyloid precursor protein. Thus, our results demonstrate unique U1 snRNP pathology and implicate abnormal RNA splicing in AD pathogenesis.
PXD000384	24023255	Ajuba family proteins link JNK to Hippo signaling. 	V5-tagged LIMD1 in HEK293 cells with or without JNK2 activation		Wounding, apoptosis, or infection can trigger a proliferative response in neighboring cells to replace damaged tissue. Studies in Drosophila have implicated c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK)-dependent activation of Yorkie (Yki) as essential to regeneration-associated growth, as well as growth associated with neoplastic tumors. Yki is a transcriptional coactivator that is inhibited by Hippo signaling, a conserved pathway that regulates growth. We identified a conserved mechanism by which JNK regulated Hippo signaling. Genetic studies in Drosophila identified Jub (also known as Ajuba LIM protein) as required for JNK-mediated activation of Yki and showed that Jub contributed to wing regeneration after wounding and to tumor growth. Biochemical studies revealed that JNK promoted the phosphorylation of Ajuba family proteins in both Drosophila and mammalian cells. Binding studies in mammalian cells indicated that JNK increased binding between the Ajuba family proteins LIMD1 or WTIP and LATS1, a kinase within the Hippo pathway that inhibits the Yki homolog YAP. Moreover, JNK promoted binding of LIMD1 and LATS1 through direct phosphorylation of LIMD1. These results identify Ajuba family proteins as a conserved link between JNK and Hippo signaling, and imply that JNK increases Yki and YAP activity by promoting the binding of Ajuba family proteins to Warts and LATS.
PXD000180	24033511	Dual input control: activation of the Bartonella henselae VirB/D4 type IV secretion system by the stringent sigma factor RpoH1 and the BatR/BatS two-component system. 	Bartonella henselae mutant label-free analysis	B. henselae, Label-free quantification	The co-ordinated expression of virulence factors is a critical process for any bacterial pathogen to colonize its host. Here we investigated the mechanisms of niche adaptation of the zoonotic pathogen Bartonella henselae by combining genetic approaches and shotgun proteomics. We demonstrated that expression of the VirB/D4 type IV secretion system (T4SS) and its secreted effector proteins require the alternative sigma factor RpoH1, which levels are controlled by the stringent response (SR) components DksA and SpoT. The RpoH1-dependent activation requires an active BatR/BatS two-component system (TCS) while BatR expression is controlled by RpoH1 and the SR components. Deletion of spoT results in a strong attenuation of VirB/D4 T4SS expression whereas dksA, rpoH1 or batR deletion fully abolishes its activity. In contrast to their activating effect on the VirB/D4 T4SS, which is critical at the early stage of host infection, SpoT and DksA negatively regulate the Trw T4SS, which mediates host-specific erythrocyte infection at a later stage of the colonization process. Our findings support a model where the SR signalling and the physiological pH-induced BatR/BatS TCS conjointly control the spatiotemporal expression of B. henselae adaptation factors during host infection.
PXD000464	24056736	Extensive post-translational modification of active and inactivated forms of endogenous p53. 	LC-MS data of peptides from p53 isolated by custom immunoaffinity chromatography	p53 Post-translational Modification	The p53 tumor suppressor protein accumulates to very high concentrations in normal human fibroblasts infected by adenovirus type 5 mutants that cannot direct assembly of the viral E1B 55-kDa protein-containing E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets p53 for degradation. Despite high concentrations of nuclear p53, the p53 transcriptional program is not induced in these infected cells. We exploited this system to examine select post-translational modifications (PTMs) present on a transcriptionally inert population of endogenous human p53, as well as on p53 activated in response to etoposide treatment of normal human fibroblasts. These forms of p53 were purified from whole cell lysates by means of immunoaffinity chromatography and SDS-PAGE, and peptides derived from them were subjected to nano-ultra-high-performance LC-MS and MS/MS analyses on a high-resolution accurate-mass MS platform (data available via ProteomeXchange, PXD000464). We identified an unexpectedly large number of PTMs, comprising phosphorylation of Ser and Thr residues, methylation of Arg residues, and acetylation, ubiquitinylation, and methylation of Lys residues-for example, some 150 previously undescribed modifications of p53 isolated from infected cells. These modifications were distributed across all functional domains of both forms of the endogenous human p53 protein, as well as those of an orthologous population of p53 isolated from COS-1 cells. Despite the differences in activity, including greater in vitro sequence-specific DNA binding activity exhibited by p53 isolated from etoposide-treated cells, few differences were observed in the location, nature, or relative frequencies of PTMs on the two populations of human p53. Indeed, the wealth of PTMs that we have identified is consistent with a far greater degree of complex, combinatorial regulation of p53 by PTM than previously anticipated.
PXD000399	24085853	Quantitative apical membrane proteomics reveals vasopressin-induced actin dynamics in collecting duct cells. 	Quantitative LC-MS/MS Analysis of Apical Membrane Proteome of mpkCCD Cells	SILAC, actin dynamics, aquaporin-2, collecting duct, vasopressin	In kidney collecting duct cells, filamentous actin (F-actin) depolymerization is a critical step in vasopressin-induced trafficking of aquaporin-2 to the apical plasma membrane. However, the molecular components of this response are largely unknown. Using stable isotope-based quantitative protein mass spectrometry and surface biotinylation, we identified 100 proteins that showed significant abundance changes in the apical plasma membrane of mouse cortical collecting duct cells in response to vasopressin. Fourteen of these proteins are involved in actin cytoskeleton regulation, including actin itself, 10 actin-associated proteins, and 3 regulatory proteins. Identified were two integral membrane proteins (Clmn, Nckap1) and one actin-binding protein (Mpp5) that link F-actin to the plasma membrane, five F-actin end-binding proteins (Arpc2, Arpc4, Gsn, Scin, and Capzb) involved in F-actin reorganization, and two actin adaptor proteins (Dbn1, Lasp1) that regulate actin cytoskeleton organization. There were also protease (Capn1), protein kinase (Cdc42bpb), and Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor 2 (Arhgef2) that mediate signal-induced F-actin changes. Based on these findings, we devised a live-cell imaging method to observe vasopressin-induced F-actin dynamics in polarized mouse cortical collecting duct cells. In response to vasopressin, F-actin gradually disappeared near the center of the apical plasma membrane while consolidating laterally near the tight junction. This F-actin peripheralization was blocked by calcium ion chelation. Vasopressin-induced apical aquaporin-2 trafficking and forskolin-induced water permeability increase were blocked by F-actin disruption. In conclusion, we identified a vasopressin-regulated actin network potentially responsible for vasopressin-induced apical F-actin dynamics that could explain regulation of apical aquaporin-2 trafficking and water permeability increase.
PXD000477	24090032	Mspire-Simulator: LC-MS shotgun proteomic simulator for creating realistic gold standard data. 	Mspire-Simulator: LC-MS shotgun proteomic simulator for creating realistic gold standard data - HEK cell lysate	FASP, HEK-293T, Ms-Simulator	The most important step in any quantitative proteomic pipeline is feature detection (aka peak picking). However, generating quality hand-annotated data sets to validate the algorithms, especially for lower abundance peaks, is nearly impossible. An alternative for creating gold standard data is to simulate it with features closely mimicking real data. We present Mspire-Simulator, a free, open-source shotgun proteomic simulator that goes beyond previous simulation attempts by generating LC-MS features with realistic m/z and intensity variance along with other noise components. It also includes machine-learned models for retention time and peak intensity prediction and a genetic algorithm to custom fit model parameters for experimental data sets. We show that these methods are applicable to data from three different mass spectrometers, including two fundamentally different types, and show visually and analytically that simulated peaks are nearly indistinguishable from actual data. Researchers can use simulated data to rigorously test quantitation software, and proteomic researchers may benefit from overlaying simulated data on actual data sets.
PXD000398	24122829	Identification of downstream components of ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme PHOSPHATE2 by quantitative membrane proteomics in Arabidopsis roots. 	Identification of Components Downstream of PHO2 by Quantitative Membrane Proteomics in Arabidopsis Roots	iTRAQ, membrane proteomics	MicroRNA399-mediated regulation of the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UBC24/phosphate2 (PHO2) is crucial for Pi acquisition and translocation in plants. Because of a potential role for PHO2 in protein degradation and its association with membranes, an iTRAQ (for isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation)- based quantitative membrane proteomic method was employed to search for components downstream of PHO2. A total of 7491 proteins were identified from Arabidopsis thaliana roots by mass spectrometry, 35.2% of which were predicted to contain at least one transmembrane helix. Among the quantifiable proteins, five were significantly differentially expressed between the wild type and pho2 mutant under two growth conditions. Using immunoblot analysis, we validated the upregulation of several members in phosphate transporter1 (PHT1) family and phosphate transporter traffic facilitator1 (PHF1) in pho2 and demonstrated that PHO2 mediates the degradation of PHT1 proteins. Genetic evidence that loss of PHF1 or PHT1;1 alleviated Pi toxicity in pho2 further suggests that they play roles as downstream components of PHO2. Moreover, we showed that PHO2 interacts with PHT1s in the postendoplasmic reticulum compartments and mediates the ubiquitination of endomembrane-localized PHT1;1. This study not only uncovers a mechanism by which PHO2 modulates Pi acquisition by regulating the abundance of PHT1s in the secretory pathway destined for plasma membranes, but also provides a database of the membrane proteome that will be widely applicable in root biology research.
PXD000415	24126142	Defining the protein-protein interaction network of the human hippo pathway. 	Human Hippo pathway , LC-MSMS -  Defining the protein-protein interaction network of the human Hippo pathway	Hippo pathway, Tandem affinity purification, protein interactome	The Hippo pathway, which is conserved from Drosophila to mammals, has been recognized as a tumor suppressor signaling pathway governing cell proliferation and apoptosis, two key events involved in organ size control and tumorigenesis. Although several upstream regulators, the conserved kinase cascade and key downstream effectors including nuclear transcriptional factors have been defined, the global organization of this signaling pathway is not been fully understood. Thus, we conducted a proteomic analysis of human Hippo pathway, which revealed the involvement of an extensive protein-protein interaction network in this pathway. The mass spectrometry data were deposited to ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000415. Our data suggest that 550 interactions within 343 unique protein components constitute the central protein-protein interaction landscape of human Hippo pathway. Our study provides a glimpse into the global organization of Hippo pathway, reveals previously unknown interactions within this pathway, and uncovers new potential components involved in the regulation of this pathway. Understanding these interactions will help us further dissect the Hippo signaling-pathway and extend our knowledge of organ size control.
PXD000169	24127784	Long-term survival of high quality sperm: insights into the sperm proteome of the honeybee Apis mellifera. 	Analysis of the honeybee sperm proteome using MudPit and 2D PAGE	2D PAGE, Honey bee, MudPit, sperm. LC-MS	In the social bees, ants, and wasps, females (queens) mate only during a brief period early in their lives and afterward store a lifetime supply of sperm in a specialized organ, the spermatheca. In some species, stored sperm can remain viable for several decades and is used by queens to fertilize millions of eggs. The physiological adaptations that allow this prolonged survival are unknown. To unravel them, we conducted proteomic analyses on the sperm of the honeybee Apis mellifera to define proteins that are bee-specific or highly divergent from sequences in the sperm proteomes of flies or mammals and might therefore be associated with long-term sperm survival. We identified a honeybee sperm proteome of 336 members and defined the subset of proteins or protein networks that cannot be discerned in the sperm proteomes of fruit flies and humans. This subset contained a significant number of proteins that are predicted to act in enzyme regulation or in nucleic acid binding and processing. From our analysis we conclude that long-term survival of sperm in social insects could be underpinned by substantial changes in only a specific subset of sperm proteins that allow physiological adaptation to storage. The unexpected preponderance of proteins predicted to be involved in transcriptional processes and enzyme regulation suggest these are the primary targets of this adaptation.
PXD000378	24127907	Functional analysis of the rodent CK1tau mutation in the circadian clock of a marine unicellular alga. 	Functional analysis of the rodent tau mutation in a marine unicellular alga	Ostreococcus tauri, Tau mutation, phosphopeptide enrichment	BACKGROUND: Casein Kinase 1 (CK1) is one of few proteins known to affect cellular timekeeping across metazoans, and the naturally occurring CK1tau mutation shortens circadian period in mammals. Functional conservation of a timekeeping function for CK1 in the green lineage was recently identified in the green marine unicell Ostreococcus tauri, in spite of the absence of CK1's transcriptional targets known from other species. The short-period phenotype of CK1tau mutant in mammals depends specifically on increased CK1 activity against PERIOD proteins. To understand how CK1 acts differently upon the algal clock, we analysed the cellular and proteomic effects of CK1tau overexpression in O. tauri. RESULTS: Overexpression of the CK1tau in O. tauri induces period lengthening identical to overexpression of wild-type CK1, in addition to resistance to CK1 inhibitor IC261. Label-free quantitative mass spectrometry of CK1tau overexpressing algae revealed a total of 58 unique phospho-sites that are differentially responsive to CK1tau. Combined with CK1 phosphorylation site prediction tools and previously published wild-type CK1-responsive peptides, this study results in a highly stringent list of upregulated phospho-sites, derived from proteins containing ankyrin repeats, kinase proteins, and phosphoinositide-binding proteins. CONCLUSIONS: The identical phenotype for overexpression of wild-type CK1 and CK1tau is in line with the absence of critical targets for rodent CK1tau in O. tauri. Proteomic analyses reveal that two thirds of previously reported CK1 overexpression-responsive phospho-sites are shared with CK1tau. These results indicate that the two alleles are functionally indiscriminate in O. tauri, and verify the identified cellular CK1 target proteins in a minimal circadian model organism.
PXD000426	24134513	Asn3, a reliable, robust, and universal lock mass for improved accuracy in LC-MS and LC-MS/MS. 	Asn3 mass accuracy jurkat proteome	LTQ-Orbitrap Velos, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, mass accuracy	The use of internal calibrants (the so-called lock mass approach) provides much greater accuracy in mass spectrometry based proteomics. However, the polydimethylcyclosiloxane (PCM) peaks commonly used for this purpose are quite unreliable, leading to missing calibrant peaks in spectra and correspondingly lower mass measurement accuracy. Therefore, we here introduce a universally applicable and robust internal calibrant, the tripeptide Asn3. We show that Asn3 is a substantial improvement over PCM both in terms of consistent detection and resulting mass measurement accuracy. Asn3 is also very easy to adopt in the lab, as it requires only minor adjustments to the analytical setup.
PXD000488	24134804	Label-free proteomics identifies Calreticulin and GRP75/Mortalin as peripherally accessible protein biomarkers for spinal muscular atrophy. 	Comparative Proteomic profiling of the rostral band of LAL muscle from SMA mice and litter mate controls	Mouse LAL muscle SMA LTQ Orbitrap XL	BACKGROUND: Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neuromuscular disease resulting from mutations in the survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene. Recent breakthroughs in preclinical research have highlighted several potential novel therapies for SMA, increasing the need for robust and sensitive clinical trial platforms for evaluating their effectiveness in human patient cohorts. Given that most clinical trials for SMA are likely to involve young children, there is a need for validated molecular biomarkers to assist with monitoring disease progression and establishing the effectiveness of therapies being tested. Proteomics technologies have recently been highlighted as a potentially powerful tool for such biomarker discovery. METHODS: We utilized label-free proteomics to identify individual proteins in pathologically-affected skeletal muscle from SMA mice that report directly on disease status. Quantitative fluorescent western blotting was then used to assess whether protein biomarkers were robustly changed in muscle, skin and blood from another mouse model of SMA, as well as in a small cohort of human SMA patient muscle biopsies. RESULTS: By comparing the protein composition of skeletal muscle in SMA mice at a pre-symptomatic time-point with the muscle proteome at a late-symptomatic time-point we identified increased expression of both Calreticulin and GRP75/Mortalin as robust indicators of disease progression in SMA mice. We report that these protein biomarkers were consistently modified in different mouse models of SMA, as well as across multiple skeletal muscles, and were also measurable in skin biopsies. Furthermore, Calreticulin and GRP75/Mortalin were measurable in muscle biopsy samples from human SMA patients. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that label-free proteomics technology provides a powerful platform for biomarker identification in SMA, revealing Calreticulin and GRP75/Mortalin as peripherally accessible protein biomarkers capable of reporting on disease progression in samples of muscle and skin.
PXD000443	24138474	Surfing transcriptomic landscapes. A step beyond the annotation of chromosome 16 proteome. 	Chr16-HPP. Shotgun Analysis improvement. JPR HPP Special issue 2013. Jurkat Cell line.	Chromosome centric, HPP, Human Proteome Project, MIAPE, Networking, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP)	The Spanish team of the Human Proteome Project (SpHPP) marked the annotation of Chr16 and data analysis as one of its priorities. Precise annotation of Chromosome 16 proteins according to C-HPP criteria is presented. Moreover, Human Body Map 2.0 RNA-Seq and Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) data sets were used to obtain further information relative to cell/tissue specific chromosome 16 coding gene expression patterns and to infer the presence of missing proteins. Twenty-four shotgun 2D-LC-MS/MS and gel/LC-MS/MS MIAPE compliant experiments, representing 41% coverage of chromosome 16 proteins, were performed. Furthermore, mapping of large-scale multicenter mass spectrometry data sets from CCD18, MCF7, Jurkat, and Ramos cell lines into RNA-Seq data allowed further insights relative to correlation of chromosome 16 transcripts and proteins. Detection and quantification of chromosome 16 proteins in biological matrices by SRM procedures are also primary goals of the SpHPP. Two strategies were undertaken: one focused on known proteins, taking advantage of MS data already available, and the second, aimed at the detection of the missing proteins, is based on the expression of recombinant proteins to gather MS information and optimize SRM methods that will be used in real biological samples. SRM methods for 49 known proteins and for recombinant forms of 24 missing proteins are reported in this study.
PXD010487	24140279	Methylation of the DNA/RNA-binding protein Kin17 by METTL22 affects its association with chromatin. 	KIN interactome -  Methylation of the DNA/RNA-binding protein Kin17 by METTL22 affects its association with chromatin	BioID, KIN, cancer, protein-protein interaction, ribosome biogenesis, splicing process	Kin17 is a protein that was discovered through its immunoreactivity towards an antibody directed against prokaryotic RecA. Further study of Kin17 revealed a function in DNA replication and repair, as well as in pre-mRNA processing. Recently, it was found that Kin17 is methylated on lysine 135 by the newly discovered methyltransferase METTL22. To better understand the function of Kin17 and its regulation by methylation, we used multiple cell compartment protein affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry (MCC-AP-MS) to identify novel interaction partners of Kin17 and to assess whether these interactions can take place on chromatin. Our results confirm that Kin17 interacts with METTL22 both in the soluble and chromatin fractions. We also show that many RNA-binding proteins, including the previously identified interactor BUD13 as well as spliceosomal and ribosomal subunits, associate with Kin17 in the soluble fraction. Interestingly, overexpression of METTL22 in HEK 293 cells displaces Kin17 from the chromatin to the cytoplasmic fraction, suggesting a role for methylation of lysine 135, a residue that lies within a winged helix domain of Kin17, in regulating association with chromatin. These results are discussed in view of the putative cellular function of Kin17. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The results shown here broaden our understanding of METTL22, a member of a family of newly-discovered non-histone lysine methyltransferases and its substrate, Kin17, a DNA/RNA-binding protein with reported roles in DNA repair and replication and mRNA processing. An innovative method to study protein-protein interactions in multiple cell compartments is employed to outline the interaction network of both proteins. Functional experiments uncover a correlative role between Kin17 lysine methylation and its association with chromatin. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Can Proteomics Fill the Gap Between Genomics and Phenotypes?
PXD000162	24140569	Hypoxia-mimetic effects in the secretome of human preadipocytes and adipocytes. 	Hypoxia-induced Changes in the Secretome of Human Preadipocytes and Adipocytes	human (pre)adipocytes, hypoxia, secretome, turnover	White adipose tissue (WAT) regulates energy metabolism by secretion of proteins with endocrine and paracrine effects. Dysregulation of the secretome of obesity-associated enlarged WAT may lead to obesity-related disorders. This can be caused by hypoxia as a result of poorly vascularized WAT. The effect of hypoxia on the secretome of human (pre)adipocytes is largely unknown. Therefore, we investigated the effect of CoCl2, a hypoxia mimetic, on the secretome of human SGBS (pre)adipocytes by a proteomics approach combined with bioinformatic analysis. In addition, regulation of protein secretion was examined by protein turnover experiments. As such, secretome changes were particularly associated with protein down-regulation and extracellular matrix protein dysregulation. The observed up-regulation of collagens in adipocytes may be essential for cell survival while down-regulation of collagens in preadipocytes may indicate a disturbed differentiation process. These CoCl2-induced changes reflect WAT dysfunction that ultimately may lead to obesity-associated complications. In addition, 9 novel adipocyte secreted proteins were identified from which 6 were regulated by CoCl2. Mass spectrometry data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000162.
PXD000504	24152167	Tools to covisualize and coanalyze proteomic data with genomes and transcriptomes: validation of genes and alternative mRNA splicing. 	Campylobacter concisus strain BAA-1547 GeLC-MSMS	Campylobacter, GeLC-MSMS, concisus	Direct links between proteomic and genomic/transcriptomic data are not frequently made, partly because of lack of appropriate bioinformatics tools. To help address this, we have developed the PG Nexus pipeline. The PG Nexus allows users to covisualize peptides in the context of genomes or genomic contigs, along with RNA-seq reads. This is done in the Integrated Genome Viewer (IGV). A Results Analyzer reports the precise base position where LC-MS/MS-derived peptides cover genes or gene isoforms, on the chromosomes or contigs where this occurs. In prokaryotes, the PG Nexus pipeline facilitates the validation of genes, where annotation or gene prediction is available, or the discovery of genes using a "virtual protein"-based unbiased approach. We illustrate this with a comprehensive proteogenomics analysis of two strains of Campylobacter concisus . For higher eukaryotes, the PG Nexus facilitates gene validation and supports the identification of mRNA splice junction boundaries and splice variants that are protein-coding. This is illustrated with an analysis of splice junctions covered by human phosphopeptides, and other examples of relevance to the Chromosome-Centric Human Proteome Project. The PG Nexus is open-source and available from https://github.com/IntersectAustralia/ap11_Samifier. It has been integrated into Galaxy and made available in the Galaxy tool shed.
PXD000274	24152285	Mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics for dissecting multiplexed redox cysteine modifications in nitric oxide-protected cardiomyocyte under hypoxia. 	Redox proteomics in NO-mediated protection on hypoxic cardiomyocyte	Redox-proteomics, S-nitrosylation, hypoxia, redox cysteine modifications	AIMS: Distinctive states of redox-dependent cysteine (Cys) modifications are known to regulate signaling homeostasis under various pathophysiological conditions, including myocardial injury or protection in response to ischemic stress. Recent evidence further implicates a dynamic interplay among these modified forms following changes in cellular redox environment. However, a precise delineation of multiplexed Cys modifications in a cellular context remains technically challenging. To this end, we have now developed a mass spectrometry (MS)-based quantitative approach using a set of novel iodoacetyl-based Cys-reactive isobaric tags (irreversible isobaric iodoacetyl Cys-reactive tandem mass tag [iodoTMT]) endowed with unique irreversible Cys-reactivities. RESULTS: We have established a sequential iodoTMT-switch procedure coupled with efficient immunoenrichment and advanced shotgun liquid chromatography-MS/MS analysis. This workflow allows us to differentially quantify the multiple redox-modified forms of a Cys site in the original cellular context. In one single analysis, we have identified over 260 Cys sites showing quantitative differences in multiplexed redox modifications from the total lysates of H9c2 cardiomyocytes experiencing hypoxia in the absence and presence of S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), indicative of a distinct pattern of individual susceptibility to S-nitrosylation or S-glutathionylation. Among those most significantly affected are proteins functionally implicated in hypoxic damage from which we showed that GSNO would protect. INNOVATION: We demonstrate for the first time how quantitative analysis of various Cys-redox modifications occurring in biological samples can be performed precisely and simultaneously at proteomic levels. CONCLUSION: We have not only developed a new approach to map global Cys-redoxomic regulation in vivo, but also provided new evidences implicating Cys-redox modifications of key molecules in NO-mediated ischemic cardioprotection.
PXD012499	24152304	Identifying the candidate genes involved in the calyx abscission process of 'Kuerlexiangli' (Pyrus sinkiangensis Yu) by digital transcript abundance measurements. 	Candidate proteins involved in the calyx abscission process of Kuerlexiangli' (Pyrus sinkiangensis Yu) identified by iTRAQ analysis	Calyx abscission, Differentially abundant proteins, ITRAQ, Pear	BACKGROUND: 'Kuerlexiangli' (Pyrus sinkiangensis Yu), a native pear of Xinjiang, China, is an important agricultural fruit and primary export to the international market. However, fruit with persistent calyxes affect fruit shape and quality. Although several studies have looked into the physiological aspects of the calyx abscission process, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. In order to better understand the molecular basis of the process of calyx abscission, materials at three critical stages of regulation, with 6000 x Flusilazole plus 300 x PBO treatment (calyx abscising treatment) and 50 mg.L-1GA3 treatment (calyx persisting treatment), were collected and cDNA fragments were sequenced using digital transcript abundance measurements to identify candidate genes. RESULTS: Digital transcript abundance measurements was performed using high-throughput Illumina GAII sequencing on seven samples that were collected at three important stages of the calyx abscission process with chemical agent treatments promoting calyx abscission and persistence. Altogether more than 251,123,845 high quality reads were obtained with approximately 8.0 M raw data for each library. The values of 69.85%-71.90% of clean data in the digital transcript abundance measurements could be mapped to the pear genome database. There were 12,054 differentially expressed genes having Gene Ontology (GO) terms and associating with 251 Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) defined pathways. The differentially expressed genes correlated with calyx abscission were mainly involved in photosynthesis, plant hormone signal transduction, cell wall modification, transcriptional regulation, and carbohydrate metabolism. Furthermore, candidate calyx abscission-specific genes, e.g. Inflorescence deficient in abscission gene, were identified. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to confirm the digital transcript abundance measurements results. CONCLUSIONS: We identified candidate genes that showed highly dynamic changes in expression during the calyx abscission process. These genes are potential targets for future functional characterization and should be valuable for exploration of the mechanisms of calyx abscission, and eventually for developing methods based on small molecule application to induce calyx abscission in fruit production.
PXD000345	24152719	Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analysis of the global response of Wolbachia to doxycycline-induced stress. 	Proteomic analysis of the global response of an arthropod Wolbachia symbiont to doxycycline-induced stress	tetracyclines/tolerance/Wolbachia/LC-MSMS	The bacterium Wolbachia (order Rickettsiales), representing perhaps the most abundant vertically transmitted microbe worldwide, infects arthropods and filarial nematodes. In arthropods, Wolbachia can induce reproductive alterations and interfere with the transmission of several arthropod-borne pathogens. In addition, Wolbachia is an obligate mutualist of the filarial parasites that cause lymphatic filariasis and onchocerciasis in the tropics. Targeting Wolbachia with tetracycline antibiotics leads to sterilisation and ultimately death of adult filariae. However, several weeks of treatment are required, restricting the implementation of this control strategy. To date, the response of Wolbachia to stress has not been investigated, and almost nothing is known about global regulation of gene expression in this organism. We exposed an arthropod Wolbachia strain to doxycycline in vitro, and analysed differential expression by directional RNA-seq and label-free, quantitative proteomics. We found that Wolbachia responded not only by modulating expression of the translation machinery, but also by upregulating nucleotide synthesis and energy metabolism, while downregulating outer membrane proteins. Moreover, Wolbachia increased the expression of a key component of the twin-arginine translocase (tatA) and a phosphate ABC transporter ATPase (PstB); the latter is associated with decreased susceptibility to antimicrobials in free-living bacteria. Finally, the downregulation of 6S RNA during translational inhibition suggests that this small RNA is involved in growth rate control. Despite its highly reduced genome, Wolbachia shows a surprising ability to regulate gene expression during exposure to a potent stressor. Our findings have general relevance for the chemotherapy of obligate intracellular bacteria and the mechanistic basis of persistence in the Rickettsiales.
PXD006057	24162925	Quantifying protein interaction dynamics by SWATH mass spectrometry: application to the 14-3-3 system. 	Inference and quantification of peptidoforms in large sample cohorts by SWATH-MS: 14-3-3 data set	14-3-3, AP-MS, AP-SWATH, IPF, OpenSWATH, benchmark, kinase, phosphopeptides	Protein complexes and protein interaction networks are essential mediators of most biological functions. Complexes supporting transient functions such as signal transduction processes are frequently subject to dynamic remodeling. Currently, the majority of studies on the composition of protein complexes are carried out by affinity purification and mass spectrometry (AP-MS) and present a static view of the system. For a better understanding of inherently dynamic biological processes, methods to reliably quantify temporal changes of protein interaction networks are essential. Here we used affinity purification combined with sequential window acquisition of all theoretical spectra (AP-SWATH) mass spectrometry to study the dynamics of the 14-3-3beta scaffold protein interactome after stimulation of the insulin-PI3K-AKT pathway. The consistent and reproducible quantification of 1,967 proteins across all stimulation time points provided insights into the 14-3-3beta interactome and its dynamic changes following IGF1 stimulation. We therefore establish AP-SWATH as a tool to quantify dynamic changes in protein-complex interaction networks.
PXD000387	24171499	Proteomic analyses of human gingival and periodontal ligament fibroblasts. 	LC-MS/MS of gingiva and Periodontal ligaments	Human Gingiva and periodontal	BACKGROUND: Although human gingival fibroblasts (hGFs) and human periodontal ligament fibroblasts (hPDLFs) exhibit numerous phenotypic similarities, it has been suggested that the secretory and behavioral differences, which exist between these cell types, are a result of the membrane protein composition of these cells. METHODS: Four matched pairs of hGFs and hPDLFs were cultured. Before confluence, membrane-bound and -associated proteins from cells of the fourth passage were extracted. The processed protein samples were evaluated using capillary-liquid chromatography-nanospray tandem mass spectrometry. Global protein identification was performed on an orbitrap mass spectrometer equipped with a microspray source operated in positive ion mode. Proteome software was used to validate protein identifications derived from tandem mass spectrometry sequencing results. RESULTS: Four hundred fifty proteins were common to both hGFs and hPDLFs. Of the proteins identified, 214 were known membrane-bound or -associated proteins, and 165 proteins were known nuclear-associated proteins. Twenty-seven proteins, identified from the 450 proteins, common to both hGFs and hPDLFs, were detected in statistically significant greater quantities in either hGFs or hPDLFs. More specifically, 13 proteins were detected in significantly greater quantities in hGFs, whereas 14 proteins were detected in significantly greater quantities in hPDLFs. CONCLUSIONS: Distinct differences in the cellular protein catalog may reflect the dynamic role and high energy requirements of hGFs in extracellular matrix remodeling and response to inflammatory challenge as well as the role of hPDLFs in monitoring mechanical stress and maintaining tissue homeostasis during regeneration and remineralization.
PXD000306	24174285	Proteomic identification of rainbow trout seminal plasma proteins. 	Proteomic identification of rainbow trout seminal plasma proteins	Rainbow trout, Seminal plasma	In the study, the combination of protein fractionation by 1DE and HPLC-ESI-MS/MS was used to characterize the rainbow trout seminal plasma proteome. Our results led to the creation of a catalogue of rainbow trout seminal plasma proteins (152 proteins) and significantly contributed to the current knowledge regarding the protein composition of fish seminal plasma. The major proteins of rainbow trout seminal plasma, such as transferrin, apolipoproteins, complement C3, serum albumin, and hemopexin-, alpha-1-antiproteinase-, and precerebellin-like protein, were recognized as acute-phase proteins (proteins that plasma concentration changes in response to inflammation). This study provides the basis for further functional studies of fish seminal plasma proteins, as well as for the identification of novel biomarkers for sperm quality. The MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000306 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000306).
PXD000332	24190977	N-linked glycosylation enrichment for in-depth cell surface proteomics of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma subtypes. 	N-linked glycosylation enrichment for in-depth cell surface proteomics and the classification of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma subtypes	N-linked glycosylation, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, glycoproteome	Global analysis of lymphoma genome integrity and transcriptomes tremendously advanced our understanding of their biology. Technological advances in mass spectrometry-based proteomics promise to complete the picture by allowing the global quantification of proteins and their post-translational modifications. Here we use N-glyco FASP, a recently developed mass spectrometric approach using lectin-enrichment, in conjunction with a super-SILAC approach to quantify N-linked glycoproteins in lymphoma cells. From patient-derived diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cell lines, we mapped 2383 glycosites on 1321 protein groups, which were highly enriched for cell membrane proteins. This N-glyco subproteome alone allowed the segregation of the ABC from the GCB subtypes of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, which before gene expression studies had been considered one disease entity. Encouragingly, many of the glycopeptides driving the segregation belong to proteins previously characterized as segregators in a deep proteome study of these subtypes (S. J. Deeb et al. MCP 2012 PMID 22442255). This conforms to the high correlation that we observed between the expression level of the glycosites and their corresponding proteins. Detailed examination of glycosites and glycoprotein expression levels uncovered, among other interesting findings, enrichment of transcription factor binding motifs, including known NF-kappa-B related ones. Thus, enrichment of a class of post-translationally modified peptides can classify cancer types as well as reveal cancer specific mechanistic changes.
PXD001277	24194745	Omega-3 fatty acid deficiency disrupts endocytosis, neuritogenesis, and mitochondrial protein pathways in the mouse hippocampus. 	Mouse, Hippocampus, LC-MSMS -  Omega-3 fatty acid deficiency disrupts endocytosis, neuritogenesis, and mitochondrial protein pathways in the mouse hippocampus	Omega-3, clathrin mediated endocytosis, mitochondrial dysfunction, neuritogenesis, schizophrenia	Omega-3 fatty acid (n-3 FA) deficiency is an environmental risk factor for schizophrenia, yet characterization of the consequences of deficiency at the protein level in the brain is limited. We aimed to identify the protein pathways disrupted as a consequence of chronic n-3 deficiency in the hippocampus of mice. Fatty acid analysis of the hippocampus following chronic dietary deficiency revealed a 3-fold decrease (p < 0.001) in n-3 FA levels. Label free LC-MS/MS analysis identified and profiled 1008 proteins, of which 114 were observed to be differentially expressed between n-3 deficient and control groups (n = 8 per group). The cellular processes that were most implicated were neuritogenesis, endocytosis, and exocytosis, while specific protein pathways that were most significantly dysregulated were mitochondrial dysfunction and clathrin mediated endocytosis (CME). In order to characterize whether these processes and pathways are ones influenced by antipsychotic medication, we used LC-MS/MS to test the differential expression of these 114 proteins in the hippocampus of mice chronically treated with the antipsychotic agent haloperidol. We observed 23 of the 114 proteins to be differentially expressed, 17 of which were altered in the opposite direction to that observed following n-3 deficiency. Overall, our findings point to disturbed synaptic function, neuritogenesis, and mitochondrial function as a consequence of dietary deficiency in n-3 FA. This study greatly aids our understanding of the molecular mechanism by which n-3 deficiency impairs normal brain function, and provides clues as to how n-3 FA exert their therapeutic effect in early psychosis.
PXD000461	24201379	Identification of telomere-associated molecules by engineered DNA-binding molecule-mediated chromatin immunoprecipitation (enChIP). 	Identification of telomere-binding proteins by enChIP-MS	Telomere binding protein	Biochemical analysis of molecular interactions in specific genomic regions requires their isolation while retaining molecular interactions in vivo. Here, we report isolation of telomeres by engineered DNA-binding molecule-mediated chromatin immunoprecipitation (enChIP) using a transcription activator-like (TAL) protein recognizing telomere repeats. Telomeres recognized by the tagged TAL protein were immunoprecipitated with an antibody against the tag and subjected to identification of telomere-binding molecules. enChIP-mass spectrometry (enChIP-MS) targeting telomeres identified known and novel telomere-binding proteins. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000461. In addition, we showed that RNA associated with telomeres could be isolated by enChIP. Identified telomere-binding molecules may play important roles in telomere biology. enChIP using TAL proteins would be a useful tool for biochemical analysis of specific genomic regions of interest.
PXD000578	24211767	Quantitative accuracy in mass spectrometry based proteomics of complex samples: the impact of labeling and precursor interference. 	Mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics of whole cell lysate from breast cancer cell line MCF7 spiked with 57 protein standards	LC-MS, MCF7, TMT, iTRAQ, isoelectric focusing, precursor mixing, quantification	Knowing the limit of quantification is important to accurately judge the results from proteomics studies. In order to investigate isobaric labels in combination with peptide pre-fractionation by high resolution isoelectric focusing in terms of limit of detection, quantitative accuracy and how to improve it, we used a human cell lysate spiked with 57 protein standards providing reference points across a wide concentration range. Specifically, the impact of precursor mixing (isolation interference and reporter ion interference) on quantitative accuracy was investigated by co-analyzing iTRAQ (8-plex) and TMT (6-plex) labeled peptides. A label-free analysis was also performed. Peptides, labeled or label-free, were analyzed by LC-MS/MS (Orbitrap Velos). We identified 3386 proteins by the label-free approach, 4466 with iTRAQ and 5961 with TMT. A linear range of quantification down to 1fmol was indicated for both isobaric and label-free analysis workflows, with an upper limit exceeding 60fmol. Our results indicate that 6-plex TMT is more sensitive than 8-plex iTRAQ. For isobaric labels, quantitative accuracy was affected by precursor mixing. Based on our evaluation on precursor mixing and accuracy of isobaric label quantification, we propose a cut off of <30% isolation interference for peptide spectrum matches (PSMs) used in the quantification. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Quantitative proteome analysis by mass spectrometry offers opportunities for biological research. However, knowing the limit of quantification in biological samples is important to accurately judge the results. By using a high-complexity sample spiked with protein standards of known concentrations, we investigated the quantification limits of label-free and label-based peptide quantification, including an evaluation of precursor mixing and its impact on quantification accuracy by isobaric labels. We suggest limits of allowed precursor interference and believe that this study contributes with information useful in proteome quantification by mass spectrometry.
PXD000312	24224561	Mercury alters B-cell protein phosphorylation profiles. 	Mercury Uniquely Alters B-Cell Protein Phosphorylation Profiles	B-cell, Hg, mercury, pervanadate, phosphoprotein, phosphoylation	Environmental exposure to mercury is suggested to contribute to human immune dysfunction. To shed light on the mechanism, we identified changes in the phosphoproteomic profile of the WEHI-231 B cell line after intoxication with Hg(2+). These changes were compared to changes in the phosphoproteome that were induced by pervanadate or okadaic acid exposure. Both 250 muM HgCl2 and pervanadate, a known phosphotyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, caused an increase in the number of proteins identified after TiO2 affinity selection and LC-MS/MS analysis. Pervanadate treatment had a larger effect than Hg(2+) on the number of Scansite motifs that were tyrosine-phosphorylated, 17, and Ingenuity canonical signaling pathways activated, 4, with score >5.0. However, Hg(2+) had a more focused effect, primarily causing tyrosine-phosphorylation in src homology 2 domains in proteins that are in the B cell receptor signaling pathway. The finding that many of the changes induced by Hg(2+) overlap with those of pervanadate, indicates that at high concentrations Hg(2+) inhibits protein tyrosine phosphatases.
PXD000053	24227553	Phosphoproteome analysis of Lotus japonicus seeds. 	Lotus japonicus phosphopeptide	phosphopeptide	In this study, we report the first dataset of phosphoproteins of the seeds of a model plant, Lotus japonicus. This dataset might be useful in studying the regulatory mechanisms of seed germination in legume plants. By proteomic analysis of seeds following water absorption, we identified a total of 721 phosphopeptides derived from 343 phosphoproteins in cotyledons, and 931 phosphopeptides from 473 phosphoproteins in hypocotyls. Kinase-specific prediction analyses revealed that different kinases were activated in cotyledons and hypocotyls. In particular, many peptides containing ATM-kinase target motifs, X-X-pS/pT-Q-X-X, were detected in cotyledons. Moreover, by real-time RT-PCR analysis, we found that expression of a homolog of ATM kinase is upregulated specifically in cotyledons, suggesting that this ATM-kinase homolog plays a significant role in cell proliferation in the cotyledons of L. japonicus seeds. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000053 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000053).
PXD000580	24237138	Proteomic analysis of yeast mutant RNA exosome complexes. 	Proteomic analysis of yeast mutant RNA exosome complexes	Saccharomyces cerevisiae	The yeast exosome is a conserved multiprotein complex essential for RNA processing and degradation. The complex is formed by a nine-subunit core that associates with two hydrolytic 3'-5' exoribonucleases. Although catalytically inert, the assembly of this nine-subunit core seems to be essential for the exosome activity, as mutations in regions that do not directly bind RNA or are not in the active sites of the exonucleases impair the function of the complex. Previously isolated mutations in the exosome core subunit Rrp43p have been shown to negatively affect the function of the complex. With the aim of investigating the effect of these mutations on the complex stability and activity, Rrp43p and its mutant forms were purified by means of the TAP method. Mass spectrometry analyses showed that lower amounts of the exosome subunits are copurified with the mutant Rrp43p proteins. Additionally, by decreasing the stability of the exosome, other nonspecific protein interactions are favored (the data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000580). Exosome copurified with mutant Rrp43p exhibited increased exonuclease activity, suggesting higher dissociation constants for these mutant complexes. Therefore, data reported here indicate that complexes containing a mutant Rrp43p exhibit decreased stability and provide information on additional protein interactions.
PXD000489	24239514	A pair of centromeric proteins mediates reproductive isolation in Drosophila species. 	A pair of centromeric proteins mediates reproductive isolation in Drosophila species	HMR, LHR	Speciation involves the reproductive isolation of natural populations due to the sterility or lethality of their hybrids. However, the molecular basis of hybrid lethality and the evolutionary driving forces that provoke it remain largely elusive. The hybrid male rescue (Hmr) and the lethal hybrid rescue (Lhr) genes serve as a model to study speciation in Drosophilids because their interaction causes lethality in male hybrid offspring. Here, we show that HMR and LHR form a centromeric complex necessary for proper chromosome segregation. We find that the Hmr expression level is substantially higher in Drosophila melanogaster, whereas Lhr expression levels are increased in Drosophila simulans. The resulting elevated amount of HMR/LHR complex in hybrids results in an extensive mislocalization of the complex, an interference with the regulation of transposable elements, and an impairment of cell proliferation. Our findings provide evidence for a major role of centromere divergence in the generation of biodiversity.
PXD000238	24248375	Metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer reveals intrapatient similarity and interpatient heterogeneity of therapeutic kinase targets. 	Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Lethal Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer Reveals Patient but not Metastatic Site Heterogeneity of Tyrosine Kinase Activation	Prostate cancer, tyrosine phosphorylation	In prostate cancer, multiple metastases from the same patient share similar copy number, mutational status, erythroblast transformation specific (ETS) rearrangements, and methylation patterns supporting their clonal origins. Whether actionable targets such as tyrosine kinases are also similarly expressed and activated in anatomically distinct metastatic lesions of the same patient is not known. We evaluated active kinases using phosphotyrosine peptide enrichment and quantitative mass spectrometry to identify druggable targets in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer obtained at rapid autopsy. We identified distinct phosphopeptide patterns in metastatic tissues compared with treatment-naive primary prostate tissue and prostate cancer cell line-derived xenografts. Evaluation of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer samples for tyrosine phosphorylation and upstream kinase targets revealed SRC, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), rearranged during transfection (RET), anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), and MAPK1/3 and other activities while exhibiting intrapatient similarity and interpatient heterogeneity. Phosphoproteomic analyses and identification of kinase activation states in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer patients have allowed for the prioritization of kinases for further clinical evaluation.
PXD000327	24259518	Quantitative proteomic profiling reveals novel region-specific markers in the adult mouse brain. 	Quantitative proteomic profiling reveals novel region-specific markers in the adult mouse brain	18O-based stable isotope labeling, membrane proteins, myelin interactome, quantitative proteomics	Despite major advances in neuroscience, a comprehensive understanding of the structural and functional components of the adult brain compartments remains to be fully elucidated at a quantitative molecular level. Indeed, over half of the soluble- and membrane-annotated proteins are currently unmapped within online digital brain atlases. In this study, two complementary approaches were used to assess the unique repertoire of proteins enriched within select regions of the adult mouse CNS, including the brain stem, cerebellum, and remaining brain hemispheres. Of the 1200 proteins visualized by 2D-DIGE, approximately 150 (including cytosolic and membrane proteins) were found to exhibit statistically significant changes in relative abundance thus representing putative region-specific brain markers. In addition to using a high-precision (18) O-labeling strategy for the quantitative LC-MS/MS mapping of membrane proteins isolated from myelin-enriched fractions, we have identified over 1000 proteins that have yet to be described in any other mammalian myelin proteome. A comparison of our myelin proteome was made to an existing transcriptome database containing mRNA abundance profiles during oligodendrocyte differentiation and has confirmed statistically significant abundance changes for ~500 of these newly mapped proteins, thus revealing new roles in oligodendrocyte and myelin biology. These data offer a resource for the neuroscience community studying the molecular basis for specialized neuronal activities in the CNS and myelin-related disorders. The MS proteomics data associated with this manuscript have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the dataset identifier PXD000327 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000327).
PXD000243	24270157	A quantitative telomeric chromatin isolation protocol identifies different telomeric states. 	Telomeric protein composition deriving from q-TIP analysis comparing Hela supertelomerase cells, Hela TRF2 knockdown cells or Hela POT1 knockdown cells with Hela control cells,  proteomes by 2D-LC-MS/MS	SILAC, chromatin, telomer length, telomers	Telomere composition changes during tumourigenesis, aging and in telomere syndromes in a poorly defined manner. Here we develop a quantitative telomeric chromatin isolation protocol (QTIP) for human cells, in which chromatin is cross-linked, immunopurified and analysed by mass spectrometry. QTIP involves stable isotope labelling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) to compare and identify quantitative differences in telomere protein composition of cells from various states. With QTIP, we specifically enrich telomeric DNA and all shelterin components. We validate the method characterizing changes at dysfunctional telomeres, and identify and validate known, as well as novel telomere-associated polypeptides including all THO subunits, SMCHD1 and LRIF1. We apply QTIP to long and short telomeres and detect increased density of SMCHD1 and LRIF1 and increased association of the shelterins TRF1, TIN2, TPP1 and POT1 with long telomeres. Our results validate QTIP to study telomeric states during normal development and in disease.
PXD000548	24274931	Deciphering the human brain proteome: characterization of the anterior temporal lobe and corpus callosum as part of the Chromosome 15-centric Human Proteome Project. 	Proteome analyses of the human anterior temporal lobe	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP), anterior temporal lobe, brain, chromosome-based HPP	Defining the proteomes encoded by each chromosome and characterizing proteins related to human illnesses are among the goals of the Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP) and the Biology and Disease-driven HPP. Following these objectives, we investigated the proteomes of the human anterior temporal lobe (ATL) and corpus callosum (CC) collected post-mortem from eight subjects. Using a label-free GeLC-MS/MS approach, we identified 2454 proteins in the ATL and 1887 in the CC through roughly 7500 and 5500 peptides, respectively. Considering that the ATL is a gray-matter region while the CC is a white-matter region, they presented proteomes specific to their functions. Besides, 38 proteins were found to be differentially expressed between the two regions. Furthermore, the proteome data sets were classified according to their chromosomal origin, and five proteins were evidenced at the MS level for the first time. We identified 70 proteins of the chromosome 15 - one of them for the first time by MS - which were submitted to an in silico pathway analysis. These revealed branch point proteins associated with Prader-Willi and Angelman syndromes and dyskeratosis congenita, which are chromosome-15-associated diseases. Data presented here can be a useful for brain disorder studies as well as for contributing to the C-HPP initiative. Our data are publicly available as resource data to C-HPP participant groups at http://yoda.iq.ufrj.br/Daniel/chpp2013. Additionally, the mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000547 for the corpus callosum and PXD000548 for the anterior temporal lobe.
PXD000437	24284412	Amyloid beta a4 precursor protein-binding family B member 1 (FE65) interactomics revealed synaptic vesicle glycoprotein 2A (SV2A) and sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase 2 (SERCA2) as new binding proteins in the human brain. 	Amyloid Beta A4 Precursor Protein-binding Family B Member 1 (FE65) Interactomics Revealed Synaptic Vesicle Glycoprotein 2A (SV2A) and Sarcoplasmic/Endoplasmic Reticulum Calcium ATPase 2 (SERCA2) as New Binding Proteins in the Human Brain	FE65, brain	FE65 is a cytosolic adapter protein and an important binding partner of amyloid precursor protein. Dependent on Thr668 phosphorylation in amyloid precursor protein, which influences amyloidogenic amyloid precursor protein processing, FE65 undergoes nuclear translocation, thereby transmitting a signal from the cell membrane to the nucleus. As this translocation may be relevant in Alzheimer disease, and as FE65 consists of three protein-protein interaction domains able to bind and affect a variety of other proteins and downstream signaling pathways, the identification of the FE65 interactome is of central interest in Alzheimer disease research. In this study, we identified 121 proteins as new potential FE65 interacting proteins in a pulldown/mass spectrometry approach using human post-mortem brain samples as protein pools for recombinantly expressed FE65. Co-immunoprecipitation assays further validated the interaction of FE65 with the candidates SV2A and SERCA2. In parallel, we investigated the whole cell proteome of primary hippocampal neurons from FE65/FE65L1 double knockout mice. Notably, the validated FE65 binding proteins were also found to be differentially abundant in neurons derived from the FE65 knockout mice relative to wild-type control neurons. SERCA2 is an important player in cellular calcium homeostasis, which was found to be up-regulated in double knockout neurons. Indeed, knock-down of FE65 in HEK293T cells also evoked an elevated sensitivity to thapsigargin, a stressor specifically targeting the activity of SERCA2. Thus, our results suggest that FE65 is involved in the regulation of intracellular calcium homeostasis. Whereas transfection of FE65 alone caused a typical dot-like phenotype in the nucleus, co-transfection of SV2A significantly reduced the percentage of FE65 dot-positive cells, pointing to a possible role for SV2A in the modulation of FE65 intracellular targeting. Given that SV2A has a signaling function at the presynapse, its effect on FE65 intracellular localization suggests that the SV2A/FE65 interaction might play a role in synaptic signal transduction.
PXD000203	24293237	Proteome characterization of splenocytes from an Abetapp/ps-1 Alzheimer's disease model. 	Mouse splenocyte proteome -  Proteome characterization of splenocytes from an Abetapp/ps-1 Alzheimer's disease model	APP/PS-1, Alzheimer's disease, CD90, T cells, mice, splenocytes	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the sixth leading cause of US deaths. In addition to neurodegenerative deficits in AD, changes in the immune system have also been observed. Proteomic analysis of specific immune cell populations may help gain insights into mechanisms of peripheral immunity in AD. Herein, we report proteome characterization for two subsets of splenocytes (i.e. CD90+ cells and a heterogeneous pool of CD90- cells) from a double transgenic mutant amyloid precursor protein/presenilin-1 (Abetapp/ps-1) AD mouse model. Overall, 906 proteins were identified from both cell types with 275 and 334 proteins uniquely identified as CD90+ and CD90- cells, respectively. Proteins identified in CD90+ and CD90- cells were significantly involved in 18 and 19 KEGG pathways, respectively. Amongst these, pathways associated with AD and antigen processing and presentation were identified in CD90+ and CD90- subsets, respectively. This is the first study to provide a reference proteome map for splenocyte populations in Abetapp/ps-1 double transgenic mice which will be helpful for future studies focused on understanding peripheral changes in this model. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000203 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000203).
PXD000602	24295401	Accurate label-free protein quantitation with high- and low-resolution mass spectrometers. 	UPS1 and UPS2 proteins diluted in E. coli	E. coli, UPS1, UPS2, standards	Label-free quantitation of proteins analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry uses either integrated peak intensity from the parent-ion mass analysis (MS1) or features from fragment-ion analysis (MS2), such as spectral counts or summed fragment-ion intensity. We directly compared MS1 and MS2 quantitation by analyzing human protein standards diluted into Escherichia coli extracts on an Orbitrap mass spectrometer. We found that summed MS2 intensities were nearly as accurate as integrated MS1 intensities, and both outperformed MS2 spectral counting in accuracy and linearity. We compared these results to those obtained from two low-resolution ion-trap mass spectrometers; summed MS2 intensities from LTQ and LTQ Velos instruments were similar in accuracy to those from the Orbitrap. Data from all three instruments are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000602. Abundance measurements using MS1 or MS2 intensities had limitations, however. While measured protein concentration was on average well-correlated with the known concentration, there was considerable protein-to-protein variation. Moreover, not all human proteins diluted to a mole fraction of 10(-3) or lower were detected, with a strong falloff below 10(-4) mole fraction. These results show that MS1 and MS2 intensities are simple measures of protein abundance that are on average accurate but should be limited to quantitation of proteins of intermediate to higher fractional abundance.
PXD000440	24298013	Qualitatively different T cell phenotypic responses to IL-2 versus IL-15 are unified by identical dependences on receptor signal strength and duration. 	Qualitatively Different T Cell Phenotypic Responses to IL-2 versus IL-15 are Unified by Identical Dependences on Receptor Signal Strength and Duration	IL-15, IL-2, Phosphorylation, Phosphotyrosine, Quantification, iTRAQ8plex	IL-2 and IL-15 are common gamma-chain family cytokines involved in regulation of T cell differentiation and homeostasis. Despite signaling through the same receptors, IL-2 and IL-15 have non-redundant roles in T cell biology, both physiologically and at the cellular level. The mechanisms by which IL-2 and IL-15 trigger distinct phenotypes in T cells remain elusive. To elucidate these mechanisms, we performed a quantitative comparison of the phosphotyrosine signaling network and resulting phenotypes triggered by IL-2 and IL-15. This study revealed that the signaling networks activated by IL-2 or IL-15 are highly similar and that T cell proliferation and metabolism are controlled in a quantitatively distinct manner through IL-2/15R signal strength independent of the cytokine identity. Distinct phenotypes associated with IL-2 or IL-15 stimulation therefore arise through differential regulation of IL-2/15R signal strength and duration because of differences in cytokine-receptor binding affinity, receptor expression levels, physiological cytokine levels, and cytokine-receptor intracellular trafficking kinetics. These results provide important insights into the function of other shared cytokine and growth factor receptors, quantitative regulation of cell proliferation and metabolism through signal transduction, and improved design of cytokine based clinical immunomodulatory therapies for cancer and infectious diseases.
PXD000520	24300896	Lysine methylation promotes VEGFR-2 activation and angiogenesis. 	Lysine Methylation Promotes VEGFR-2 Activation and Angiogenesis	in-gel digestion	Activation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2), an endothelial cell receptor tyrosine kinase, promotes tumor angiogenesis and ocular neovascularization. We report the methylation of VEGFR-2 at multiple Lys and Arg residues, including Lys(1041), a residue that is proximal to the activation loop of the kinase domain. Methylation of VEGFR-2 was independent of ligand binding and was not regulated by ligand stimulation. Methylation of Lys(1041) enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation and kinase activity in response to ligands. Additionally, interfering with the methylation of VEGFR-2 by pharmacological inhibition or by site-directed mutagenesis revealed that methylation of Lys(1041) was required for VEGFR-2-mediated angiogenesis in zebrafish and tumor growth in mice. We propose that methylation of Lys(1041) promotes the activation of VEGFR-2 and that similar posttranslational modification could also regulate the activity of other receptor tyrosine kinases.
PXD000675	24303842	A targeted in vivo SILAC approach for quantification of drug metabolism enzymes: regulation by the constitutive androstane receptor. 	A Targeted in Vivo SILAC Approach for Quantification of Drug Metabolism Enzymes: Regulation by the Constitutive Androstane Receptor	constitutive androstane receptor, drug metabolism, drugdrug interaction, protein quantification, targeted in vivo SILAC	The modulation of drug metabolism enzyme (DME) expression by therapeutic agents is a central mechanism of drug-drug interaction and should be assessed as early as possible in preclinical drug development. Direct measurement of DME levels is typically achieved by Western blotting, qPCR, or microarray, but these techniques have their limitations; antibody cross-reactivity among highly homologous subfamilies creates ambiguity, while discordance between mRNA and protein expression undermines observations. The aim of this study was to design a simple targeted workflow by combining in vivo SILAC and label-free proteomics approaches for quantification of DMEs in mouse liver, facilitating a rapid and comprehensive evaluation of metabolic potential at the protein level. A total of 197 peptides, representing 51 Phase I and Phase II DMEs, were quantified by LC-MS/MS using targeted high resolution single ion monitoring (tHR/SIM) with a defined mass-to-charge and retention time window for each peptide. In a constitutive androstane receptor (Car) activated mouse model, comparison of tHR/SIM-in vivo SILAC with Western blotting for analysis of the expression of cytochromes P450 was favorable, with agreement in fold-change values between methods. The tHR/SIM-in vivo SILAC approach therefore permits the robust analysis of multiple DME in a single protein sample, with clear utility for the assessment of the drug-drug interaction potential of candidate therapeutic compounds.
PXD000538	24312217	A novel pulse-chase SILAC strategy measures changes in protein decay and synthesis rates induced by perturbation of proteostasis with an Hsp90 inhibitor. 	A novel pulse-chase SILAC strategy measures changes in protein decay and synthesis rates induced by perturbation of proteostasis with an Hsp90 inhibitor.	HSP90, SILAC, T-cells, decay rate, pulse-chase, synthesis rate	Standard proteomics methods allow the relative quantitation of levels of thousands of proteins in two or more samples. While such methods are invaluable for defining the variations in protein concentrations which follow the perturbation of a biological system, they do not offer information on the mechanisms underlying such changes. Expanding on previous work [1], we developed a pulse-chase (pc) variant of SILAC (stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture). pcSILAC can quantitate in one experiment and for two conditions the relative levels of proteins newly synthesized in a given time as well as the relative levels of remaining preexisting proteins. We validated the method studying the drug-mediated inhibition of the Hsp90 molecular chaperone, which is known to lead to increased synthesis of stress response proteins as well as the increased decay of Hsp90 "clients". We showed that pcSILAC can give information on changes in global cellular proteostasis induced by treatment with the inhibitor, which are normally not captured by standard relative quantitation techniques. Furthermore, we have developed a mathematical model and computational framework that uses pcSILAC data to determine degradation constants kd and synthesis rates Vs for proteins in both control and drug-treated cells. The results show that Hsp90 inhibition induced a generalized slowdown of protein synthesis and an increase in protein decay. Treatment with the inhibitor also resulted in widespread protein-specific changes in relative synthesis rates, together with variations in protein decay rates. The latter were more restricted to individual proteins or protein families than the variations in synthesis. Our results establish pcSILAC as a viable workflow for the mechanistic dissection of changes in the proteome which follow perturbations. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000538.
PXD000537	24312219	Dynamic impacts of the inhibition of the molecular chaperone Hsp90 on the T-cell proteome have implications for anti-cancer therapy. 	Dynamic impacts of the inhibition of the molecular chaperone Hsp90 on the T-cell proteome have implications for anti-cancer therapy.	HSP90, SILAC, T-cells	The molecular chaperone Hsp90-dependent proteome represents a complex protein network of critical biological and medical relevance. Known to associate with proteins with a broad variety of functions termed clients, Hsp90 maintains key essential and oncogenic signalling pathways. Consequently, Hsp90 inhibitors are being tested as anti-cancer drugs. Using an integrated systematic approach to analyse the effects of Hsp90 inhibition in T-cells, we quantified differential changes in the Hsp90-dependent proteome, Hsp90 interactome, and a selection of the transcriptome. Kinetic behaviours in the Hsp90-dependent proteome were assessed using a novel pulse-chase strategy (Fierro-Monti et al., accompanying article), detecting effects on both protein stability and synthesis. Global and specific dynamic impacts, including proteostatic responses, are due to direct inhibition of Hsp90 as well as indirect effects. As a result, a decrease was detected in most proteins that changed their levels, including known Hsp90 clients. Most likely, consequences of the role of Hsp90 in gene expression determined a global reduction in net de novo protein synthesis. This decrease appeared to be greater in magnitude than a concomitantly observed global increase in protein decay rates. Several novel putative Hsp90 clients were validated, and interestingly, protein families with critical functions, particularly the Hsp90 family and cofactors themselves as well as protein kinases, displayed strongly increased decay rates due to Hsp90 inhibitor treatment. Remarkably, an upsurge in survival pathways, involving molecular chaperones and several oncoproteins, and decreased levels of some tumour suppressors, have implications for anti-cancer therapy with Hsp90 inhibitors. The diversity of global effects may represent a paradigm of mechanisms that are operating to shield cells from proteotoxic stress, by promoting pro-survival and anti-proliferative functions. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000537.
PXD000623	24313378	Quantification of ErbB network proteins in three cell types using complementary approaches identifies cell-general and cell-type-specific signaling proteins. 	Quantification of ErbB network proteins in three cell types using complementary approaches identifies cell general and cell type-specific signaling proteins	HEK293, primary keratinocyltes, quantification	Relating protein concentration to cell-type-specific responses is one of the remaining challenges for obtaining a quantitative systems level understanding of mammalian signaling. Here we used mass-spectrometry (MS)- and antibody-based quantitative proteomic approaches to measure protein abundances for 75% of a hand-curated reconstructed ErbB network of 198 proteins, in two established cell types (HEK293 and MCF-7) and in primary keratinocyte cells. Comparison with other quantitative studies allowed building a set of ErbB network proteins expressed in all cells and another which are cell-specific and could impart specific properties to the network. As a proof-of-concept of the importance of protein concentration, we generated a small simplified mathematical model encompassing ligand binding, followed by receptor dimerization, activation, and degradation. The model predicts ErbB phosphorylation in HEK293, MCF-7, and keratinocyte cells simply by incorporating cell-type-specific ErbB1, ErbB2, and caveolin-1 abundances but otherwise contains similar rate constants. Altogether, the data provide a resource for protein abundances and localization to be included in larger mathematical models, enabling the generation of cell-type-specific computational models. MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange via PRIDE (with identifier PXD000623) and PASSEL (with identifier PASS00372).
PXD000314	24313913	Sequential phosphoproteomic enrichment through complementary metal-directed immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography. 	Sequential Phosphoproteomic Enrichment by Complementary Metal-directed Immobilized Metal Ion Affinity Chromatography: Case Study on Kinase Substrate Mapping in Human Lung Cancer Tissue	Sequential IMAC, human lung cancer tissue, phosphoproteomics	Methodologies to enrich heterogeneous types of phosphopeptides are critical for comprehensive mapping of the under-explored phosphoproteome. Taking advantage of the distinct binding affinities of Ga(3+) and Fe(3+) for phosphopeptides, we designed a metal-directed immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography for the sequential enrichment of phosphopeptides. In Raji B cells, the sequential Ga(3+)-Fe(3+)-immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) strategy displayed a 1.5-3.5-fold superior phosphoproteomic coverage compared to single IMAC (Fe(3+), Ti(4+), Ga(3+), and Al(3+)). In addition, up to 92% of the 6283 phosphopeptides were uniquely enriched in either the first Ga(3+)-IMAC (41%) or second Fe(3+)-IMAC (51%). The complementary properties of Ga(3+) and Fe(3+) were further demonstrated through the exclusive enrichment of almost all of 1214 multiply phosphorylated peptides (99.4%) in the Ga(3+)-IMAC, whereas only 10% of 5069 monophosphorylated phosphopeptides were commonly enriched in both fractions. The application of sequential Ga(3+)-Fe(3+)-IMAC to human lung cancer tissue allowed the identification of 2560 unique phosphopeptides with only 8% overlap. In addition to the above-mentioned mono- and multiply phosphorylated peptides, this fractionation ability was also demonstrated on the basic and acidic phosphopeptides: acidophilic phosphorylation sites were predominately enriched in the first Ga(3+)-IMAC (72%), while Pro-directed (85%) and basophilic (79%) phosphorylation sites were enriched in the second Fe(3+)-IMAC. This strategy provided complementary mapping of different kinase substrates in multiple cellular pathways related to cancer invasion and metastasis of lung cancer. Given the fractionation ability and ease of tip preparation of this Ga(3+)-Fe(3+)-IMAC, we propose that this strategy allows more comprehensive characterization of the phosphoproteome both in vitro and in vivo.
PXD000334	24316359	Proteomics quality and standard: from a regulatory perspective. 	Proteomics quality and standard: from a regulatory perspective	biomarker qualification, quality control, regulatory decision, standards	Proteomics has emerged as a rapidly expanding field dealing with large-scale protein analyses. It is anticipated that proteomics data will be increasingly submitted to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for biomarker qualification or in conjunction with applications for the approval of drugs, medical devices, and other FDA-regulated consumer products. To date, however, no established guideline has been available regarding the generation, submission and assessment of the quality of proteomics data that will be reviewed by regulatory agencies for decision making. Therefore, this commentary is aimed at provoking some thoughts and debates towards developing a framework which can guide future proteomics data submission. The ultimate goal is to establish quality control standards for proteomics data generation and evaluation, and to prepare government agencies such as the FDA to meet future obligations utilizing proteomics data to support regulatory decision.
PXD000375	24319056	Global analysis of cdc14 dephosphorylation sites reveals essential regulatory role in mitosis and cytokinesis. 	Global analysis of Cdc14 dephosphorylation sites reveals essential regulatory role in mitosis and cytokinesis	CDC14, phosphoproteome	Degradation of the M phase cyclins triggers the exit from M phase. Cdc14 is the major phosphatase required for the exit from the M phase. One of the functions of Cdc14 is to dephosphorylate and activate the Cdh1/APC/C complex, resulting in the degradation of the M phase cyclins. However, other crucial targets of Cdc14 for mitosis and cytokinesis remain to be elucidated. Here we systematically analyzed the positions of dephosphorylation sites for Cdc14 in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Quantitative mass spectrometry identified a total of 835 dephosphorylation sites on 455 potential Cdc14 substrates in vivo. We validated two events, and through functional studies we discovered that Cdc14-mediated dephosphorylation of Smc4 and Bud3 is essential for proper mitosis and cytokinesis, respectively. These results provide insight into the Cdc14-mediated pathways for exiting the M phase.
PXD000529	24328083	Chromosome-8-coded proteome of Chinese Chromosome Proteome Data set (CCPD) 2.0 with partial immunohistochemical verifications. 	CHPP chr 1,8,20 proteome dataset using the HCC cell lines of MHCC97H and HCCLM3, instrument is Q Exactive, part 1 of 3	20, 8, CHPP, HCC cell lines, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP), Q-Exactive, chromesome 1	We upgraded the preliminary CCPD 1.0 to CCPD 2.0 using the latest deep-profiling proteome (CCPD 2013) of three hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines, namely, Hep3B, MHCC97H, and HCCLM3 (ProteomeXchange identifiers: PXD000529, PXD000533, and PXD000535). CCPD 2.0 totally covered 63.6% (438/689) of Chr. 8-coded proteins and 62.6% (439/701) of Chr. 8-coded protein-coding genes. Interestingly, we found that the missing proteins exhibited a tendency to form a cluster region in chromosomes, such as two beta-defensins clusters in Chr. 8, caused perhaps by their inflammation-related features. For the 41 Chr. 8-coded proteins being weakly or barely identified previously, we have performed an immunohistochemical (IHC) verification in 30 pairs of carcinoma/para-carcinoma HCC and 20 noncancerous liver tissues and confirmed their expressional evidence and occurrence proportions in tissue samples. We also verified 13 Chr. 8-coded HCC tumorigenesis-associated depleting or deficient proteins reported in CCPD 1.0 using IHC and screened 16 positive and 24 negative HCC metastatic potential-correlated proteins from large-scale label-free proteome quantitation data of CCPD 2013. Our results suggest that the selection of proper samples and the methodology to look for targeted missing proteins should be carefully considered in further verifications for the remaining Chr. 8-coded proteins.
PXD004604	24328109	Phosphoproteome analysis of formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue sections mounted on microscope slides. 	Phosphoproteome Analysis of Formalin-Fixed and Paraffin-Embedded Tissue Sections Mounted on Microscope Slides	FFPE slide, formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded, phase-transfer surfactant, phosphoproteome analysis, post-translational modifications, protein extraction, shotgun analysis	Formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) sections mounted on microscope slides are one of the largest available resources for retrospective research on various diseases, but quantitative phosphoproteome analysis of FFPE sections has never been achieved because of the extreme difficulty of procuring sufficient phosphopeptides from the limited amounts of proteins on the slides. Here, we present the first protocol for quantitative phosphoproteome analysis of FFPE sections by utilizing phase-transfer surfactant-aided extraction/tryptic digestion of FFPE proteins followed by high-recovery phosphopeptide enrichment via lactic acid-modified titania chromatography. We established that FFPE sections retain a similar phosphoproteome to fresh tissue specimens during storage for at least 9 months, confirming the utility of our method for evaluating phosphorylation profiles in various diseases. We also verified that chemical labeling based on reductive dimethylation of amino groups was feasible for quantitative phosphoproteome analysis of FFPE samples on slides. Furthermore, we improved the LC-MS sensitivity by miniaturizing nanoLC columns to 25 mum inner diameter. With this system, we could identify 1090 phosphopeptides from a single FFPE section obtained from a microscope slide, containing 25.2 +/- 5.4 mug of proteins. This protocol should be useful for large-scale phosphoproteome analysis of archival FFPE slides, especially scarce samples from patients with rare diseases.
PXD000302	24333391	Inflammatory and fibrotic proteins proteomically identified as key protein constituents in urine and stone matrix of patients with kidney calculi. 	Proteomic analysis of urine and stone matrix of patients with kidney calculi	biomarker, fibrosis, inflammation, kidney stone	To uncover whether urinary proteins are incorporated into stones, the proteomic profiles of kidney stones and urine collected from the same patients have to be explored. We employed 1D-PAGE and nanoHPLC-ESI-MS/MS to analyze the proteomes of kidney stone matrix (n=16), nephrolithiatic urine (n=14) and healthy urine (n=3). We identified 62, 66 and 22 proteins in stone matrix, nephrolithiatic urine and healthy urine, respectively. Inflammation- and fibrosis-associated proteins were frequently detected in the stone matrix and nephrolithiatic urine. Eighteen proteins were exclusively found in the stone matrix and nephrolithiatic urine, considered as candidate biomarkers for kidney stone formation. S100A8 and fibronectin, representatives of inflammation and fibrosis, respectively, were up-regulated in nephrolithiasis renal tissues. S100A8 was strongly expressed in infiltrated leukocytes. Fibronectin was over-expressed in renal tubular cells. S100A8 and fibronectin were immunologically confirmed to exist in nephrolithiatic urine and stone matrix, but in healthy urine they were undetectable. Conclusion, both kidney stones and urine obtained from the same patients greatly contained inflammatory and fibrotic proteins. S100A8 and fibronectin were up-regulated in stone-baring kidneys and nephrolithiatic urine. Therefore, inflammation and fibrosis are suggested to be involved in the formation of kidney calculi.
PXD000340	24335353	Proteome and phosphoproteome characterization reveals new response and defense mechanisms of Brachypodium distachyon leaves under salt stress. 	Brachypodium distachyon three leaf stage LC-MSMS	Brachypodium, leaf, phosphorylation	Salinity is a major abiotic stress affecting plant growth and development. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of salt response and defense in plants will help in efforts to improve the salt tolerance of crops. Brachypodium distachyon is a new model plant for wheat, barley, and several potential biofuel grasses. In the current study, proteome and phosphoproteome changes induced by salt stress were the focus. The Bd21 leaves were initially treated with salt in concentrations ranging from 80 to 320 mm and then underwent a recovery process prior to proteome analysis. A total of 80 differentially expressed protein spots corresponding to 60 unique proteins were identified. The sample treated with a median salt level of 240 mm and the control were selected for phosphopeptide purification using TiO2 microcolumns and LC-MS/MS for phosphoproteome analysis to identify the phosphorylation sites and phosphoproteins. A total of 1509 phosphoproteins and 2839 phosphorylation sites were identified. Among them, 468 phosphoproteins containing 496 phosphorylation sites demonstrated significant changes at the phosphorylation level. Nine phosphorylation motifs were extracted from the 496 phosphorylation sites. Of the 60 unique differentially expressed proteins, 14 were also identified as phosphoproteins. Many proteins and phosphoproteins, as well as potential signal pathways associated with salt response and defense, were found, including three 14-3-3s (GF14A, GF14B, and 14-3-3A) for signal transduction and several ABA signal-associated proteins such as ABF2, TRAB1, and SAPK8. Finally, a schematic salt response and defense mechanism in B. distachyon was proposed.
PXD002769	24336202	C/EBPalpha poises B cells for rapid reprogramming into induced pluripotent stem cells. 	How C/EBPa creates an elite cell state for reprogramming to pluripotency	B cells, MaxLFQ, Qexactive, iPS, reprogramming	CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-alpha (C/EBPalpha) induces transdifferentiation of B cells into macrophages at high efficiencies and enhances reprogramming into induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells when co-expressed with the transcription factors Oct4 (Pou5f1), Sox2, Klf4 and Myc (hereafter called OSKM). However, how C/EBPalpha accomplishes these effects is unclear. Here we find that in mouse primary B cells transient C/EBPalpha expression followed by OSKM activation induces a 100-fold increase in iPS cell reprogramming efficiency, involving 95% of the population. During this conversion, pluripotency and epithelial-mesenchymal transition genes become markedly upregulated, and 60% of the cells express Oct4 within 2 days. C/EBPalpha acts as a 'path-breaker' as it transiently makes the chromatin of pluripotency genes more accessible to DNase I. C/EBPalpha also induces the expression of the dioxygenase Tet2 and promotes its translocation to the nucleus where it binds to regulatory regions of pluripotency genes that become demethylated after OSKM induction. In line with these findings, overexpression of Tet2 enhances OSKM-induced B-cell reprogramming. Because the enzyme is also required for efficient C/EBPalpha-induced immune cell conversion, our data indicate that Tet2 provides a mechanistic link between iPS cell reprogramming and B-cell transdifferentiation. The rapid iPS reprogramming approach described here should help to fully elucidate the process and has potential clinical applications.
PXD000422	24345786	Linkage of oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunctions to spontaneous culture degeneration in Aspergillus nidulans. 	Linkage of oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunctions to spontaneous culture degeneration in Aspergillus nidulans	Aspergillus nidulans, culture degeneration, mitochondrial proteomics	Filamentous fungi including mushrooms frequently and spontaneously degenerate during subsequent culture maintenance on artificial media, which shows the loss or reduction abilities of asexual sporulation, sexuality, fruiting, and production of secondary metabolites, thus leading to economic losses during mass production. To better understand the underlying mechanisms of fungal degeneration, the model fungus Aspergillus nidulans was employed in this study for comprehensive analyses. First, linkage of oxidative stress to culture degeneration was evident in A. nidulans. Taken together with the verifications of cell biology and biochemical data, a comparative mitochondrial proteome analysis revealed that, unlike the healthy wild type, a spontaneous fluffy sector culture of A. nidulans demonstrated the characteristics of mitochondrial dysfunctions. Relative to the wild type, the features of cytochrome c release, calcium overload and up-regulation of apoptosis inducing factors evident in sector mitochondria suggested a linkage of fungal degeneration to cell apoptosis. However, the sector culture could still be maintained for generations without the signs of growth arrest. Up-regulation of the heat shock protein chaperones, anti-apoptotic factors and DNA repair proteins in the sector could account for the compromise in cell death. The results of this study not only shed new lights on the mechanisms of spontaneous degeneration of fungal cultures but will also provide alternative biomarkers to monitor fungal culture degeneration.
PXD000446	24361574	Protein identification and quantification by data-independent acquisition and multi-parallel collision-induced dissociation mass spectrometry (MS(E)) in the chloroplast stroma proteome. 	MSE quantified stroma proteome	cloroplast stroma, meta-analysis, normalization, quantitative LC-HDMSE	We report here a systematic evaluation of a multiplex mass spectrometry method coupled with ion mobility separation (HD-MS(E)) for the identification and quantification of proteins in the chloroplast stroma. We show that this method allows the robust quantification of reference proteins in mixtures, and it detects concentration differences with high sensitivity when three replicas are performed. Applied to the analysis of the chloroplast stroma proteome, HD-MS(E) identified and quantified many chloroplast proteins that were not previously identified in large-scale proteome analyses, suggesting HD-MS(E) as a suitable complementary tool for discovery proteomics. We find that HD-MS(E) tends to underestimate protein abundances at concentrations above 25fmol, which is likely due to ion transmission loss and detector saturation. This limitation can be circumvented by omitting the ion mobility separation step in the HD-MS(E) workflow. The robustness of protein quantification is influenced by the selection of peptides and their intensity distribution, therefore critical scrutiny of quantification results is required. Based on the HD-MS(E) quantification of chloroplast stroma proteins we performed a meta-analysis and compared published quantitative data with our results, using a parts per million normalization scheme. Important pathways in the chloroplast stroma show quantitative stability against different experimental conditions and quantification strategies. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Our analysis establishes MS(E)-based Hi3 quantification as a tool for the absolute quantification of proteins in the chloroplast stroma. The meta-analysis performed with a parts per million normalization scheme shows that quantitative proteomics data acquired in different labs and with different quantification strategies yield comparable results for some metabolic pathways, while others show a higher variability. Our data therefore indicate that such meta-analyses allow distinguishing robust from fine-controlled metabolic pathways.
PXD000255	24361864	Discovery of novel disease-specific and membrane-associated candidate markers in a mouse model of multiple sclerosis. 	Label-free analysis of EAE vs Sham Spinal cord and PBMCs	EAE, Orbitrap, Spinal cord, label-free LC MS/MS	Multiple sclerosis is a chronic demyelinating disorder characterized by the infiltration of auto-reactive immune cells from the periphery into the central nervous system resulting in axonal injury and neuronal cell death. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis represents the best characterized animal model as common clinical, histological, and immunological features are recapitulated. A label-free mass spectrometric proteomics approach was used to detect differences in protein abundance within specific fractions of disease-affected tissues including the soluble lysate derived from the spinal cord and membrane protein-enriched peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Tissues were harvested from actively induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis mice and sham-induced ("vehicle" control) counterparts at the disease peak followed by subsequent analysis by nanoflow liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Relative protein quantitation was performed using both intensity- and fragmentation-based approaches. After statistical evaluation of the data, over 500 and 250 differentially abundant proteins were identified in the spinal cord and peripheral blood mononuclear cell data sets, respectively. More than half of these observations have not previously been linked to the disease. The biological significance of all candidate disease markers has been elucidated through rigorous literature searches, pathway analysis, and validation studies. Results from comprehensive targeted mass spectrometry analyses have confirmed the differential abundance of ~ 200 candidate markers (>= twofold dysregulated expression) at a 70% success rate. This study is, to our knowledge, the first to examine the cell-surface proteome of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. These data provide a unique mechanistic insight into the dynamics of peripheral immune cell infiltration into CNS-privileged sites at a molecular level and has identified several candidate markers, which represent promising targets for future multiple sclerosis therapies. The mass spectrometry proteomics data associated with this manuscript have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the data set identifier PXD000255.
PXD000450	24366607	Increased diversity of the HLA-B40 ligandome by the presentation of peptides phosphorylated at their main anchor residue. 	HLA-B40-peptidome -  Increased Diversity of the HLA-B40 Ligandome by the Presentation of Peptides Phosphorylated at Their Main Anchor Residue	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), HLA, HLA-B40, Human Proteome Project, MHC, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP), peptidome, phosphopeptidome	Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I molecules bind peptides derived from the intracellular degradation of endogenous proteins and present them to cytotoxic T lymphocytes, allowing the immune system to detect transformed or virally infected cells. It is known that HLA class I-associated peptides may harbor posttranslational modifications. In particular, phosphorylated ligands have raised much interest as potential targets for cancer immunotherapy. By combining affinity purification with high-resolution mass spectrometry, we identified more than 2000 unique ligands bound to HLA-B40. Sequence analysis revealed two major anchor motifs: aspartic or glutamic acid at peptide position 2 (P2) and methionine, phenylalanine, or aliphatic residues at the C terminus. The use of immobilized metal ion and TiO2 affinity chromatography allowed the characterization of 85 phosphorylated ligands. We further confirmed every sequence belonging to this subset by comparing its experimental MS2 spectrum with that obtained upon fragmentation of the corresponding synthetic peptide. Remarkably, three phospholigands lacked a canonical anchor residue at P2, containing phosphoserine instead. Binding assays showed that these peptides bound to HLA-B40 with high affinity. Together, our data demonstrate that the peptidome of a given HLA allotype can be broadened by the presentation of peptides with posttranslational modifications at major anchor positions. We suggest that ligands with phosphorylated residues at P2 might be optimal targets for T-cell-based cancer immunotherapy.
PXD000476	24382153	Comparative analyses of salivary proteins from three aphid species. 	Comparison of saliva proteins signature of three aphid species	Aphid, ESI-LC-MS/MS, Proteins, Saliva	Saliva is a critical biochemical interface between aphids and their host plants; however, the biochemical nature and physiological functions of aphid saliva proteins are not fully elucidated. In this study we used a multidisciplinary proteomics approach combining liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry and two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis/matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight/mass spectrometry to compare the salivary proteins from three aphid species including Acyrthosiphon pisum, Megoura viciae and Myzus persicae. Comparative analyses revealed variability among aphid salivary proteomes. Among the proteins that varied, 22% were related to DNA-binding, 19% were related to GTP-binding, and 19% had oxidoreductase activity. In addition, we identified a peroxiredoxin enzyme and an ATP-binding protein that may be involved in the modulation of plant defences. Knowledge of salivary components and how they vary among aphid species may reveal how aphids target plant processes and how the aphid and host plant interact.
PXD028734	24391750	Comparative proteomics analysis of placenta from pregnant women with intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. 	Proteomes of Placenta from Pregnant Women with Intrahepatic Cholestasis of Pregnancy	Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy, Placenta, Pregnancy, iTRAQ	INTRODUCTION: Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) usually occurs in the third trimester and associated with increased risks in fetal complications. Currently, the exact cause of this disease is unknown. In this study we aim to investigate the potential proteins in placenta, which may participate in the molecular mechanisms of ICP-related fetal complications using iTRAQ-based proteomics approach. METHODS: The iTRAQ analysis combined with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was performed to separate differentially expressed placental proteins from 4 pregnant women with ICP and 4 healthy pregnant women. Bioinformatics analysis was used to find the relative processes that these differentially expressed proteins were involved in. Three apoptosis related proteins ERp29, PRDX6 and MPO that resulted from iTRAQ-based proteomics were further verified in placenta by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Placental apoptosis was also detected by TUNEL assay. RESULTS: Proteomics results showed there were 38 differentially expressed proteins from pregnant women with ICP and healthy pregnant women, 29 were upregulated and 9 were downregulated in placenta from pregnant women with ICP. Bioinformatics analysis showed most of the identified proteins was functionally related to specific cell processes, including apoptosis, oxidative stress, lipid metabolism. The expression levels of ERp29, PRDX6 and MPO were consistent with the proteomics data. The apoptosis index in placenta from ICP patients was significantly increased. CONCLUSION: This preliminary work provides a better understanding of the proteomic alterations of placenta from pregnant women with ICP and may provide us some new insights into the pathophysiology and potential novel treatment targets for ICP.
PXD000022	24392111	Proteomic analysis of C2C12 myoblast and myotube exosome-like vesicles: a new paradigm for myoblast-myotube cross talk? 	C2C12 Myoblasts and Myotubes exosomes	C2C12, Exosomes, Myoblasts, Myotubes	Exosomes are nanometer-sized microvesicles formed in multivesicular bodies (MVBs) during endosome maturation. Exosomes are released from cells into the microenvironment following fusion of MVBs with the plasma membrane. During the last decade, skeletal muscle-secreted proteins have been identified with important roles in intercellular communications. To investigate whether muscle-derived exosomes participate in this molecular dialog, we determined and compared the protein contents of the exosome-like vesicles (ELVs) released from C2C12 murine myoblasts during proliferation (ELV-MB), and after differentiation into myotubes (ELV-MT). Using a proteomic approach combined with electron microscopy, western-blot and bioinformatic analyses, we compared the protein repertoires within ELV-MB and ELV-MT. We found that these vesicles displayed the classical properties of exosomes isolated from other cell types containing components of the ESCRT machinery of the MVBs, as well as numerous tetraspanins. Specific muscle proteins were also identified confirming that ELV composition also reflects their muscle origin. Furthermore quantitative analysis revealed stage-preferred expression of 31 and 78 proteins in ELV-MB and ELV-MT respectively. We found that myotube-secreted ELVs, but not ELV-MB, reduced myoblast proliferation and induced differentiation, through, respectively, the down-regulation of Cyclin D1 and the up-regulation of myogenin. We also present evidence that proteins from ELV-MT can be incorporated into myoblasts by using the GFP protein as cargo within ELV-MT. Taken together, our data provide a useful database of proteins from C2C12-released ELVs throughout myogenesis and reveals the importance of exosome-like vesicles in skeletal muscle biology.
PXD000600	24396086	Rapid temporal dynamics of transcription, protein synthesis, and secretion during macrophage activation. 	Temporal dynamics of protein synthesis and secretion during LPS activation of macrophages	macrophage activation/quantitative proteomics/protein synthesis/protein secretion/transcription	Macrophages provide the first line of host defense with their capacity to react to an array of cytokines and bacterial components requiring tight regulation of protein expression and secretion to invoke a properly tuned innate immune response. To capture the dynamics of this system, we introduce a novel method combining pulsed stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) with pulse labeling using the methionine analog azidohomoalanine that allows the enrichment of newly synthesized proteins via click-chemistry followed by their identification and quantification by mass spectrometry. We show that this permits the analysis of proteome changes on a rapid time scale, as evidenced by the detection of 4852 newly synthesized proteins after only a 20-min SILAC pulse. We have applied this methodology to study proteome response during macrophage activation in a time-course manner. We have combined this with full proteome, transcriptome, and secretome analyses, producing an integrative analysis of the first 3 h of lipopolysaccharide-induced macrophage activation. We observed the rapid induction of multiple processes well known to TLR4 signaling, as well as anti-inflammatory proteins and proteins not previously associated with immune response. By correlating transcriptional, translational, and secretory events, we derived novel mechanistic principles of processes specifically induced by lipopolysaccharides, including ectodomain shedding and proteolytic processing of transmembrane and extracellular proteins and protein secretion independent of transcription. In conclusion, we demonstrate that the combination of pulsed azidohomoalanine and pulsed SILAC permits the detailed characterization of proteomic events on a rapid time scale. We anticipate that this approach will be very useful in probing the immediate effects of cellular stimuli and will provide mechanistic insight into cellular perturbation in multiple biological systems. The data have been deposited in ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD000600.
PXD003502	24413531	Structural basis for microtubule recognition by the human kinetochore Ska complex. 	Cross-linking mass spectrometric analysis of Ska-MT interactions	Ska complex, cross-linking, microtubules	The ability of kinetochores (KTs) to maintain stable attachments to dynamic microtubule structures ('straight' during microtubule polymerization and 'curved' during microtubule depolymerization) is an essential requirement for accurate chromosome segregation. Here we show that the kinetochore-associated Ska complex interacts with tubulin monomers via the carboxy-terminal winged-helix domain of Ska1, providing the structural basis for the ability to bind both straight and curved microtubule structures. This contrasts with the Ndc80 complex, which binds straight microtubules by recognizing the dimeric interface of tubulin. The Ska1 microtubule-binding domain interacts with tubulins using multiple contact sites that allow the Ska complex to bind microtubules in multiple modes. Disrupting either the flexibility or the tubulin contact sites of the Ska1 microtubule-binding domain perturbs normal mitotic progression, explaining the critical role of the Ska complex in maintaining a firm grip on dynamic microtubules.
PXD000557	24416096	Golgi enrichment and proteomic analysis of developing Pinus radiata xylem by free-flow electrophoresis. 	Pine Golgi membranes from xylem enriched by FFE	FFE, Golgi, compression wood, pine, xylem	Our understanding of the contribution of Golgi proteins to cell wall and wood formation in any woody plant species is limited. Currently, little Golgi proteomics data exists for wood-forming tissues. In this study, we attempted to address this issue by generating and analyzing Golgi-enriched membrane preparations from developing xylem of compression wood from the conifer Pinus radiata. Developing xylem samples from 3-year-old pine trees were harvested for this purpose at a time of active growth and subjected to a combination of density centrifugation followed by free flow electrophoresis, a surface charge separation technique used in the enrichment of Golgi membranes. This combination of techniques was successful in achieving an approximately 200-fold increase in the activity of the Golgi marker galactan synthase and represents a significant improvement for proteomic analyses of the Golgi from conifers. A total of thirty known Golgi proteins were identified by mass spectrometry including glycosyltransferases from gene families involved in glucomannan and glucuronoxylan biosynthesis. The free flow electrophoresis fractions of enriched Golgi were highly abundant in structural proteins (actin and tubulin) indicating a role for the cytoskeleton during compression wood formation. The mass spectrometry proteomics data associated with this study have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000557.
PXD000277	24421388	Dynamic regulation of the COP9 signalosome in response to DNA damage. 	Dynamic regulation of the COP9 signalosome:  Insights into the spatial localization and subunit versatility of the complex	CSN, phosphoproteomics	The COP9 signalosome (CSN) is an evolutionarily conserved protein complex that participates in the regulation of the ubiquitin/26S proteasome pathway by controlling the function of cullin-RING-ubiquitin ligases. Impressive progress has been made in deciphering its critical role in diverse cellular and developmental processes. However, little is known about the underlying regulatory principles that coordinate its function. Through biochemical and fluorescence microscopy analyses, we determined that the complex is localized in the cytoplasm, nucleoplasm, and chromatin-bound fractions, each differing in the composition of posttranslationally modified subunits, depending on its location within the cell. During the cell cycle, the segregation between subcellular localizations remains steady. However, upon UV damage, a dose-dependent temporal shuttling of the CSN complex into the nucleus was seen, accompanied by upregulation of specific phosphorylations within CSN1, CSN3, and CSN8. Taken together, our results suggest that the specific spatiotemporal composition of the CSN is highly controlled, enabling the complex to rapidly adapt and respond to DNA damage.
PXD000472	24425749	Environmental stress affects the activity of metabolic and growth factor signaling networks and induces autophagy markers in MCF7 breast cancer cells. 	Environmental stress affects the activity of metabolic and growth factor signaling networks and induces autophagy markers in breast cancer cell lines	Label Free, MCF7, Room Temperature exposition, TiO2 Phosphoenrichment	Phosphoproteomic techniques are contributing to our understanding of how signaling pathways interact and regulate biological processes. This technology is also being used to characterize how signaling networks are remodeled during disease progression and to identify biomarkers of signaling pathway activity and of responses to cancer therapy. A potential caveat in these studies is that phosphorylation is a very dynamic modification that can substantially change during the course of an experiment or the retrieval and processing of cellular samples. Here, we investigated how exposure of cells to ambient conditions modulates phosphorylation and signaling pathway activity in the MCF7 breast cancer cell line. About 1.5% of 3,500 sites measured showed a significant change in phosphorylation extent upon exposure of cells to ambient conditions for 15 min. The effects of this perturbation in modifying phosphorylation patterns did not involve random changes due to stochastic activation of kinases and phosphatases. Instead, exposure of cells to ambient conditions elicited an environmental stress reaction that involved a coordinated response to a metabolic stress situation, which included: (1) the activation of AMPK; (2) the inhibition of PI3K, AKT, and ERK; (3) an increase in markers of protein synthesis inhibition at the level of translation elongation; and (4) an increase in autophagy markers. We also observed that maintaining cells in ice modified but did not completely abolish this metabolic stress response. In summary, exposure of cells to ambient conditions affects the activity of signaling networks previously implicated in metabolic and growth factor signaling. Mass spectrometry data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000472.
PXD000695	24434149	In-depth proteomic analyses of ovarian cancer cell line exosomes reveals differential enrichment of functional categories compared to the NCI 60 proteome. 	In-depth proteomic analyses of ovarian cancer cell line exosomes reveals differential enrichment of functional categories compared to the NCI 60 proteome.	Exosome, Ovarian Cancer	Molecular communication between cancer cells and its stromal microenvironment is a key factor for cancer progression. Alongside classic secretory pathways, it has recently been proposed that small membranous vesicles are alternative mediators of intercellular communication. Exosomes carry an effector-rich proteome with the ability to modulate various functional properties of the recipient cell. In this study, exosomes isolated from four epithelial ovarian cancer cell lines (OVCAR3, OVCAR433, OVCAR5 and SKOV3) were characterized using mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Using an optimized workflow consisting of efficient exosome solubilization and the latest generation of proteomic instrumentation, we demonstrate improved detection depth. Systematic comparison of our cancer cell line exosome proteome against public data (Exocarta) and the recently published NCI 60 proteome revealed enrichment of functional categories related to signaling biology and biomarker discovery.
PXD000588	24445406	A quantitative chemical proteomics approach to profile the specific cellular targets of andrographolide, a promising anticancer agent that suppresses tumor metastasis. 	A Quantitative Chemical Proteomics Approach to Profile the Specific Cellular Targets of Andrographolide, a Promising Anticancer Agent that Suppresses Tumor Metastasis	Chemical biology, Drug targets*, Molecular Probes*, antitumor agents, iTRAQ, metastasis	Drug target identification is a critical step toward understanding the mechanism of action of a drug, which can help one improve the drug's current therapeutic regime and expand the drug's therapeutic potential. However, current in vitro affinity-chromatography-based and in vivo activity-based protein profiling approaches generally face difficulties in discriminating specific drug targets from nonspecific ones. Here we describe a novel approach combining isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation with clickable activity-based protein profiling to specifically and comprehensively identify the protein targets of andrographolide (Andro), a natural product with known anti-inflammation and anti-cancer effects, in live cancer cells. We identified a spectrum of specific targets of Andro, which furthered our understanding of the mechanism of action of the drug. Our findings, validated through cell migration and invasion assays, showed that Andro has a potential novel application as a tumor metastasis inhibitor. Moreover, we have unveiled the target binding mechanism of Andro with a combination of drug analog synthesis, protein engineering, and mass-spectrometry-based approaches and determined the drug-binding sites of two protein targets, NF-kappaB and actin.
PXD000637	24452867	Proteomic analysis of the thermophilic methylotroph Bacillus methanolicus MGA3. 	Proteomic analysis of the thermophilic methylotroph Bacillus methanolicus MGA3	Bacillus methanolicus, RuMP cycle, label-free qantitative proteomics, methylotrophy	Bacillus methanolicus MGA3 is a facultative methylotroph of industrial relevance that is able to grow on methanol as its sole source of carbon and energy. The Gram-positive bacterium possesses a soluble NAD(+) -dependent methanol dehydrogenase and assimilates formaldehyde via the ribulose monophosphate (RuMP) cycle. We used label-free quantitative proteomics to generate reference proteome data for this bacterium and compared the proteome of B. methanolicus MGA3 on two different carbon sources (methanol and mannitol) as well as two different growth temperatures (50degreesC and 37degreesC). From a total of approximately 1200 different detected proteins, approximately 1000 of these were used for quantification. While the levels of 213 proteins were significantly different at the two growth temperatures tested, the levels of 109 proteins changed significantly when cells were grown on different carbon sources. The carbon source strongly affected the synthesis of enzymes related to carbon metabolism, and in particular, both dissimilatory and assimilatory RuMP cycle enzyme levels were elevated during growth on methanol compared to mannitol. Our data also indicate that B. methanolicus has a functional tricarboxylic acid cycle, the proteins of which are differentially regulated on mannitol and methanol. Other proteins presumed to be involved in growth on methanol were constitutively expressed under the different growth conditions. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with the identifiers PXD000637 and PXD000638 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000637, http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000638).
PXD000438	24453208	Proteomic profiles of human lung adeno and squamous cell carcinoma using super-SILAC and label-free quantification approaches. 	Super-SILAC analysis of human lung primary tumor-derived xenografts LC-MS/MS	NSCLC, proteomic profile, super-SILAC	Nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for 85% of lung cancers, and is subdivided into two major histological subtypes: adenocarcinoma (ADC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). There is an unmet need to further subdivide NSCLC according to distinctive molecular features that may be associated with responsiveness to therapies. Four primary tumor-derived xenograft proteomes (two-each ADC and SCC) were quantitatively compared by using a super-SILAC labeling approach together with ultrahigh-resolution MS. Proteins highly differentially expressed in the two subtypes were identified, including 30 that were validated in an independent cohort of 12 NSCLC primary tumor-derived xenograft tumors whose proteomes were quantified by an alternative, label-free shotgun MS methodology. The 30-protein signature contains metabolism enzymes including phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase, which is more highly expressed in SCC, as well as a comprehensive set of cytokeratins and other components of the epithelial barrier, which is therefore distinctly different between ADC and SCC. These results demonstrate the utility of the super-SILAC method for the characterization of primary tissues, and compatibility with datasets derived from different MS-based platforms. The validation of proteome signatures of NSCLC subtypes supports the further development and application of MS-based quantitative proteomics as a basis for precision classifications and treatments of tumors. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000438 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000438).
PXD000475	24454955	The RNA chaperone Hfq impacts growth, metabolism and production of virulence factors in Yersinia enterocolitica. 	Yersinia enterocolitica SOR17 -  The RNA chaperone Hfq impacts growth, metabolism and production of virulence factors in Yersinia enterocolitica	SOR17, Yersinia, enterocolitica	To adapt to changes in environmental conditions, bacteria regulate their gene expression at the transcriptional but also at the post-transcriptional level, e.g. by small RNAs (sRNAs) which modulate mRNA stability and translation. The conserved RNA chaperone Hfq mediates the interaction of many sRNAs with their target mRNAs, thereby playing a global role in fine-tuning protein production. In this study, we investigated the significance of Hfq for the enteropathogen Yersina enterocolitica serotype O:8. Hfq facilitated optimal growth in complex and minimal media. Our comparative protein analysis of parental and hfq-negative strains suggested that Hfq promotes lipid metabolism and transport, cell redox homeostasis, mRNA translation and ATP synthesis, and negatively affects carbon and nitrogen metabolism, transport of siderophore and peptides and tRNA synthesis. Accordingly, biochemical tests indicated that Hfq represses ornithine decarboxylase activity, indole production and utilization of glucose, mannitol, inositol and 1,2-propanediol. Moreover, Hfq repressed production of the siderophore yersiniabactin and its outer membrane receptor FyuA. In contrast, hfq mutants exhibited reduced urease production. Finally, strains lacking hfq were more susceptible to acidic pH and oxidative stress. Unlike previous reports in other Gram-negative bacteria, Hfq was dispensable for type III secretion encoded by the virulence plasmid. Using a chromosomally encoded FLAG-tagged Hfq, we observed increased production of Hfq-FLAG in late exponential and stationary phases. Overall, Hfq has a profound effect on metabolism, resistance to stress and modulates the production of two virulence factors in Y. enterocolitica, namely urease and yersiniabactin.
PXD000515	24458638	A peptide hormone and its receptor protein kinase regulate plant cell expansion. 	RALF induced quantitative phosphoproteome changes in Arabidopsis thaliana	RALF, phophoproteome, plasma membrane	Plant cells are immobile; thus, plant growth and development depend on cell expansion rather than cell migration. The molecular mechanism by which the plasma membrane initiates changes in the cell expansion rate remains elusive. We found that a secreted peptide, RALF (rapid alkalinization factor), suppresses cell elongation of the primary root by activating the cell surface receptor FERONIA in Arabidopsis thaliana. A direct peptide-receptor interaction is supported by specific binding of RALF to FERONIA and reduced binding and insensitivity to RALF-induced growth inhibition in feronia mutants. Phosphoproteome measurements demonstrate that the RALF-FERONIA interaction causes phosphorylation of plasma membrane H(+)-adenosine triphosphatase 2 at Ser(899), mediating the inhibition of proton transport. The results reveal a molecular mechanism for RALF-induced extracellular alkalinization and a signaling pathway that regulates cell expansion.
PXD000487	24463964	A link between arabinose utilization and oxalotrophy in Bradyrhizobium japonicum. 	A proteome analysis of Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA 110 grown in minimal medium containing arabinose suggests that oxalate oxidation extends the arabinose degradation branch via glycolaldehyde.	BVM medium, PSY medium, oxalate, oxalotrophy, rhizobia	Rhizobia have a versatile catabolism that allows them to compete successfully with other microorganisms for nutrients in the soil and in the rhizosphere of their respective host plants. In this study, Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA 110 was found to be able to utilize oxalate as the sole carbon source. A proteome analysis of cells grown in minimal medium containing arabinose suggested that oxalate oxidation extends the arabinose degradation branch via glycolaldehyde. A mutant of the key pathway genes oxc (for oxalyl-coenzyme A decarboxylase) and frc (for formyl-coenzyme A transferase) was constructed and shown to be (i) impaired in growth on arabinose and (ii) unable to grow on oxalate. Oxalate was detected in roots and, at elevated levels, in root nodules of four different B. japonicum host plants. Mixed-inoculation experiments with wild-type and oxc-frc mutant cells revealed that oxalotrophy might be a beneficial trait of B. japonicum at some stage during legume root nodule colonization.
PXD000581	24478445	Combined proteomic and transcriptomic interrogation of the venom gland of Conus geographus uncovers novel components and functional compartmentalization. 	Combined Proteomic and Transcriptomic Interrogation of the Venom Gland of Conus geographus	Conus geographus, Venom Gland	Cone snails are highly successful marine predators that use complex venoms to capture prey. At any given time, hundreds of toxins (conotoxins) are synthesized in the secretory epithelial cells of the venom gland, a long and convoluted organ that can measure 4 times the length of the snail's body. In recent years a number of studies have begun to unveil the transcriptomic, proteomic and peptidomic complexity of the venom and venom glands of a number of cone snail species. By using a combination of DIGE, bottom-up proteomics and next-generation transcriptome sequencing the present study identifies proteins involved in envenomation and conotoxin maturation, significantly extending the repertoire of known (poly)peptides expressed in the venom gland of these remarkable animals. We interrogate the molecular and proteomic composition of different sections of the venom glands of 3 specimens of the fish hunter Conus geographus and demonstrate regional variations in gene expression and protein abundance. DIGE analysis identified 1204 gel spots of which 157 showed significant regional differences in abundance as determined by biological variation analysis. Proteomic interrogation identified 342 unique proteins including those that exhibited greatest fold change. The majority of these proteins also exhibited significant changes in their mRNA expression levels validating the reliability of the experimental approach. Transcriptome sequencing further revealed a yet unknown genetic diversity of several venom gland components. Interestingly, abundant proteins that potentially form part of the injected venom mixture, such as echotoxins, phospholipase A2 and con-ikots-ikots, classified into distinct expression clusters with expression peaking in different parts of the gland. Our findings significantly enhance the known repertoire of venom gland polypeptides and provide molecular and biochemical evidence for the compartmentalization of this organ into distinct functional entities.
PXD000507	24489116	Acetylation dynamics and stoichiometry in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Acetylation Dynamics and Stoichiometry in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, acetylation, metabolism, mitochondria, stoichiometry	Lysine acetylation is a frequently occurring posttranslational modification; however, little is known about the origin and regulation of most sites. Here we used quantitative mass spectrometry to analyze acetylation dynamics and stoichiometry in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We found that acetylation accumulated in growth-arrested cells in a manner that depended on acetyl-CoA generation in distinct subcellular compartments. Mitochondrial acetylation levels correlated with acetyl-CoA concentration in vivo and acetyl-CoA acetylated lysine residues nonenzymatically in vitro. We developed a method to estimate acetylation stoichiometry and found that the vast majority of mitochondrial and cytoplasmic acetylation had a very low stoichiometry. However, mitochondrial acetylation occurred at a significantly higher basal level than cytoplasmic acetylation, consistent with the distinct acetylation dynamics and higher acetyl-CoA concentration in mitochondria. High stoichiometry acetylation occurred mostly on histones, proteins present in histone acetyltransferase and deacetylase complexes, and on transcription factors. These data show that a majority of acetylation occurs at very low levels in exponentially growing yeast and is uniformly affected by exposure to acetyl-CoA.
PXD000106	24493364	N-Formyl-7-amino-11-cycloamphilectene, a marine sponge metabolite, binds to tubulin and modulates microtubule depolymerization. 	Chemical Proteomics Partners identification of Cycloamphilectene	Chemical Proteomics, Natural Products, Targets Identification	The importance of protein-small molecule interaction in drug discovery, medicinal chemistry and biology has driven the development of new analytical methods to disclose the whole interactome of bioactive compounds. To accelerate targets discovery of N-formyl-7-amino-11-cycloamphilectene (CALe), a marine bioactive diterpene isolated from the Vanuatu sponge Axinella sp., a chemoproteomic-based approach has been successfully developed. CALe is a potent anti-inflammatory agent, modulating NO and prostaglandin E2 overproduction by dual inhibition of the enhanced inducible NO synthase expression and cyclo-oxygenase-2 activity, without any evidence of cytotoxic effects. In this paper, several isoforms of tubulin have been identified as CALe off-targets by chemical proteomics combined with bio-physical orthogonal approaches. In the following biological analysis of its cellular effect, CALe was found to protect microtubules against the colcemid depolymerizing effect.
PXD000266	24511133	Phosphoproteomic analysis reveals regulatory mechanisms at the kidney filtration barrier. 	Murine kidney glomeruli phosphorylation	Kidney, glomerular epithelial cell, phosphoproteomics, podocytes	Diseases of the kidney filtration barrier are a leading cause of ESRD. Most disorders affect the podocytes, polarized cells with a limited capacity for self-renewal that require tightly controlled signaling to maintain their integrity, viability, and function. Here, we provide an atlas of in vivo phosphorylated, glomerulus-expressed proteins, including podocyte-specific gene products, identified in an unbiased tandem mass spectrometry-based approach. We discovered 2449 phosphorylated proteins corresponding to 4079 identified high-confidence phosphorylated residues and performed a systematic bioinformatics analysis of this dataset. We discovered 146 phosphorylation sites on proteins abundantly expressed in podocytes. The prohibitin homology domain of the slit diaphragm protein podocin contained one such site, threonine 234 (T234), located within a phosphorylation motif that is mutated in human genetic forms of proteinuria. The T234 site resides at the interface of podocin dimers. Free energy calculation through molecular dynamic simulations revealed a role for T234 in regulating podocin dimerization. We show that phosphorylation critically regulates formation of high molecular weight complexes and that this may represent a general principle for the assembly of proteins containing prohibitin homology domains.
PXD008659	24529705	Acute synthesis of CPEB is required for plasticity of visual avoidance behavior in Xenopus. 	Acute synthesis of CPEB is required for plasticity of visual avoidance behavior in Xenopus	Azidohomoalanine, MudPIT, Xenopus	Neural plasticity requires protein synthesis, but the identity of newly synthesized proteins generated in response to plasticity-inducing stimuli remains unclear. We used in vivo bio-orthogonal noncanonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) with the methionine analog azidohomoalanine (AHA) combined with the multidimensional protein identification technique (MudPIT) to identify proteins that are synthesized in the tadpole brain over 24 hr. We induced conditioning-dependent plasticity of visual avoidance behavior, which required N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and Ca(2+)-permeable alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors, alphaCaMKII, and rapid protein synthesis. Combining BONCAT with western blots revealed that proteins including alphaCaMKII, MEK1, CPEB, and GAD65 are synthesized during conditioning. Acute synthesis of CPEB during conditioning is required for behavioral plasticity as well as conditioning-induced synaptic and structural plasticity in the tectal circuit. We outline a signaling pathway that regulates protein-synthesis-dependent behavioral plasticity in intact animals, identify newly synthesized proteins induced by visual experience, and demonstrate a requirement for acute synthesis of CPEB in plasticity.
PXD000191	24550302	Mapping the diatom redox-sensitive proteome provides insight into response to nitrogen stress in the marine environment. 	Phaeodactylum tricornutum oxidative stress	Phaeodactylum tricornutum, oxicat, redox	Diatoms are ubiquitous marine photosynthetic eukaryotes responsible for approximately 20% of global photosynthesis. Little is known about the redox-based mechanisms that mediate diatom sensing and acclimation to environmental stress. Here we used a quantitative mass spectrometry-based approach to elucidate the redox-sensitive signaling network (redoxome) mediating the response of diatoms to oxidative stress. We quantified the degree of oxidation of 3,845 cysteines in the Phaeodactylum tricornutum proteome and identified approximately 300 redox-sensitive proteins. Intriguingly, we found redox-sensitive thiols in numerous enzymes composing the nitrogen assimilation pathway and the recently discovered diatom urea cycle. In agreement with this finding, the flux from nitrate into glutamine and glutamate, measured by the incorporation of (15)N, was strongly inhibited under oxidative stress conditions. Furthermore, by targeting the redox-sensitive GFP sensor to various subcellular localizations, we mapped organelle-specific oxidation patterns in response to variations in nitrogen quota and quality. We propose that redox regulation of nitrogen metabolism allows rapid metabolic plasticity to ensure cellular homeostasis, and thus is essential for the ecological success of diatoms in the marine ecosystem.
PXD000712	24552149	On the extent and role of the small proteome in the parasitic eukaryote Trypanosoma brucei. 	Small proteome in trypanosomes	trypanosomes	BACKGROUND: Although technical advances in genomics and proteomics research have yielded a better understanding of the coding capacity of a genome, one major challenge remaining is the identification of all expressed proteins, especially those less than 100 amino acids in length. Such information can be particularly relevant to human pathogens, such as Trypanosoma brucei, the causative agent of African trypanosomiasis, since it will provide further insight into the parasite biology and life cycle. RESULTS: Starting with 993 T. brucei transcripts, previously shown by RNA-Sequencing not to coincide with annotated coding sequences (CDS), homology searches revealed that 173 predicted short open reading frames in these transcripts are conserved across kinetoplastids with 13 also conserved in representative eukaryotes. Mining mass spectrometry data sets revealed 42 transcripts encoding at least one matching peptide. RNAi-induced down-regulation of these 42 transcripts revealed seven to be essential in insect-form trypanosomes with two also required for the bloodstream life cycle stage. To validate the specificity of the RNAi results, each lethal phenotype was rescued by co-expressing an RNAi-resistant construct of each corresponding CDS. These previously non-annotated essential small proteins localized to a variety of cell compartments, including the cell surface, mitochondria, nucleus and cytoplasm, inferring the diverse biological roles they are likely to play in T. brucei. We also provide evidence that one of these small proteins is required for replicating the kinetoplast (mitochondrial) DNA. CONCLUSIONS: Our studies highlight the presence and significance of small proteins in a protist and expose potential new targets to block the survival of trypanosomes in the insect vector and/or the mammalian host.
PXD000356	24556281	Proteomic analysis of mitochondria from senescent Podospora anserina casts new light on ROS dependent aging mechanisms. 	Mass spectrometric analysis of Podospora anserina mitochondria	Podospora anserina, aging, mitochondria	The mitochondrial free radical theory of aging (MFRTA) states that reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated at the respiratory electron transport chain are active in causing age-related damage of biomolecules like lipids, nucleic acids and proteins. Accumulation of this kind of damage results in functional impairments, aging and death of biological systems. Here we report data of an analysis to monitor the age-related quantitative protein composition of the mitochondria of the fungal aging model Podospora anserina. The impact of senescence on mitochondrial protein composition was analyzed by LC-MS. In an untargeted proteomic approach, we identified 795 proteins in samples from juvenile and senescent wild-type cultures and obtained quantitative information for 226 of these proteins by spectral counting. Despite the broad coverage of the proteome, no substantial changes in known age-related pathways could be observed. For a more detailed analysis, a targeted proteome analysis was applied focusing on 15 proteins from respiratory, ROS-scavenging and quality control pathways. Analyzing six distinct age-stages from juvenile to senescent P. anserina cultures revealed low, but statistically significant changes for the mitochondrial respiratory complexes. A P. anserina PaSod3 over-expression mutant with a phenotype of mitochondrial ROS over-production was used for biological evaluation of changes observed during aging. LC-MS analysis of the mutant revealed severe changes to the mitochondrial proteome--substantially larger than observed during senescence. Interestingly the amount of ATP synthase subunit g, involved in cristae formation is significantly decreased in the mutant implicating ROS-induced impairments in ATP synthase dimer and cristae formation. The difference between protein-profiles of aging wild type and ROS stressed mutant suggests that oxidative stress within the mitochondria is not the dominating mechanism for the aging process in P. anserina. Collectively, while our data do not exclude an effect of ROS on specific proteins and in signaling and control of pathways which are governing aging of P. anserina, it contradicts increasing ROS as a cause of a gross general and non-selective accumulation of damaged proteins during senescence. Instead, ROS may be effective by controlling specific regulators of mitochondrial function.
PXD003932	24560892	Neuronal process structure and growth proteins are targets of heavy PTM regulation during brain development. 	Spatial and temporal effects in protein post-translational modification distributions in the developing mouse brain	development, mouse brain, post-translational modifications	Brain development is a process requiring precise control of many different cell types. One method to achieve this is through specific and temporally regulated modification of proteins in order to alter structure and function. Post-translational modification (PTM) of proteins is known to have wide-ranging and substantial effects on cellular function, both as part of signalling network modulation and more directly by modifying the function of key proteins. In this study, we show that PTM regulation is differentially targeted at different areas of the proteome, and that cytoskeletal proteins involved in neuronal process extension and maintenance are both more heavily modified and more frequently regulated at a PTM level. This suggests a clear role not only for PTMs in these processes, but possibly also for heavy protein modification in general. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This study provides one of the most comprehensive sets of individual PTM site regulation data for mammalian brain tissue. This will provide a valuable resource for those wishing to perform comparisons or meta-analyses of large scale PTMomic data, as are becoming increasingly common. Furthermore, being focussed on protein-level events, this study also provides significant insight into detailed roles for individual modified proteins in the developing brain, helping to advance the understanding of the complex protein-driven processes that underlie development. Finally, the use of a novel bioinformatic analytical tool provides information regarding aspects of the PTMome which are not normally examined, and illuminates the role of PTMs on a more detailed, protein-centric and site-specific level in a biological context. The widespread yet uneven distributions observed will be relevant to those readers with an interest in the mechanisms of distribution of PTMS and their functions.
PXD000348	24561353	Biosynthesis of magnetic nanostructures in a foreign organism by transfer of bacterial magnetosome gene clusters. 	ESI-LC-MS/MS of magnetosome membrane enclosing magnetite particles of Rhodospirillum rubrum_ABG6X	Cell culture, Rhodospirillum rubrum, photosynthetic cell	The synthetic production of monodisperse single magnetic domain nanoparticles at ambient temperature is challenging. In nature, magnetosomes--membrane-bound magnetic nanocrystals with unprecedented magnetic properties--can be biomineralized by magnetotactic bacteria. However, these microbes are difficult to handle. Expression of the underlying biosynthetic pathway from these fastidious microorganisms within other organisms could therefore greatly expand their nanotechnological and biomedical applications. So far, this has been hindered by the structural and genetic complexity of the magnetosome organelle and insufficient knowledge of the biosynthetic functions involved. Here, we show that the ability to biomineralize highly ordered magnetic nanostructures can be transferred to a foreign recipient. Expression of a minimal set of genes from the magnetotactic bacterium Magnetospirillum gryphiswaldense resulted in magnetosome biosynthesis within the photosynthetic model organism Rhodospirillum rubrum. Our findings will enable the sustainable production of tailored magnetic nanostructures in biotechnologically relevant hosts and represent a step towards the endogenous magnetization of various organisms by synthetic biology.
PXD000559	24563534	Proteomic analysis of arginine methylation sites in human cells reveals dynamic regulation during transcriptional arrest. 	Arginine methylation during transcriptional arrest	Human cell culture	The covalent attachment of methyl groups to the side-chain of arginine residues is known to play essential roles in regulation of transcription, protein function, and RNA metabolism. The specific N-methylation of arginine residues is catalyzed by a small family of gene products known as protein arginine methyltransferases; however, very little is known about which arginine residues become methylated on target substrates. Here we describe a proteomics methodology that combines single-step immunoenrichment of methylated peptides with high-resolution mass spectrometry to identify endogenous arginine mono-methylation (MMA) sites. We thereby identify 1027 site-specific MMA sites on 494 human proteins, discovering numerous novel mono-methylation targets and confirming the majority of currently known MMA substrates. Nuclear RNA-binding proteins involved in RNA processing, RNA localization, transcription, and chromatin remodeling are predominantly found modified with MMA. Despite this, MMA sites prominently are located outside RNA-binding domains as compared with the proteome-wide distribution of arginine residues. Quantification of arginine methylation in cells treated with Actinomycin D uncovers strong site-specific regulation of MMA sites during transcriptional arrest. Interestingly, several MMA sites are down-regulated after a few hours of transcriptional arrest. In contrast, the corresponding di-methylation or protein expression levels are not altered, confirming that MMA sites contain regulated functions on their own. Collectively, we present a site-specific MMA data set in human cells and demonstrate for the first time that MMA is a dynamic post-translational modification regulated during transcriptional arrest by a hitherto uncharacterized arginine demethylase.
PXD000445	24567419	Sorbitol dehydrogenase overexpression and other aspects of dysregulated protein expression in human precancerous colorectal neoplasms: a quantitative proteomics study. 	Proteomic profiling of colorectal adenomas	Highlighted, adenoma, iTRAQ 8-plex	Colorectal adenomas are cancer precursor lesions of the large bowel. A multitude of genomic and epigenomic changes have been documented in these preinvasive lesions, but their impact on the protein effectors of biological function has not been comprehensively explored. Using shotgun quantitative MS, we exhaustively investigated the proteome of 30 colorectal adenomas and paired samples of normal mucosa. Total protein extracts were prepared from these tissues (prospectively collected during colonoscopy) and from normal (HCEC) and cancerous (SW480, SW620, Caco2, HT29, CX1) colon epithelial cell lines. Peptides were labeled with isobaric tags (iTRAQ 8-plex), separated via OFFGEL electrophoresis, and analyzed by means of LC-MS/MS. Nonredundant protein families (4325 in tissues, 2017 in cell lines) were identified and quantified. Principal component analysis of the results clearly distinguished adenomas from normal mucosal samples and cancer cell lines from HCEC cells. Two hundred and twelve proteins displayed significant adenoma-related expression changes (q-value < 0.02, mean fold change versus normal mucosa +/-1.4), which correlated (r = 0.74) with similar changes previously identified by our group at the transcriptome level. Fifty-one (~25%) proteins displayed directionally similar expression changes in colorectal cancer cells (versus HCEC cells) and were therefore attributed to the epithelial component of adenomas. Although benign, adenomas already exhibited cancer-associated proteomic changes: 69 (91%) of the 76 protein up-regulations identified in these lesions have already been reported in cancers. One of the most striking changes involved sorbitol dehydrogenase, a key enzyme in the polyol pathway. Validation studies revealed dramatically increased sorbitol dehydrogenase concentrations and activity in adenomas and cancer cell lines, along with important changes in the expression of other enzymes in the same (AKR1B1) and related (KHK) pathways. Dysregulated polyol metabolism might represent a novel facet of metabolome remodeling associated with tumorigenesis.
PXD000738	24569529	SILAC-based proteomic quantification of chemoattractant-induced cytoskeleton dynamics on a second to minute timescale. 	SILAC-based proteomic quantification of chemoattractant induced cytoskeleton dynamics on a second to minute timescale	Cytoskeleton, Silac	Cytoskeletal dynamics during cell behaviours ranging from endocytosis and exocytosis to cell division and movement is controlled by a complex network of signalling pathways, the full details of which are as yet unresolved. Here we show that SILAC-based proteomic methods can be used to characterize the rapid chemoattractant-induced dynamic changes in the actin-myosin cytoskeleton and regulatory elements on a proteome-wide scale with a second to minute timescale resolution. This approach provides novel insights in the ensemble kinetics of key cytoskeletal constituents and association of known and novel identified binding proteins. We validate the proteomic data by detailed microscopy-based analysis of in vivo translocation dynamics for key signalling factors. This rapid large-scale proteomic approach may be applied to other situations where highly dynamic changes in complex cellular compartments are expected to play a key role.
PXD000579	24573368	A partial proteome reference map of the wine lactic acid bacterium Oenococcus oeni ATCC BAA-1163. 	A proteome reference map of the wine lactic acid bacterium Oenococcus oeni ATCC BAA-1163	MALDI, MIAPE, Oenococcus oeni	Oenococcus oeni is the main lactic acid bacterium that carries out the malolactic fermentation in virtually all red wines and in some white and sparkling wines. Oenococcus oeni possesses an array of metabolic activities that can modify the taste and aromatic properties of wine. There is, therefore, industrial interest in the proteins involved in these metabolic pathways and related transport systems of this bacterium. In this work, we report the characterization of the O. oeni ATCC BAA-1163 proteome. Total and membrane protein preparations from O. oeni were standardized and analysed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Using tandem mass spectrometry, we identified 224 different spots corresponding to 152 unique proteins, which have been classified by their putative function and subjected to bioinformatics analysis.
PXD000363	24574175	Label-free LC-MS/MS identification of phosphatidylglycerol-regulated proteins in Synechocystis sp. PCC6803. 	PG-regulated Synechocystis sp. PCC6803	Cyanobacteria, GeLC-MS/MS, Phosphatidylglycerol, Quantitative label-free proteomics, Synechocystis sp. PCC6803	We present a proteomics dataset combining SDS-PAGE prefractionation and data-dependent LC-MS/MS that enables the identification of phosphatidylglycerol-regulated proteins in the pgsA(-) mutant of Synechocystis sp. PCC6803, a cyanobacterium strain that grows with this indispensable phospholipid added exogenously. We searched the acquired raw data against a composite protein sequence database of Synechocystis using MASCOT, and employed Progenesis LC-MS software for label-free quantification based on extracted peptide intensities to detect changes in protein abundances upon phospholipid withdrawal. Protein identifications were validated using rigorous criteria, and our analysis of the dataset revealed 80 phosphatidylglycerol-regulated proteins involved in various cellular processes including photosynthesis, respiration, metabolism, transport, transcription, and translation. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000363 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000363).
PXD005002	24580811	Proteogenomics of selective susceptibility to endotoxin using circulating acute phase biomarkers and bioassay development in sheep: a review. 	Towards a comprehensive targeted proteogenomic assay repository for the liquid fraction of sheep blood	Circulating acellular proteome, Peptide Spectral Library, Proteogenomics, Sheep, TripleTOF 5600+, data dependent acquisition, nanoLC-nanoESI-MS/MS	Scientists have injected endotoxin into animals to investigate and understand various pathologies and novel therapies for several decades. Recent observations have shown that there is selective susceptibility to Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS) endotoxin in sheep, despite having similar breed characteristics. The reason behind this difference is unknown, and has prompted studies aiming to explain the variation by proteogenomic characterisation of circulating acute phase biomarkers. It is hypothesised that genetic trait, biochemical, immunological and inflammation marker patterns contribute in defining and predicting mammalian response to LPS. This review discusses the effects of endotoxin and host responses, genetic basis of innate defences, activation of the acute phase response (APR) following experimental LPS challenge, and the current approaches employed in detecting novel biomarkers including acute phase proteins (APP) and micro-ribonucleic acids (miRNAs) in serum or plasma. miRNAs are novel targets for elucidating molecular mechanisms of disease because of their differential expression during pathological, and in healthy states. Changes in miRNA profiles during a disease challenge may be reflected in plasma. Studies show that gel-based two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) coupled with either matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) or liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) are currently the most used methods for proteome characterisation. Further evidence suggests that proteomic investigations are preferentially shifting from 2-DE to non-gel based LC-MS/MS coupled with data extraction by sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment-ion spectra (SWATH) approaches that are able to identify a wider range of proteins. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and most recently proteomic methods have been used to quantify low abundance proteins such as cytokines. qRT-PCR and next generation sequencing (NGS) are used for the characterisation of miRNA. Proteogenomic approaches for detecting APP and novel miRNA profiling are essential in understanding the selective resistance to endotoxin in sheep. The results of these methods could help in understanding similar pathology in humans. It might also be helpful in the development of physiological and diagnostic screening assays for determining experimental inclusion and endpoints, and in clinical trials in future.
PXD000591	24591515	Adenovirus composition, proteolysis, and disassembly studied by in-depth qualitative and quantitative proteomics. 	Human Adenovirus 5 (HAdV5), LC-MSMS	Adenovirus, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, quantification	Using high-resolution MS-based proteomics in combination with multiple protease digestion, we profiled, with on average 90% sequence coverage, all 13 viral proteins present in an human adenovirus (HAdV) vector. This in-depth profile provided multiple peptide-based evidence on intrinsic protease activity affecting several HAdV proteins. Next, the generated peptide library was used to develop a targeted proteomics method using selected reaction monitoring (SRM) aimed at quantitative profiling of the stoichiometry of all 13 proteins present in the HAdV. We also used this method to probe the release of specific virus proteins initiated by thermal stimulation, mimicking the early stage of HAdV disassembly during entry into host cells. We confirmed the copy numbers of the most well characterized viral capsid components and established the copy numbers for proteins whose stoichiometry has so far not been accurately defined. We also found that heating HAdV induces the complete release of the penton base and fiber proteins as well as a substantial release of protein VIII and VI. For these latter proteins, maturational proteolysis by the adenoviral protease leads to the differential release of fragments with certain peptides being fully released and others largely retained in the AdV particles. This information is likely to be beneficial for the ongoing interpretation of high resolution cryoEM and x-ray electron density maps.
PXD000686	24598821	Tousled-like kinases phosphorylate Asf1 to promote histone supply during DNA replication. 	Tousled-like kinases phosphorylate Asf1 to promote histone supply during DNA replication	Asf1a, Asf1b, phosphopeptide, thermolysin	During DNA replication, nucleosomes are rapidly assembled on newly synthesized DNA to restore chromatin organization. Asf1, a key histone H3-H4 chaperone required for this process, is phosphorylated by Tousled-like kinases (TLKs). Here, we identify TLK phosphorylation sites by mass spectrometry and dissect how phosphorylation has an impact on human Asf1 function. The divergent C-terminal tail of Asf1a is phosphorylated at several sites, and this is required for timely progression through S phase. Consistent with this, biochemical analysis of wild-type and phospho-mimetic Asf1a shows that phosphorylation enhances binding to histones and the downstream chaperones CAF-1 and HIRA. Moreover, we find that TLK phosphorylation of Asf1a is induced in cells experiencing deficiency of new histones and that TLK interaction with Asf1a involves its histone-binding pocket. We thus propose that TLK signalling promotes histone supply in S phase by targeting histone-free Asf1 and stimulating its ability to shuttle histones to sites of chromatin assembly.
PXD017769	24603811	The hypervariable amino-terminus of P1 protease modulates potyviral replication and host defense responses. 	The Hypervariable Amino-Terminus of P1 Protease Modulates Potyviral Replication and Host Defense Responses	NahG, Nicotiana benthamiana, Plum pox virus, Salicylic acid	The replication of many RNA viruses involves the translation of polyproteins, whose processing by endopeptidases is a critical step for the release of functional subunits. P1 is the first protease encoded in plant potyvirus genomes; once activated by an as-yet-unknown host factor, it acts in cis on its own C-terminal end, hydrolyzing the P1-HCPro junction. Earlier research suggests that P1 cooperates with HCPro to inhibit host RNA silencing defenses. Using Plum pox virus as a model, we show that although P1 does not have a major direct role in RNA silencing suppression, it can indeed modulate HCPro function by its self-cleavage activity. To study P1 protease regulation, we used bioinformatic analysis and in vitro activity experiments to map the core C-terminal catalytic domain. We present evidence that the hypervariable region that precedes the protease domain is predicted as intrinsically disordered, and that it behaves as a negative regulator of P1 proteolytic activity in in vitro cleavage assays. In viral infections, removal of the P1 protease antagonistic regulator is associated with greater symptom severity, induction of salicylate-dependent pathogenesis-related proteins, and reduced viral loads. We suggest that fine modulation of a viral protease activity has evolved to keep viral amplification below host-detrimental levels, and thus to maintain higher long-term replicative capacity.
PXD004233	24616531	Expanding the detectable HLA peptide repertoire using electron-transfer/higher-energy collision dissociation (EThcD). 	Arginine (di)methylated Human Leukocyte Antigen class I peptides are favorably presented by HLA-B*07	EThcD, HLA-class I, Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), dimethylation, methylation	The identification of peptides presented by human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I is tremendously important for the understanding of antigen presentation mechanisms under healthy or diseased conditions. Currently, mass spectrometry-based methods represent the best methodology for the identification of HLA class I-associated peptides. However, the HLA class I peptide repertoire remains largely unexplored because the variable nature of endogenous peptides represents difficulties in conventional peptide fragmentation technology. Here, we substantially enhanced (about threefold) the identification success rate of peptides presented by HLA class I using combined electron-transfer/higher-energy collision dissociation (EThcD), reporting over 12,000 high-confident (false discovery rate <1%) peptides from a single human B-cell line. The direct importance of such an unprecedented large dataset is highlighted by the discovery of unique features in antigen presentation. The observation that a substantial part of proteins is sampled across different HLA alleles, and the common occurrence of HLA class I nested sets, suggest that the constraints of HLA class I to comprehensively present the health states of cells are not as tight as previously thought. Our dataset contains a substantial set of peptides bearing a variety of posttranslational modifications presented with marked allele-specific differences. We propose that EThcD should become the method of choice in analyzing HLA class I-presented peptides.
PXD000620	24621924	Buffalo cervico-vaginal fluid proteomics with special reference to estrous cycle: heat shock protein (HSP)-70 appears to be an estrus indicator. 	Cervico-Vaginal mucus proteins of buffalo	SDS-PAGE, buffalo, cervico-vaginal mucus, estrous cycle	Cervico-vaginal fluid (CVF) plays significant roles in coitus, sperm transport, and implantation. It is believed to be a good noninvasive biomarker for various diagnostic purposes. In this study, a comprehensive proteomic analysis of buffalo CVF was performed during the estrous cycle in order to document the protein expressions, utilizing SDS-PAGE, mass spectrometry, and immunoblot. The main objective was to screen the CVF of buffalo for one or more estrus-specific proteins. A total of 416 proteins were identified in the CVF of both estrus and diestrus phases. Out of these proteins, 68 estrus-specific proteins have been extensively reviewed in the protein database. The major physiological functions of estrus CVF proteins appeared to be stress response, immune response, and metabolic. Eventually, the expression level of heat shock protein-70 in the CVF during the estrus phase, as revealed in SDS-PAGE analysis, was higher than during diestrus. The identity of the protein was confirmed by immunoblot analysis as heat shock protein-70. The findings provide a potential lead for the evaluation of these proteins for estrus detection in buffalo because CVF biomarker detection is a noninvasive technique. The mass spectrometric data of identified proteins have been deposited at the ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD000620.
PXD000556	24633370	Coordinated activation of PTA-ACS and TCA cycles strongly reduces overflow metabolism of acetate in Escherichia coli. 	E. coli BW25113 and knock-out mutants (delta-pka, delta-arcA and delta-pka_arcA) LC MS/MS	E. coli, delta-arcA, delta-pka, delta-pka_arcA	Elimination of acetate overflow in aerobic cultivation of Escherichia coli would improve many bioprocesses as acetate accumulation in the growth environment leads to numerous negative effects, e.g. loss of carbon, inhibition of growth, target product synthesis, etc. Despite many years of studies, the mechanism and regulation of acetate overflow are still not completely understood. Therefore, we studied the growth of E. coli K-12 BW25113 and several of its mutant strains affecting acetate-related pathways using the continuous culture method accelerostat (A-stat) at various specific glucose consumption rates with the aim of diminishing acetate overflow. Absolute quantitative exo-metabolome and proteome analyses coupled to metabolic flux analysis enabled us to demonstrate that onset of acetate overflow can be postponed and acetate excretion strongly reduced in E. coli by coordinated activation of phosphotransacetylase-acetyl-CoA synthetase (PTA-ACS) and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycles. Fourfold reduction of acetate excretion (2 vs. 8 % from total carbon) at fastest growth compared to wild type was achieved by deleting the genes responsible for inactivation of acetyl-CoA synthetase protein (pka) and TCA cycle regulator arcA. The Deltapka DeltaarcA strain did not accumulate any other detrimental by-product besides acetate and showed identical mu max and only ~5 % lower biomass yield compared to wild type. We conclude that a fine-tuned coordination between increasing the recycling capabilities of acetate in the PTA-ACS node through a higher concentration of active acetate scavenging Acs protein and downstream metabolism throughput in the TCA cycle is necessary for diminishing overflow metabolism of acetate in E. coli and achieving higher target product production in bioprocesses.
PXD000799	24641125	The CJIE1 prophage of Campylobacter jejuni affects protein expression in growth media with and without bile salts. 	Effects of Campylobacter jejuni CJIE1 prophage on protein expression experiment 2	CJIE1 prophage, Campylobacter jejuni, iTRAQ	BACKGROUND: The presence of Campylobacter jejuni temperate bacteriophages has increasingly been associated with specific biological effects. It has recently been demonstrated that the presence of the prophage CJIE1 is associated with increased adherence and invasion of C. jejuni isolates in cell culture assays. RESULTS: Quantitative comparative proteomics experiments were undertaken using three closely related isolates with CJIE1 and one isolate without CJIE1 to determine whether there was a corresponding difference in protein expression levels. Initial experiments indicated that about 2% of the total proteins characterized were expressed at different levels in isolates with or without the prophage. Some of these proteins regulated by the presence of CJIE1 were associated with virulence or regulatory functions. Additional experiments were conducted using C. jejuni isolates with and without CJIE1 grown on four different media: Mueller Hinton (MH) media containing blood; MH media containing 0.1% sodium deoxycholate, which is thought to result in increased expression of virulence proteins; MH media containing 2.5% Oxgall; and MHwithout additives. These experiments provided further evidence that CJIE1 affected protein expression, including virulence-associated proteins. They also demonstrated a general bile response involving a majority of the proteome and clearly showed the induction of almost all proteins known to be involved with iron acquisition. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD000798, PXD000799, PXD000800, and PXD000801. CONCLUSION: The presence of the CJIE1 prophage was associated with differences in protein expression levels under different conditions. Further work is required to determine what genes are involved in causing this phenomenon.
PXD000218	24648465	Cross-species proteomics reveals specific modulation of signaling in cancer and stromal cells by phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitors. 	System-level analysis of cancer and stomal cell specific proteomes reveals extensive reprogramming of phosphorylation networks by tumor microenvironment	DLD-1 cells, phosphoproteomics	The tumor microenvironment plays key roles in cancer biology, but its impact on the regulation of signaling pathway activity in cancer cells has not been systemically investigated. We designed an analytical strategy that allows differential analysis of signaling between cancer and stromal cells present in tumor xenografts. We used this approach to investigate how in vivo growth conditions and PI3K inhibitors regulate pathway activities in both cancer and stromal cell populations. We found that, despite inducing more modest changes in protein expression, in vivo growing conditions extensively rewired protein kinase networks in cancer cells. As a result, different sets of phosphorylation sites were modulated by PI3K inhibitors in cancer cells growing in tumors relative to when these cells were in culture. The p110delta PI3K-selective compound CAL-101 (Idelalisib) did not inhibit markers of PI3K activity in cancer or stromal cells; however, unexpectedly, it induced phosphorylation on SQ motifs in both subpopulations of tumor cells in vivo but not in vitro. Thus, the interaction between cancer cells and the stroma modulated the ability of PI3K inhibitors to induce the activation of apoptosis in solid tumors. Our study provides proof-of-principle of a proteomics workflow for measuring signaling specifically in cancer and stromal cells and for investigating how cancer biochemistry is modulated in vivo.
PXD000070	24657495	Confident and sensitive phosphoproteomics using combinations of collision induced dissociation and electron transfer dissociation. 	Plasmodium falciparum schizont phosphoproteome	CID, ETD, Plasmodium falciparum, phosphoproteome	We present a workflow using an ETD-optimised version of Mascot Percolator and a modified version of SLoMo (turbo-SLoMo) for analysis of phosphoproteomic data. We have benchmarked this against several database searching algorithms and phosphorylation site localisation tools and show that it offers highly sensitive and confident phosphopeptide identification and site assignment with PSM-level statistics, enabling rigorous comparison of data acquisition methods. We analysed the Plasmodium falciparum schizont phosphoproteome using for the first time, a data-dependent neutral loss-triggered-ETD (DDNL) strategy and a conventional decision-tree method. At a posterior error probability threshold of 0.01, similar numbers of PSMs were identified using both methods with a 73% overlap in phosphopeptide identifications. The false discovery rate associated with spectral pairs where DDNL CID/ETD identified the same phosphopeptide was <1%. 72% of phosphorylation site assignments using turbo-SLoMo without any score filtering, were identical and 99.8% of these cases are associated with a false localisation rate of <5%. We show that DDNL acquisition is a useful approach for phosphoproteomics and results in an increased confidence in phosphopeptide identification without compromising sensitivity or duty cycle. Furthermore, the combination of Mascot Percolator and turbo-SLoMo represents a robust workflow for phosphoproteomic data analysis using CID and ETD fragmentation. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Protein phosphorylation is a ubiquitous post-translational modification that regulates protein function. Mass spectrometry-based approaches have revolutionised its analysis on a large-scale but phosphorylation sites are often identified by single phosphopeptides and therefore require more rigorous data analysis to unsure that sites are identified with high confidence for follow-up experiments to investigate their biological significance. The coverage and confidence of phosphoproteomic experiments can be enhanced by the use of multiple complementary fragmentation methods. Here we have benchmarked a data analysis pipeline for analysis of phosphoproteomic data generated using CID and ETD fragmentation and used it to demonstrate the utility of a data-dependent neutral loss triggered ETD fragmentation strategy for high confidence phosphopeptide identification and phosphorylation site localisation.
PXD000852	24668886	Native protein mapping and visualization of protein interactions in the area of human plasma high-density lipoprotein by combining nondenaturing micro 2DE and quantitative LC-MS/MS. 	Native protein mapping and visualization of protein interactions in human plasma high-density lipoprotein by 2-DE and LC-MS/MS	HDL, LC-MSE, high-density lipoproteins, nano-LC-MS/MS, non-denaturing 2-DE, plasma	A human plasma sample was subjected to nondenaturing micro 2DE and a gel area (5 mm x 18 mm) that includes high-density lipoprotein (HDL) was cut into 1 mm x 1 mm squares, then the proteins in the 90 gel pieces were analyzed by quantitative LC-MS/MS. Grid-cutting of the gel was employed to; (i) ensure the total analysis of the proteins in the area, (ii) standardize the conditions of analysis by LC-MS/MS, (iii) reconstruct the protein distribution patterns from the quantity data. Totally 154 proteins were assigned in the 90 gel pieces and the quantity distribution of each was reconstructed as a color density pattern (a native protein map). The map of apolipoprotein (Apo) A-I showed a wide apparent mass distribution characteristic to HDL and was compared with the maps of the other 153 proteins. Eleven proteins showed maps of wide distribution that overlapped with the map of Apo A-I, and all have been reported to be the components of HDL. Further, seven minor proteins associated with HDL were detected at the gel positions of high Apo A-I quantity. These results for the first time visualized the localization of HDL apolipoproteins on a nondenaturing 2DE gel and strongly suggested their interactions.
PXD000916	24684310	Proteomic identification of monoclonal antibodies from serum. 	Proteomic identification of monoclonal antibodies from rabbit serum and analysis of FDR using differential cysteine labeling	Antibody, IgG, Orbitrap Velos, Rabbit	Characterizing the in vivo dynamics of the polyclonal antibody repertoire in serum, such as that which might arise in response to stimulation with an antigen, is difficult due to the presence of many highly similar immunoglobulin proteins, each specified by distinct B lymphocytes. These challenges have precluded the use of conventional mass spectrometry for antibody identification based on peptide mass spectral matches to a genomic reference database. Recently, progress has been made using bottom-up analysis of serum antibodies by nanoflow liquid chromatography/high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry combined with a sample-specific antibody sequence database generated by high-throughput sequencing of individual B cell immunoglobulin variable domains (V genes). Here, we describe how intrinsic features of antibody primary structure, most notably the interspersed segments of variable and conserved amino acid sequences, generate recurring patterns in the corresponding peptide mass spectra of V gene peptides, greatly complicating the assignment of correct sequences to mass spectral data. We show that the standard method of decoy-based error modeling fails to account for the error introduced by these highly similar sequences, leading to a significant underestimation of the false discovery rate. Because of these effects, antibody-derived peptide mass spectra require increased stringency in their interpretation. The use of filters based on the mean precursor ion mass accuracy of peptide-spectrum matches is shown to be particularly effective in distinguishing between "true" and "false" identifications. These findings highlight important caveats associated with the use of standard database search and error-modeling methods with nonstandard data sets and custom sequence databases.
PXD000679	24687421	A pilot proteomic study of protein markers in autism spectrum disorder. 	A Pilot Proteomic Study of Protein Markers in Autism Spectrum Disorder	ASD, Autism, apolipoprotein, biomarkers, cholesterol, oxidative stress	Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) diagnosis is increasing, with 1/88 children believed to be affected by the disorder, with a most recent survey suggesting numbers as high as 1/50. Treatment and understanding of ASD causes is a pressing health concern. ASD protein biomarkers may provide clues about ASD cause. Protein biomarkers for ASDs could be used for ASD diagnosis, subtyping, treatment monitoring, and identifying therapeutic targets. Here, we analyzed the sera from seven children with ASD and seven matched controls using Tricine gel electrophoresis (Tricine-PAGE) and LC-MS/MS. Overall, we found increased levels of apolipoproteins ApoA1 and ApoA4, involved in cholesterol metabolism and of serum paraoxanase/arylesterase 1, involved in preventing oxidative damage, in the sera of children with ASD, compared with their matched controls. All three proteins are predicted to interact with each other and are parts of high-density lipoproteins. Further studies are needed to validate these findings in larger subject numbers.
PXD000851	24687888	Discovery of colorectal cancer biomarker candidates by membrane proteomic analysis and subsequent verification using selected reaction monitoring (SRM) and tissue microarray (TMA) analysis. 	Membrane proteomic analysis of colorectal cancer tissue	colorectal cancer, membrane protein	Recent advances in quantitative proteomic technology have enabled the large-scale validation of biomarkers. We here performed a quantitative proteomic analysis of membrane fractions from colorectal cancer tissue to discover biomarker candidates, and then extensively validated the candidate proteins identified. A total of 5566 proteins were identified in six tissue samples, each of which was obtained from polyps and cancer with and without metastasis. GO cellular component analysis predicted that 3087 of these proteins were membrane proteins, whereas TMHMM algorithm predicted that 1567 proteins had a transmembrane domain. Differences were observed in the expression of 159 membrane proteins and 55 extracellular proteins between polyps and cancer without metastasis, while the expression of 32 membrane proteins and 17 extracellular proteins differed between cancer with and without metastasis. A total of 105 of these biomarker candidates were quantitated using selected (or multiple) reaction monitoring (SRM/MRM) with stable synthetic isotope-labeled peptides as an internal control. The results obtained revealed differences in the expression of 69 of these proteins, and this was subsequently verified in an independent set of patient samples (polyps (n = 10), cancer without metastasis (n = 10), cancer with metastasis (n = 10)). Significant differences were observed in the expression of 44 of these proteins, including ITGA5, GPRC5A, PDGFRB, and TFRC, which have already been shown to be overexpressed in colorectal cancer, as well as proteins with unknown function, such as C8orf55. The expression of C8orf55 was also shown to be high not only in colorectal cancer, but also in several cancer tissues using a multicancer tissue microarray, which included 1150 cores from 14 cancer tissues. This is the largest verification study of biomarker candidate membrane proteins to date; our methods for biomarker discovery and subsequent validation using SRM/MRM will contribute to the identification of useful biomarker candidates for various cancers. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000851.
PXD000355	24687995	Proteomic identification of rainbow trout sperm proteins. 	Proteomic identification of rainbow trout sperm proteins	rainbow trout, shotgun proteomics, sperm	Proteomics represents a powerful tool for the analysis of fish spermatozoa, since these cells are transcriptionally inactive. The aim of the present study was to generate an inventory of the most prominent rainbow trout sperm proteins by SDS-PAGE prefractionation combined with nano-LC-MS/MS based identification. This study provides the first in-depth analysis of the rainbow trout sperm proteome, with a total of 206 identified proteins. We found that rainbow trout spermatozoa are equipped with functionally diverse proteins related to energetic metabolism, signal transduction, protein turnover, transport, cytoskeleton, oxidative injuries, and stress and reproduction. The availability of a catalog of rainbow trout sperm proteins provides a crucial tool for the understanding of fundamental molecular processes in fish spermatozoa, for the ongoing development of novel markers of sperm quality and for the optimization of short- and long-term sperm preservation procedures. The MS data are available at ProteomeXchange with the dataset identifier PXD000355 and DOI 10.6019/PXD000355.
PXD000900	24696503	Confetti: a multiprotease map of the HeLa proteome for comprehensive proteomics. 	Confetti: A Multi-protease Map of the HeLa Proteome for Comprehensive Proteomics	digestion, enzymes, non-tryptic	Bottom-up proteomics largely relies on tryptic peptides for protein identification and quantification. Tryptic digestion often provides limited coverage of protein sequence because of issues such as peptide length, ionization efficiency, and post-translational modification colocalization. Unfortunately, a region of interest in a protein, for example, because of proximity to an active site or the presence of important post-translational modifications, may not be covered by tryptic peptides. Detection limits, quantification accuracy, and isoform differentiation can also be improved with greater sequence coverage. Selected reaction monitoring (SRM) would also greatly benefit from being able to identify additional targetable sequences. In an attempt to improve protein sequence coverage and to target regions of proteins that do not generate useful tryptic peptides, we deployed a multiprotease strategy on the HeLa proteome. First, we used seven commercially available enzymes in single, double, and triple enzyme combinations. A total of 48 digests were performed. 5223 proteins were detected by analyzing the unfractionated cell lysate digest directly; with 42% mean sequence coverage. Additional strong-anion exchange fractionation of the most complementary digests permitted identification of over 3000 more proteins, with improved mean sequence coverage. We then constructed a web application (https://proteomics.swmed.edu/confetti) that allows the community to examine a target protein or protein isoform in order to discover the enzyme or combination of enzymes that would yield peptides spanning a certain region of interest in the sequence. Finally, we examined the use of nontryptic digests for SRM. From our strong-anion exchange fractionation data, we were able to identify three or more proteotypic SRM candidates within a single digest for 6056 genes. Surprisingly, in 25% of these cases the digest producing the most observable proteotypic peptides was neither trypsin nor Lys-C. SRM analysis of Asp-N versus tryptic peptides for eight proteins determined that Asp-N yielded higher signal in five of eight cases.
PXD000117	24700864	Human urinary exosomes as innate immune effectors. 	Human exosome proteome -  Human urinary exosomes as innate immune effectors	ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, exosome, urine	Exosomes are small extracellular vesicles, approximately 50 nm in diameter, derived from the endocytic pathway and released by a variety of cell types. Recent data indicate a spectrum of exosomal functions, including RNA transfer, antigen presentation, modulation of apoptosis, and shedding of obsolete protein. Exosomes derived from all nephron segments are also present in human urine, where their function is unknown. Although one report suggested in vitro uptake of exosomes by renal cortical collecting duct cells, most studies of human urinary exosomes have focused on biomarker discovery rather than exosome function. Here, we report results from in-depth proteomic analyses and EM showing that normal human urinary exosomes are significantly enriched for innate immune proteins that include antimicrobial proteins and peptides and bacterial and viral receptors. Urinary exosomes, but not the prevalent soluble urinary protein uromodulin (Tamm-Horsfall protein), potently inhibited growth of pathogenic and commensal Escherichia coli and induced bacterial lysis. Bacterial killing depended on exosome structural integrity and occurred optimally at the acidic pH typical of urine from omnivorous humans. Thus, exosomes are innate immune effectors that contribute to host defense within the urinary tract.
PXD000836	24702127	HOPE-fixation of lung tissue allows retrospective proteome and phosphoproteome studies. 	HOPE-fixation of lung tissue allows retrospective proteome and phosphoproteome studies	HOPE-fixation technique, biobank, lung tissues, phosphorylation, post-translational modifications	Hepes-glutamic acid buffer-mediated organic solvent protection effect (HOPE)-fixation has been introduced as an alternative to formalin fixation of clinical samples. Beyond preservation of morphological structures for histology, HOPE-fixation was demonstrated to be compatible with recent methods for RNA and DNA sequencing. However, the suitability of HOPE-fixed materials for the inspection of proteomes by mass spectrometry so far remained undefined. This is of particular interest, since proteins constitute a prime resource for drug research and can give valuable insights into the activity status of signaling pathways. In this study, we extracted proteins from human lung tissue and tested HOPE-treated and snap-frozen tissues comparatively by proteome and phosphoproteome analyses. High confident data from accurate mass spectrometry allowed the identification of 2603 proteins and 3036 phosphorylation sites. HOPE-fixation did not hinder the representative extraction of proteins, and investigating their biochemical properties, covered subcellular localizations, and cellular processes revealed no bias caused by the type of fixation. In conclusion, proteome as well as phosphoproteome data of HOPE lung samples were qualitatively equivalent to results obtained from snap-frozen tissues. Thus, HOPE-treated tissues match clinical demands in both histology and retrospective proteome analyses of patient samples by proteomics.
PXD000762	24704852	Phosphoproteomic analyses reveal that galectin-1 augments the dynamics of B-cell receptor signaling. 	Phosphoproteomic analyses reveal that  galectin-1 augments the dynamics of B-cell receptor signaling	B-cell activation, B-cell receptor, galectin-1, phosphoproteome	B-cell activation is important for mounting humoral immune responses and antibody production. Galectin-1 has multiple regulatory functions in immune cells. However, the effects of galectin-1 modulation and the mechanisms underlying the coordination of B-cell activation are unclear. To address this issue, we applied label-free quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis to investigate the dynamics of galectin-1-induced signaling in comparison with that following anti-IgM treatment. A total of 3247 phosphorylation sites on 1245 proteins were quantified, and 70-80% of the 856 responsive phosphoproteins were commonly activated during various biological functions. The similarity between galectin-1- and anti-IgM-elicited B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling pathways was also revealed. Additionally, the mapping of the 149 BCR-responsive phosphorylation sites provided complementary knowledge of BCR signaling. Compared to anti-IgM induction, the phosphoproteomic profiling of BCR signaling, along with validation by western blot analysis and pharmacological inhibitors, revealed that the activation of Syk, Btk, and PI3K may be dominant in galectin-1-mediated activation. We further demonstrated that the proliferation of antigen-primed B cells was diminished in the absence of galectin-1 in an animal model. Together, these findings provided evidence for a new role and insight into the mechanism of how galectin-1 augments the strength of the immunological synapse by modulating BCR signaling. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The current study revealed the first systematic phosphorylation-mediated signaling network and its dynamics in B cell activation. The comparative phosphoproteomic analysis on the dynamics of galectin-1 induced activation profiles not only showed that exogenously added galectin-1 augmented B-cell activation but also revealed its relatively enhanced activation in PI3K pathway. Together with proliferation assay, we further delineated that galectin-1 is important for B-cell proliferation in response to antigen challenge. Our phosphoproteomic study reveals a new role for galectin-1 in augmenting the strength of immunological synapse by modulating BCR signaling.
PXD000223	24714165	Phytoplasma effector SAP54 hijacks plant reproduction by degrading MADS-box proteins and promotes insect colonization in a RAD23-dependent manner. 	Nipped in the bud: a microbial effector destabilizes MADS-domain transcription factors	Co-IP, GFP, MADS-box, Orbitrap, SAP54, destabilization, effector, flower, phytoplasma	Pathogens that rely upon multiple hosts to complete their life cycles often modify behavior and development of these hosts to coerce them into improving pathogen fitness. However, few studies describe mechanisms underlying host coercion. In this study, we elucidate the mechanism by which an insect-transmitted pathogen of plants alters floral development to convert flowers into vegetative tissues. We find that phytoplasma produce a novel effector protein (SAP54) that interacts with members of the MADS-domain transcription factor (MTF) family, including key regulators SEPALLATA3 and APETALA1, that occupy central positions in the regulation of floral development. SAP54 mediates degradation of MTFs by interacting with proteins of the RADIATION SENSITIVE23 (RAD23) family, eukaryotic proteins that shuttle substrates to the proteasome. Arabidopsis rad23 mutants do not show conversion of flowers into leaf-like tissues in the presence of SAP54 and during phytoplasma infection, emphasizing the importance of RAD23 to the activity of SAP54. Remarkably, plants with SAP54-induced leaf-like flowers are more attractive for colonization by phytoplasma leafhopper vectors and this colonization preference is dependent on RAD23. An effector that targets and suppresses flowering while simultaneously promoting insect herbivore colonization is unprecedented. Moreover, RAD23 proteins have, to our knowledge, no known roles in flower development, nor plant defence mechanisms against insects. Thus SAP54 generates a short circuit between two key pathways of the host to alter development, resulting in sterile plants, and promotes attractiveness of these plants to leafhopper vectors helping the obligate phytoplasmas reproduce and propagate (zombie plants).
PXD009801	24715725	The nature and extent of contributions by defective ribosome products to the HLA peptidome. 	The nature and extent of contributions by defective ribosome products to the HLA peptidome	DRiPome, dynamic SILAC, immunopeptidome	MHC class I peptides are products of endogenous cellular protein degradation. Their prompt presentation, after rapid degradation of their newly synthesized source proteins, is needed to alert the immune system during pathogen infection. A possible source for such rapidly degrading proteins can be defective ribosome products (DRiPs), which include polypeptides produced as part of the pioneer round of translation, premature translation termination, and proteins failing to fold properly or to assemble into their multisubunit protein complexes. However, the identities and relative contribution to the MHC peptidome of these mature or newly synthesized and rapidly degraded cellular proteins is not well understood. To clarify these issues, we used dynamic stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture to define the relative rates of synthesis of the HLA class I peptidomes and the source proteomes of three cultured human hematopoietic cell lines. Large numbers of HLA class I peptides were observed to be derived from DRiPs, defined here as HLA peptides that shift from their light to heavy isotope forms faster than their source proteins. Specific groups of proteins, such as ribosomal and T-complex protein 1 (TCP-1), contributed a disproportionately large number of DRiPs to the HLA peptidomes. Furthermore, no significant preference was observed for HLA peptides derived from the amino terminal regions of the proteins, suggesting that the contribution of products of premature translation termination was minimal. Thus, the most likely sources of DRiPs-derived HLA peptides are full-sized, misassembled, and surplus subunits of large protein complexes.
PXD000928	24722184	Proteomics analysis of melanoma metastases: association between S100A13 expression and chemotherapy resistance. 	Melanoma metastases: association between S100A13 expression and chemotherapy resistance	Lymph nodes, Melanoma, isoelectric focusing, metastasis, s100a13	BACKGROUND: Disseminated cutaneous malignant melanoma (CMM) is commonly unresponsive to standard chemotherapies, and there are as yet no predictive markers of therapy response. METHODS: In the present study we collected fresh-frozen pretreatment lymph-node metastasis samples (n=14) from melanoma patients with differential response to dacarbazine (DTIC) or temozolomide (TMZ) chemotherapy, to identify proteins with an impact on treatment response. We performed quantitative protein profiling using tandem mass spectrometry and compared the proteome differences between responders (R) and non-responders (NR), matched for age, gender and histopathological type of CMM. RESULTS: Biological pathway analyses showed several signalling pathways differing between R vs NR, including Rho signalling. Gene expression profiling data was available for a subset of the samples, and the results were compared with the proteomics data. Four proteins with differential expression between R and NR were selected for technical validation by immunoblotting (ISYNA1, F13A1, CSTB and S100A13), and CSTB and S100A13 were further validated on a larger sample set by immunohistochemistry (n=48). The calcium binding protein S100A13 was found to be significantly overexpressed in NR compared with R in all analyses performed. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that S100A13 is involved in CMM resistance to DTIC/TMZ.
PXD000860	24741112	StableIsotope Labeling with Amino Acids in Cell Culture (SILAC)-based strategy for proteome-wide thermodynamic analysis of protein-ligand binding interactions. 	SILAC-Based Strategy for Proteome-Wide Analysis of Protein-Ligand Binding Interactions (Part 2/2)	ATP, Cyclosporine A, Shot-gun proteomics	Described here is a quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics method for the large-scale thermodynamic analysis of protein-ligand binding interactions. The methodology utilizes a chemical modification strategy termed, Stability of Proteins from Rates of Oxidation (SPROX), in combination with a Stable Isotope Labeling with Amino Acids in Cell Culture (SILAC) approach to compare the equilibrium folding/unfolding properties of proteins in the absence and presence of target ligands. The method, which is general with respect to ligand, measures the ligand-induced changes in protein stability associated with protein-ligand binding. The methodology is demonstrated in a proof-of-principle study in which the well-characterized protein-drug interaction between cyclosporine A (CsA) and cyclophilin A was successfully analyzed in the context of a yeast cell lysate. A control experiment was also performed to assess the method's false positive rate of ligand discovery, which was found to be on the order of 0.4 - 3.5%. The new method was utilized to characterize the adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-interactome in Saccharomyces cerevisiae using the nonhydrolyzable ATP analog, adenylyl imidodiphosphate (AMP-PNP), and the proteins in a yeast cell lysate. The new methodology enabled the interrogation of 526 yeast proteins for interactions with ATP using 2035 peptide probes. Ultimately, 325 peptide hits from 139 different proteins were identified. Approximately 70% of the hit proteins identified in this work were not previously annotated as ATP binding proteins. However, nearly two-thirds of the newly discovered ATP interacting proteins have known interactions with other nucleotides and co-factors (e.g. NAD and GTP), DNA, and RNA based on GO-term analyses. The current work is the first proteome-wide profile of the yeast ATP-interactome, and it is the largest proteome-wide profile of any ATP-interactome generated, to date, using an energetics-based method. The data is available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD000858, DOI 10.6019/PXD000858, and PXD000860.
PXD000704	24741114	Glycoproteomic analysis of prostate cancer tissues by SWATH mass spectrometry discovers N-acylethanolamine acid amidase and protein tyrosine kinase 7 as signatures for tumor aggressiveness. 	Glycoprotein Signatures for Aggressive Prostate Cancer via SWATH mass spectrometry	Glycoproteome, Prostate, SWATH	The identification of biomarkers indicating the level of aggressiveness of prostate cancer (PCa) will address the urgent clinical need to minimize the general overtreatment of patients with non-aggressive PCa, who account for the majority of PCa cases. Here, we isolated formerly N-linked glycopeptides from normal prostate (n = 10) and from non-aggressive (n = 24), aggressive (n = 16), and metastatic (n = 25) PCa tumor tissues and analyzed the samples using SWATH mass spectrometry, an emerging data-independent acquisition method that generates a single file containing fragment ion spectra of all ionized species of a sample. The resulting datasets were searched using a targeted data analysis strategy in which an a priori spectral reference library representing known N-glycosites of the human proteome was used to identify groups of signals in the SWATH mass spectrometry data. On average we identified 1430 N-glycosites from each sample. Out of those, 220 glycoproteins showed significant quantitative changes associated with diverse biological processes involved in PCa aggressiveness and metastasis and indicated functional relationships. Two glycoproteins, N-acylethanolamine acid amidase and protein tyrosine kinase 7, that were significantly associated with aggressive PCa in the initial sample cohort were further validated in an independent set of patient tissues using tissue microarray analysis. The results suggest that N-acylethanolamine acid amidase and protein tyrosine kinase 7 may be used as potential tissue biomarkers to avoid overtreatment of non-aggressive PCa.
PXD000051	24741115	Proteomic analysis of intact flagella of procyclic Trypanosoma brucei cells identifies novel flagellar proteins with unique sub-localization and dynamics. 	Proteomic analysis of intact flagella of procyclic Trypanosoma brucei cells identifies novel flagellar proteins with unique sub-localisation and dynamics	Trypanosoma brucei, flagellar proteins	Cilia and flagella are complex organelles made of hundreds of proteins of highly variable structures and functions. Here we report the purification of intact flagella from the procyclic stage of Trypanosoma brucei using mechanical shearing. Structural preservation was confirmed by transmission electron microscopy that showed that flagella still contained typical elements such as the membrane, the axoneme, the paraflagellar rod, and the intraflagellar transport particles. It also revealed that flagella severed below the basal body, and were not contaminated by other cytoskeletal structures such as the flagellar pocket collar or the adhesion zone filament. Mass spectrometry analysis identified a total of 751 proteins with high confidence, including 88% of known flagellar components. Comparison with the cell debris fraction revealed that more than half of the flagellum markers were enriched in flagella and this enrichment criterion was taken into account to identify 212 proteins not previously reported to be associated to flagella. Nine of these were experimentally validated including a 14-3-3 protein not yet reported to be associated to flagella and eight novel proteins termed FLAM (FLAgellar Member). Remarkably, they localized to five different subdomains of the flagellum. For example, FLAM6 is restricted to the proximal half of the axoneme, no matter its length. In contrast, FLAM8 is progressively accumulating at the distal tip of growing flagella and half of it still needs to be added after cell division. A combination of RNA interference and Fluorescence Recovery After Photobleaching approaches demonstrated very different dynamics from one protein to the other, but also according to the stage of construction and the age of the flagellum. Structural proteins are added to the distal tip of the elongating flagellum and exhibit slow turnover whereas membrane proteins such as the arginine kinase show rapid turnover without a detectible polarity.
PXD000260	24742827	Ferritin heavy chain in triple negative breast cancer: a favorable prognostic marker that relates to a cluster of differentiation 8 positive (CD8+) effector T-cell response. 	Human triple negative breast cancer tissues	label-free proteomics, laser capture microdissection, prognosis, triple negative breast cancer	Ferritin heavy chain (FTH1) is a 21-kDa subunit of the ferritin complex, known for its role in iron metabolism, and which has recently been identified as a favorable prognostic protein for triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients. Currently, it is not well understood how FTH1 contributes to an anti-tumor response. Here, we explored whether expression and cellular compartmentalization of FTH1 correlates to an effective immune response in TNBC patients. Analysis of the tumor tissue transcriptome, complemented with in silico pathway analysis, revealed that FTH1 was an integral part of an immunomodulatory network of cytokine signaling, adaptive immunity, and cell death. These findings were confirmed using mass spectrometry (MS)-derived proteomic data, and immunohistochemical staining of tissue microarrays. We observed that FTH1 is localized in both the cytoplasm and/or nucleus of cancer cells. However, high cytoplasmic (c) FTH1 was associated with favorable prognosis (Log-rank p = 0.001), whereas nuclear (n) FTH1 staining was associated with adverse prognosis (Log-rank p = 0.019). cFTH1 staining significantly correlated with total FTH1 expression in TNBC tissue samples, as measured by MS analysis (Rs = 0.473, p = 0.0007), but nFTH1 staining did not (Rs = 0.197, p = 0.1801). Notably, IFN gamma-producing CD8+ effector T cells, but not CD4+ T cells, were preferentially enriched in tumors with high expression of cFTH1 (p = 0.02). Collectively, our data provide evidence toward new immune regulatory properties of FTH1 in TNBC, which may facilitate development of novel therapeutic targets.
PXD000514	24748648	The membrane proteome of sensory cilia to the depth of olfactory receptors. 	Proteomic Analysis of olfactory cilia membranes	Cilium, LC-M, membrane, olfactory sensory neurons	In the nasal cavity, the nonmotile cilium of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) constitutes the chemosensory interface between the ambient environment and the brain. The unique sensory organelle facilitates odor detection for which it includes all necessary components of initial and downstream olfactory signal transduction. In addition to its function in olfaction, a more universal role in modulating different signaling pathways is implicated, for example, in neurogenesis, apoptosis, and neural regeneration. To further extend our knowledge about this multifunctional signaling organelle, it is of high importance to establish a most detailed proteome map of the ciliary membrane compartment down to the level of transmembrane receptors. We detached cilia from mouse olfactory epithelia via Ca(2+)/K(+) shock followed by the enrichment of ciliary membrane proteins at alkaline pH, and we identified a total of 4,403 proteins by gel-based and gel-free methods in conjunction with high resolution LC/MS. This study is the first to report the detection of 62 native olfactory receptor proteins and to provide evidence for their heterogeneous expression at the protein level. Quantitative data evaluation revealed four ciliary membrane-associated candidate proteins (the annexins ANXA1, ANXA2, ANXA5, and S100A5) with a suggested function in the regulation of olfactory signal transduction, and their presence in ciliary structures was confirmed by immunohistochemistry. Moreover, we corroborated the ciliary localization of the potassium-dependent Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCKX) 4 and the plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase 1 (PMCA1) involved in olfactory signal termination, and we detected for the first time NCKX2 in olfactory cilia. Through comparison with transcriptome data specific for mature, ciliated OSNs, we finally delineated the membrane ciliome of OSNs. The membrane proteome of olfactory cilia established here is the most complete today, thus allowing us to pave new avenues for the study of diverse molecular functions and signaling pathways in and out of olfactory cilia and thus to advance our understanding of the biology of sensory organelles in general.
PXD000748	24752076	Discovery of prognostic biomarker candidates of lacunar infarction by quantitative proteomics of microvesicles enriched plasma. 	LACI Plasma Microvesicle Biomarker	Exosome, LACI Stroke, Plasma Microvesicle	BACKGROUND: Lacunar infarction (LACI) is a subtype of acute ischemic stroke affecting around 25% of all ischemic stroke cases. Despite having an excellent recovery during acute phase, certain LACI patients have poor mid- to long-term prognosis due to the recurrence of vascular events or a decline in cognitive functions. Hence, blood-based biomarkers could be complementary prognostic and research tools. METHODS AND FINDING: Plasma was collected from forty five patients following a non-disabling LACI along with seventeen matched control subjects. The LACI patients were monitored prospectively for up to five years for the occurrence of adverse outcomes and grouped accordingly (i.e., LACI-no adverse outcome, LACI-recurrent vascular event, and LACI-cognitive decline without any recurrence of vascular events). Microvesicles-enriched fractions isolated from the pooled plasma of four groups were profiled by an iTRAQ-guided discovery approach to quantify the differential proteome. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000748. Bioinformatics analysis and data mining revealed up-regulation of brain-specific proteins including myelin basic protein, proteins of coagulation cascade (e.g., fibrinogen alpha chain, fibrinogen beta chain) and focal adhesion (e.g., integrin alpha-IIb, talin-1, and filamin-A) while albumin was down-regulated in both groups of patients with adverse outcome. CONCLUSION: This data set may offer important insight into the mechanisms of poor prognosis and provide candidate prognostic biomarkers for validation on larger cohort of individual LACI patients.
PXD000789	24753410	The histone variant H2A.Bbd is enriched at sites of DNA synthesis. 	H2A.Bbd localizes to DNA synthesis sites	DNA repair, DNA replication, H2A.Bbd, chromatin	Histone variants play an important role in shaping the mammalian epigenome and their aberrant expression is frequently observed in several types of cancer. However, the mechanisms that mediate their function and the composition of the variant-containing chromatin are still largely unknown. A proteomic interrogation of chromatin containing the different H2A variants macroH2A.1.2, H2A.Bbd and H2A revealed a strikingly different protein composition. Gene ontology analysis reveals a strong enrichment of splicing factors as well as components of the mammalian replisome in H2A.Bbd-containing chromatin. We find H2A.Bbd localizing transiently to sites of DNA synthesis during S-phase and during DNA repair. Cells that express H2A.Bbd have a shortened S-phase and are more susceptible to DNA damage, two phenotypes that are also observed in human Hodgkin's lymphoma cells that aberrantly express this variant. Based on our experiments we conclude that H2A.Bbd is targeted to newly synthesized DNA during replication and DNA repair. The transient incorporation of H2A.Bbd may be due to the intrinsic instability of nucleosomes carrying this variant or a faster chromatin loading. This potentially leads to a disturbance of the existing chromatin structure, which may have effects on cell cycle regulation and DNA damage sensitivity.
PXD000714	24769239	Quantitative variations of the mitochondrial proteome and phosphoproteome during fermentative and respiratory growth in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Quantitative variations of the mitochondrial proteome and phosphoproteome during fermentative and respiratory growth in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	yeast - phosphoproteomic - proteomic - glucose - galactose - lactate- OXPHOS	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a facultative aerobe able to adapt its metabolism according to the carbon substrate. The mechanisms of these adaptations involve at least partly the mitochondria but are not yet well understood. To address the possible role of protein phosphorylation event in their regulation, it is necessary in a first instance to determine precisely the phosphorylation sites that show changes depending on the carbon source. In this aim we performed an overall quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic study of isolated mitochondria extracted from yeast grown on fermentative (glucose or galactose) and respiratory (lactate) media. Label free quantitative analysis of protein accumulation revealed significant variation of 176 mitochondrial proteins including 108 proteins less accumulated in glucose medium than in lactate and galactose media. We also showed that the responses to galactose and glucose are not similar. Stable isotope dimethyl labeling allowed the quantitative comparison of phosphorylation levels between the different growth conditions. This study enlarges significantly the map of yeast mitochondrial phosphosites as 670 phosphorylation sites were identified, of which 214 were new and quantified. Above all, we showed that 90 phosphosites displayed a significant variation according to the medium and that variation of phosphorylation level is site-dependent. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This proteomic and phosphoproteomic study is the first extensive study providing quantitative data on phosphosites responses to different carbon substrates independent of the variations of protein quantities in the yeast S. cerevisiae mitochondria. The significant changes observed in the level of phosphorylation according to the carbon substrate open the way to the study of the regulation of mitochondrial proteins by phosphorylation in fermentative and respiratory media. In addition, the identification of a large number of new phosphorylation sites show that the characterization of mitochondrial phosphoproteome is not yet completed.
PXD000228	24776597	Quantitative proteomics analysis reveals similar release profiles following specific PAR-1 or PAR-4 stimulation of platelets. 	Stimulated Human Platelet Lysate: control, PAR1 and PAR4 stimulated	PAR1, PAR4, Platelet, dimethyl labeled	AIMS: Platelets are a natural source of growth factors, cytokines and chemokines, that regulate angiogenesis and inflammation. It has been suggested that differential release of pro- and anti-angiogenic growth factors from platelet alpha-granules by protease-activated receptors (PAR) 1 and 4 may be important for the regulation of angiogenesis. We aimed to compare the releasates of unstimulated platelets with PAR-1- and PAR-4-stimulated platelets. METHODS AND RESULTS: The release of beta-thromboglobulin, platelet factor (PF)-4, thrombospondin, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-A/B, regulated and normal T-cell expressed and secreted (RANTES/CCL5), endostatin, CXCL12, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was measured with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Mass spectrometry (MS)-based quantitative proteomics identified 93 proteins from platelets stimulated with PAR-1 and PAR-4. A strong correlation between the factors released after either stimulus was observed (Spearman's r 0.94, P < 0.001). Analysis with ELISA showed that stimulation with PAR-1 or PAR-4 lead to non-differential release of beta-thromboglobulin, PF-4, thrombospondin, PDGF-A/B, RANTES/CCL5, endostatin, CXCL12, and VEGF. Release of thrombospondin was slightly lower after PAR-1 stimulation (7.2 mug/mL), compared with PAR-4 induced release (9.8 mug/mL; P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Both ELISA on established alpha-granule proteins and MS-based quantitative proteomics showed that the most abundant alpha-granule proteins are released in similar quantities from platelets after stimulation with either PAR-1 or PAR-4. Our findings provide evidence against the hypothesis that PAR-1 and PAR-4 stimulation of platelets trigger differential release of alpha-granule, but further studies are needed to draw conclusions for physiological conditions.
PXD000850	24782448	Comparative interactomes of SIRT6 and SIRT7: Implication of functional links to aging. 	SIRT_mutant interactome -  Comparative interactomes of SIRT6 and SIRTimplication of functional links to aging	Mutant, SIRT6, SIRT7	Sirtuins are NAD(+) -dependent deacetylases that regulate a range of cellular processes. Although diverse functions of sirtuins have been proposed, those functions of SIRT6 and SIRT7 that are mediated by their interacting proteins remain elusive. In the present study, we identified SIRT6- and SIRT7-interacting proteins, and compared their interactomes to investigate functional links. Our interactomes revealed 136 interacting proteins for SIRT6 and 233 for SIRT7 while confirming seven and 111 proteins identified previously for SIRT6 and SIRT7, respectively. Comparison of SIRT6 and SIRT7 interactomes under the same experimental conditions disclosed 111 shared proteins, implying related functional links. The interaction networks of interactomes indicated biological processes associated with DNA repair, chromatin assembly, and aging. Interactions of two highly acetylated proteins, nucleophosmin (NPM1) and nucleolin, with SIRT6 and SIRT7 were confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation. NPM1 was found to be deacetylated by both SIRT6 and SIRT7. In senescent cells, the acetylation level of NPM1 was increased in conjunction with decreased levels of SIRT6 and SIRT7, suggesting that the acetylation of NPM1 could be regulated by SIRT6 and SIRT7 in the aging process. Our comparative interactomic study of SIRT6 and SIRT7 implies important functional links to aging by their associations with interacting proteins. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD000159 and PXD000850 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000159, http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000850).
PXD005077	24783206	Optimal management of the critically ill: anaesthesia, monitoring, data capture, and point-of-care technological practices in ovine models of critical care. 	APPLICATION OF A NOVEL PEPTIDE SPECTRAL LIBRARY USING SWATH ANALYSIS FOR THE QUANTITATION OF PROTEINS IN EX-DIAGNOSTIC CLINICAL SERUM SAMPLES FROM SHEEP	Circulating acellular proteome, Peptide Spectral Library, Proteogenomics, SWATH, Sample preparation, Sick Sheep, TripleTOF 5600+, data independent acquisition, nanoLC-nanoESI-MS/MS	Animal models of critical illness are vital in biomedical research. They provide possibilities for the investigation of pathophysiological processes that may not otherwise be possible in humans. In order to be clinically applicable, the model should simulate the critical care situation realistically, including anaesthesia, monitoring, sampling, utilising appropriate personnel skill mix, and therapeutic interventions. There are limited data documenting the constitution of ideal technologically advanced large animal critical care practices and all the processes of the animal model. In this paper, we describe the procedure of animal preparation, anaesthesia induction and maintenance, physiologic monitoring, data capture, point-of-care technology, and animal aftercare that has been successfully used to study several novel ovine models of critical illness. The relevant investigations are on respiratory failure due to smoke inhalation, transfusion related acute lung injury, endotoxin-induced proteogenomic alterations, haemorrhagic shock, septic shock, brain death, cerebral microcirculation, and artificial heart studies. We have demonstrated the functionality of monitoring practices during anaesthesia required to provide a platform for undertaking systematic investigations in complex ovine models of critical illness.
PXD000795	24786776	Trans-spliced heat shock protein 90 modulates encystation in Giardia lamblia. 	Identification of full length Hsp90 from Giardia lamblia cell lysate	ATPase activity, Giardia lamblia, Hsp90, junctional peptide, molecular chaperones, trans-splicing	BACKGROUND: Hsp90 from Giardia lamblia is expressed by splicing of two independently transcribed RNA molecules, coded by genes named HspN and HspC located 777 kb apart. The reasons underlying such unique trans-splicing based generation of GlHsp90 remain unclear. PRINCIPLE FINDING: In this study using mass-spectrometry we identify the sequence of the unique, junctional peptide contributed by the 5' UTR of HspC ORF. This peptide is critical for the catalytic function of Hsp90 as it harbours an essential "Arg" in its sequence. We also show that full length GlHsp90 possesses all the functional hall marks of a canonical Hsp90 including its ability to bind and hydrolyze ATP. Using qRT-PCR as well as western blotting approach we find the reconstructed Hsp90 to be induced in response to heat shock. On the contrary we find GlHsp90 to be down regulated during transition from proliferative trophozoites to environmentally resistant cysts. This down regulation of GlHsp90 appears to be mechanistically linked to the encystation process as we find pharmacological inhibition of GlHsp90 function to specifically induce encystation. SIGNIFICANCE: Our results implicate the trans-spliced GlHsp90 from Giardia lamblia to regulate an essential stage transition in the life cycle of this important human parasite.
PXD000779	24788519	PI3K-mediated PDGFRalpha signaling regulates survival and proliferation in skeletal development through p53-dependent intracellular pathways. 	Primary mouse embryonic palatal mesenchyme LC-MS/MS	primary embryonic palatal mesenchyme	Previous studies have identified phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) as the main downstream effector of PDGFRalpha signaling during murine skeletal development. Autophosphorylation mutant knock-in embryos in which PDGFRalpha is unable to bind PI3K (Pdgfra(PI3K/PI3K)) exhibit skeletal defects affecting the palatal shelves, shoulder girdle, vertebrae, and sternum. To identify proteins phosphorylated by Akt downstream from PI3K-mediated PDGFRalpha signaling, we immunoprecipitated Akt phosphorylation substrates from PDGF-AA-treated primary mouse embryonic palatal mesenchyme (MEPM) lysates and analyzed the peptides by nanoliquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (nano-LC-MS/MS). Our analysis generated a list of 56 proteins, including 10 that regulate cell survival and proliferation. We demonstrate that MEPM cell survival is impaired in the presence of a PI3K inhibitor and that Pdgfra(PI3K/PI3K)-derived MEPMs do not proliferate in response to PDGF-AA treatment. Several of the identified Akt phosphorylation targets, including Ybox1, mediate cell survival through regulation of p53. We show that Ybox1 binds both the Trp53 promoter and the p53 protein and that expression of Trp53 is significantly decreased upon PDGF-AA treatment in MEPMs. Finally, we demonstrate that introduction of a Trp53-null allele attenuates the vertebral defects found in Pdgfra(PI3K/PI3K) neonates. Our findings identify p53 as a novel effector downstream from PI3K-engaged PDGFRalpha signaling that regulates survival and proliferation during skeletal development in vivo.
PXD000629	24799432	The evolutionary dynamics of variant antigen genes in Babesia reveal a history of genomic innovation underlying host-parasite interaction. 	Proteomics analysis of B. bigemina	1D SDS PAGE, B. bigemina, Label Free	Babesia spp. are tick-borne, intraerythrocytic hemoparasites that use antigenic variation to resist host immunity, through sequential modification of the parasite-derived variant erythrocyte surface antigen (VESA) expressed on the infected red blood cell surface. We identified the genomic processes driving antigenic diversity in genes encoding VESA (ves1) through comparative analysis within and between three Babesia species, (B. bigemina, B. divergens and B. bovis). Ves1 structure diverges rapidly after speciation, notably through the evolution of shortened forms (ves2) from 5' ends of canonical ves1 genes. Phylogenetic analyses show that ves1 genes are transposed between loci routinely, whereas ves2 genes are not. Similarly, analysis of sequence mosaicism shows that recombination drives variation in ves1 sequences, but less so for ves2, indicating the adoption of different mechanisms for variation of the two families. Proteomic analysis of the B. bigemina PR isolate shows that two dominant VESA1 proteins are expressed in the population, whereas numerous VESA2 proteins are co-expressed, consistent with differential transcriptional regulation of each family. Hence, VESA2 proteins are abundant and previously unrecognized elements of Babesia biology, with evolutionary dynamics consistently different to those of VESA1, suggesting that their functions are distinct.
PXD000318	24801114	Spider genomes provide insight into composition and evolution of venom and silk. 	Spider genomes provide insight into composition, function and evolution of venom and silk	genomics, system biology, transcriptomics, venomics, zoology	Spiders are ecologically important predators with complex venom and extraordinarily tough silk that enables capture of large prey. Here we present the assembled genome of the social velvet spider and a draft assembly of the tarantula genome that represent two major taxonomic groups of spiders. The spider genomes are large with short exons and long introns, reminiscent of mammalian genomes. Phylogenetic analyses place spiders and ticks as sister groups supporting polyphyly of the Acari. Complex sets of venom and silk genes/proteins are identified. We find that venom genes evolved by sequential duplication, and that the toxic effect of venom is most likely activated by proteases present in the venom. The set of silk genes reveals a highly dynamic gene evolution, new types of silk genes and proteins, and a novel use of aciniform silk. These insights create new opportunities for pharmacological applications of venom and biomaterial applications of silk.
PXD000301	24802182	Calorie restriction-induced changes in the secretome of human adipocytes, comparison with resveratrol-induced secretome effects. 	Calorie restriction-induced changes in the secretome of human adipocytes, comparison with resveratrol-induced secretome effects	2-DE LC-MS/MS, adipokines, calorie restriction, human adipocytes, metabolic syndrome	Obesity is characterized by dysfunctional white adipose tissue (WAT) that ultimately may lead to metabolic diseases. Calorie restriction (CR) reduces the risk for age and obesity-associated complications. The impact of CR on obesity has been examined with human intervention studies, which showed alterations in circulating adipokines. However, a direct effect of CR on the human adipocyte secretome remains elusive. Therefore, the effect of a 96h low glucose CR on the secretion profile of in vitro cultured mature human SGBS adipocytes was investigated by using proteomics technology. Low-glucose CR decreased the adipocyte triglyceride contents and resulted in an altered secretion profile. Changes in the secretome indicated an improved inflammatory phenotype. In addition, several adipocyte-secreted proteins related to insulin resistance showed a reversed expression after low-glucose CR. Furthermore, 6 novel CR-regulated adipocyte-secreted proteins were identified. Since resveratrol (RSV) mimics CR we compared results from this study with data from our previous RSV study on the SGBS adipocyte secretome. The CR and RSV adipocyte secretomes partly differed from each other, although both treatment strategies lead to secretome changes indicating a less inflammatory phenotype. Furthermore, both treatments induced SIRT1 expression and resulted in a reversed expression of detrimental adipokines associated with metabolic complications.
PXD000681	24804581	Evaluating the promiscuous nature of tyrosine kinase inhibitors assessed in A431 epidermoid carcinoma cells by both chemical- and phosphoproteomics. 	Probing tyrosine kinase inhibitors specificity	ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, chemical proteomics, phosphoproteomics, phosphotyrosine, tyrosine kinase inhibitors	Deregulation of protein tyrosine kinase signaling has been linked to many diseases, most notably cancer. As a consequence, small molecule inhibitors of protein tyrosine kinases may provide powerful strategies for treatment. Following the successful introduction of imatinib in the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia, such drugs are also now evaluated for other types of cancer. However, many developed kinase inhibitors are not very target-specific and therefore may induce side effects. The importance of such side effects is certainly cell-proteome dependent. Understanding the all-inclusive action of a tyrosine kinase inhibitor on each individual cell-type entails the identification of potential targets, combined with monitoring the downstream effects revealing the signaling networks involved. Here, we explored a multilevel quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomic strategy to identify the direct targets and downstream signaling effect of four tyrosine kinase inhibitors (imatinib, dasatinib, bosutinib, and nilotinib) in epidermoid carcinoma cells, as a model system for skin-cancer. More than 25 tyrosine kinases showed affinity to the drugs, with imatinib and nilotinib displaying a high specificity, especially when compared to dasatinib and bosutinib. Consequently, the latter two drugs showed a larger effect on downstream phosphotyrosine signaling. Many of the proteins affected are key regulators in cell adhesion and invasion. Our data represents a multiplexed view on the promiscuous action of certain tyrosine kinase inhibitors that needs to be taking into consideration prior to the application of these drugs in the treatment of different forms of cancer.
PXD001057	24808101	Phosphoproteomic Analyses Reveal Early Signaling Events in the Osmotic Stress Response. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of osmotic stress response in Arabidopsis	Phosphorylation Arabidopsis stress	Elucidating how plants sense and respond to water loss is important for identifying genetic and chemical interventions that may help sustain crop yields in water-limiting environments. Currently, the molecular mechanisms involved in the initial perception and response to dehydration are not well understood. Modern mass spectrometric methods for quantifying changes in the phosphoproteome provide an opportunity to identify key phosphorylation events involved in this process. Here, we have used both untargeted and targeted isotope-assisted mass spectrometric methods of phosphopeptide quantitation to characterize proteins in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) whose degree of phosphorylation is rapidly altered by hyperosmotic treatment. Thus, protein phosphorylation events responsive to 5 min of 0.3 m mannitol treatment were first identified using (15)N metabolic labeling and untargeted mass spectrometry with a high-resolution ion-trap instrument. The results from these discovery experiments were then validated using targeted Selected Reaction Monitoring mass spectrometry with a triple quadrupole. Targeted Selected Reaction Monitoring experiments were conducted with plants treated under nine different environmental perturbations to determine whether the phosphorylation changes were specific for osmosignaling or involved cross talk with other signaling pathways. The results indicate that regulatory proteins such as members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family are specifically phosphorylated in response to osmotic stress. Proteins involved in 5' messenger RNA decapping and phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate synthesis were also identified as targets of dehydration-induced phosphoregulation. The results of these experiments demonstrate the utility of targeted phosphoproteomic analysis in understanding protein regulation networks and provide new insight into cellular processes involved in the osmotic stress response.
PXD000934	24816145	A COFRADIC protocol to study protein ubiquitination. 	A COFRADIC protocol to study protein ubiquitination	COFRADIC, Jurkat, Ubiquitin	Here, we apply the COmbined FRActional DIagonal Chromatography (COFRADIC) technology to enrich for ubiquitinated peptides and to identify sites of ubiquitination by mass spectrometry. Our technology bypasses the need to overexpress tagged variants of ubiquitin and the use of sequence-biased antibodies recognizing ubiquitin remnants. In brief, all protein primary amino groups are blocked by chemical acetylation, after which ubiquitin chains are proteolytically and specifically removed by the catalytic core domain of the USP2 deubiquitinase (USP2cc). Because USP2cc cleaves the isopeptidyl bond between the ubiquitin C-terminus and the epsilon-amino group of the ubiquitinated lysine, this enzyme reintroduces primary epsilon-amino groups in proteins. These amino groups are then chemically modified with a handle that allows specific isolation of ubiquitinated peptides during subsequent COFRADIC chromatographic runs. This method led to the identification of over 7500 endogenous ubiquitination sites in more than 3300 different proteins in a native human Jurkat cell lysate.
PXD000625	24818710	Proteome analysis of a hepatocyte-specific BIRC5 (survivin)-knockout mouse model during liver regeneration. 	Hepatocyte-specific BIRC5 (Survivin)-knockout-mouse model, Subcellular fractionation	BIRC5, Liver, Survivin, knockout, liver regeneration	The Baculoviral IAP repeat-containing protein 5 (BIRC5), also known as inhibitor of apoptosis protein survivin, is a member of the chromosomal passenger complex and a key player in mitosis. To investigate the function of BIRC5 in liver regeneration, we analyzed a hepatocyte-specific BIRC5-knockout mouse model using a quantitative label-free proteomics approach. Here, we present the analyses of the proteome changes in hepatocyte-specific BIRC5-knockout mice compared to wildtype mice, as well as proteome changes during liver regeneration induced by partial hepatectomy in wildtype mice and mice lacking hepatic BIRC5, respectively. The BIRC5-knockout mice showed an extensive overexpression of proteins related to cellular maintenance, organization and protein synthesis. Key regulators of cell growth, transcription and translation MTOR and STAT1/STAT2 were found to be overexpressed. During liver regeneration proteome changes representing a response to the mitotic stimulus were detected in wildtype mice. Mainly proteins corresponding to proliferation, cell cycle and cytokinesis were up-regulated. The hepatocyte-specific BIRC5-knockout mice showed impaired liver regeneration, which had severe consequences on the proteome level. However, several proteins with function in mitosis were found to be up-regulated upon the proliferative stimulus. Our results show that the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase UHRF1 is strongly up-regulated during liver regeneration independently of BIRC5.
PXD000871	24820872	Cell-specific labeling enzymes for analysis of cell-cell communication in continuous co-culture. 	Cell-Specific Labeling Enzymes For Analysis of Cell-Cell Communication in Continuous Co-Culture, Part 2 / 2	CTAP	We report the orthologous screening, engineering, and optimization of amino acid conversion enzymes for cell-specific proteomic labeling. Intracellular endoplasmic-reticulum-anchored Mycobacterium tuberculosis diaminopimelate decarboxylase (DDC(M.tub-KDEL)) confers cell-specific meso-2,6-diaminopimelate-dependent proliferation to multiple eukaryotic cell types. Optimized lysine racemase (Lyr(M37-KDEL)) supports D-lysine specific proliferation and efficient cell-specific isotopic labeling. When ectopically expressed in discrete cell types, these enzymes confer 90% cell-specific isotopic labeling efficiency after 10 days of co-culture. Moreover, DDC(M.tub-KDEL) and Lyr(M37-KDEL) facilitate equally high cell-specific labeling fidelity without daily media exchange. Consequently, the reported novel enzyme pairing can be used to study cell-specific signaling in uninterrupted, continuous co-cultures. Demonstrating the importance of increased labeling stability for addressing novel biological questions, we compare the cell-specific phosphoproteome of fibroblasts in direct co-culture with epithelial tumor cells in both interrupted (daily media exchange) and continuous (no media exchange) co-cultures. This analysis identified multiple cell-specific phosphorylation sites specifically regulated in the continuous co-culture. Given their applicability to multiple cell types, continuous co-culture labeling fidelity, and suitability for long-term cell-cell phospho-signaling experiments, we propose DDC(M.tub-KDEL) and Lyr(M37-KDEL) as excellent enzymes for cell-specific labeling with amino acid precursors.
PXD000758	24841622	Identification of novel Drosophila centromere-associated proteins. 	Identification of Drosophila centromere associated proteins	Drosophila melanogaster	Centromeres are chromosomal regions crucial for correct chromosome segregation during mitosis and meiosis. They are epigenetically defined by centromeric proteins such as the centromere-specific histone H3-variant centromere protein A (CENP-A). In humans, 16 additional proteins have been described to be constitutively associated with centromeres throughout the cell cycle, known as the constitutive centromere-associated network (CCAN). In contrast, only one additional constitutive centromeric protein is known in Drosophila melanogaster (D.mel), the conserved CCAN member CENP-C. To gain further insights into D.mel centromere composition and biology, we analyzed affinity-purified chromatin prepared from D.mel cell lines expressing green fluorescent protein tagged histone three variants by MS. In addition to already-known centromeric proteins, we identified novel factors that were repeatedly enriched in affinity purification-MS experiments. We analyzed the cellular localization of selected candidates by immunocytochemistry and confirmed localization to the centromere and other genomic regions for ten factors. Furthermore, RNA interference mediated depletion of CG2051, CG14480, and hyperplastic discs, three of our strongest candidates, leads to elevated mitotic defects. Knockdowns of these candidates neither impair the localization of several known kinetochore proteins nor CENP-A(CID) loading, suggesting their involvement in alternative pathways that contribute to proper centromere function. In summary, we provide a comprehensive analysis of the proteomic composition of Drosophila centromeres. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000758 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000758).
PXD000873	24845418	Analyses of the xylem sap proteomes identified candidate Fusarium virguliforme proteinacious toxins. 	Analyses of the Xylem Sap Proteomes Identified Candidate Fusarium virguliforme Proteinacious Toxins	Fusarium, soybean, toxins, xylem sap	BACKGROUND: Sudden death syndrome (SDS) caused by the ascomycete fungus, Fusarium virguliforme, exhibits root necrosis and leaf scorch or foliar SDS. The pathogen has never been identified from the above ground diseased foliar tissues. Foliar SDS is believed to be caused by host selective toxins, including FvTox1, secreted by the fungus. This study investigated if the xylem sap of F. virguliforme-infected soybean plants contains secreted F. virguliforme-proteins, some of which could cause foliar SDS development. RESULTS: Xylem sap samples were collected from five biological replications of F. virguliforme-infected and uninfected soybean plants under controlled conditions. We identified five F. virguliforme proteins from the xylem sap of the F. virguliforme-infected soybean plants by conducting LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis. These five proteins were also present in the excreted proteome of the pathogen in culture filtrates. One of these proteins showed high sequence identity to cerato-platanin, a phytotoxin produced by Ceratocystis fimbriata f. sp. platani to cause canker stain disease in the plane tree. Of over 500 soybean proteins identified in this study, 112 were present in at least 80% of the sap samples collected from F. virguliforme-infected and -uninfected control plants. We have identified four soybean defense proteins from the xylem sap of F. virguliforme-infected soybean plants. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000873. CONCLUSION: This study confirms that a few F. virguliforme proteins travel through the xylem, some of which could be involved in foliar SDS development. We have identified five candidate proteinaceous toxins, one of which showed high similarity to a previously characterized phytotoxin. We have also shown the presence of four soybean defense proteins in the xylem sap of F. virguliforme-infected soybean plants. This study laid the foundation for studying the molecular basis of foliar SDS development in soybean and possible defense mechanisms that may be involved in conferring immunity against F. virguliforme and other soybean pathogens.
PXD000293	24850871	Single-step enrichment by Ti4+-IMAC and label-free quantitation enables in-depth monitoring of phosphorylation dynamics with high reproducibility and temporal resolution. 	Ti4+-IMAC label-free quantification	Label-free phosphoproteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project	Quantitative phosphoproteomics workflows traditionally involve additional sample labeling and fractionation steps for accurate and in-depth analysis. Here we report a high-throughput, straightforward, and comprehensive label-free phosphoproteomics approach using the highly selective, reproducible, and sensitive Ti(4+)-IMAC phosphopeptide enrichment method. We demonstrate the applicability of this approach by monitoring the phosphoproteome dynamics of Jurkat T cells stimulated by prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) over six different time points, measuring in total 108 snapshots of the phosphoproteome. In total, we quantitatively monitored 12,799 unique phosphosites over all time points with very high quantitative reproducibility (average r > 0.9 over 100 measurements and a median cv < 0.2). PGE2 is known to increase cellular cAMP levels, thereby activating PKA. The in-depth analysis revealed temporal regulation of a wide variety of phosphosites associated not only with PKA, but also with a variety of other classes of kinases. Following PGE2 stimulation, several pathways became only transiently activated, revealing that in-depth dynamic profiling requires techniques with high temporal resolution. Moreover, the large publicly available dataset provides a valuable resource for downstream PGE2 signaling dynamics in T cells, and cAMP-mediated signaling in particular. More generally, our method enables in-depth, quantitative, high-throughput phosphoproteome screening on any system, requiring very little sample, sample preparation, and analysis time.
PXD001047	24854137	Additional precursor purification in isobaric mass tagging experiments by traveling wave ion mobility separation (TWIMS). 	Additional precursor purification in isobaric mass tagging experiments by traveling wave ion mobility separation (TWIMS).	IMS, TMT, TWIMS, ion mobility separation, isobaric mass tag, tandem mass tag, travelling wave ion mobility separation	Despite the increasing popularity of data-independent acquisition workflows, data-dependent acquisition (DDA) is still the prevalent method of LC-MS-based proteomics. DDA is the basis of isobaric mass tagging technique, a powerful MS2 quantification strategy that allows coanalysis of up to 10 proteomics samples. A well-documented limitation of DDA, however, is precursor coselection, whereby a target peptide is coisolated with other ions for fragmentation. Here, we investigated if additional peptide purification by traveling wave ion mobility separation (TWIMS) can reduce precursor contamination using a mixture of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and HeLa proteomes. In accordance with previous reports on FAIMS-Orbitrap instruments, we find that TWIMS provides a remarkable improvement (on average 2.85 times) in the signal-to-noise ratio for sequence ions. We also report that TWIMS reduces reporter ions contamination by around one-third (to 14-15% contamination) and even further (to 6-9%) when combined with a narrowed quadrupole isolation window. We discuss challenges associated with applying TWIMS purification to isobaric mass tagging experiments, including correlation between ion m/z and drift time, which means that coselected peptides are expected to have similar mobility. We also demonstrate that labeling results in peptides having more uniform m/z and drift time distributions than observed for unlabeled peptides. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001047.
PXD000802	24872595	Profiling the secretome and extracellular proteome of the potato late blight pathogen Phytophthora infestans. 	Profiling the secretome and extracellular proteome of the potato late blight pathogen Phytophthora infestans	Phytophthora, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, Secretome, extracellular proteome, oomycete, virulence	Oomycetes are filamentous organisms that cause notorious diseases, several of which have a high economic impact. Well known is Phytophthora infestans, the causal agent of potato late blight. Previously, in silico analyses of the genome and transcriptome of P. infestans resulted in the annotation of a large number of genes encoding proteins with an N-terminal signal peptide. This set is collectively referred to as the secretome and comprises proteins involved in, for example, cell wall growth and modification, proteolytic processes, and the promotion of successful invasion of plant cells. So far, proteomic profiling in oomycetes was primarily focused on subcellular, intracellular or cell wall fractions; the extracellular proteome has not been studied systematically. Here we present the first comprehensive characterization of the in vivo secretome and extracellular proteome of P. infestans. We have used mass spectrometry to analyze P. infestans proteins present in seven different growth media with mycelial cultures and this resulted in the consistent identification of over two hundred proteins. Gene ontology classification pinpointed proteins involved in cell wall modifications, pathogenesis, defense responses, and proteolytic processes. Moreover, we found members of the RXLR and CRN effector families as well as several proteins lacking an obvious signal peptide. The latter were confirmed to be bona fide extracellular proteins and this suggests that, similar to other organisms, oomycetes exploit non-conventional secretion mechanisms to transfer certain proteins to the extracellular environment.
PXD000924	24874924	Systematic analysis of the lysine acetylome in Vibrio parahemolyticus. 	Vibrio parahaemolyticus LC-MS/MS	V. parahaemolyticus, acetylome, interaction network, lysine acetylation, lysine acetylation motif	Lysine acetylation of proteins is a major post-translational modification that plays an important regulatory role in almost every aspect of cells, both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Vibrio parahemolyticus, a model marine bacterium, is a worldwide cause of bacterial seafood-borne illness. Here, we conducted the first lysine acetylome in this bacterium through a combination of highly sensitive immune-affinity purification and high-resolution LC-MS/MS. Overall, we identified 1413 lysine acetylation sites in 656 proteins, which account for 13.6% of the total proteins in the cells; this is the highest ratio of acetyl proteins that has so far been identified in bacteria. The bioinformatics analysis of the acetylome showed that the acetylated proteins are involved in a wide range of cellular functions and exhibit diverse subcellular localizations. More specifically, proteins related to protein biosynthesis and carbon metabolism are the preferential targets of lysine acetylation. Moreover, two types of acetylation motifs, a lysine or arginine at the +4/+5 positions and a tyrosine, histidine, or phenylalanine at the +1/+2 positions, were revealed from the analysis of the acetylome. Additionally, protein interaction network analysis demonstrates that a wide range of interactions are modulated by protein acetylation. This study provides a significant beginning for the in-depth exploration of the physiological role of lysine acetylation in V. parahemolyticus.
PXD000587	24876255	Large-Scale Proteomics of the Cassava Storage Root and Identification of a Target Gene to Reduce Postharvest Deterioration. 	Large-scale proteome characterization of the cassava root	cassava, post-harvest deterioration, root	Cassava (Manihot esculenta) is the most important root crop in the tropics, but rapid postharvest physiological deterioration (PPD) of the root is a major constraint to commercial cassava production. We established a reliable method for image-based PPD symptom quantification and used label-free quantitative proteomics to generate an extensive cassava root and PPD proteome. Over 2600 unique proteins were identified in the cassava root, and nearly 300 proteins showed significant abundance regulation during PPD. We identified protein abundance modulation in pathways associated with oxidative stress, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis (including scopoletin), the glutathione cycle, fatty acid alpha-oxidation, folate transformation, and the sulfate reduction II pathway. Increasing protein abundances and enzymatic activities of glutathione-associated enzymes, including glutathione reductases, glutaredoxins, and glutathione S-transferases, indicated a key role for ascorbate/glutathione cycles. Based on combined proteomics data, enzymatic activities, and lipid peroxidation assays, we identified glutathione peroxidase as a candidate for reducing PPD. Transgenic cassava overexpressing a cytosolic glutathione peroxidase in storage roots showed delayed PPD and reduced lipid peroxidation as well as decreased H2O2 accumulation. Quantitative proteomics data from ethene and phenylpropanoid pathways indicate additional gene candidates to further delay PPD. Cassava root proteomics data are available at www.pep2pro.ethz.ch for easy access and comparison with other proteomics data.
PXD000730	24878426	Improved prediction of peptide detectability for targeted proteomics using a rank-based algorithm and organism-specific data. 	Drosophila melanogaster exp 132	Drosophila melanogaster, KC167 cells, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, nuclear and cytoplasmic fraction	The in silico prediction of the best-observable "proteotypic" peptides in mass spectrometry-based workflows is a challenging problem. Being able to accurately predict such peptides would enable the informed selection of proteotypic peptides for targeted quantification of previously observed and non-observed proteins for any organism, with a significant impact for clinical proteomics and systems biology studies. Current prediction algorithms rely on physicochemical parameters in combination with positive and negative training sets to identify those peptide properties that most profoundly affect their general detectability. Here we present PeptideRank, an approach that uses learning to rank algorithm for peptide detectability prediction from shotgun proteomics data, and that eliminates the need to select a negative dataset for the training step. A large number of different peptide properties are used to train ranking models in order to predict a ranking of the best-observable peptides within a protein. Empirical evaluation with rank accuracy metrics showed that PeptideRank complements existing prediction algorithms. Our results indicate that the best performance is achieved when it is trained on organism-specific shotgun proteomics data, and that PeptideRank is most accurate for short to medium-sized and abundant proteins, without any loss in prediction accuracy for the important class of membrane proteins. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Targeted proteomics approaches have been gaining a lot of momentum and hold immense potential for systems biology studies and clinical proteomics. However, since only very few complete proteomes have been reported to date, for a considerable fraction of a proteome there is no experimental proteomics evidence that would allow to guide the selection of the best-suited proteotypic peptides (PTPs), i.e. peptides that are specific to a given proteoform and that are repeatedly observed in a mass spectrometer. We describe a novel, rank-based approach for the prediction of the best-suited PTPs for targeted proteomics applications. By building on methods developed in the field of information retrieval (e.g. web search engines like Google's PageRank), we circumvent the delicate step of selecting positive and negative training sets and at the same time also more closely reflect the experimentalist's need for selecting e.g. the 5 most promising peptides for targeting a protein of interest. This approach allows to predict PTPs for not yet observed proteins or for organisms without prior experimental proteomics data such as many non-model organisms.
PXD000868	24885693	Large-scale phosphoproteome analysis in seedling leaves of Brachypodium distachyon L. 	Large-scale phosphoproteome analysis in seedling leaves of Brachypodium distachyon L	Bd21, leaf, phosphoproteome, phosphorylation motif, protein kinases, transcription factors	BACKGROUND: Protein phosphorylation is one of the most important post-translational modifications involved in the regulation of plant growth and development as well as diverse stress response. As a member of the Poaceae, Brachypodium distachyon L. is a new model plant for wheat and barley as well as several potential biofuel grasses such as switchgrass. Vegetative growth is vital for biomass accumulation of plants, but knowledge regarding the role of protein phosphorylation modification during vegetative growth, especially in biofuel plants, is far from comprehensive. RESULTS: In this study, we carried out the first large-scale phosphoproteome analysis of seedling leaves in Brachypodium accession Bd21 using TiO2 microcolumns combined with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and MaxQuant software. A total of 1470 phosphorylation sites in 950 phosphoproteins were identified, and these phosphoproteins were implicated in various molecular functions and basic cellular processes by gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses. Among the 950 phosphoproteins identified, 127 contained 3 to 8 phosphorylation sites. Conservation analysis showed that 93.4% of the 950 phosphoproteins had phosphorylation orthologs in other plant species. Motif-X analysis of the phosphorylation sites identified 13 significantly enriched phosphorylation motifs, of which 3 were novel phosphorylation motifs. Meanwhile, there were 91 phosphoproteins with both multiple phosphorylation sites and multiple phosphorylation motifs. In addition, we identified 58 phosphorylated transcription factors across 21 families and found out 6 significantly over-represented transcription factor families (C3H, Trihelix, CAMTA, TALE, MYB_related and CPP). Eighty-four protein kinases (PKs), 8 protein phosphatases (PPs) and 6 CESAs were recognized as phosphoproteins. CONCLUSIONS: Through a large-scale bioinformatics analysis of the phosphorylation data in seedling leaves, a complicated PKs- and PPs- centered network related to rapid vegetative growth was deciphered in B. distachyon. We revealed a MAPK cascade network that might play the crucial roles during the phosphorylation signal transduction in leaf growth and development. The phosphoproteins and phosphosites identified from our study expanded our knowledge of protein phosphorylation modification in plants, especially in monocots.
PXD000948	24888630	Macroporous reversed-phase separation of proteins combined with reversed-phase separation of phosphopeptides and tandem mass spectrometry for profiling the phosphoproteome of MDA-MB-231 cells. 	Macro-porous Reversed Phase Separation of Proteins Combined with Reversed Phase Separation of Phosphopeptides and Tandem Mass Spectrometry for Profiling the Phosphoproteome of MDA-MB-231 cells	MDA-MB-231, SCX-RPLC, mRP-RPLC, phosphoproteome	A new method of combining macroporous RP (mRP) protein fractionation with RPLC peptide separation MS/MS is reported for profiling the phosphoproteome of a complex sample. In this method, an mRP-C18 column was used to fractionate the proteins from a whole cell lysate of a breast cancer cell line, MDA-MB-231, into 38 fractions. Each fraction was subjected to tryptic digestion, sequential phosphopeptide enrichment by immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography and titanium dioxide (TiO2 ), followed by capillary RPLC-MS/MS analysis. For comparison, the conventional method of using strong cation exchange RPLC separation of peptides combined with MS/MS was also used for analyzing the phosphoproteome. Replicate experiments by the mRP-RPLC method identified 1585 distinct phosphoproteins with 4519 phosphopeptides, compared to 1585 phosphoproteins with 4297 phosphopeptides by strong cation exchange RPLC, with a total of 1947 phosphoproteins and 6278 phosphopeptides identified from the combined results. While the two methods have similar ability in the identification of the phosphoproteome, they produce complementary information. The phosphoproteins identified in this study, including 67 novel phosphorylation sites from 56 breast cancer related proteins, can serve as the entry point for future validation with biological implications in breast cancer. The MS proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD000948 and DOI 10.6019/PXD000948.
PXD000987	24889196	Membrane protein profiling of human colon reveals distinct regional differences. 	Membrane proteomis profile along human colon	LC/MS/MS, colon, label-free	The colonic epithelium is a highly dynamic system important for the regulation of ion and water homeostasis via absorption and secretion and for the maintenance of a protective barrier between the outer milieu and the inside of the body. These processes are known to gradually change along the length of the colon, although a complete characterization at the protein level is lacking. We therefore analyzed the membrane proteome of isolated human (n = 4) colonic epithelial cells from biopsies obtained via routine colonoscopy for four segments along the large intestine: ascending, transverse, descending, and sigmoid colon. Label-free quantitative proteomic analyses using high-resolution mass spectrometry were performed on enriched membrane proteins. The results showed a stable level for the majority of membrane proteins but a distinct decrease in proteins associated with bacterial sensing, cation transport, and O-glycosylation in the proximal to distal regions. In contrast, proteins involved in microbial defense and anion transport showed an opposing gradient and increased toward the distal end. The gradient of ion-transporter proteins could be directly related to previously observed ion transport activities. All individual glycosyltransferases required for the O-glycosylation of the major colonic mucin MUC2 were observed and correlated with the known glycosylation variation along the colon axis. This is the first comprehensive quantitative dataset of membrane protein abundance along the human colon and will add to the knowledge of the physiological function of the different regions of the colonic mucosa. Mass spectrometry data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD000987.
PXD000750	24895378	Heterogeneity of pancreatic cancer metastases in a single patient revealed by quantitative proteomics. 	Metastatic pancreatic cancer signaling	phosphotyrosine	Many patients with pancreatic cancer have metastases to distant organs at the time of initial presentation. Recent studies examining the evolution of pancreatic cancer at the genetic level have shown that clonal complexity of metastatic pancreatic cancer is already initiated within primary tumors, and organ-specific metastases are derived from different subclones. However, we do not yet understand to what extent the evolution of pancreatic cancer contributes to proteomic and signaling alterations. We hypothesized that genetic heterogeneity of metastatic pancreatic cancer results in heterogeneity at the proteome level. To address this, we employed a model system in which cells isolated from three sites of metastasis (liver, lung, and peritoneum) from a single patient were compared. We used a SILAC-based accurate quantitative proteomic strategy combined with high-resolution mass spectrometry to analyze the total proteome and tyrosine phosphoproteome of each of the distal metastases. Our data revealed distinct patterns of both overall proteome expression and tyrosine kinase activities across the three different metastatic lesions. This heterogeneity was significant because it led to differential sensitivity of the neoplastic cells to small molecule inhibitors targeting various kinases and other pathways. For example, R428, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets Axl receptor tyrosine kinase, was able to inhibit cells derived from lung and liver metastases much more effectively than cells from the peritoneal metastasis. Finally, we confirmed that administration of R428 in mice bearing xenografts of cells derived from the three different metastatic sites significantly diminished tumors formed from liver- and lung-metastasis-derived cell lines as compared with tumors derived from the peritoneal metastasis cell line. Overall, our data provide proof-of-principle support that personalized therapy of multiple organ metastases in a single patient should involve the administration of a combination of agents, with each agent targeted to the features of different subclones.
PXD000932	24902122	The Haemophilus ducreyi LspA1 protein inhibits phagocytosis by using a new mechanism involving activation of C-terminal Src kinase. 	The Haemophilus ducreyi LspA1 Protein Inhibits Phagocytosis By Using a New Mechanism Involving Activation of C-Terminal Src Kinase	SILAC, Src kinase, activation	Haemophilus ducreyi causes chancroid, a sexually transmitted infection. A primary means by which this pathogen causes disease involves eluding phagocytosis; however, the molecular basis for this escape mechanism has been poorly understood. Here, we report that the LspA virulence factors of H. ducreyi inhibit phagocytosis by stimulating the catalytic activity of C-terminal Src kinase (Csk), which itself inhibits Src family protein tyrosine kinases (SFKs) that promote phagocytosis. Inhibitory activity could be localized to a 37-kDa domain (designated YL2) of the 456-kDa LspA1 protein. The YL2 domain impaired ingestion of IgG-opsonized targets and decreased levels of active SFKs when expressed in mammalian cells. YL2 contains tyrosine residues in two EPIYG motifs that are phosphorylated in mammalian cells. These tyrosine residues were essential for YL2-based inhibition of phagocytosis. Csk was identified as the predominant mammalian protein interacting with YL2, and a dominant-negative Csk rescued phagocytosis in the presence of YL2. Purified Csk phosphorylated the tyrosines in the YL2 EPIYG motifs. Phosphorylated YL2 increased Csk catalytic activity, resulting in positive feedback, such that YL2 can be phosphorylated by the same kinase that it activates. Finally, we found that the Helicobacter pylori CagA protein also inhibited phagocytosis in a Csk-dependent manner, raising the possibility that this may be a general mechanism among diverse bacteria. Harnessing Csk to subvert the Fcgamma receptor (FcgammaR)-mediated phagocytic pathway represents a new bacterial mechanism for circumventing a crucial component of the innate immune response and may potentially affect other SFK-involved cellular pathways. IMPORTANCE: Phagocytosis is a critical component of the immune system that enables pathogens to be contained and cleared. A number of bacterial pathogens have developed specific strategies to either physically evade phagocytosis or block the intracellular signaling required for phagocytic activity. Haemophilus ducreyi, a sexually transmitted pathogen, secretes a 4,153-amino-acid (aa) protein (LspA1) that effectively inhibits FcgammaR-mediated phagocytic activity. In this study, we show that a 294-aa domain within this bacterial protein binds to C-terminal Src kinase (Csk) and stimulates its catalytic activity, resulting in a significant attenuation of Src kinase activity and consequent inhibition of phagocytosis. The ability to inhibit phagocytosis via Csk is not unique to H. ducreyi, because we found that the Helicobacter pylori CagA protein also inhibits phagocytosis in a Csk-dependent manner. Harnessing Csk to subvert the FcgammaR-mediated phagocytic pathway represents a new bacterial effector mechanism for circumventing the innate immune response.
PXD000880	24904603	Biochemical quantitation of the eIF5A hypusination in Arabidopsis thaliana uncovers ABA-dependent regulation. 	Biochemical profile of the A.thaliana hypusination pathway	2D-electrophoresis, abscisic acid, eIF5A, hypusine, spermidine	The eukaryotic translation elongation factor eIF5A is the only protein known to contain the unusual amino acid hypusine which is essential for its biological activity. This post-translational modification is achieved by the sequential action of the enzymes deoxyhypusine synthase (DHS) and deoxyhypusine hydroxylase (DOHH). The crucial molecular function of eIF5A during translation has been recently elucidated in yeast and it is expected to be fully conserved in every eukaryotic cell, however the functional description of this pathway in plants is still sparse. The genetic approaches with transgenic plants for either eIF5A overexpression or antisense have revealed some activities related to the control of cell death processes but the molecular details remain to be characterized. One important aspect of fully understanding this pathway is the biochemical description of the hypusine modification system. Here we have used recombinant eIF5A proteins either modified by hypusination or non-modified to establish a bi-dimensional electrophoresis (2D-E) profile for the three eIF5A protein isoforms and their hypusinated or unmodified proteoforms present in Arabidopsis thaliana. The combined use of the recombinant 2D-E profile together with 2D-E/western blot analysis from whole plant extracts has provided a quantitative approach to measure the hypusination status of eIF5A. We have used this information to demonstrate that treatment with the hormone abscisic acid produces an alteration of the hypusine modification system in Arabidopsis thaliana. Overall this study presents the first biochemical description of the post-translational modification of eIF5A by hypusination which will be functionally relevant for future studies related to the characterization of this pathway in Arabidopsis thaliana.
PXD001030	24924297	Proteomic analysis of proteins related to rice grain chalkiness using iTRAQ and a novel comparison system based on a notched-belly mutant with white-belly. 	Proteomic analysis of proteins related to rice grain chalkiness using iTRAQ based on a notched-belly mutant with white-belly	Grain chalkiness, Notched-belly mutants, Rice, White-belly, iTRAQ	BACKGROUND: Grain chalkiness is a complex trait adversely affecting appearance and milling quality, and therefore has been one of principal targets for rice improvement. Eliminating chalkiness from rice has been a daunting task due to the complex interaction between genotype and environment and the lack of molecular markers. In addition, the molecular mechanisms underlying grain chalkiness formation are still imperfectly understood. RESULTS: We identified a notched-belly mutant (DY1102) with high percentage of white-belly, which only occurs in the bottom part proximal to the embryo. Using this mutant, a novel comparison system that can minimize the effect of genetic background and growing environment was developed. An iTRAQ-based comparative display of the proteins between the bottom chalky part and the upper translucent part of grains of DY1102 was performed. A total of 113 proteins responsible for chalkiness formation was identified. Among them, 70 proteins are up-regulated and 43 down-regulated. Approximately half of these differentially expressed proteins involved in central metabolic or regulatory pathways including carbohydrate metabolism (especially cell wall synthesis) and protein synthesis, folding and degradation, providing proteomic confirmation of the notion that chalkiness formation involves diverse but delicately regulated pathways. Protein metabolism was the most abundant category, accounting for 27.4% of the total differentially expressed proteins. In addition, down regulation of PDIL 2-3 and BiP was detected in the chalky tissue, indicating the important role of protein metabolism in grain chalkiness formation. CONCLUSIONS: Using this novel comparison system, our comprehensive survey of endosperm proteomics in the notched-belly mutant provides a valuable proteomic resource for the characterization of pathways contributing to chalkiness formation at molecular and biochemical levels.
PXD000875	24925269	The membrane proteome of Medicago truncatula roots displays qualitative and quantitative changes in response to arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. 	The membrane proteome of Medicago truncatula roots displays qualitative and quantitative changes in response to arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis	Arbuscular mycorrhiza, GeLC-MS/MS, Rhizophagus irregularis, Root membrane proteome, Spectral counting	Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis that associates roots of most land plants with soil-borne fungi (Glomeromycota), is characterized by reciprocal nutritional benefits. Fungal colonization of plant roots induces massive changes in cortical cells where the fungus differentiates an arbuscule, which drives proliferation of the plasma membrane. Despite the recognized importance of membrane proteins in sustaining AM symbiosis, the root microsomal proteome elicited upon mycorrhiza still remains to be explored. In this study, we first examined the qualitative composition of the root membrane proteome of Medicago truncatula after microsome enrichment and subsequent in depth analysis by GeLC-MS/MS. The results obtained highlighted the identification of 1226 root membrane protein candidates whose cellular and functional classifications predispose plastids and protein synthesis as prevalent organelle and function, respectively. Changes at the protein abundance level between the membrane proteomes of mycorrhizal and nonmycorrhizal roots were further monitored by spectral counting, which retrieved a total of 96 proteins that displayed a differential accumulation upon AM symbiosis. Besides the canonical markers of the periarbuscular membrane, new candidates supporting the importance of membrane trafficking events during mycorrhiza establishment/functioning were identified, including flotillin-like proteins. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000875. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: During arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, one of the most widespread mutualistic associations in nature, the endomembrane system of plant roots is believed to undergo qualitative and quantitative changes in order to sustain both the accommodation process of the AM fungus within cortical cells and the exchange of nutrients between symbionts. Large-scale GeLC-MS/MS proteomic analysis of the membrane fractions from mycorrhizal and nonmycorrhizal roots of M. truncatula coupled to spectral counting retrieved around one hundred proteins that displayed changes in abundance upon mycorrhizal establishment. The symbiosis-related membrane proteins that were identified mostly function in signaling/membrane trafficking and nutrient uptake regulation. Besides extending the coverage of the root membrane proteome of M. truncatula, new candidates involved in the symbiotic program emerged from the current study, which pointed out a dynamic reorganization of microsomal proteins during the accommodation of AM fungi within cortical cells.
PXD000573	24926786	Global genome response of Escherichia coli O157:H7 Sakai during dynamic changes in growth kinetics induced by an abrupt temperature downshift. 	2D-LC/MS/MS analysis of Escherichia coli during exposure to an abrupt temperature downshift	2D-LC/MS/MS, E. coli, cold stress, physiology, stress response	Escherichia coli O157:H7 is a mesophilic food-borne pathogen. We investigated the growth kinetics of E. coli O157:H7 Sakai during an abrupt temperature downshift from 35degreesC to either 20degreesC, 17degreesC, 14degreesC or 10degreesC; as well as the molecular mechanisms enabling growth after cold stress upon an abrupt downshift from 35degreesC to 14degreesC in an integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analysis. All downshifts caused a lag period of growth before growth resumed at a rate typical of the post-shift temperature. Lag and generation time increased with the magnitude of the shift or with the final temperature, while relative lag time displayed little variation across the test range. Analysis of time-dependent molecular changes revealed, in keeping with a decreased growth rate at lower temperature, repression of genes and proteins involved in DNA replication, protein synthesis and carbohydrate catabolism. Consistent with cold-induced remodelling of the bacterial cell envelope, alterations occurred in the expression of genes and proteins involved in transport and binding. The RpoS regulon exhibited sustained induction confirming its importance in adaptation and growth at 14degreesC. The RpoE regulon was transiently induced, indicating a potential role for this extracytoplasmic stress response system in the early phase of low temperature adaptation during lag phase. Interestingly, genes previously reported to be amongst the most highly up-regulated under oxidative stress were consistently down-regulated. This comprehensive analysis provides insight into the molecular mechanisms operating during adaptation of E. coli to growth at low temperature and is relevant to its physiological state during chilling in foods, such as carcasses.
PXD001011	24933266	Quantitative proteome profiling of CNS-infiltrating autoreactive CD4+ cells reveals selective changes during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. 	Quantitative proteome profiling of CNS-infiltrating autoreactive CD4+ cells reveals selective changes during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis	Autoimmunity, CD4+ T lymphocyte, Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis (EAE), Isotope Coded Protein Labelling (ICPL), MALDI-TOF/TOF.	Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a murine model of multiple sclerosis, a chronic neurodegenerative and inflammatory autoimmune condition of the central nervous system (CNS). Pathology is driven by the infiltration of autoreactive CD4(+) lymphocytes into the CNS, where they attack neuronal sheaths causing ascending paralysis. We used an isotope-coded protein labeling approach to investigate the proteome of CD4(+) cells isolated from the spinal cord and brain of mice at various stages of EAE progression in two EAE disease models: PLP139-151-induced relapsing-remitting EAE and MOG35-55-induced chronic EAE, which emulate the two forms of human multiple sclerosis. A total of 1120 proteins were quantified across disease onset, peak-disease, and remission phases of disease, and of these 13 up-regulated proteins of interest were identified with functions relating to the regulation of inflammation, leukocyte adhesion and migration, tissue repair, and the regulation of transcription/translation. Proteins implicated in processes such as inflammation (S100A4 and S100A9) and tissue repair (annexin A1), which represent key events during EAE progression, were validated by quantitative PCR. This is the first targeted analysis of autoreactive cells purified from the CNS during EAE, highlighting fundamental CD4(+) cell-driven processes that occur during the initiation of relapse and remission stages of disease.
PXD000544	24938286	Lysine propionylation is a prevalent post-translational modification in Thermus thermophilus. 	Lysine propionylation is a prevalent post-translational modification in Thermus thermophilus	Lysine propionylation, Posttranslational modification, Thermus thermophilus	Recent studies of protein post-translational modifications revealed that various types of lysine acylation occur in eukaryotic and bacterial proteins. Lysine propionylation, a newly discovered type of acylation, occurs in several proteins, including some histones. In this study, we identified 361 propionylation sites in 183 mid-exponential phase and late stationary phase proteins from Thermus thermophilus HB8, an extremely thermophilic eubacterium. Functional classification of the propionylproteins revealed that the number of propionylation sites in metabolic enzymes increased in late stationary phase, irrespective of protein abundance. The propionylation sites on proteins expressed in mid-exponential and late stationary phases partially overlapped. Furthermore, amino acid frequencies in the vicinity of propionylation sites differed, not only between the two growth phases but also relative to acetylation sites. In addition, 33.8% of mid-exponential phase-specific and 80.0% of late stationary phase-specific propionylations (n >= 2) implied that specific mechanisms regulate propionylation in the cell. Moreover, the limited degree of overlap between lysine propionylation (36.8%) and acetylation (49.2%) sites in 67 proteins that were both acetylated and propionylated strongly suggested that the two acylation reactions are regulated separately by specific enzymes and may serve different functions. Finally, we also found that eight propionylation sites overlapped with acetylation sites critical for protein functions such as Schiff-base formation and ligand binding.
PXD001004	24939894	The kinase LMTK3 promotes invasion in breast cancer through GRB2-mediated induction of integrin beta1. 	Identification of LMTK3 protein by LC/MS/MS Analysis of 1D SDS PAGE Gel Bands	BREAST CANCER, GRB2, INTEGRIN B1, LMTK3, SILAC	Lemur tyrosine kinase 3 (LMTK3) is associated with cell proliferation and endocrine resistance in breast cancer. We found that, in cultured breast cancer cell lines, LMTK3 promotes the development of a metastatic phenotype by inducing the expression of genes encoding integrin subunits. Invasive behavior in various breast cancer cell lines positively correlated with the abundance of LMTK3. Overexpression of LMTK3 in a breast cancer cell line with low endogenous LMTK3 abundance promoted actin cytoskeleton remodeling, focal adhesion formation, and adhesion to collagen and fibronectin in culture. Using SILAC (stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture) proteomic analysis, we found that LMTK3 increased the abundance of integrin subunits alpha5 and beta1, encoded by ITGA5 and ITGB1. This effect depended on the CDC42 Rho family guanosine triphosphatase, which was in turn activated by the interaction between LMTK3 and growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (GRB2), an adaptor protein that mediates receptor tyrosine kinase-induced activation of RAS and downstream signaling. Knockdown of GRB2 suppressed LMTK3-induced CDC42 activation, blocked ITGA5 and ITGB1 expression promoted by the transcription factor serum response factor (SRF), and reduced invasive activity. Furthermore, abundance of LMTK3 positively correlated with that of the integrin beta1 subunit in breast cancer patient's tumors. Our findings suggest a role for LMTK3 in promoting integrin activity during breast cancer progression and metastasis.
PXD000761	24941444	Phosphoproteome profiling of the macrophage response to different toll-like receptor ligands identifies differences in global phosphorylation dynamics. 	Phosphoproteome profiling of toll-like receptor response to different ligand stimulation in macrophages identifies differences in global phosphorylation dynamics	TLR2, TLR4, TLR7, macrophage, phosphoproteomics	Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are among the first sensors that detect infection and drive immune response. Macrophages encountering a pathogen are usually stimulated not by one TLR, but by a combination of TLRs engaged by distinct microbe ligands. To understand the integrated signaling under complex conditions, we investigated the differences in the phosphoprotein signaling cascades triggered by TLR2, TLR4, and TLR7 ligands using a single responding cell population. We performed a global, quantitative, early poststimulation kinetic analysis of the mouse macrophage phosphoproteome using stable isotope labeling with amino acids coupled to phosphopeptide enrichment and high-resolution mass spectrometry. For each TLR ligand, we found marked elevation of phosphorylation of cytoskeleton components, GTPases of the Rho family, and phospholipase C signaling pathway proteins. Phosphorylation of proteins involved in phagocytosis was only seen in response to TLR2 and TLR4 but not to TLR7 activation. Changes in the phosphorylation of proteins involved in endocytosis were delayed in response to TLR2 as compared to TLR4 ligands. These findings reveal that the phosphoproteomic response to stimulation of distinct TLRs varies both in the major modification targets and the phosphorylation dynamics. These results advance the understanding of how macrophages sense and respond to a diverse set of TLR stimuli.
PXD000279	24942700	Accurate proteome-wide label-free quantification by delayed normalization and maximal peptide ratio extraction, termed MaxLFQ. 	MaxLFQ label-free quantification algorithm benchmark datasets	MaxLFQ, MaxQuant, benchmark datasets, label-free quantification	Protein quantification without isotopic labels has been a long-standing interest in the proteomics field. However, accurate and robust proteome-wide quantification with label-free approaches remains a challenge. We developed a new intensity determination and normalization procedure called MaxLFQ that is fully compatible with any peptide or protein separation prior to LC-MS analysis. Protein abundance profiles are assembled using the maximum possible information from MS signals, given that the presence of quantifiable peptides varies from sample to sample. For a benchmark dataset with two proteomes mixed at known ratios, we accurately detected the mixing ratio over the entire protein expression range, with greater precision for abundant proteins. The significance of individual label-free quantifications was obtained via a t test approach. For a second benchmark dataset, we accurately quantify fold changes over several orders of magnitude, a task that is challenging with label-based methods. MaxLFQ is a generic label-free quantification technology that is readily applicable to many biological questions; it is compatible with standard statistical analysis workflows, and it has been validated in many and diverse biological projects. Our algorithms can handle very large experiments of 500+ samples in a manageable computing time. It is implemented in the freely available MaxQuant computational proteomics platform and works completely seamlessly at the click of a button.
PXD001007	24946870	Genome-wide identification and functional analysis of Apobec-1-mediated C-to-U RNA editing in mouse small intestine and liver. 	Genome-wide identification and functional analysis of Apobec-1 mediated C-to-U RNA editing in mouse small intestine and liver	RNA editing, intestine, liver, polysomes	BACKGROUND: RNA editing encompasses a post-transcriptional process in which the genomically templated sequence is enzymatically altered and introduces a modified base into the edited transcript. Mammalian C-to-U RNA editing represents a distinct subtype of base modification, whose prototype is intestinal apolipoprotein B mRNA, mediated by the catalytic deaminase Apobec-1. However, the genome-wide identification, tissue-specificity and functional implications of Apobec-1-mediated C-to-U RNA editing remain incompletely explored. RESULTS: Deep sequencing, data filtering and Sanger-sequence validation of intestinal and hepatic RNA from wild-type and Apobec-1-deficient mice revealed 56 novel editing sites in 54 intestinal mRNAs and 22 novel sites in 17 liver mRNAs, all within 3' untranslated regions. Eleven of 17 liver RNAs shared editing sites with intestinal RNAs, while 6 sites are unique to liver. Changes in RNA editing lead to corresponding changes in intestinal mRNA and protein levels for 11 genes. Analysis of RNA editing in vivo following tissue-specific Apobec-1 adenoviral or transgenic Apobec-1 overexpression reveals that a subset of targets identified in wild-type mice are restored in Apobec-1-deficient mouse intestine and liver following Apobec-1 rescue. We find distinctive polysome profiles for several RNA editing targets and demonstrate novel exonic editing sites in nuclear preparations from intestine but not hepatic apolipoprotein B RNA. RNA editing is validated using cell-free extracts from wild-type but not Apobec-1-deficient mice, demonstrating that Apobec-1 is required. CONCLUSIONS: These studies define selective, tissue-specific targets of Apobec-1-dependent RNA editing and show the functional consequences of editing are both transcript- and tissue-specific.
PXD000554	24961812	Convergence of ubiquitylation and phosphorylation signaling in rapamycin-treated yeast cells. 	Convergence of Ubiquitylation and Phosphorylation Signaling in Rapamycin-Treated Yeast Cells	Phosphorylation, Rapamycin, TOR, Ubiquitylation	The target of rapamycin (TOR) kinase senses the availability of nutrients and coordinates cellular growth and proliferation with nutrient abundance. Inhibition of TOR mimics nutrient starvation and leads to the reorganization of many cellular processes, including autophagy, protein translation, and vesicle trafficking. TOR regulates cellular physiology by modulating phosphorylation and ubiquitylation signaling networks; however, the global scope of such regulation is not fully known. Here, we used a mass-spectrometry-based proteomics approach for the parallel quantification of ubiquitylation, phosphorylation, and proteome changes in rapamycin-treated yeast cells. Our data constitute a detailed proteomic analysis of rapamycin-treated yeast with 3590 proteins, 8961 phosphorylation sites, and 2299 di-Gly modified lysines (putative ubiquitylation sites) quantified. The phosphoproteome was extensively modulated by rapamycin treatment, with more than 900 up-regulated sites one hour after rapamycin treatment. Dynamically regulated phosphoproteins were involved in diverse cellular processes, prominently including transcription, membrane organization, vesicle-mediated transport, and autophagy. Several hundred ubiquitylation sites were increased after rapamycin treatment, and about half as many decreased in abundance. We found that proteome, phosphorylation, and ubiquitylation changes converged on the Rsp5-ubiquitin ligase, Rsp5 adaptor proteins, and Rsp5 targets. Putative Rsp5 targets were biased for increased ubiquitylation, suggesting activation of Rsp5 by rapamycin. Rsp5 adaptor proteins, which recruit target proteins for Rsp5-dependent ubiquitylation, were biased for increased phosphorylation. Furthermore, we found that permeases and transporters, which are often ubiquitylated by Rsp5, were biased for reduced ubiquitylation and reduced protein abundance. The convergence of multiple proteome-level changes on the Rsp5 system indicates a key role of this pathway in the response to rapamycin treatment. Collectively, these data reveal new insights into the global proteome dynamics in response to rapamycin treatment and provide a first detailed view of the co-regulation of phosphorylation- and ubiquitylation-dependent signaling networks by this compound.
PXD000115	24965446	Host factors that interact with the pestivirus N-terminal protease, Npro, are components of the ribonucleoprotein complex. 	Npro protein interaction partners	Pestivirus N-terminal Protease Npro, protein interaction	The viral N-terminal protease N(pro) of pestiviruses counteracts cellular antiviral defenses through inhibition of IRF3. Here we used mass spectrometry to identify a new role for N(pro) through its interaction with over 55 associated proteins, mainly ribosomal proteins and ribonucleoproteins, including RNA helicase A (DHX9), Y-box binding protein (YBX1), DDX3, DDX5, eIF3, IGF2BP1, multiple myeloma tumor protein 2, interleukin enhancer binding factor 3 (IEBP3), guanine nucleotide binding protein 3, and polyadenylate-binding protein 1 (PABP-1). These are components of the translation machinery, ribonucleoprotein particles (RNPs), and stress granules. Significantly, we found that stress granule formation was inhibited in MDBK cells infected with a noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain, Kyle. However, ribonucleoproteins binding to N(pro) did not inhibit these proteins from aggregating into stress granules. N(pro) interacted with YBX1 though its TRASH domain, since the mutant C112R protein with an inactive TRASH domain no longer redistributed to stress granules. Interestingly, RNA helicase A and La autoantigen relocated from a nuclear location to form cytoplasmic granules with N(pro). To address a proviral role for N(pro) in RNP granules, we investigated whether N(pro) affected RNA interference (RNAi), since interacting proteins are involved in RISC function during RNA silencing. Using glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) silencing with small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) followed by Northern blotting of GAPDH, expression of N(pro) had no effect on RNAi silencing activity, contrasting with other viral suppressors of interferon. We propose that N(pro) is involved with virus RNA translation in the cytoplasm for virus particle production, and when translation is inhibited following stress, it redistributes to the replication complex. IMPORTANCE: Although the pestivirus N-terminal protease, N(pro), has been shown to have an important role in degrading IRF3 to prevent apoptosis and interferon production during infection, the function of this unique viral protease in the pestivirus life cycle remains to be elucidated. We used proteomic mass spectrometry to identify novel interacting proteins and have shown that N(pro) is present in ribosomal and ribonucleoprotein particles (RNPs), indicating a translational role in virus particle production. The virus itself can prevent stress granule assembly from these complexes, but this inhibition is not due to N(pro). A proviral role to subvert RNA silencing through binding of these host RNP proteins was not identified for this viral suppressor of interferon.
PXD000982	24965873	A genomic survey of proteases in Aspergilli. 	Genomic Survey of Aspergilli Proteases	Aspergillus, Proteases, Secretome	BACKGROUND: Proteases can hydrolyze peptides in aqueous environments. This property has made proteases the most important industrial enzymes by taking up about 60% of the total enzyme market. Microorganisms are the main sources for industrial protease production due to their high yield and a wide range of biochemical properties. Several Aspergilli have the ability to produce a variety of proteases, but no comprehensive comparative study has been carried out on protease productivity in this genus so far. RESULTS: We have performed a combined analysis of comparative genomics, proteomics and enzymology tests on seven Aspergillus species grown on wheat bran and sugar beet pulp. Putative proteases were identified by homology search and Pfam domains. These genes were then clusters based on orthology and extracellular proteases were identified by protein subcellular localization prediction. Proteomics was used to identify the secreted enzymes in the cultures, while protease essays with and without inhibitors were performed to determine the overall protease activity per protease class. All this data was then integrated to compare the protease productivities in Aspergilli. CONCLUSIONS: Genomes of Aspergillus species contain a similar proportion of protease encoding genes. According to comparative genomics, proteomics and enzymatic experiments serine proteases make up the largest group in the protease spectrum across the species. In general wheat bran gives higher induction of proteases than sugar beet pulp. Interesting differences of protease activity, extracellular enzyme spectrum composition, protein occurrence and abundance were identified for species. By combining in silico and wet-lab experiments, we present the intriguing variety of protease productivity in Aspergilli.
PXD001001	24973421	A substrate trapping approach identifies proteins regulated by reversible S-nitrosylation. 	A substrate trapping approach identifies proteins regulated by reversible S-nitrosylation	S-nitrosylation	Protein S-nitrosylation, the nitric oxide-mediated posttranslational modification of cysteine residues, has emerged as an important regulatory mechanism in diverse cellular processes. Yet, knowledge about the S-nitrosoproteome in different cell types and cellular contexts is still limited and many questions remain regarding the precise roles of protein S-nitrosylation and denitrosylation. Here we present a novel strategy to identify reversibly nitrosylated proteins. Our approach is based on nitrosothiol capture and enrichment using a thioredoxin trap mutant, followed by protein identification by mass spectrometry. Employing this approach, we identified more than 400 putative nitroso-proteins in S-nitrosocysteine-treated human monocytes and about 200 nitrosylation substrates in endotoxin and cytokine-stimulated mouse macrophages. The large majority of these represent novel nitrosylation targets and they include many proteins with key functions in cellular homeostasis and signaling. Biochemical and functional experiments in vitro and in cells validated the proteomic results and further suggested a role for thioredoxin in the denitrosylation and activation of inducible nitric oxide synthase and the protein kinase MEK1. Our findings contribute to a better understanding of the macrophage S-nitrosoproteome and the role of thioredoxin-mediated denitrosylation in nitric oxide signaling. The approach described here may prove generally useful for the identification and exploration of nitroso-proteomes under various physiological and pathophysiological conditions.
PXD001187	24986539	Influence of the digestion technique, protease, and missed cleavage peptides in protein quantitation. 	Influence of digestion protocol in Protein Quantitation	Digestion Protocols, FASP, Protein quantitation	Quantitative determination of absolute and relative protein amounts is an essential requirement for most current bottom-up proteomics applications, but protein quantitation estimates are affected by several sources of variability such as sample preparation, mass spectrometric acquisition, and data analysis. Among them, sample digestion has attracted much attention from the proteomics community, as protein quantitation by bottom-up proteomics relies on the efficiency and reproducibility of protein enzymatic digestion, with the presence of missed cleavages, nonspecific cleavages, or even the use of different proteases having been postulated as important sources of variation in protein quantitation. Here we evaluated both in-solution and filter-aided digestion protocols and assessed their influence in the estimation of protein abundances using five E. coli mixtures with known amounts of spiked proteins. We observed that replicates of trypsin specificity digestion protocols are highly reproducible in terms of peptide quantitation, with digestion technique and the chosen proteolytic enzyme being the major sources of variability in peptide quantitation. Finally, we also evaluated the result of including peptides with missed cleavages in protein quantitation and observed no significant differences in precision, accuracy, specificity, and sensitivity compared with the use of fully tryptic peptides.
PXD001025	24990792	Proteomic View of Basement Membranes from Human Retinal Blood Vessels, Inner Limiting Membranes, and Lens Capsules. 	Basement Membranes from Human Retinal Blood Vessels, Inner Limiting Membranes, and Lens Capsules	Basement membrane, collagen IV, collagens, laminin, nidogens, perlecan	Basement membranes (BMs) are extracellular matrix sheets comprising the laminins, type-IV collagens, nidogens, and the heparan sulfate proteoglycans, perlecan, collagen XVIII, and agrin. In intact BMs, BM proteins are physiologically insoluble and partially resistant to proteolytic digestion, making BMs a challenge to study. Here three types of BMs from adult human eyes, the inner limiting membrane (ILM), the retinal vascular BMs, and the lens capsule, were isolated for analysis by 1D-SDS-PAGE and LC-MS/MS. Peptide and protein identifications were done using MaxQuant. 1129 proteins were identified with a 1% false discovery rate. Data showed that BMs are composed of multiple laminins, collagen IVs, nidogens, and proteoglycans. The dominant laminin family member in all BMs was laminin alpha5beta2gamma1. The dominant collagen IV trimer in lens capsule (LC) and blood vessel (BV) BMs had a chain composition of alpha1(IV)2, alpha2 (IV), whereas the dominant collagen IV in the ILM had the alpha3(IV), alpha4(IV), alpha5(IV) chain composition. The data also showed that the ratio of laminin and collagen IVs varied among different BM types: the ratio of collagen IV to the other BM proteins is highest in LC, followed by BV and lowest for the ILM. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001025.
PXD000978	24994560	Quantitative proteomic analysis reveals metabolic alterations, calcium dysregulation, and increased expression of extracellular matrix proteins in laminin alpha2 chain-deficient muscle. 	Proteomic profiling of MDC1A muscle using TMT quantitation, Bruno Oliveira	calcium dysregulation, extracellular matrix proteins, laminin alpha2 chain deficient muscle, metabolic alteration	Congenital muscular dystrophy with laminin alpha2 chain deficiency (MDC1A) is one of the most severe forms of muscular disease and is characterized by severe muscle weakness and delayed motor milestones. The genetic basis of MDC1A is well known, yet the secondary mechanisms ultimately leading to muscle degeneration and subsequent connective tissue infiltration are not fully understood. In order to obtain new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying MDC1A, we performed a comparative proteomic analysis of affected muscles (diaphragm and gastrocnemius) from laminin alpha2 chain-deficient dy(3K)/dy(3K) mice, using multidimensional protein identification technology combined with tandem mass tags. Out of the approximately 700 identified proteins, 113 and 101 proteins, respectively, were differentially expressed in the diseased gastrocnemius and diaphragm muscles compared with normal muscles. A large portion of these proteins are involved in different metabolic processes, bind calcium, or are expressed in the extracellular matrix. Our findings suggest that metabolic alterations and calcium dysregulation could be novel mechanisms that underlie MDC1A and might be targets that should be explored for therapy. Also, detailed knowledge of the composition of fibrotic tissue, rich in extracellular matrix proteins, in laminin alpha2 chain-deficient muscle might help in the design of future anti-fibrotic treatments. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000978 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000978).
PXD000773	24995952	SILAC-based quantitative proteomic analysis of secretome between activated and reverted hepatic stellate cells. 	SILAC-based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Secretome between Activated and Reverted Hepatic Stellate Cells	Activation, LX-2, Reversion, Secretome	Activated hepatic stellate cell (HSC) is the main myofibroblast cell in the liver fibrosis (LF). An important characteristic of the recovery of LF is not only the apoptosis of activated HSCs but also reversal of myofibroblast-like phenotype to a quiescent-like phenotype. Understanding the changes of secreted proteins in the reversion of activated HSCs may provide the broader view of cellular regulatory networks and discover candidate markers or targets for therapeutic strategies of LF. In this study, stable isotope labeling with amino acids (SILAC) combined with linear ion trap-Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometer (LTQ-FT MS) was performed on in vitro activated HSCs and reverted HSCs to obtain a proteomic view of secretory proteins. In total, 330 proteins showed significant differences in reverted HSCs. Among these, 109 upregulated proteins were mainly involved in amino acid metabolism pathway and glucose metabolism pathway using GeneGO/MetaCore software, while 221 downregulated proteins are closely associated with HSCs activation, such as cytoskeleton remodeling, chemokines, and cell adhesion. Additionally, a set of novel proteins associated with HSCs activation and reversion were validated by Western blotting in the cell secretion and in the sera of LF, including vitronectin, laminin beta 1, and ubiquitin conjugation factor E4B. Our study provided the valuable insight into the mechanisms in the reversion of activated HSCs and identified some potential biomarkers of LF in clinical studies. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000773 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000773).
PXD000670	24997996	Phosphoproteomics combined with quantitative 14-3-3-affinity capture identifies SIRT1 and RAI as novel regulators of cytosolic double-stranded RNA recognition pathway. 	Phosphoproteomics combined with quantitative 14-3-3-affinity capture identifies SIRT1 and RAI as new regulators of cytosolic dsRNA-induced innate immune response	Human keratinocytes, phosphorylation	Viral double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) is the most important viral structure recognized by cytosolic pattern-recognition receptors of the innate immune system, and its recognition results in the activation of signaling cascades that stimulate the production of antiviral cytokines and apoptosis of infected cells. 14-3-3 proteins are ubiquitously expressed regulatory molecules that participate in a variety of cellular processes, and 14-3-3 protein-mediated signaling pathways are activated by cytoplasmic dsRNA in human keratinocytes. However, the functional role of 14-3-3 protein-mediated interactions during viral dsRNA stimulation has remained uncharacterized. Here, we used functional proteomics to identify proteins whose phosphorylation and interaction with 14-3-3 is modulated by dsRNA and to characterize the signaling pathways activated during cytosolic dsRNA-induced innate immune response in human HaCaT keratinocytes. Phosphoproteome analysis showed that several MAPK- and immune-response-related signaling pathways were activated after dsRNA stimulation. Interactome analysis identified RelA-associated inhibitor, high-mobility group proteins, and several proteins associated with host responses to viral infection as novel 14-3-3 target proteins. Functional studies showed that RelA-associated inhibitor regulated dsRNA-induced apoptosis and TNF production. Integrated network analyses of proteomic data revealed that sirtuin1 was a central molecule regulated by 14-3-3s during dsRNA stimulation. Further experiments showed that sirtuin 1 negatively regulated dsRNA-induced NFkappaB transcriptional activity, suppressed expression of antiviral cytokines, and protected cells from apoptosis in dsRNA-stimulated and encephalomyocarditis-virus-infected keratinocytes. In conclusion, our data highlight the importance of 14-3-3 proteins in antiviral responses and identify RelA-associated inhibitor and sirtuin 1 as novel regulators of antiviral innate immune responses.
PXD000310	24999909	Intestinal amino acid availability via PEPT-1 affects TORC1/2 signaling and the unfolded protein response. 	Quantitative proteome profiling of Caenorhabditis elegans pept-1(lg601) and N2(Bristol) during ontogenesis.	Caenorhabditis elegans, N2(Bristol), Pept-1(lg601), amino acid homeostasis, ontogenesis, peptide transporter, shot-gun proteomics, target of rapamycin	The intestinal peptide transporter PEPT-1 plays an important role in development, growth, reproduction, and stress tolerance in Caenorhabditis elegans, as revealed by the severe phenotype of the pept-1-deficient strain. The reduced number of offspring and increased stress resistance were shown to result from changes in the insulin/IGF-signaling cascade. To further elucidate the regulatory network behind the phenotypic alterations in PEPT1-deficient animals, a quantitative proteome analysis combined with transcriptome profiling was applied. Various target genes of XBP-1, the major mediator of the unfolded protein response, were found to be downregulated at the mRNA and protein levels, accompanied by a reduction of spliced xbp-1 mRNA. Proteome analysis also revealed a markedly reduced content of numerous ribosomal proteins. This was associated with a reduction in the protein synthesis rate in pept-1 C. elegans, a process that is strictly regulated by the TOR (target of rapamycine) complex, the cellular sensor for free amino acids. These data argue for a central role of PEPT-1 in cellular amino acid homeostasis. In PEPT-1 deficiency, amino acid levels dropped systematically, leading to alterations in protein synthesis and in the IRE-1/XBP-1 pathway.
PXD000118	25005615	Proteogenomic mapping of Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae virulent strain 232. 	Proteomic analysis of Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae virulent strain 232	Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae 232 LTQ Velos FT mass spec proteomics	BACKGROUND: Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae causes respiratory disease in swine and contributes to the porcine respiratory disease complex, a major disease problem in the swine industry. The M. hyopneumoniae strain 232 genome is one of the smallest and best annotated microbial genomes, containing only 728 annotated genes and 691 known proteins. Standard protein databases for mass spectrometry only allow for the identification of known and predicted proteins, which if incorrect can limit our understanding of the biological processes at work. Proteogenomic mapping is a methodology which allows the entire 6-frame genome translation of an organism to be used as a mass spectrometry database to help identify unknown proteins as well as correct and confirm existing annotations. This methodology will be employed to perform an in-depth analysis of the M. hyopneumoniae proteome. RESULTS: Proteomic analysis indicates 483 of 691 (70%) known M. hyopneumoniae strain 232 proteins are expressed under the culture conditions given in this study. Furthermore, 171 of 328 (52%) hypothetical proteins have been confirmed. Proteogenomic mapping resulted in the identification of previously unannotated genes gatC and rpmF and 5-prime extensions to genes mhp063, mhp073, and mhp451, all conserved and annotated in other M. hyopneumoniae strains and Mycoplasma species. Gene prediction with Prodigal, a prokaryotic gene predicting program, completely supports the new genomic coordinates calculated using proteogenomic mapping. CONCLUSIONS: Proteogenomic mapping showed that the protein coding genes of the M. hyopneumoniae strain 232 identified in this study are well annotated. Only 1.8% of mapped peptides did not correspond to genes defined by the current genome annotation. This study also illustrates how proteogenomic mapping can be an important tool to help confirm, correct and append known gene models when using a genome sequence as search space for peptide mass spectra. Using a gene prediction program which scans for a wide variety of promoters can help ensure genes are accurately predicted or not missed completely. Furthermore, protein extraction using differential detergent fractionation effectively increases the number of membrane and cytoplasmic proteins identifiable my mass spectrometry.
PXD000357	25022875	Identification of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 (ERK1) direct substrates using stable isotope labeled kinase assay-linked phosphoproteomics. 	Identification of ERK1 direct substrates using stable isotope labeled kinase assay linked phosphoproteomics	ERK1, Kinase substrates, Phosphoproteomics	Kinase mediated phosphorylation signaling is extensively involved in cellular functions and human diseases, and unraveling phosphorylation networks requires the identification of substrates targeted by kinases, which has remained challenging. We report here a novel proteomic strategy to identify the specificity and direct substrates of kinases by coupling phosphoproteomics with a sensitive stable isotope labeled kinase reaction. A whole cell extract was moderately dephosphorylated and subjected to in vitro kinase reaction under the condition in which (18)O-ATP is the phosphate donor. The phosphorylated proteins are then isolated and identified by mass spectrometry, in which the heavy phosphate (+85.979 Da) labeled phosphopeptides reveal the kinase specificity. The in vitro phosphorylated proteins with heavy phosphates are further overlapped with in vivo kinase-dependent phosphoproteins for the identification of direct substrates with high confidence. The strategy allowed us to identify 46 phosphorylation sites on 38 direct substrates of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1, including multiple known substrates and novel substrates, highlighting the ability of this high throughput method for direct kinase substrate screening.
PXD000676	25034824	Resolution of carbon metabolism and sulfur-oxidation pathways of Metallosphaera cuprina Ar-4 via comparative proteomics. 	Metallosphaera cuprina cultivation on sulfur or yeast extract	LC-MS Analysis	Metallosphaera cuprina is able to grow either heterotrophically on organics or autotrophically on CO2 with reduced sulfur compounds as electron donor. These traits endowed the species desirable for application in biomining. In order to obtain a global overview of physiological adaptations on the proteome level, proteomes of cytoplasmic and membrane fractions from cells grown autotrophically on CO2 plus sulfur or heterotrophically on yeast extract were compared. 169 proteins were found to change their abundance depending on growth condition. The proteins with increased abundance under autotrophic growth displayed candidate enzymes/proteins of M. cuprina for fixing CO2 through the previously identified 3-hydroxypropionate/4-hydroxybutyrate cycle and for oxidizing elemental sulfur as energy source. The main enzymes/proteins involved in semi- and non-phosphorylating Entner-Doudoroff (ED) pathway and TCA cycle were less abundant under autotrophic growth. Also some transporter proteins and proteins of amino acid metabolism changed their abundances, suggesting pivotal roles for growth under the respective conditions. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The described work is of great significance: For general microbiology: How do extremophile organisms use their unique metabolic capabilities in adapting to autotrophic and hetetrotrophic growth conditions? Which are important enzymes involved in the metabolic adaptation and which enzyme candidate should be investigated in more detail with microbiological/biochemical approaches? For applied microbiology: Which are the key enzymes and reaction pathways for sulfur oxidation and autotrophic growth? This knowledge should accelerate future design of improved bioleaching processes in biomining industries or bioremediation.
PXD000534	25034945	Identification of novel biomarker candidates for the immunohistochemical diagnosis of cholangiocellular carcinoma. 	Identification of novel biomarker candidates for the immunohistochemical diagnosis of cholangiocellular carcinoma - LC-MS Part	Cholangiocellular Carcinoma, LC-MS, Liver, MALDI	The aim of this study was the identification of novel biomarker candidates for the diagnosis of cholangiocellular carcinoma (CCC) and its immunohistochemical differentiation from benign liver and bile duct cells. CCC is a primary cancer that arises from the epithelial cells of bile ducts and is characterized by high mortality rates due to its late clinical presentation and limited treatment options. Tumorous tissue and adjacent non-tumorous liver tissue from eight CCC patients were analyzed by means of two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis and mass-spectrometry-based label-free proteomics. After data analysis and statistical evaluation of the proteins found to be differentially regulated between the two experimental groups (fold change >= 1.5; p value <= 0.05), 14 candidate proteins were chosen for determination of the cell-type-specific expression profile via immunohistochemistry in a cohort of 14 patients. This confirmed the significant up-regulation of serpin H1, 14-3-3 protein sigma, and stress-induced phosphoprotein 1 in tumorous cholangiocytes relative to normal hepatocytes and non-tumorous cholangiocytes, whereas some proteins were detectable specifically in hepatocytes. Because stress-induced phosphoprotein 1 exhibited both sensitivity and specificity of 100%, an immunohistochemical verification examining tissue sections of 60 CCC patients was performed. This resulted in a specificity of 98% and a sensitivity of 64%. We therefore conclude that this protein should be considered as a potential diagnostic biomarker for CCC in an immunohistochemical application, possibly in combination with other candidates from this study in the form of a biomarker panel. This could improve the differential diagnosis of CCC and benign bile duct diseases, as well as metastatic malignancies in the liver.
PXD001185	25038065	Colonization state influences the hemocyte proteome in a beneficial squid-Vibrio symbiosis. 	Colonization state influences the hemocyte proteome in a beneficial squid-vibrio symbiosis	Euprymna scolopes, Vibrio fischeri, hemocytes, iTRAQ, innate immunity, spectral counting, symbiosis	The squid Euprymna scolopes and the luminescent bacterium Vibrio fischeri form a highly specific beneficial light organ symbiosis. Not only does the host have to select V. fischeri from the environment, but it must also prevent subsequent colonization by non-symbiotic microorganisms. Host macrophage-like hemocytes are believed to play a role in mediating the symbiosis with V. fischeri. Previous studies have shown that the colonization state of the light organ influences the host's hemocyte response to the symbiont. To further understand the molecular mechanisms behind this process, we used two quantitative mass-spectrometry-based proteomic techniques, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) and label-free spectral counting, to compare and quantify the adult hemocyte proteomes from colonized (sym) and uncolonized (antibiotic-treated/cured) squid. Overall, iTRAQ allowed for the quantification of 1,024 proteins with two or more peptides. Thirty-seven unique proteins were determined to be significantly different between sym and cured hemocytes (p value < 0.05), with 20 more abundant proteins and 17 less abundant in sym hemocytes. The label-free approach resulted in 1,241 proteins that were identified in all replicates. Of 185 unique proteins present at significantly different amounts in sym hemocytes (as determined by spectral counting), 92 were more abundant and 93 were less abundant. Comparisons between iTRAQ and spectral counting revealed that 30 of the 37 proteins quantified via iTRAQ exhibited trends similar to those identified by the label-free method. Both proteomic techniques mutually identified 16 proteins that were significantly different between the two groups of hemocytes (p value < 0.05). The presence of V. fischeri in the host light organ influenced the abundance of proteins associated with the cytoskeleton, adhesion, lysosomes, proteolysis, and the innate immune response. These data provide evidence that colonization by V. fischeri alters the hemocyte proteome and reveals proteins that may be important for maintaining host-symbiont specificity.
PXD000956	25043023	Carbonic anhydrases, EPF2 and a novel protease mediate CO2 control of stomatal development. 	Carbonic anhydrases, EPF2 peptide and a novel protease, CRSP, mediate CO2 control of stomatal development	protease, stomata	Environmental stimuli, including elevated carbon dioxide levels, regulate stomatal development; however, the key mechanisms mediating the perception and relay of the CO2 signal to the stomatal development machinery remain elusive. To adapt CO2 intake to water loss, plants regulate the development of stomatal gas exchange pores in the aerial epidermis. A diverse range of plant species show a decrease in stomatal density in response to the continuing rise in atmospheric CO2 (ref. 4). To date, one mutant that exhibits deregulation of this CO2-controlled stomatal development response, hic (which is defective in cell-wall wax biosynthesis, ref. 5), has been identified. Here we show that recently isolated Arabidopsis thaliana beta-carbonic anhydrase double mutants (ca1 ca4) exhibit an inversion in their response to elevated CO2, showing increased stomatal development at elevated CO2 levels. We characterized the mechanisms mediating this response and identified an extracellular signalling pathway involved in the regulation of CO2-controlled stomatal development by carbonic anhydrases. RNA-seq analyses of transcripts show that the extracellular pro-peptide-encoding gene EPIDERMAL PATTERNING FACTOR 2 (EPF2), but not EPF1 (ref. 9), is induced in wild-type leaves but not in ca1 ca4 mutant leaves at elevated CO2 levels. Moreover, EPF2 is essential for CO2 control of stomatal development. Using cell-wall proteomic analyses and CO2-dependent transcriptomic analyses, we identified a novel CO2-induced extracellular protease, CRSP (CO2 RESPONSE SECRETED PROTEASE), as a mediator of CO2-controlled stomatal development. Our results identify mechanisms and genes that function in the repression of stomatal development in leaves during atmospheric CO2 elevation, including the carbonic-anhydrase-encoding genes CA1 and CA4 and the secreted protease CRSP, which cleaves the pro-peptide EPF2, in turn repressing stomatal development. Elucidation of these mechanisms advances the understanding of how plants perceive and relay the elevated CO2 signal and provides a framework to guide future research into how environmental challenges can modulate gas exchange in plants.
PXD000441	25044641	Performance of super-SILAC based quantitative proteomics for comparison of different acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell lines. 	Human AML cell lines LC-MS/MS -  Performance of Super-SILAC based quantitative proteomics for comparison of different acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell lines	AML, LC-MS, Orbitrap velos pro, cell lines, super-SILAC	As a direct consequence of the high diversity of the aggressive blood cancer acute myeloid leukemia (AML), proteomic samples from patients are strongly heterogeneous, rendering their accurate relative quantification challenging. In the present study, we investigated the benefits of using a super-SILAC mix of AML derived cell lines as internal standard (IS) for quantitative shotgun studies. The Molm-13, NB4, MV4-11, THP-1, and OCI-AML3 cell lines were selected for their complementarity with regard to clinical, cytogenetic, and molecular risk factors used for prognostication of AML patients. The resulting IS presents a high coverage of the AML proteome compared to single cell lines allied with high technical reproducibility, thus enabling its use for AML patient comparison. This was confirmed by comparing the protein regulation between the five cell lines and by applying the IS to patient material; hence, we were able to reproduce specific functional regulations known to be related to disease progression and molecular genetic abnormalities. The MS proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org) via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD000441.
PXD000909	25044914	Proteomics analysis of adult testis from Bombyx mori. 	Silkworm testis LC-MS/MS -  Proteomics analysis of adult testis from Bombyx mori	silkworm, testis	The development of the testis involves a large number of tissue-specific proteins, possibly because the sperms in it are the most divergent of all cell types. In this study, LC-MS/MS was employed to investigate the protein compositions of the adult testis of silkworm. A total of 14,431 peptides were identified in the adult testis of Bombyx mori, which were matched to 2292 proteins. Thirty-two HSPs constitute a group of most abundant proteins in the adult testis, suggesting that they are critical for the development, differentiation, and survival of germ cells. Other proteins in this analysis were also involved in testis-specific processes mainly including sperm motility, meiosis, germ cell development, and spermatogenesis. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000909 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000909).
PXD000822	25053255	Ram seminal plasma proteome and its impact on liquid preservation of spermatozoa. 	Ram seminal plasma -  Ram seminal plasma proteome and its impact on liquid preservation of spermatozoa	Seminal plasma, ram	Seminal plasma is composed of secretions from the epididymis and the accessory sex glands and plays a critical role in the fertilising ability of spermatozoa. In rams, analysis of seminal plasma by GeLC-MS/MS has allowed the identification of more than 700 proteins, including a high abundance of Binder of Sperm family proteins (BSP1, BSP5, SPADH1, SPADH2), the spermadhesin family (bodhesin2), lactoferrin and newly identified proteins like UPF0762 (C6orf58 gene). When spermatogenesis was stopped by scrotal insulation, changes in the proteome profile revealed the sperm origin of 40 seminal proteins, such as glycolysis pathway enzymes, the chaperonin containing TCP1 (CCT) complex and the 26S proteasome complex. Sperm mobility after liquid preservation (24h in milk at 15degreesC) is male dependent and can be correlated to differences in the seminal plasma proteome, detected by spectral counting. The negative association of zinc alpha-2 glycoprotein (ZAG) with semen preservation was confirmed by the use of recombinant human ZAG, which induced an increase in mobility of fresh sperm, but then decreased sperm mobility after 24h of incubation. Several sperm membrane proteins interacting with the cytoskeleton, glycolysis enzymes and sperm-associated proteins involved in capacitation correlated with better liquid storage and can be considered as seminal biomarkers of sperm preservation. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Extensive analysis of the ram seminal plasma proteome reveals a complex and diverse protein composition. This composition varies between males with different sperm preservation abilities. Several proteins were shown to originate from the spermatozoa and positively correlate with sperm liquid preservation, indicating that these proteins can be traced as sperm biomarkers within the seminal plasma. The zinc alpha-2 glycoprotein (ZAG) was found to have a biphasic effect on sperm mobility, with a short-term stimulation followed by a long-term exhaustion of sperm mobility after a 24h preservation period.
PXD001190	25064064	Similar is not the same: differences in the function of the (hemi-)cellulolytic regulator XlnR (Xlr1/Xyr1) in filamentous fungi. 	Similar is not the same: Differences in the function of the (hemi-)cellulolytic regulator XlnR (Xlr1/Xyr1) in filamentous fungi	Aspergillus, Fusarium graminearum, Magnaporthe oryzae, Trichoderma reesei, XlnR, Xylan degradation, Xylanase regulator	The transcriptional activator XlnR (Xlr1/Xyr1) is a major regulator in fungal xylan and cellulose degradation as well as in the utilization of d-xylose via the pentose catabolic pathway. XlnR homologs are commonly found in filamentous ascomycetes and often assumed to have the same function in different fungi. However, a comparison of the saprobe Aspergillus niger and the plant pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae showed different phenotypes for deletion strains of XlnR. In this study wild type and xlnR/xlr1/xyr1 mutants of five fungi were compared: Fusarium graminearum, M. oryzae, Trichoderma reesei, A. niger and Aspergillus nidulans. Growth profiling on relevant substrates and a detailed analysis of the secretome as well as extracellular enzyme activities demonstrated a common role of this regulator in activating genes encoding the main xylanolytic enzymes. However, large differences were found in the set of genes that is controlled by XlnR in the different species, resulting in the production of different extracellular enzyme spectra by these fungi. This comparison emphasizes the functional diversity of a fine-tuned (hemi-)cellulolytic regulatory system in filamentous fungi, which might be related to the adaptation of fungi to their specific biotopes. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001190.
PXD000759	25068997	Characterization of biases in phosphopeptide enrichment by Ti(4+)-immobilized metal affinity chromatography and TiO2 using a massive synthetic library and human cell digests. 	Phosphopeptide enrichment on synthetic libraries and HeLa cells digest	HeLa, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, Ti-IMAC, TiO2, phosphopeptide enrichment, synthetic library	Outcomes of comparative evaluations of enrichment methods for phosphopeptides depend highly on the experimental protocols used, the operator, the source of the affinity matrix, and the samples analyzed. Here, we attempt such a comparative study exploring a very large synthetic library containing thousands of serine, threonine, and tyrosine phosphorylated peptides, being present in roughly equal abundance, along with their nonphosphorylated counterparts, and use an optimized protocol for enrichment by TiO2 and Ti(4+)-immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) by a single operator. Surprisingly, our data reveal that there are minimal differences between enrichment of phosphopeptides by TiO2 and Ti(4+)-IMAC when considering biochemical and biophysical parameters such as peptide length, sequence surrounding the site, hydrophobicity, and nature of the amino acid phosphorylated. Similar results were obtained when evaluating a tryptic digest of a cellular lysate, representing a more natural source of phosphopeptides. All the data presented are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD000759.
PXD000962	25069088	Differences in the secretion pattern of oxidoreductases from Bjerkandera adusta induced by a phenolic olive mill extract. 	Secretome of Bjerkandera adusta	Fungi, Secretome	The secretome of the white-rot fungus Bjerkandera adusta produced in synthetic Kirk medium was compared to that supplemented with an aqueous phenol-rich extract of dry olive mill residues (ADOR). Distinct changes in the protein composition of oxidoreductases, namely diverse class-II peroxidases and aryl alcohol oxidases were found. In the ADOR-supplemented medium (ASC), 157 distinct proteins were identified by the secretome analysis, whereas only 59 of them were identified without ADOR supplementation (Kirk medium culture; KM). Proteome analysis indicated that the number of peroxidases produced in ASC was more than doubled (from 4 to 11) compared to KM. Two short manganese peroxidases (MnP1 and MnP6) and one versatile peroxidase (VP1) represented 29% of the relative abundance (NSAF) in ASC. Two of them (MnP1 and VP1) were also detected in KM at a relative abundance (NSAF) of only 3%. Further peroxidases present in ASC were one lignin peroxidase (LiP2), one generic peroxidase (GP) and three dye-decolorizing peroxidases (DyPs). The relative abundance of DyPs and aryl alcohol oxidases (AAO) were lower in ASC in comparison to KM. In addition to peptide sequence analysis, the secretion of Mn(2+)-oxidizing peroxidases as well as AAOs were followed by enzyme measurement. The Mn(2+)-oxidizing activity increased nearly 30-fold (from 10 to 281Ul(-1)) after ADOR addition. Two enzymes responsible for that activity were successfully purified (BadVPI and BadVPII). To prove a potential involvement of these enzymes in the degradation of aromatic compounds, BadVPI was tested for its ability to degrade the recalcitrant dehydrogenated polymer (DHP, synthetic lignin). These results show that natural phenol-rich materials act as secretome-stimulating additives. Applying these substances enables us to investigate fungal degradation and detoxification processes and gives more insight into the complexity of fungal secretomes, e.g. of white-rot fungi.
PXD000616	25069693	Discovery-based protein expression profiling identifies distinct subgroups and pathways in leiomyosarcomas. 	Discovery-Based Protein Expression Profiling Identifies Distinct Subgroups and Pathways in Leiomyosarcomas	sarcoma human label-free	Soft tissue sarcomas (STS) are malignant tumors of mesenchymal origin. A substantial portion of these tumors exhibits complex karyotypes and lack characterized chromosomal aberrations. Owing to such properties, both histopathologic and molecular classification of these tumors has been a significant challenge. This study examines the protein expression of a large number of human STS, including subtype heterogeneity, using two-dimensional gel proteomics. In addition, detailed proteome profiles of a subset of pleomorphic STS specimens using an in-depth mass-spectrometry approach identified subgroups within the leiomyosarcomas with distinct protein expression patterns. Pathways analysis indicates that key biologic nodes like apoptosis, cytoskeleton remodeling, and telomere regulation are differentially regulated among these subgroups. Finally, investigating the similarities between protein expression of leiomyosarcomas and undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcomas (UPS) revealed similar protein expression profiles for these tumors, in comparison with pleomorphic leiomyosarcomas. IMPLICATIONS: These results suggest that UPS tumors share a similar lineage as leiomyosarcomas and are likely to originate from different stages of differentiation from mesenchymal stem cells to smooth muscle cells.
PXD000640	25069755	Analysis of the interactome of ribosomal protein S19 mutants. 	Analysis of the interactome of RPS19 mutants	Diamond-Blackfan anemia, protein-protein interaction in ribosome	Diamond-Blackfan anemia, characterized by defective erythroid progenitor maturation, is caused in one-fourth of cases by mutations of ribosomal protein S19 (RPS19), which is a component of the ribosomal 40S subunit. Our previous work described proteins interacting with RPS19 with the aim to determine its functions. Here, two RPS19 mutants, R62W and R101H, have been selected to compare their interactomes versus the wild-type protein one, using the same functional proteomic approach that we employed to characterize RPS19 interactome. Mutations R62W and R101H impair RPS19 ability to associate with the ribosome. Results presented in this paper highlight the striking differences between the interactomes of wild-type and mutant RPS19 proteins. In particular, mutations abolish interactions with proteins having splicing, translational and helicase activity, thus confirming the role of RPS19 in RNA processing/metabolism and translational control. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000640 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000640).
PXD001018	25069953	Evolutionary acquisition of cysteines determines FOXO paralog-specific redox signaling. 	Divergent Cysteines in FOXO3 and FOXO4 Mediate Paralog-Specific Redox Signaling	Foxo cysteine-dependent interactors	Reduction-oxidation (redox) signaling, the translation of an oxidative intracellular environment into a cellular response, is mediated by the reversible oxidation of specific cysteine thiols. The latter can result in disulfide formation between protein hetero- or homodimers that alter protein function until the local cellular redox environment has returned to the basal state. We have previously shown that this mechanism promotes the nuclear localization and activity of the Forkhead Box O4 (FOXO4) transcription factor. AIMS: In this study, we sought to investigate whether redox signaling differentially controls the human FOXO3 and FOXO4 paralogs. RESULTS: We present evidence that FOXO3 and FOXO4 have acquired paralog-specific cysteines throughout vertebrate evolution. Using a proteome-wide screen, we identified previously unknown redox-dependent FOXO3 interaction partners. The nuclear import receptors Importin-7 (IPO7) and Importin-8 (IPO8) form a disulfide-dependent heterodimer with FOXO3, which is required for its reactive oxygen species-induced nuclear translocation. FOXO4 does not interact with IPO7 or IPO8. INNOVATION AND CONCLUSION: IPO7 and IPO8 control the nuclear import of FOXO3, but not FOXO4, in a redox-sensitive and disulfide-dependent manner. Our findings suggest that evolutionary acquisition of cysteines has contributed to regulatory divergence of FOXO paralogs, and that phylogenetic analysis can aid in the identification of cysteines involved in redox signaling.
PXD001019	25073701	Quantitative proteomic analysis reveals posttranslational responses to aneuploidy in yeast. 	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Reveals Posttranslational Responses to Aneuploidy in Yeast	SILAC, TMT, aneuploidy, saccharomyces cerevisiae	Aneuploidy causes severe developmental defects and is a near universal feature of tumor cells. Despite its profound effects, the cellular processes affected by aneuploidy are not well characterized. Here, we examined the consequences of aneuploidy on the proteome of aneuploid budding yeast strains. We show that although protein levels largely scale with gene copy number, subunits of multi-protein complexes are notable exceptions. Posttranslational mechanisms attenuate their expression when their encoding genes are in excess. Our proteomic analyses further revealed a novel aneuploidy-associated protein expression signature characteristic of altered metabolism and redox homeostasis. Indeed aneuploid cells harbor increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Interestingly, increased protein turnover attenuates ROS levels and this novel aneuploidy-associated signature and improves the fitness of most aneuploid strains. Our results show that aneuploidy causes alterations in metabolism and redox homeostasis. Cells respond to these alterations through both transcriptional and posttranscriptional mechanisms.
PXD001154	25074979	MDM2-mediated degradation of SIRT6 phosphorylated by AKT1 promotes tumorigenesis and trastuzumab resistance in breast cancer. 	SIRT6 phosphorylation -  MDM2-mediated degradation of SIRT6 phosphorylated by AKT1 promotes tumorigenesis and trastuzumab resistance in breast cancer	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), SIRT6, phosphorylation	Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is associated with longevity and is also a tumor suppressor. Identification of molecular regulators of SIRT6 might enable its activation therapeutically in cancer patients. In various breast cancer cell lines, we found that SIRT6 was phosphorylated at Ser(338) by the kinase AKT1, which induced the interaction and ubiquitination of SIRT6 by MDM2, targeting SIRT6 for protease-dependent degradation. The survival of breast cancer patients positively correlated with the abundance of SIRT6 and inversely correlated with the phosphorylation of SIRT6 at Ser(338). In a panel of breast tumor biopsies, SIRT6 abundance inversely correlated with the abundance of phosphorylated AKT. Inhibiting AKT or preventing SIRT6 phosphorylation by mutating Ser(338) prevented the degradation of SIRT6 mediated by MDM2, suppressed the proliferation of breast cancer cells in culture, and inhibited the growth of breast tumor xenografts in mice. Overexpressing MDM2 decreased the abundance of SIRT6 in cells, whereas overexpressing an E3 ligase-deficient MDM2 or knocking down endogenous MDM2 increased SIRT6 abundance. Trastuzumab (known as Herceptin) is a drug that targets a specific receptor common in some breast cancers, and knocking down SIRT6 increased the survival of a breast cancer cell exposed to trastuzumab. Overexpression of a nonphosphorylatable SIRT6 mutant increased trastuzumab sensitivity in a resistant breast cancer cell line. Thus, stabilizing SIRT6 may be a clinical strategy for overcoming trastuzumab resistance in breast cancer patients.
PXD000624	25080971	Integration of proteomic and transcriptomic profiles identifies a novel PDGF-MYC network in human smooth muscle cells. 	SILAC analysis of PDGF-treated primary bladder smooth muscle cells	MaxQuant, PDGF, Quantitive Proteomics, SILAC, smooth muscle cells	BACKGROUND: Platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) has been implicated in the proliferation, migration and synthetic activities of smooth muscle cells that characterize physiologic and pathologic tissue remodeling in hollow organs. However, neither the molecular basis of PDGFR-regulated signaling webs, nor the extent to which specific components within these networks could be exploited for therapeutic benefit has been fully elucidated. RESULTS: Expression profiling and quantitative proteomics analysis of PDGF-treated primary human bladder smooth muscle cells identified 1,695 genes and 241 proteins as differentially expressed versus non-treated cells. Analysis of gene expression data revealed MYC, JUN, EGR1, MYB, RUNX1, as the transcription factors most significantly networked with up-regulated genes. Forty targets were significantly altered at both the mRNA and protein levels. Proliferation, migration and angiogenesis were the biological processes most significantly associated with this signature, and MYC was the most highly networked master regulator. Alterations in master regulators and gene targets were validated in PDGF-stimulated smooth muscle cells in vitro and in a model of bladder injury in vivo. Pharmacologic inhibition of MYC and JUN confirmed their role in SMC proliferation and migration. Network analysis identified the diaphanous-related formin 3 as a novel PDGF target regulated by MYC and JUN, which was necessary for PDGF-stimulated lamellipodium formation. CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide the first systems-level analysis of the PDGF-regulated transcriptome and proteome in normal smooth muscle cells. The analyses revealed an extensive cohort of PDGF-dependent biological processes and connected key transcriptional effectors to their regulation, significantly expanding current knowledge of PDGF-stimulated signaling cascades. These observations also implicate MYC as a novel target for pharmacological intervention in fibroproliferative expansion of smooth muscle, and potentially in cancers in which PDGFR-dependent signaling or MYC activation promote tumor progression.
PXD001254	25086240	Qualitative and quantitative peptidomic and proteomic approaches to phenotyping chicken semen. 	Qualitative and quantitative analysis of chicken semen	chicken, label free, seminal plasma, spermatozoa	Understanding of the avian male gamete biology is essential to improve the conservation of genetic resources and performance in farming. In this study, the chicken semen peptidome/proteome and the molecular phenotype related to sperm quality were investigated. Spermatozoa (SPZ) and corresponding seminal plasma (SP) from 11 males with different fertilizing capacity were analyzed using three quantitative strategies (fluid and intact cells MALDI-MS, SDS-PAGE combined to LC-MS/MS with spectral counting and XIC methods). Individual MALDI profiling in combination with top-down MS allowed to characterize specific profiles per male and to identify 16 biomolecules (e.g.VMO1, AvBD10 and AvBD9 including polymorphism). Qualitative analysis identified 1165 proteins mainly involved in oxidoreduction mechanisms, energy processes, proteolysis and protein localization. Comparative analyses between the most and the least fertile males were performed. The enzymes involved in energy metabolism, respiratory chain or oxido-reduction activity were over-represented in SPZ of the most fertile males. The SP of the most and the least fertile males differed also on many proteins (e.g. ACE, AvBD10 and AvBD9, NEL precursor, acrosin). Thus proteomic is a "phenomic molecular tool" that may help to discriminate avian males on their reproductive capacity. The data have been deposited with ProteomeXchange (identifiers PXD000287 and PXD001254). BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This peptidomic and proteomic study i) characterized for the first time the semen protein composition of the main domestic avian species (Gallus gallus) by analysis of ejaculated spermatozoa and corresponding seminal plasma; ii) established a characteristic molecular phenotype distinguishing semen and males at an individual level; and iii) proposedthe first evidence of biomarkers related to fertility.
PXD001032	25088745	The LKB1-salt-inducible kinase pathway functions as a key gluconeogenic suppressor in the liver. 	SIK2 phosphorylation in response to glucagon or insulin in murine hepatocytes	AMPK, AMPK-related kinase, CREB, CRTC2, LKB1, SIK2, cAMP, glucagon, hepatic glucose production, hepatocytes, insulin	LKB1 is a master kinase that regulates metabolism and growth through adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and 12 other closely related kinases. Liver-specific ablation of LKB1 causes increased glucose production in hepatocytes in vitro and hyperglycaemia in fasting mice in vivo. Here we report that the salt-inducible kinases (SIK1, 2 and 3), members of the AMPK-related kinase family, play a key role as gluconeogenic suppressors downstream of LKB1 in the liver. The selective SIK inhibitor HG-9-91-01 promotes dephosphorylation of transcriptional co-activators CRTC2/3 resulting in enhanced gluconeogenic gene expression and glucose production in hepatocytes, an effect that is abolished when an HG-9-91-01-insensitive mutant SIK is introduced or LKB1 is ablated. Although SIK2 was proposed as a key regulator of insulin-mediated suppression of gluconeogenesis, we provide genetic evidence that liver-specific ablation of SIK2 alone has no effect on gluconeogenesis and insulin does not modulate SIK2 phosphorylation or activity. Collectively, we demonstrate that the LKB1-SIK pathway functions as a key gluconeogenic gatekeeper in the liver.
PXD015748	25092142	Mapping the HLA ligandome landscape of acute myeloid leukemia: a targeted approach toward peptide-based immunotherapy. 	Mapping the HLA ligandome landscape of acute myeloid leukemia: a targeted approach toward peptide-based immunotherapy	acute myeloid leukemia	Identification of physiologically relevant peptide vaccine targets calls for the direct analysis of the entirety of naturally presented human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligands, termed the HLA ligandome. In this study, we implemented this direct approach using immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry to define acute myeloid leukemia (AML)-associated peptide vaccine targets. Mapping the HLA class I ligandomes of 15 AML patients and 35 healthy controls, more than 25 000 different naturally presented HLA ligands were identified. Target prioritization based on AML exclusivity and high presentation frequency in the AML cohort identified a panel of 132 LiTAAs (ligandome-derived tumor-associated antigens), and 341 corresponding HLA ligands (LiTAPs (ligandome-derived tumor-associated peptides)) represented subset independently in >20% of AML patients. Functional characterization of LiTAPs by interferon-gamma ELISPOT (Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSpot) and intracellular cytokine staining confirmed AML-specific CD8(+) T-cell recognition. Of note, our platform identified HLA ligands representing several established AML-associated antigens (e.g. NPM1, MAGED1, PRTN3, MPO, WT1), but found 80% of them to be also represented in healthy control samples. Mapping of HLA class II ligandomes provided additional CD4(+) T-cell epitopes and potentially synergistic embedded HLA ligands, allowing for complementation of a multipeptide vaccine for the immunotherapy of AML.
PXD001120	25096814	Analysis of purified wild type and mutant adenovirus particles by SILAC based quantitative proteomics. 	Adenovirus particles SILAC analysis of different batches and mutant virus	human adenovirus purified particles	We used SILAC (stable isotope labelling of amino acids in cell culture) and high-throughput quantitative MS mass spectrometry to analyse the protein composition of highly purified WT wild type adenoviruses, mutant adenoviruses lacking an internal protein component (protein V) and recombinant adenoviruses of the type commonly used in gene therapy, including one virus that had been used in a clinical trial. We found that the viral protein abundance and composition were consistent across all types of virus examined except for the virus lacking protein V, which also had reduced amounts of another viral core protein, protein VII. In all the samples analysed we found no evidence of consistent packaging or contamination with cellular proteins. We believe this technique is a powerful method to analyse the protein composition of this important gene therapy vector and genetically engineered or synthetic virus-like particles. The raw data have been deposited at proteomexchange, identifer PXD001120.
PXD001176	25096996	Down-regulation of Ras-related protein Rab 5C-dependent endocytosis and glycolysis in cisplatin-resistant ovarian cancer cell lines. 	Down-regulation of Rab 5C-dependent Endocytosis and Glycolysis in Cisplatin-resistant Ovarian Cancer Cell Lines	Cisplatin, Rab 5C, drug-resistance, ovarian cancer cell line	Drug resistance poses a major challenge to ovarian cancer treatment. Understanding mechanisms of drug resistance is important for finding new therapeutic targets. In the present work, a cisplatin-resistant ovarian cancer cell line A2780-DR was established with a resistance index of 6.64. The cellular accumulation of cisplatin was significantly reduced in A2780-DR cells as compared with A2780 cells consistent with the general character of drug resistance. Quantitative proteomic analysis identified 340 differentially expressed proteins between A2780 and A2780-DR cells, which involve in diverse cellular processes, including metabolic process, cellular component biogenesis, cellular processes, and stress responses. Expression levels of Ras-related proteins Rab 5C and Rab 11B in A2780-DR cells were lower than those in A2780 cells as confirmed by real-time quantitative PCR and Western blotting. The short hairpin (sh)RNA-mediated knockdown of Rab 5C in A2780 cells resulted in markedly increased resistance to cisplatin whereas overexpression of Rab 5C in A2780-DR cells increases sensitivity to cisplatin, demonstrating that Rab 5C-dependent endocytosis plays an important role in cisplatin resistance. Our results also showed that expressions of glycolytic enzymes pyruvate kinase, glucose-6-phosphate isomerase, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase, lactate dehydrogenase, and phosphoglycerate kinase 1 were down-regulated in drug resistant cells, indicating drug resistance in ovarian cancer is directly associated with a decrease in glycolysis. Furthermore, it was found that glutathione reductase were up-regulated in A2780-DR, whereas vimentin, HSP90, and Annexin A1 and A2 were down-regulated. Taken together, our results suggest that drug resistance in ovarian cancer cell line A2780 is caused by multifactorial traits, including the down-regulation of Rab 5C-dependent endocytosis of cisplatin, glycolytic enzymes, and vimentin, and up-regulation of antioxidant proteins, suggesting Rab 5C is a potential target for treatment of drug-resistant ovarian cancer. This constitutes a further step toward a comprehensive understanding of drug resistance in ovarian cancer.
PXD001100	25097252	Sumoylation controls host anti-bacterial response to the gut invasive pathogen Shigella flexneri. 	Human Sumoylome (SUMO-2) upon bacterial infection	HeLa, SUMO-2, Shigella flexneri, TAP TAG	Shigella flexneri, the etiological agent of bacillary dysentery, invades the human colonic epithelium and causes its massive inflammatory destruction. Little is known about the post-translational modifications implicated in regulating the host defense pathway against Shigella. Here, we show that SUMO-2 impairs Shigella invasion of epithelial cells in vitro. Using mice haploinsufficient for the SUMO E2 enzyme, we found that sumoylation regulates intestinal permeability and is required to restrict epithelial invasion and control mucosal inflammation. Quantitative proteomics reveals that Shigella infection alters the sumoylation status of a restricted set of transcriptional regulators involved in intestinal functions and inflammation. Consistent with this, sumoylation restricts the pro-inflammatory transcriptional response of Shigella-infected guts. Altogether, our results show that the SUMO pathway is an essential component of host innate protection, as it reduces the efficiency of two key steps of shigellosis: invasion and inflammatory destruction of the intestinal epithelium.
PXD001058	25104955	Unravelling the proteomic profile of rice meiocytes during early meiosis. 	Unravelling the proteomic profile of rice meiocytes during early meiosis	MS/MS, SKP1 proteins, chromosome pairing, chromosome recognition, cytoskeleton, meiocytes proteome, prophase I	Transfer of genetic traits from wild or related species into cultivated rice is nowadays an important aim in rice breeding. Breeders use genetic crosses to introduce desirable genes from exotic germplasms into cultivated rice varieties. However, in many hybrids there is only a low level of pairing (if existing) and recombination at early meiosis between cultivated rice and wild relative chromosomes. With the objective of getting deeper into the knowledge of the proteins involved in early meiosis, when chromosomes associate correctly in pairs and recombine, the proteome of isolated rice meiocytes has been characterized by nLC-MS/MS at every stage of early meiosis (prophase I). Up to 1316 different proteins have been identified in rice isolated meiocytes in early meiosis, being 422 exclusively identified in early prophase I (leptotene, zygotene, or pachytene). The classification of proteins in functional groups showed that 167 were related to chromatin structure and remodeling, nucleic acid binding, cell-cycle regulation, and cytoskeleton. Moreover, the putative roles of 16 proteins which have not been previously associated to meiosis or were not identified in rice before, are also discussed namely: seven proteins involved in chromosome structure and remodeling, five regulatory proteins [such as SKP1 (OSK), a putative CDK2 like effector], a protein with RNA recognition motifs, a neddylation-related protein, and two microtubule-related proteins. Revealing the proteins involved in early meiotic processes could provide a valuable tool kit to manipulate chromosome associations during meiosis in rice breeding programs. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with the PXD001058 identifier.
PXD000770	25109464	Cellular and proteomics analysis of the endomembrane system from the unicellular Entamoeba histolytica. 	Cellular and proteomics analysis of the endomembrane system from the unicellular Entamoeba histolytica	endomembrance vesicles proteomics	Entamoeba histolytica is the protozoan parasite agent of amoebiasis, an infectious disease of the human intestine and liver. Specific active pathogenic factors are secreted toward the external milieu upon interaction of the parasite with human tissue. Trafficking dynamics and secretion of these factors is not known and characterization of the dynamics interplay of subcellular compartments such as the ER or Golgi apparatus is still pending. In this work, we took advantage of cell fractionation and a wide proteomic analysis to search for principal components of the endomembrane system in E. histolytica. Over 1500 proteins were identified and the two top categories contained components of trafficking machinery and GTPases. Trafficking related proteins account for over 100 markers from the ER, Golgi, MVB, and retromers. The lack of important components supporting Golgi polarization was also highlighted. The data further describe principal components of the endosomal traffic highlighting Alix in isolated vesicles and during parasite division. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This work represents the first in-depth proteomics analysis of subcellular compartments in E. histolytica and allows a detailed map of vesicle traffic components in an ancient single-cell organism that lacks a stereotypical ER and Golgi apparatus to be established.
PXD000606	25109467	Proteomic analysis of protein methylation in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Proteomic Analysis of Protein Methylation in the Yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae	LC/MS/MS, Methylation, Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Protein methylation catalyzed by SAM-dependent methyltransferase represents a major PTM involved in many important biological processes. Because methylation can occur on nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur centers and multiple methylation states exist on the nitrogen centers, methylproteome remains poorly documented. Here we present the methylation by isotope labeled SAM (MILS) strategy for a highly-confident analysis of the methylproteome of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae based on the online multidimensional muHPLC/MS/MS technology. We identified 43 methylated proteins, containing 68 methylation events associated with 64 methylation sites. More than 90% of these methylation events were previously unannotated in Uniprot database. Our results indicated, 1) over 2.6% of identified S. cerevisiae proteins are methylated, 2) the amino acid residue preference of protein methylation follows the order Lys>>Arg>Asp>Asn=~Gln=~His>Glu>Cys, and 3) the methylation state on nitrogen center is largely exclusive. As our dataset covers various types of methylation centers, it provides rich information about yeast methylproteome and should significantly contribute to the field of protein methylation. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: In this paper, we presented the methylation by isotope labeled SAM (MILS) strategy for a highly-confident analysis of the methylproteome of the yeast S. cerevisiae and collected a comprehensive list of proteins methylated on a set of distinct residues (K, R, N, E, D, Q, H, C). Our study provided useful information about the amino acid residue preference and methylation state distributions on nitrogen centers of protein methylation in S. cerevisiae.
PXD000816	25114174	Exploration of salivary proteins in buffalo: an approach to find marker proteins for estrus. 	Salivary proteins in buffalo with special emphasis to estrous cycle	SDS-PAGE, estrus-specific proteins, water buffaloes, whole saliva	Saliva is considered as the best source of biological material for biomarker discovery studies since it is noninvasive in comparison to other body sources. Usually buffalo cannot precisely express estrus signals. Hence, there is a need for concise methods to detect the time of estrus to ensure the success of artificial insemination. Therefore, we have established a reference proteome map on the whole saliva of buffalo during their estrous cycle with special reference to estrus. Nearly 12 bands have been observed using sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of whole saliva. Collectively, 179 proteins are identified with respect to different phases of the estrous cycle using mass spectrometry. On the whole, 37 proteins are exclusively expressed in the estrus phase, which include beta-enolase, Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4, clusterin, lactoperoxidase, serotransferrin, TGM3, UBA6, and transducin. Among the proteins, beta-enolase and TLR 4 were validated, and their specific expression was found during estrus as compared to other phases using immunoblot. The functional annotation reveals many as binding proteins in the estrus saliva when compared to the other phases. The present findings conclude that the proteomic approach adopted to identify the proteins from buffalo saliva around the estrous cycle may provide a new tool for screening the estrus phase. The results further conclude that the specific expression of beta-enolase and TLR 4 can be taken as the indicator of estrus in buffalo.
PXD000459	25114211	Mapping of SUMO sites and analysis of SUMOylation changes induced by external stimuli. 	Identification of SUMO sites by LC-MSMS	HeLa cells, SILAC, SUMO, immunocapture	SUMOylation is an essential ubiquitin-like modification involved in important biological processes in eukaryotic cells. Identification of small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO)-conjugated residues in proteins is critical for understanding the role of SUMOylation but remains experimentally challenging. We have set up a powerful and high-throughput method combining quantitative proteomics and peptide immunocapture to map SUMOylation sites and have analyzed changes in SUMOylation in response to stimuli. With this technique we identified 295 SUMO1 and 167 SUMO2 sites on endogenous substrates of human cells. We further used this strategy to characterize changes in SUMOylation induced by listeriolysin O, a bacterial toxin that impairs the host cell SUMOylation machinery, and identified several classes of host proteins specifically deSUMOylated in response to this toxin. Our approach constitutes an unprecedented tool, broadly applicable to various SUMO-regulated cellular processes in health and disease.
PXD000715	25116090	The phosphoproteome of Aspergillus nidulans reveals functional association with cellular processes involved in morphology and secretion. 	Phosphoproteome of filamentous fungus  Aspergillus nidulans	Aspoergillus nidulans Phosphoproteome TiO2	We describe the first phosphoproteome of the model filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. Phosphopeptides were enriched using titanium dioxide, separated using a convenient ultra-long reverse phase gradient, and identified using a "high-high" strategy (high mass accuracy on the parent and fragment ions) with higher-energy collisional dissociation. Using this approach 1801 phosphosites, from 1637 unique phosphopeptides, were identified. Functional classification revealed phosphoproteins were overrepresented under GO categories related to fungal morphogenesis: "sites of polar growth," "vesicle mediated transport," and "cytoskeleton organization." In these same GO categories, kinase-substrate analysis of phosphoproteins revealed the majority were target substrates of CDK and CK2 kinase families, indicating these kinase families play a prominent role in fungal morphogenesis. Kinase-substrate analysis also identified 57 substrates for kinases known to regulate secretion of hydrolytic enzymes (e.g. PkaA, SchA, and An-Snf1). Altogether this data will serve as a benchmark that can be used to elucidate regulatory networks functionally associated with fungal morphogenesis and secretion. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000715 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000715).
PXD000862	25116144	Metaproteomics: Evaluation of protein extraction from activated sludge. 	Metaproteomics: Optimization and evaluation of protein extraction from activated sludge	Metaproteomics, activated sludge, denitrification, nitrification, sewage, wastewater	Metaproteomic studies of full-scale activated sludge systems require reproducible protein extraction methods. A systematic evaluation of three different extractions protocols, each in combination with three different methods of cell lysis, and a commercial kit were evaluated. Criteria used for comparison of each method included the extracted protein concentration and the number of identified proteins and peptides as well as their phylogenetic, cell localization and functional distribution and quantitative reproducibility. Furthermore, the advantage of using specific metagenomes and a 2-step database approach was illustrated. The results recommend a protocol for protein extraction from activated sludge based on the protein extraction reagent B-Per and bead beating. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000862 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000862).
PXD000706	25118235	A new method to determine in vivo interactomes reveals binding of the Legionella pneumophila effector PieE to multiple rab GTPases. 	Interactome of the Legionella pneumophila effector PieE	Legionella pneumophila	Legionella pneumophila, the causative agent of Legionnaires' disease, uses the Dot/Icm type IV secretion system (T4SS) to translocate more than 300 effectors into host cells, where they subvert host cell signaling. The function and host cell targets of most effectors remain unknown. PieE is a 69-kDa Dot/Icm effector containing three coiled-coil (CC) regions and 2 transmembrane (TM) helices followed by a fourth CC region. Here, we report that PieE dimerized by an interaction between CC3 and CC4. We found that ectopically expressed PieE localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and induced the formation of organized smooth ER, while following infection PieE localized to the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV). To identify the physiological targets of PieE during infection, we established a new purification method for which we created an A549 cell line stably expressing the Escherichia coli biotin ligase BirA and infected the cells with L. pneumophila expressing PieE fused to a BirA-specific biotinylation site and a hexahistidine tag. Following tandem Ni(2+) nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA) and streptavidin affinity chromatography, the effector-target complexes were analyzed by mass spectrometry. This revealed interactions of PieE with multiple host cell proteins, including the Rab GTPases 1a, 1b, 2a, 5c, 6a, 7, and 10. Binding of the Rab GTPases, which was validated by yeast two-hybrid binding assays, was mediated by the PieE CC1 and CC2. In summary, using a novel, highly specific strategy to purify effector complexes from infected cells, which is widely applicable to other pathogens, we identified PieE as a multidomain LCV protein with promiscuous Rab GTPase-binding capacity. IMPORTANCE: The respiratory pathogen Legionella pneumophila uses the Dot/Icm type IV secretion system to translocate more than 300 effector proteins into host cells. The function of most effectors in infection remains unknown. One of the bottlenecks for their characterization is the identification of target proteins. Frequently used in vitro approaches are not applicable to all effectors and suffer from high rates of false positives or missed interactions, as they are not performed in the context of an infection. Here, we determine key functional domains of the effector PieE and describe a new method to identify host cell targets under physiological infection conditions. Our approach, which is applicable to other pathogens, uncovered the interaction of PieE with several proteins involved in membrane trafficking, in particular Rab GTPases, revealing new details of the Legionella infection strategy and demonstrating the potential of this method to greatly advance our understanding of the molecular basis of infection.
PXD000950	25120180	Large-scale analysis of posttranslational modifications in the hippocampus of patients with Alzheimer's disease using pI shift and label-free quantification without enrichment. 	Human hippocampus LC-MSMS     .	Human brain hippocampus LC-MSMS	Posttranslational modifications modulate protein function in cells. Global analysis of multiple posttranslational modifications can provide insight into physiology and disease, but presents formidable challenges. In the present study, we used a technique that does not require target enrichment to analyze alterations in the phosphorylation and ubiquitination of proteins from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Guided by our previous findings, we applied three strategies to further our understanding of the dysregulation of posttranslationally modified proteins. We first identified phosphorylation sites by determining peptide pI shifts using OFFGEL. Second, using tandem mass spectrometry, we determined the ubiquitination status of the proteins using an assay for a trypsin digestion remnant of ubiquitination (Gly-Gly). Third, for large-scale discovery, we quantified the global differences in protein expression. Of the proteins expressed in AD tissue at levels of 2.0 or greater compared with controls, 60 were phosphorylated and 56 were ubiquitinated. Of the proteins expressed at levels of 0.5 or lower compared with controls, 81 were phosphorylated and 56 were ubiquitinated. Approximately 98 % of the phosphopeptides exhibited a pI shift. We identified 112 new phosphorylation sites (51.38 %), and 92 new ubiquitination sites (96.84 %). Taken together, our findings suggest that analysis of the alterations in posttranslationally modified proteins may contribute to understanding the pathogenesis of AD and other diseases.
PXD001056	25122472	Label-free protein quantification for plant Golgi protein localization and abundance. 	Label free IMS-MSE protein quantification for plant Golgi protein localisation and abundance	HDMSE, IMS-MSE, LOPIMS, LOPIT, MSE, absolute quantitation, data-independent acquisition, organelle proteomics	The proteomic composition of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) Golgi apparatus is currently reasonably well documented; however, little is known about the relative abundances between different proteins within this compartment. Accurate quantitative information of Golgi resident proteins is of great importance: it facilitates a better understanding of the biochemical processes that take place within this organelle, especially those of different polysaccharide synthesis pathways. Golgi resident proteins are challenging to quantify because the abundance of this organelle is relatively low within the cell. In this study, an organelle fractionation approach targeting the Golgi apparatus was combined with a label-free quantitative mass spectrometry (data-independent acquisition method using ion mobility separation known as LC-IMS-MS(E) [or HDMS(E)]) to simultaneously localize proteins to the Golgi apparatus and assess their relative quantity. In total, 102 Golgi-localized proteins were quantified. These data show that organelle fractionation in conjunction with label-free quantitative mass spectrometry is a powerful and relatively simple tool to access protein organelle localization and their relative abundances. The findings presented open a unique view on the organization of the plant Golgi apparatus, leading toward unique hypotheses centered on the biochemical processes of this organelle.
PXD001163	25124718	Proteomic analysis of the Plasmodium male gamete reveals the key role for glycolysis in flagellar motility. 	Proteomic analysis of the Plasmodium male gamete reveals a key role for glycolysis in flagellar motility	Plasmodium, gametogenesis, male gametes	BACKGROUND: Gametogenesis and fertilization play crucial roles in malaria transmission. While male gametes are thought to be amongst the simplest eukaryotic cells and are proven targets of transmission blocking immunity, little is known about their molecular organization. For example, the pathway of energy metabolism that power motility, a feature that facilitates gamete encounter and fertilization, is unknown. METHODS: Plasmodium berghei microgametes were purified and analysed by whole-cell proteomic analysis for the first time. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001163. RESULTS: 615 proteins were recovered, they included all male gamete proteins described thus far. Amongst them were the 11 enzymes of the glycolytic pathway. The hexose transporter was localized to the gamete plasma membrane and it was shown that microgamete motility can be suppressed effectively by inhibitors of this transporter and of the glycolytic pathway. CONCLUSIONS: This study describes the first whole-cell proteomic analysis of the malaria male gamete. It identifies glycolysis as the likely exclusive source of energy for flagellar beat, and provides new insights in original features of Plasmodium flagellar organization.
PXD000380	25128556	Global mass spectrometry and transcriptomics array based drug profiling provides novel insight into glucosamine induced endoplasmic reticulum stress. 	KMH2 control treatment -  Global mass spectrometry and transcriptomics array based drug profiling provides novel insight into glucosamine induced ER stress	KMH2 PTMs drug profilling	We investigated the molecular effects of glucosamine supplements, a popular and safe alternative to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, for decreasing pain, inflammation, and maintaining healthy joints. Numerous studies have reported an array of molecular effects after glucosamine treatment. We questioned whether the differences in the effects observed in previous studies were associated with the focus on a specific subproteome or with the use of specific cell lines or tissues. To address this question, global mass spectrometry- and transcription array-based glucosamine drug profiling was performed on malignant cell lines from different stages of lymphocyte development. We combined global label-free MS-based protein quantitation with an open search for modifications to obtain the best possible proteome coverage. Our data were largely consistent with previous studies in a variety of cellular models. We mainly observed glucosamine induced O-GlcNAcylation/O-GalNAcylation (O-HexNAcylation); however, we also observed global and local changes in acetylation, methylation, and phosphorylation. For example, our data provides two additional examples of "yin-yang" between phosphorylation and O-HexNAcylation. Furthermore, we mapped novel O-HexNAc sites on GLU2B and calnexin. GLU2B and calnexin are known to be located in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and involved in protein folding and quality control. The O-HexNAc sites were regulated by glucosamine treatment and correlated with the up-regulation of the ER stress marker GRP78. The occupancy of O-HexNAc on GLU2B and calnexin sites differed between the cytosolic and nuclear fractions with a higher occupancy in the cytosolic fraction. Based on our data we propose the hypothesis that O-HexNAc either inactivates calnexin and/or targets it to the cytosolic fraction. Further, we hypothesize that O-HexNAcylation induced by glucosamine treatment enhances protein trafficking.
PXD005900	25131207	Reconstruction of insulin signal flow from phosphoproteome and metabolome data. 	Phosphoprotoemics analysis of FAO cells stimulated with insulin	insulin, rat hepatoma cell line	Cellular homeostasis is regulated by signals through multiple molecular networks that include protein phosphorylation and metabolites. However, where and when the signal flows through a network and regulates homeostasis has not been explored. We have developed a reconstruction method for the signal flow based on time-course phosphoproteome and metabolome data, using multiple databases, and have applied it to acute action of insulin, an important hormone for metabolic homeostasis. An insulin signal flows through a network, through signaling pathways that involve 13 protein kinases, 26 phosphorylated metabolic enzymes, and 35 allosteric effectors, resulting in quantitative changes in 44 metabolites. Analysis of the network reveals that insulin induces phosphorylation and activation of liver-type phosphofructokinase 1, thereby controlling a key reaction in glycolysis. We thus provide a versatile method of reconstruction of signal flow through the network using phosphoproteome and metabolome data.
PXD000806	25145454	Comparative phosphoproteome analysis of the developing grains in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) under well-watered and water-deficit conditions. 	wheat seed phosphoproteome under water deficit	bread wheat, drought response and defense, phosphoproteome, seed development, water stress	Wheat (Triticum aestivum), one of the most important cereal crops, is often threatened by drought. In this study, water deficit significantly reduced the height of plants and yield of grains. To explore further the effect of drought stress on the development and yield of grains, we first performed a large scale phosphoproteome analysis of developing grains in wheat. A total of 590 unique phosphopeptides, representing 471 phosphoproteins, were identified under well-watered conditions. Motif-X analysis showed that four motifs were enriched, including [sP], [Rxxs], [sDxE], and [sxD]. Through comparative phosphoproteome analysis between well-watered and water-deficit conditions, we found that 63 unique phosphopeptides, corresponding to 61 phosphoproteins, showed significant changes in phosphorylation level (>=2-fold intensities). Functional analysis suggested that some of these proteins may be involved in signal transduction, embryo and endosperm development of grains, and drought response and defense under water-deficit conditions. Moreover, we also found that some chaperones may play important roles in protein refolding or degradation when the plant is subjected to water stress. These results provide a detailed insight into the stress response and defense mechanisms of developmental grains at the phosphoproteome level. They also suggested some potential candidates for further study of transgenosis and drought stress as well as incorporation into molecular breeding for drought resistance.
PXD001106	25151659	A highly efficient tumor-infiltrating MDSC differentiation system for discovery of anti-neoplastic targets, which circumvents the need for tumor establishment in mice. 	proteomic analysis of 293T-MDSCs	myeloid cells	Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) exhibit potent immunosuppressive activities in cancer. MDSCs infiltrate tumors and strongly inhibit cancer-specific cytotoxic T cells. Their mechanism of differentiation and identification of MDSC-specific therapeutic targets are major areas of interest. We have devised a highly efficient and rapid method to produce very large numbers of melanoma-infiltrating MDSCs ex vivo without inducing tumors in mice. These MDSCs were used to study their differentiation, immunosuppressive activities and were compared to non-neoplastic counterparts and conventional dendritic cells using unbiased systems biology approaches. Differentially activated/deactivated pathways caused by cell type differences and by the melanoma tumor environment were identified. MDSCs increased the expression of trafficking receptors to sites of inflammation, endocytosis, changed lipid metabolism, and up-regulated detoxification pathways such as the expression of P450 reductase. These studies uncovered more than 60 potential novel therapeutic targets. As a proof of principle, we demonstrate that P450 reductase is the target of pro-drugs such as Paclitaxel, which depletes MDSCs following chemotherapy in animal models of melanoma and in human patients. Conversely, P450 reductase protects MDSCs against the cytotoxic actions of other chemotherapy drugs such as Irinotecan, which is ineffective for the treatment of melanoma.
PXD001026	25152083	Systematic evaluation of quantotypic peptides for targeted analysis of the human kinome. 	Systematic evaluation of quantotypic peptides for targeted analysis of the human kinome	Bioinformatics, Quantotypic, SRM	In targeted proteomics it is critical that peptides are not only proteotypic but also accurately represent the level of the protein (quantotypic). Numerous approaches are used to identify proteotypic peptides, but quantotypic properties are rarely assessed. We show that measuring ratios of proteotypic peptides across biological samples can be used to empirically identify peptides with good quantotypic properties. We applied this technique to identify quantotypic peptides for 21% of the human kinome.
PXD015549	25153930	Electronic structural flexibility of heterobimetallic Mn/Fe cofactors: R2lox and R2c proteins. 	LCMS quantification of internal crosslink in WT and G68L mutant R2lox proteins from Geobacillus kaustophilus.	R2-like ligand-binding oxidase, R2lox, crosslink, ferritin, metalloprotein, ribonucleotide reductase	The electronic structure of the Mn/Fe cofactor identified in a new class of oxidases (R2lox) described by Andersson and Hoegbom [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2009, 106, 5633] is reported. The R2lox protein is homologous to the small subunit of class Ic ribonucleotide reductase (R2c) but has a completely different in vivo function. Using multifrequency EPR and related pulse techniques, it is shown that the cofactor of R2lox represents an antiferromagnetically coupled Mn(III)/Fe(III) dimer linked by a mu-hydroxo/bis-mu-carboxylato bridging network. The Mn(III) ion is coordinated by a single water ligand. The R2lox cofactor is photoactive, converting into a second form (R2loxPhoto) upon visible illumination at cryogenic temperatures (77 K) that completely decays upon warming. This second, unstable form of the cofactor more closely resembles the Mn(III)/Fe(III) cofactor seen in R2c. It is shown that the two forms of the R2lox cofactor differ primarily in terms of the local site geometry and electronic state of the Mn(III) ion, as best evidenced by a reorientation of its unique (55)Mn hyperfine axis. Analysis of the metal hyperfine tensors in combination with density functional theory (DFT) calculations suggests that this change is triggered by deprotonation of the mu-hydroxo bridge. These results have important consequences for the mixed-metal R2c cofactor and the divergent chemistry R2lox and R2c perform.
PXD001069	25156581	Changes in proteome of the Deltahfq strain derived from Francisella tularensis LVS correspond with its attenuated phenotype. 	Francisella tularensis LVS MSMS spectral library for SRM design	Francisella tularensis LVS, MSMS, spectral library	The posttranscriptional regulatory protein Hfq was shown to be an important determinant of the stress resistance and full virulence in the dangerous human pathogen Francisella tularensis. Transcriptomics brought rather limited clues to the precise contribution of Hfq in virulence. To reveal the molecular basis of the attenuation caused by hfq inactivation, we employed iTRAQ in the present study and compared proteomes of the parent and isogenic Deltahfq strains. We show that Hfq modulates the level of 76 proteins. Most of them show decreased abundance in the incrementhfq mutant, thereby indicating that Hfq widely acts rather as a positive regulator of Francisella gene expression. Several key Francisella virulence factors including those encoded within the Francisella pathogenicity island were found among the downregulated proteins, which is in a good agreement with the attenuated phenotype of the Deltahfq strain. To further validate the iTRAQ exploratory findings, we subsequently performed targeted LC-SRM analysis of selected proteins. This accurate quantification method corroborated the trends found in the iTRAQ data.
PXD000572	25158935	Identification of regulatory networks in HSCs and their immediate progeny via integrated proteome, transcriptome, and DNA methylome analysis. 	Hematopoietic Stem Cell (HSC) and Multipotent Progenitor (MPP1) quantitative proteomics	HSC, hematopoiesis	In this study, we present integrated quantitative proteome, transcriptome, and methylome analyses of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and four multipotent progenitor (MPP) populations. From the characterization of more than 6,000 proteins, 27,000 transcripts, and 15,000 differentially methylated regions (DMRs), we identified coordinated changes associated with early differentiation steps. DMRs show continuous gain or loss of methylation during differentiation, and the overall change in DNA methylation correlates inversely with gene expression at key loci. Our data reveal the differential expression landscape of 493 transcription factors and 682 lncRNAs and highlight specific expression clusters operating in HSCs. We also found an unexpectedly dynamic pattern of transcript isoform regulation, suggesting a critical regulatory role during HSC differentiation, and a cell cycle/DNA repair signature associated with multipotency in MPP2 cells. This study provides a comprehensive genome-wide resource for the functional exploration of molecular, cellular, and epigenetic regulation at the top of the hematopoietic hierarchy.
PXD000612	25159151	Ultradeep human phosphoproteome reveals a distinct regulatory nature of Tyr and Ser/Thr-based signaling. 	Ultra-deep human phosphoproteome reveals different regulatory nature of Tyr and Ser/Thr-based signaling	EGF, HeLa, Mitosis, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, Ultradeep phosphoproteome, benchmarking, machine learning, retention time	Regulatory protein phosphorylation controls normal and pathophysiological signaling in eukaryotic cells. Despite great advances in mass-spectrometry-based proteomics, the extent, localization, and site-specific stoichiometry of this posttranslational modification (PTM) are unknown. Here, we develop a stringent experimental and computational workflow, capable of mapping more than 50,000 distinct phosphorylated peptides in a single human cancer cell line. We detected more than three-quarters of cellular proteins as phosphoproteins and determined very high stoichiometries in mitosis or growth factor signaling by label-free quantitation. The proportion of phospho-Tyr drastically decreases as coverage of the phosphoproteome increases, whereas Ser/Thr sites saturate only for technical reasons. Tyrosine phosphorylation is maintained at especially low stoichiometric levels in the absence of specific signaling events. Unexpectedly, it is enriched on higher-abundance proteins, and this correlates with the substrate KM values of tyrosine kinases. Our data suggest that P-Tyr should be considered a functionally separate PTM of eukaryotic proteomes.
PXD000965	25170432	N-glycosylation site occupancy in human prostaglandin H synthases expressed in Pichia pastoris. 	N-glycosylation site occupancy in human prostaglandin H synthases expressed in Pichia pastoris	N-glycosylation, PGHS, recombinant protein	Prostaglandin H synthases (PGHSs) are N-glycosylated membrane proteins that catalyse the committed step in prostaglandin synthesis. Unlike PGHS-2, the production of recombinant PGHS-1 in non-mammalian expression systems is complicated. The majority of the heterologous enzyme is inactive due to misfolding. Correct N-glycosylation is proposed to be obligatory for proper folding of mammalian PGHSs. In this study, human PGHS-1 and -2 (hPGHS-1 and -2) were expressed in the yeast Pichia pastoris. Recombinant hPGHS-2 was catalytically active, whereas hPGHS-1 was inactive. Accumulation of non-glycosylated hPGHSs was not observed in the crude lysate of the yeast cells. The N-glycosylation patterns of the purified recombinant proteins were characterised using nano-LC/MS/MS. The isoforms exhibited similar N-glycosylation site occupancy. The results indicate that there are more complex grounds for the inactivity of the recombinant hPGHS-1 produced in yeast.
PXD001262	25172955	A pipeline for determining protein-protein interactions and proximities in the cellular milieu. 	Affinity capture of S. cerevisiae protein after glutaraldehyde stabilization	affinity capture, budding yeast, glutaraldehyde	It remains extraordinarily challenging to elucidate endogenous protein-protein interactions and proximities within the cellular milieu. The dynamic nature and the large range of affinities of these interactions augment the difficulty of this undertaking. Among the most useful tools for extracting such information are those based on affinity capture of target bait proteins in combination with mass spectrometric readout of the co-isolated species. Although highly enabling, the utility of affinity-based methods is generally limited by difficulties in distinguishing specific from nonspecific interactors, preserving and isolating all unique interactions including those that are weak, transient, or rapidly exchanging, and differentiating proximal interactions from those that are more distal. Here, we have devised and optimized a set of methods to address these challenges. The resulting pipeline involves flash-freezing cells in liquid nitrogen to preserve the cellular environment at the moment of freezing; cryomilling to fracture the frozen cells into intact micron chunks to allow for rapid access of a chemical reagent and to stabilize the intact endogenous subcellular assemblies and interactors upon thawing; and utilizing the high reactivity of glutaraldehyde to achieve sufficiently rapid stabilization at low temperatures to preserve native cellular interactions. In the course of this work, we determined that relatively low molar ratios of glutaraldehyde to reactive amines within the cellular milieu were sufficient to preserve even labile and transient interactions. This mild treatment enables efficient and rapid affinity capture of the protein assemblies of interest under nondenaturing conditions, followed by bottom-up MS to identify and quantify the protein constituents. For convenience, we have termed this approach Stabilized Affinity Capture Mass Spectrometry. Here, we demonstrate that Stabilized Affinity Capture Mass Spectrometry allows us to stabilize and elucidate local, distant, and transient protein interactions within complex cellular milieux, many of which are not observed in the absence of chemical stabilization.
PXD015907	25175731	Site-specific mapping and quantification of protein S-sulphenylation in cells. 	Site-specific mapping and quantification of protein S-sulphenylation in cells	CPTAC	Cysteine S-sulphenylation provides redox regulation of protein functions, but the global cellular impact of this transient post-translational modification remains unexplored. We describe a chemoproteomic workflow to map and quantify over 1,000 S-sulphenylation sites on more than 700 proteins in intact cells. Quantitative analysis of human cells stimulated with hydrogen peroxide or epidermal growth factor measured hundreds of site selective redox changes. Different cysteines in the same proteins displayed dramatic differences in susceptibility to S-sulphenylation. Newly discovered S-sulphenylations provided mechanistic support for proposed cysteine redox reactions and suggested novel redox mechanisms, including S-sulphenyl-mediated redox regulation of the transcription factor HIF1A by SIRT6. S-sulphenylation is favored at solvent-exposed protein surfaces and is associated with sequence motifs that are distinct from those for other thiol modifications. S-sulphenylations affect regulators of phosphorylation, acetylation and ubiquitylation, which suggest regulatory crosstalk between redox control and signalling pathways.
PXD001112	25181701	Physiological, biochemical and proteomics analysis reveals the adaptation strategies of the alpine plant Potentilla saundersiana at altitude gradient of the Northwestern Tibetan Plateau. 	Comparative proteomics analysis reveals the adaptation strategies of the alpine plant Potentilla saundersiana along the altitude gradient of the Northwestern Tibetan Plateau	Comparative proteomics, Potentilla saundersiana, adaptation	This study presents an analysis of leave and rood morphology, biochemical and proteomics approach as adaptation strategies of the alpine plant Potentilla saundersiana in an altitude gradient. Several plant physiological parameter, including root and leaf architecture, leaf photosynthesis capacity, specific leaf area (SLA) and leaf nitrogen concentration, histology and microscopy, anthocyanin and proline contents, antioxidant enzyme activity assay, in-gel enzyme activity staining, H2O2 and O2(-) content, immunoblotting, auxin and strigolactone content and proteomics analysis were evaluated at five different altitudes. P. saundersiana modulated the root architecture and leaf phenotype to enhance adaptation to alpine environmental stress through mechanisms that involved hormone synthesis and signal transduction, particularly the cross-talk between auxin and strigolactone. Furthermore, an increase of antioxidant proteins and primary metabolites as a response to the alpine environment in P. saundersiana was observed. Proteins associated with the epigenetic regulation of DNA stability and post-translational protein degradation was also involved in this process. Based on these findings, P. saundersiana uses multiple strategies to adapt to the high-altitude environment of the Alpine region. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The alpine environment, which is characterized by sharp temperature shifts, high levels of ultraviolet radiation exposure, and low oxygen content, limits plant growth and distribution. Alpine plants have evolved strategies to survive the extremely harsh conditions prevailing at high altitudes; however, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. The alpine plant Potentilla saundersiana is widespread in the Northwestern Tibetan Plateau. Here we adopted a comparative proteomics approach to investigate the mechanisms by which P. saundersiana withstands the alpine environment by examining plants located at five different altitudes. We detected and functionally characterized 118 proteins spots with variable abundance. Proteins involved in antioxidant activity, primary metabolites, epigenetic regulation, and protein post-translational modification play important roles in conferring tolerance to alpine environments. Furthermore, our results indicate that P. saundersiana modulates the root architecture and leaf phenotype to enhance adaptation to alpine environmental stress. These results provide novel insight into the multiple strategies underlying P. saundersiana adaptation to the high-altitude environment of the Northwestern Tibetan Plateau.
PXD000707	25187158	Discovery and confirmation of a protein biomarker panel with potential to predict response to biological therapy in psoriatic arthritis. 	Discovery and Confirmation of a Protein Biomarker Panel with Potential to Predict Response to Biologic Therapy in Psoriatic Arthritis	Psoriatic arthritis, anti-TNF-alpha, biomarkers, synovial tissue	OBJECTIVE: Biological therapies, which include antitumour necrosis factor-alpha and T-cell inhibitors, are potentially effective treatments for psoriatic arthritis (PsA) but are costly and may induce a number of side effects. Response to treatment in PsA is variable and difficult to predict. Here, we sought to identify a panel of protein biomarkers that could be used to predict which patients diagnosed with PsA will respond to biologic treatment. METHODS: An integrated discovery to targeted proteomics approach was used to investigate the protein profiles of good and non-responders to biological treatments in patients with PsA. Reverse-phase liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry was used to generate protein profiles of synovial tissue obtained at baseline from 10 patients with PsA. Targeted proteomics using multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) was used to confirm and prevalidate a potential protein biomarker panel in 18 and 7 PsA patient samples, respectively. RESULTS: A panel of 107 proteins was selected, and targeted mass spectrometry MRM assays were successfully developed for 57 of the proteins. The 57 proteins include S100-A8, S100-A10, Ig kappa chain C fibrinogen-alpha and gamma, haptoglobin, annexin A1 and A2, collagen alpha-2, vitronectin, and alpha-1 acid glycoprotein. The proteins were measured simultaneously and confirmed to be predictive of response to treatment with an area under the curve of 0.76. In a blinded study using a separate cohort of patients, the panel was able to predict response to treatment. CONCLUSIONS: The approach reported here and the initial data provide evidence that a multiplexed protein assay of a panel of biomarkers that predict response to treatment could be developed. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN23328456.
PXD000888	25198380	Coping with anoxia: a comprehensive proteomic and transcriptomic survey of denitrification. 	Anoxia in Ralstonia eutropha H16	Ralstonia eutropha H16, anaerobiosis, denitrification, membrane proteins, spectral counting	Ralstonia eutropha H16 is a denitrifying microorganism able to use nitrate and nitrite as terminal electron acceptors under oxygen deprivation. To identify proteins showing an altered expression pattern in response to oxygen supply, R. eutropha cells grown aerobically and anaerobically were compared in a comprehensive proteome and transcriptome approach. Nearly 700 proteins involved in several processes including respiration, formation of cell appendages, and DNA and cofactor biosynthesis were found to be differentially expressed. A combination of 1D gel-LC and conventional 2D gel analysis of six consecutive sample points covering the entire denitrification sequence revealed a detailed view on the shifting abundance of the key proteins of denitrification. Denitrification- or anaerobiosis-induced alterations of the respiratory chain included a distinct expression pattern for multiple terminal oxidases. Alterations in the central carbon metabolism were restricted to a few key functions including the isoenzymes for aconitase and isocitrate dehydrogenase. Although R. eutropha is a strictly respiratory bacterium, the abundance of certain fermentation enzymes was increased. This work represents a comprehensive survey of denitrification on the proteomic and transcriptomic levels and provides unique insight into how R. eutropha adapts its metabolism to low oxygen conditions.
PXD000856	25216269	Proteomic evidences for rex regulation of metabolism in toxin-producing Bacillus cereus ATCC 14579. 	Bacillus cereus proteomics	Bacillus, Rex regulator, cereus	The facultative anaerobe, Bacillus cereus, causes diarrheal diseases in humans. Its ability to deal with oxygen availability is recognized to be critical for pathogenesis. The B. cereus genome comprises a gene encoding a protein with high similarities to the redox regulator, Rex, which is a central regulator of anaerobic metabolism in Bacillus subtilis and other Gram-positive bacteria. Here, we showed that B. cereus rex is monocistronic and down-regulated in the absence of oxygen. The protein encoded by rex is an authentic Rex transcriptional factor since its DNA binding activity depends on the NADH/NAD+ ratio. Rex deletion compromised the ability of B. cereus to cope with external oxidative stress under anaerobiosis while increasing B. cereus resistance against such stress under aerobiosis. The deletion of rex affects anaerobic fermentative and aerobic respiratory metabolism of B. cereus by decreasing and increasing, respectively, the carbon flux through the NADH-recycling lactate pathway. We compared both the cellular proteome and exoproteome of the wild-type and Deltarex cells using a high throughput shotgun label-free quantitation approach and identified proteins that are under control of Rex-mediated regulation. Proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000886. The data suggest that Rex regulates both the cross-talk between metabolic pathways that produce NADH and NADPH and toxinogenesis, especially in oxic conditions.
PXD001061	25218447	Uncovering global SUMOylation signaling networks in a site-specific manner. 	Uncovering Global SUMOylation Signaling Networks in a Site-Specific Manner	Q87R, QQTGG, SUMO, SUMO-2, SUMO2	SUMOylation is a reversible post-translational modification essential for genome stability. Using high-resolution MS, we have studied global SUMOylation in human cells in a site-specific manner, identifying a total of >4,300 SUMOylation sites in >1,600 proteins. To our knowledge, this is the first time that >1,000 SUMOylation sites have been identified under standard growth conditions. We quantitatively studied SUMOylation dynamics in response to SUMO protease inhibition, proteasome inhibition and heat shock. Many SUMOylated lysines have previously been reported to be ubiquitinated, acetylated or methylated, thus indicating cross-talk between SUMO and other post-translational modifications. We identified 70 phosphorylation and four acetylation events in proximity to SUMOylation sites, and we provide evidence for acetylation-dependent SUMOylation of endogenous histone H3. SUMOylation regulates target proteins involved in all nuclear processes including transcription, DNA repair, chromatin remodeling, precursor-mRNA splicing and ribosome assembly.
PXD000985	25219547	Quantitative phosphoproteomics reveals the protein tyrosine kinase Pyk2 as a central effector of olfactory receptor signaling in prostate cancer cells. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis of olfactory receptor signaling in prostate cancer cells	NHE1, PSGR1, Pyk2, ionone, phosphoproteomics, prostate cancer	The prostate-specific G-protein-coupled receptor 1 (PSGR1) is an olfactory receptor specifically expressed in the prostate gland. PSGR1 expression is elevated both in benign prostatic hyperplasia tissue and in prostate cancer. Stimulation of PSGR1 by the odorant beta-ionone leads to an increase in the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration, activation of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases and a decrease in prostate cancer cell proliferation. To further extend our knowledge about PSGR1 signaling in prostate cancer cells, we performed a quantitative phosphoproteomics study using stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture and mass spectrometry. We report 51 differentially regulated phosphorylation sites in 24 proteins with functions in cytoskeletal remodeling, signaling and ion transport. Activation of PSGR1 evoked an increase in intracellular pH mediated by the sodium/hydrogen exchanger NHE1. Furthermore, we report the protein tyrosine kinase Pyk2 as a central effector of PSGR1 signaling cascades in LNCaP cells. Our data show that phosphorylation of p38 MAP kinase is triggered by Pyk2. In addition, we confirmed dephosphorylation of the tumor suppressor protein N-myc downstream regulated gene 1 (NDRG1) at Ser330 downstream of Pyk2. Since NDRG1 impacts oncogenic signaling pathways interfering with tumor progression, we suggest that the Pyk2-NDRG1 axis is possibly involved in conveying the anti-proliferative effect of beta-ionone in prostate cancer cells. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Medical Proteomics.
PXD001292	25231903	Comprehensive phosphoproteome analysis unravels the core signaling network that initiates the earliest synapse pathology in preclinical Alzheimer's disease brain. 	Comprehensive phosphoproteome analysis unravels the core signaling network that initiates the earliest synapse pathology in preclinical Alzheimer's disease brain	CaMKs, PKCs, kinases, phosphoproteome, preclinical Alzheimers disease, signaling network	Using a high-end mass spectrometry, we screened phosphoproteins and phosphopeptides in four types of Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse models and human AD postmortem brains. We identified commonly changed phosphoproteins in multiple models and also determined phosphoproteins related to initiation of amyloid beta (Abeta) deposition in the mouse brain. After confirming these proteins were also changed in and human AD brains, we put the proteins on experimentally verified protein-protein interaction databases. Surprisingly, most of the core phosphoproteins were directly connected, and they formed a functional network linked to synaptic spine formation. The change of the core network started at a preclinical stage even before histological Abeta deposition. Systems biology analyses suggested that phosphorylation of myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS) by overactivated kinases including protein kinases C and calmodulin-dependent kinases initiates synapse pathology. Two-photon microscopic observation revealed recovery of abnormal spine formation in the AD model mice by targeting a core protein MARCKS or by inhibiting candidate kinases, supporting our hypothesis formulated based on phosphoproteome analysis.
PXD000837	25236605	Proteomic analysis of plasma membrane and tonoplast from the leaves of mangrove plant Avicennia officinalis. 	Proteomic analysis of plasma membrane and tonoplast from the leaves of a mangrove plant Avicennia officinalis	Avicennia officinalis, Plasma membrane, Tonoplast, salt secretion	In order to understand the salt tolerance and secretion in mangrove plant species, gel electrophoresis coupled with LC-MS-based proteomics was used to identify key transport proteins in the plasma membrane (PM) and tonoplast fractions of Avicennia officinalis leaves. PM and tonoplast proteins were purified using two-aqueous-phase partitioning and density gradient centrifugation, respectively. Forty of the 254 PM proteins and 31 of the 165 tonoplast proteins identified were predicted to have transmembrane domains. About 95% of the identified proteins could be classified based on their functions. The major classes of proteins were predicted to be involved in transport, metabolic processes, defense/stress response, and signal transduction, while a few of the proteins were predicted to be involved in other functions such as membrane trafficking. The main classes of transporter proteins identified included H(+) -ATPases, ATP-binding cassette transporters, and aquaporins, all of which could play a role in salt secretion. These data will serve as the baseline membrane proteomic dataset for Avicennia species. Further, this information can contribute to future studies on understanding the mechanism of salt tolerance in halophytes in addition to salt secretion in mangroves. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000837 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000837).
PXD001195	25242221	Regional diversity and developmental dynamics of the AMPA-receptor proteome in the mammalian brain. 	Dynamics of AMPAR proteome across brain regions and in postnatal development	AMPA receptor, AP-MS, brain regions, development, rat	Native AMPA receptors (AMPARs) in the mammalian brain are macromolecular complexes whose functional characteristics vary across the different brain regions and change during postnatal development or in response to neuronal activity. The structural and functional properties of the AMPARs are determined by their proteome, the ensemble of their protein building blocks. Here we use high-resolution quantitative mass spectrometry to analyze the entire pool of AMPARs affinity-isolated from distinct brain regions, selected sets of neurons, and whole brains at distinct stages of postnatal development. These analyses show that the AMPAR proteome is dynamic in both space and time: AMPARs exhibit profound region specificity in their architecture and the constituents building their core and periphery. Likewise, AMPARs exchange many of their building blocks during postnatal development. These results provide a unique resource and detailed contextual data sets for the analysis of native AMPAR complexes and their role in excitatory neurotransmission.
PXD002687	25255805	Global profiling of co- and post-translationally N-myristoylated proteomes in human cells. 	Co-translational and Post-translational protein myristoylation in HeLa cells	Apoptosis, Co-translational modification, Post-translational modification, Protein myristoylation	Protein N-myristoylation is a ubiquitous co- and post-translational modification that has been implicated in the development and progression of a range of human diseases. Here, we report the global N-myristoylated proteome in human cells determined using quantitative chemical proteomics combined with potent and specific human N-myristoyltransferase (NMT) inhibition. Global quantification of N-myristoylation during normal growth or apoptosis allowed the identification of >100 N-myristoylated proteins, >95% of which are identified for the first time at endogenous levels. Furthermore, quantitative dose response for inhibition of N-myristoylation is determined for >70 substrates simultaneously across the proteome. Small-molecule inhibition through a conserved substrate-binding pocket is also demonstrated by solving the crystal structures of inhibitor-bound NMT1 and NMT2. The presented data substantially expand the known repertoire of co- and post-translational N-myristoylation in addition to validating tools for the pharmacological inhibition of NMT in living cells.
PXD001249	25257309	SNW1 enables sister chromatid cohesion by mediating the splicing of sororin and APC2 pre-mRNAs. 	SNW1 is required for sister chromatid cohesion	SNW1, cell cycle, mitosis, pre-mRNA splicing, sister chromatid cohesion	Although splicing is essential for the expression of most eukaryotic genes, inactivation of splicing factors causes specific defects in mitosis. The molecular cause of this defect is unknown. Here, we show that the spliceosome subunits SNW1 and PRPF8 are essential for sister chromatid cohesion in human cells. A transcriptome-wide analysis revealed that SNW1 or PRPF8 depletion affects the splicing of specific introns in a subset of pre-mRNAs, including pre-mRNAs encoding the cohesion protein sororin and the APC/C subunit APC2. SNW1 depletion causes cohesion defects predominantly by reducing sororin levels, which causes destabilisation of cohesin on DNA. SNW1 depletion also reduces APC/C activity and contributes to cohesion defects indirectly by delaying mitosis and causing "cohesion fatigue". Simultaneous expression of sororin and APC2 from intron-less cDNAs restores cohesion in SNW1-depleted cells. These results indicate that the spliceosome is required for mitosis because it enables expression of genes essential for cohesion. Our transcriptome-wide identification of retained introns in SNW1- and PRPF8-depleted cells may help to understand the aetiology of diseases associated with splicing defects, such as retinosa pigmentosum and cancer.
PXD001029	25260035	Species identification of archaeological skin objects from Danish bogs: comparison between mass spectrometry-based peptide sequencing and microscopy-based methods. 	Species identification of archaeological skin objects from Danish bogs	ancient proteins, archaeological skin objects from bogs, archaeology	Denmark has an extraordinarily large and well-preserved collection of archaeological skin garments found in peat bogs, dated to approximately 920 BC - AD 775. These objects provide not only the possibility to study prehistoric skin costume and technologies, but also to investigate the animal species used for the production of skin garments. Until recently, species identification of archaeological skin was primarily performed by light and scanning electron microscopy or the analysis of ancient DNA. However, the efficacy of these methods can be limited due to the harsh, mostly acidic environment of peat bogs leading to morphological and molecular degradation within the samples. We compared species assignment results of twelve archaeological skin samples from Danish bogs using Mass Spectrometry (MS)-based peptide sequencing, against results obtained using light and scanning electron microscopy. While it was difficult to obtain reliable results using microscopy, MS enabled the identification of several species-diagnostic peptides, mostly from collagen and keratins, allowing confident species discrimination even among taxonomically close organisms, such as sheep and goat. Unlike previous MS-based methods, mostly relying on peptide fingerprinting, the shotgun sequencing approach we describe aims to identify the complete extracted ancient proteome, without preselected specific targets. As an example, we report the identification, in one of the samples, of two peptides uniquely assigned to bovine foetal haemoglobin, indicating the production of skin from a calf slaughtered within the first months of its life. We conclude that MS-based peptide sequencing is a reliable method for species identification of samples from bogs. The mass spectrometry proteomics data were deposited in the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the dataset identifier PXD001029.
PXD001130	25262930	Proteomic identification of mammalian cell surface derived glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins through selective glycan enrichment. 	Proteomics of GPI-anchored proteins	proteomics GPI proteins mammalian glycan glycosylphosphatidylinositol	Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GPI-APs) are an important class of glycoproteins that are tethered to the surface of mammalian cells via the lipid GPI. GPI-APs have been implicated in many important cellular functions including cell adhesion, cell signaling, and immune regulation. Proteomic identification of mammalian GPI-APs en masse has been limited technically by poor sensitivity for these low abundance proteins and the use of methods that destroy cell integrity. Here, we present methodology that permits identification of GPI-APs liberated directly from the surface of intact mammalian cells through exploitation of their appended glycans to enrich for these proteins ahead of LC-MS/MS analyses. We validate our approach in HeLa cells, identifying a greater number of GPI-APs from intact cells than has been previously identified from isolated HeLa membranes and a lipid raft preparation. We further apply our approach to define the cohort of endogenous GPI-APs that populate the distinct apical and basolateral membrane surfaces of polarized epithelial cell monolayers. Our approach provides a new method to achieve greater sensitivity in the identification of low abundance GPI-APs from the surface of live cells and the nondestructive nature of the method provides new opportunities for the temporal or spatial analysis of cellular GPI-AP expression and dynamics.
PXD001339	25265333	Quantitative proteomic analysis of exosome protein content changes induced by hepatitis B virus in Huh-7 cells using SILAC labeling and LC-MS/MS. 	Huh-7 exosomes and HBV -  Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Exosome Protein Content Changes Induced by Hepatitis B Virus in Huh-7 Cells Using SILAC Labeling and LC-MS/MS	HBx, Hepatitis B virus, exosome	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection could cause hepatitis, liver cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. HBV-mediated pathogenesis is only partially understood, but X protein (HBx) reportedly possesses oncogenic potential. Exosomes are small membrane vesicles with diverse functions released by various cells including hepatocytes, and HBV harnesses cellular exosome biogenesis and export machineries for virion morphogenesis and secretion. Therefore, HBV infection might cause changes in exosome contents with functional implications for both virus and host. In this work, exosome protein content changes induced by HBV and HBx were quantitatively analyzed by SILAC/LC-MS/MS. Exosomes prepared from SILAC-labeled hepatoma cell line Huh-7 transfected with HBx, wildtype, or HBx-null HBV replicon plasmids were analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Systematic analyses of MS data and confirmatory immunoblotting showed that HBx overexpression and HBV, with or without HBx, replication in Huh-7 cells indeed caused marked and specific changes in exosome protein contents. Furthermore, specific changes in protein contents were also detected in exosomes purified from HBV-infected patients' sera compared with control sera negative for HBV markers. These results illustrate a new aspect of interactions between HBV and the host and provide the foundation for future research into roles played by exosomes in HBV infection and pathogenesis.
PXD001095	25290099	Proteomic profiles in acute respiratory distress syndrome differentiates survivors from non-survivors. 	Proteomic profiles in Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome differentiates	ARDS, BAL, Bioinformatics, Biomarkers, Prognosis	Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) continues to have a high mortality. Currently, there are no biomarkers that provide reliable prognostic information to guide clinical management or stratify risk among clinical trial participants. The objective of this study was to probe the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) proteome to identify proteins that differentiate survivors from non-survivors of ARDS. Patients were divided into early-phase (1 to 7 days) and late-phase (8 to 35 days) groups based on time after initiation of mechanical ventilation for ARDS (Day 1). Isobaric tags for absolute and relative quantitation (iTRAQ) with LC MS/MS was performed on pooled BALF enriched for medium and low abundance proteins from early-phase survivors (n = 7), early-phase non-survivors (n = 8), and late-phase survivors (n = 7). Of the 724 proteins identified at a global false discovery rate of 1%, quantitative information was available for 499. In early-phase ARDS, proteins more abundant in survivors mapped to ontologies indicating a coordinated compensatory response to injury and stress. These included coagulation and fibrinolysis; immune system activation; and cation and iron homeostasis. Proteins more abundant in early-phase non-survivors participate in carbohydrate catabolism and collagen synthesis, with no activation of compensatory responses. The compensatory immune activation and ion homeostatic response seen in early-phase survivors transitioned to cell migration and actin filament based processes in late-phase survivors, revealing dynamic changes in the BALF proteome as the lung heals. Early phase proteins differentiating survivors from non-survivors are candidate biomarkers for predicting survival in ARDS.
PXD000981	25295873	The peptide microarray "ChloroPhos1.0" identifies new phosphorylation targets of plastid casein kinase II (pCKII) in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Heparin_sepharose_A.thaliana -  The peptide microarray "ChloroPhos1	A thaliana, CK II, Heparin Sepharose	We report the development of a peptide microarray based on previously determined phosphorylation sites in chloroplast proteins. Altogether, 905 peptides were spotted as 15mers in nine replicates onto glass slides. We used the microarray for in vitro phosphorylation experiments and specifically assessed the peptide substrate spectrum of chloroplast casein kinase II (pCKII). To this end, native pCKII from Arabidopsis thaliana and Sinapis alba chloroplasts was enriched by Heparin-Sepharose chromatography and its activity on the microarray was compared to the activity of a recombinant Arabidopsis pCKII. All three kinase preparations phosphorylated a similar set of peptides that were clearly distinct from those phosphorylated by bovine heart protein kinase A (PKA) in control experiments. The majority of the pCKII phosphorylation targets are involved in plastid gene expression, supporting the earlier denomination of pCKII as plastid transcription kinase (PTK). In addition we identified Alb3 as pCKII substrate that is essential for the integration of light-harvesting complex subunits (LHC) into the thylakoid membrane. Plastid CKII phosphorylation activity was characterized in greater detail in vitro with recombinant wildtype Alb3 and phosphorylation site mutants as substrates, establishing S424 as the pCKII phosphorylation site. Our data show that the peptide microarray ChloroPhos1.0 is a suitable tool for the identification of new kinase downstream targets in vitro that can be validated subsequently by in vivo experiments.
PXD012889	25304470	Distinct protein signature of hypertension-induced damage in the renal proteome of the two-kidney, one-clip rat model. 	Distinct protein signature of hypertension-induced damage in the renal proteome of the two-kidney, one-clip ratmodel	2K1C, Hypertension, Juxtamedullary cortex, Kidney	BACKGROUND: Hypertensive nephrosclerosis is one of the most frequent causes of chronic kidney failure. Proteome analysis potentially improves the pathophysiological understanding and diagnostic precision of this disorder. In the present exploratory study, we investigated experimental nephrosclerosis in the two-kidney, one-clip (2K1C) hypertensive rat model. METHODS: The renal cortex proteome from juxtamedullary cortex and outer cortex of 2K1C male Wistar-Hannover rats (n = 4) was compared with the sham-operated controls (n = 6), using mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics. We combined a high abundant plasma protein depletion strategy with an extended liquid chromatographic gradient to improve peptide and protein identification. Immunohistology was used for independent confirmation of abundance. RESULTS: We identified 1724 proteins, of which 1434 were quantified with at least two unique peptides. Comparative proteomics revealed 608 proteins, including the platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta signalling pathway, with different abundances between the non-clipped kidney of hypertensive 2K1C rats and the corresponding kidney of the normotensive controls (P < 0.05, absolute fold change >=1.5). Among the most significantly altered proteins in the whole cortex were periostin, transgelin, and creatine kinase B-type. Relative abundance of periostin alone allowed clear classification of 2K1C and controls. Enrichment of periostin in 2K1C rats was verified by immunohistology, showing positivity especially around the fibrotic vessels. CONCLUSION: The proteome is altered in hypertension-induced kidney damage. We propose periostin, especially in combination with transgelin and creatine kinase B-type, as possible proteomic classifier to distinguish hypertensive nephrosclerosis from the normal tissue. This classifier needs to be further validated with respect to early diagnosis of fibrosis, prognosis, and its potential as a novel molecular target for pharmacological interventions.
PXD001356	25315396	The zinc repository of Cupriavidus metallidurans. 	The zinc repository of Cupriavidus metallidurans	zinc Cupriavidus	Zinc is a central player in the metalloproteomes of prokaryotes and eukaryotes. We used a bottom-up quantitative proteomic approach to reveal the repository of the zinc pools in the proteobacterium Cupriavidus metallidurans. About 60% of the theoretical proteome of C. metallidurans was identified, quantified, and the defect in zinc allocation was compared between a DeltazupT mutant and its parent strain. In both strains, the number of zinc-binding proteins and their binding sites exceeded that of the zinc ions per cell, indicating that the totality of the zinc proteome provides empty binding sites for the incoming zinc ions. This zinc repository plays a central role in zinc homeostasis in C. metallidurans and probably also in other organisms.
PXD001125	25316036	Comparative proteomic analysis revealing the complex network associated with waterlogging stress in maize (Zea mays L.) seedling root cells. 	Maize seedling root cells LC-MS/MS	Maize, Waterlogging stress	Soil waterlogging is one of the major abiotic stresses affecting maize grain yields. To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying waterlogging tolerance in maize, the iTRAQ LC-MS/MS technique was employed to map the proteomes of seedling root cells of the A3237 (tolerant inbred) and A3239 (sensitive inbred) lines under control and waterlogging conditions. Among the 3318 proteins identified, 211 were differentially abundant proteins (DAPs), of which 81 were specific to A3237 and 57 were specific to A3239. These DAPs were categorized into 11 groups that were closely related to the plant stress response, including metabolism, energy, transport, and disease/defense. In the waterlogged A3237 root cells, NADP-malic enzyme, glutamate decarboxylase, coproporphyrinogen III oxidase, GSH S-transferase, GSH dehydrogenase, and xyloglucan endotransglycosylase 6 were specifically accumulated to manage energy consumption, maintain pH levels, and minimize oxidative damage. The evaluations of five specific physiological parameters (alcohol dehydrogenase activity and GSH, malondialdehyde, adenosine 5'-triphosphate, and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide concentrations) were in agreement with the proteomic results. Moreover, based on the proteomic assay, eight representative genes encoding DAPs were selected for validation at the transcriptional level. qRT-PCR revealed that the expression levels of these genes correlated with their observed protein abundance. These findings shed light on the complex mechanisms underlying waterlogging tolerance in maize. All MS data have been deposited into the ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD001125 http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD001125.
PXD001168	25316064	Identification and characterization of chloroplast casein kinase II from Oryza sativa (rice). 	29RNP kinase -  Identification and characterization of chloroplast casein kinase II from Oryza sativa (rice)	Casein kinase 2, Oryza Sativa, chloroplast	Plastid casein kinase II is an important regulator of transcription, posttranscriptional processes, and, most likely, different metabolic functions in dicotyledonous species. Here we report the identification and characterization of pCKII from the monocotyledonous species Oryza sativa. OspCKII activity was enriched from isolated rice chloroplasts using heparin-Sepharose chromatography, in which it co-elutes with the transcriptionally active chromosome (TAC) and several ribosomal proteins. Inclusion mass scanning of the kinase-active fraction identified the gene model for OspCKII. Transient expression of GFP fused to the 184 N-terminal amino acids of the OspCKII sequence in rice confirmed the chloroplastic localization of the kinase. OspCKII activity shows the characteristic features of casein kinase II, such as the utilization of GTP as phosphate donor, inhibition by low concentrations of heparin and poly-lysine, and utilization of the canonical pCKII motif E-S-E-G-E in the model substrate RNP29. Phosphoproteome analysis of a protein extract from rice leaves combined with a meta-analysis with published phosphoproteomics data revealed differences in the target protein spectrum between rice and Arabidopsis. Consistently, several pCKII phosphorylation sites in dicotyledonous plants are not conserved in monocots and algae, suggesting that details of pCKII regulation in plastids have changed during evolution.
PXD058308	25316709	Quantitative proteomics reveals a role for epigenetic reprogramming during human monocyte differentiation. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals a Role for Epigenetic Reprogramming During Human Monocyte Differentiation	dendritic cells, epigenetics, macrophages, monocyte, quantitative proteomics	The differentiation of monocytes into macrophages and dendritic cells involves mechanisms for activation of the innate immune system in response to inflammatory stimuli, such as pathogen infection and environmental cues. Epigenetic reprogramming is thought to play an important role during monocyte differentiation. Complementary to cell surface markers, the characterization of monocytic cell lineages by mass spectrometry based protein/histone expression profiling opens a new avenue for studying immune cell differentiation. Here, we report the application of mass spectrometry and bioinformatics to identify changes in human monocytes during their differentiation into macrophages and dendritic cells. Our data show that linker histone H1 proteins are significantly down-regulated during monocyte differentiation. Although highly enriched H3K9-methyl/S10-phos/K14-acetyl tri-modification forms of histone H3 were identified in monocytes and macrophages, they were dramatically reduced in dendritic cells. In contrast, histone H4 K16 acetylation was found to be markedly higher in dendritic cells than in monocytes and macrophages. We also found that global hyperacetylation generated by the nonspecific histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor Apicidin induces monocyte differentiation. Together, our data suggest that specific regulation of inter- and intra-histone modifications including H3 K9 methylation, H3 S10 phosphorylation, H3 K14 acetylation, and H4 K16 acetylation must occur in concert with chromatin remodeling by linker histones for cell cycle progression and differentiation of human myeloid cells into macrophages and dendritic cells.
PXD001404	25338131	Off-line high-pH reversed-phase fractionation for in-depth phosphoproteomics. 	Off-line high pH reversed-phase fractionation for in-depth phosphoproteomics	Orbitrap, Phosphoproteomics, enrichment, fractionation, high pH reversed-phase, peptides, phosphorylation, titanium dioxide	Protein phosphorylation is an important post-translational modification (PTM) involved in embryonic development, adult homeostasis, and disease. Over the past decade, several advances have been made in liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based technologies to identify thousands of phosphorylation sites. However, in-depth phosphoproteomics often require off-line enrichment and fractionation techniques. In this study, we provide a detailed analysis of the physicochemical characteristics of phosphopeptides, which have been fractionated by off-line high-pH chromatography (HpH) before subsequent titanium dioxide (TiO2) enrichment and LC-MS/MS analysis. Our results demonstrate that HpH is superior to standard strong-cation exchange (SCX) fractionation in the total number of phosphopeptides detected when analyzing the same number of fractions by identical LC-MS/MS gradients. From 14 HpH fractions, we routinely identified over 30,000 unique phosphopeptide variants, which is more than twice the number of that obtained from SCX fractionation. HpH chromatography displayed an exceptional ability to fractionate singly phosphorylated peptides, with minor benefits for doubly phosphorylated peptides over that with SCX. Further optimizations in the pooling and concatenation strategy increased the total number of multiphosphorylated peptides detected after HpH fractionation. In conclusion, we provide a basic framework and resource for performing in-depth phosphoproteome studies utilizing off-line basic reversed-phased fractionation. Raw data is available at ProteomeXchange (PXD001404).
PXD001237	25344755	Cyclin C is a haploinsufficient tumour suppressor. 	Cyclin C-CDK3/8/19 kinases play a tumor-suppressive  role in vivo	Cyclin C, Notch1	Cyclin C was cloned as a growth-promoting G1 cyclin, and was also shown to regulate gene transcription. Here we report that in vivo cyclin C acts as a haploinsufficient tumour suppressor, by controlling Notch1 oncogene levels. Cyclin C activates an 'orphan' CDK19 kinase, as well as CDK8 and CDK3. These cyclin-C-CDK complexes phosphorylate the Notch1 intracellular domain (ICN1) and promote ICN1 degradation. Genetic ablation of cyclin C blocks ICN1 phosphorylation in vivo, thereby elevating ICN1 levels in cyclin-C-knockout mice. Cyclin C ablation or heterozygosity collaborates with other oncogenic lesions and accelerates development of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL). Furthermore, the cyclin C encoding gene CCNC is heterozygously deleted in a significant fraction of human T-ALLs, and these tumours express reduced cyclin C levels. We also describe point mutations in human T-ALL that render cyclin-C-CDK unable to phosphorylate ICN1. Hence, tumour cells may develop different strategies to evade inhibition by cyclin C.
PXD001214	25344756	Rsp5/Nedd4 is the main ubiquitin ligase that targets cytosolic misfolded proteins following heat stress. 	Rsp5/Nedd4 is the major ubiquitin ligase that targets cytosolic misfolded proteins upon heat-stress	Rsp5, cytosolic protein quality control, heat-shock	The heat-shock response is a complex cellular program that induces major changes in protein translation, folding and degradation to alleviate toxicity caused by protein misfolding. Although heat shock has been widely used to study proteostasis, it remained unclear how misfolded proteins are targeted for proteolysis in these conditions. We found that Rsp5 and its mammalian homologue Nedd4 are important E3 ligases responsible for the increased ubiquitylation induced by heat stress. We determined that Rsp5 ubiquitylates mainly cytosolic misfolded proteins upon heat shock for proteasome degradation. We found that ubiquitylation of heat-induced substrates requires the Hsp40 co-chaperone Ydj1 that is further associated with Rsp5 upon heat shock. In addition, ubiquitylation is also promoted by PY Rsp5-binding motifs found primarily in the structured regions of stress-induced substrates, which can act as heat-induced degrons. Our results support a bipartite recognition mechanism combining direct and chaperone-dependent ubiquitylation of misfolded cytosolic proteins by Rsp5.
PXD001260	25354783	Identification of miR-145 targets through an integrated omics analysis. 	Identification of miR-145 targets using SILAC	SILAC, miRNA, quantitative proteomics	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression and protein synthesis. To characterize functions of miRNAs and to assess their potential applications, we carried out an integrated multi-omics analysis to study miR-145, a miRNA that has been shown to suppress tumor growth. We employed gene expression profiling, miRNA profiling and quantitative proteomic analysis of a pancreatic cancer cell line. In our transcriptomic analysis, overexpression of miR-145 was found to suppress the expression of genes that are implicated in development of cancer such as ITGA11 and MAGEA4 in addition to previously described targets such as FSCN1, YES1 and PODXL. Based on miRNA profiling, overexpression of miR-145 also upregulated other miRNAs including miR-124, miR-133b and miR-125a-3p, all of which are implicated in suppression of tumors and are generally co-regulated with miR-145 in other cancers. Using the SILAC system, we identified miR-145-induced downregulation of several oncoproteins/cancer biomarkers including SET, RPA1, MCM2, ABCC1, SPTBN1 and SPTLC1. Luciferase assay validation carried out on a subset of downregulated candidate targets confirmed them to be novel direct targets of miR-145. Overall, this multi-omics approach provided insights into miR-145-mediated tumor suppression and could be used as a general strategy to study the targets of individual miRNAs.
PXD001453	25356801	Spatial variation in transcript and protein abundance of Atlantic salmon during feeding migration in the Baltic Sea. 	Spatial variation in transcript and protein abundance of Atlantic salmon during feeding migration in the Baltic Sea	Atlantic salmon, Baltic Sea, environmental stress, label-free quantitative proteomics	The fitness and reproductive output of fishes can be affected by environmental disturbances. In this study, transcriptomics and label-free proteomics were combined to investigate Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) sampled from three different field locations within the Baltic Sea (Baltic Main Basin (BMB), Gulf of Finland (GoF), and Bothnian Sea (BS)) during marine migration. The expression of several stress related mRNAs and proteins of xenobiotic metabolism, oxidative stress, DNA damage, and cell death were increased in salmon from GoF compared to salmon from BMB or BS. Respiratory electron chain and ATP synthesis related gene ontology-categories were upregulated in GoF salmon, whereas those associated with RNA processing and synthesis, translation, and protein folding decreased. Differences were seen also in metabolism and immune function related gene expression. Comparisons of the transcriptomic and proteomic profiles between salmon from GoF and salmon from BMB or BS suggest environmental stressors, especially exposure to contaminants, as a main explanation for differences. Salmon feeding in GoF are thus "disturbed by hazardous substances". The results may also be applied in evaluating the conditions of pelagic ecosystems in the different parts of Baltic Sea.
PXD000381	25367092	Identification of SUMO-2/3-modified proteins associated with mitotic chromosomes. 	Identification of SUMO-2/3-modified proteins associated with mitotic chromosomes	AP-MS, GO, SUMO, mitosis	Sumoylation is essential for progression through mitosis, but the specific protein targets and functions remain poorly understood. In this study, we used chromosome spreads to more precisely define the localization of SUMO-2/3 (small ubiquitin-related modifier) to the inner centromere and protein scaffold of mitotic chromosomes. We also developed methods to immunopurify proteins modified by endogenous, untagged SUMO-2/3 from mitotic chromosomes. Using these methods, we identified 149 chromosome-associated SUMO-2/3 substrates by nLC-ESI-MS/MS. Approximately one-third of the identified proteins have reported functions in mitosis. Consistent with SUMO-2/3 immunolocalization, we identified known centromere- and kinetochore-associated proteins, as well as chromosome scaffold associated proteins. Notably, >30 proteins involved in chromatin modification or remodeling were identified. Our results provide insights into the roles of sumoylation as a regulator of chromatin structure and other diverse processes in mitosis. Furthermore, our purification and fractionation methodologies represent an important compliment to existing approaches to identify sumoylated proteins using exogenously expressed and tagged SUMOs.
PXD001340	25372051	PIP4kgamma is a substrate for mTORC1 that maintains basal mTORC1 signaling during starvation. 	PIP4kgamma is a substrate for mTORC1	PIP4k, PIP4kgamma, Phossphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase, mTORC1, phosphoinositide	Phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinases (PIP4ks) are a family of lipid kinases that specifically use phosphatidylinositol 5-monophosphate (PI-5-P) as a substrate to synthesize phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P2]. Suppression of PIP4k function in Drosophila results in smaller cells and reduced target of rapamycin complex 1 (TORC1) signaling. We showed that the gamma isoform of PIP4k stimulated signaling through mammalian TORC1 (mTORC1). Knockdown of PIP4kgamma reduced cell mass in cells in which mTORC1 is constitutively activated by Tsc2 deficiency. In Tsc2 null cells, mTORC1 activation was partially independent of amino acids or glucose and glutamine. PIP4kgamma knockdown inhibited the nutrient-independent activation of mTORC1 in Tsc2 knockdown cells and reduced basal mTORC1 signaling in wild-type cells. PIP4kgamma was phosphorylated by mTORC1 and associated with the complex. Phosphorylated PIP4kgamma was enriched in light microsomal vesicles, whereas the unphosphorylated form was enriched in heavy microsomal vesicles associated with the Golgi. Furthermore, basal mTORC1 signaling was enhanced by overexpression of unphosphorylated wild-type PIP4kgamma or a phosphorylation-defective mutant and decreased by overexpression of a phosphorylation-mimetic mutant. Together, these results demonstrate that PIP4kgamma and mTORC1 interact in a self-regulated feedback loop to maintain low and tightly regulated mTORC1 activation during starvation.
PXD000634	25388987	Characterization of low molecular weight allergens from English walnut (Juglans regia). 	Low Molecular Weight Allergens from English Walnut (Juglans Regia)	Food allergen, Tree nut, Vicilin, Walnut	Although English walnut is a commonly allergenic tree nut, walnut allergens have been poorly characterized to date. The objective of this work was to characterize the natural, low molecular weight (LMW) allergens from walnut. A protocol was developed to purify LMW allergens (specifically 2S albumins) from English walnuts. In addition to 2S albumins, a series of peptides from the N-terminal region of the 7S seed storage globulin proprotein were also identified and characterized. These peptides comprised a four-cysteine motif (C-X-X-X-C-X10-12-C-X-X-X-C) repeated throughout the 7S N-terminal region. Upon IgE immunoblotting, 3/11 and 5/11 sera from walnut-allergic subjects showed IgE reactivity to the 7S N-terminal fragments and 2S albumin, respectively. The mature 7S protein and the newly described 7S N-terminal peptides represent two distinct types of allergens. Because the proteolytic processing of 7S globulins has not been elucidated in many edible plant species, similar protein fragments may be present in other nuts and seeds.
PXD001036	25403415	In situ expression of nitrite-dependent anaerobic methane oxidation proteins by Candidatus Methylomirabilis oxyfera co-occurring with expressed anammox proteins in a contaminated aquifer. 	Metaprotemic analysis of groundwaters from a coal tar-contaminated aquifer in South  Glens Falls, NY: MW37, Shotgun 1	Candidatus Methylomirabilis oxyfera, Metaproteomics, in-situ gene expression, metaproteomics, microbial ecology	Deciphering the in situ activities of microorganisms is essential for understanding the biogeochemical processes occurring in complex environments. Here, we used environmental metaproteomics to obtain information about the identity of subsurface microbial populations in coal tar-contaminated groundwater and the metabolic processes they catalyze. Metaproteomic libraries (two shotgun and seven slices from one SDS-PAGE gel) were generated from replicate samples of microbial biomass. Peptide fragment analysis using nano-liquid chromatography (LC)-mass spectrometry (MS)/MS of the three protein pools generated a total of 95,725 mass spectra. When analyzed using mascot v.2.3.02 and searched against the NCBInr bacterial database [confidence interval 99% (P < 0.01)], a total of 1,270 proteins had at least two peptide matches. Replication of identified proteins across the three libraries was low (3.3%); however, in each library, the most frequently identified protein host was Candidatus Methylomirabilis oxyfera (15, 12 and 62 proteins for each shotgun and the gel-slice library respectively). Remarkably, eight of the nine proteins in the nitrite-dependent anaerobic methane oxidation pathway were found. Additionally, 39 proteins were matched to known anammox bacteria including hydroxylamine and hydrazine oxidase. Metaproteomics thus revealed a microbial population, closely related to Ca. Methylomirabilis oxyfera, actively engaged in nitrite-dependent anaerobic methane oxidation and likely competing for nitrite with anammox bacteria.
PXD001101	25404012	Identifying novel targets of oncogenic EGF receptor signaling in lung cancer through global phosphoproteomics. 	Identifying novel targets of oncogenic EGF receptor signaling in lung cancer through global phosphoproteomics	EGFR, NSCLC, TKI, adenocarcinoma, phosphoproteomics	Mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) kinase domain occur in 10-30% of lung adenocarcinoma and are associated with tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) sensitivity. We sought to identify the immediate direct and indirect phosphorylation targets of mutant EGFRs in lung adenocarcinoma. We undertook SILAC strategy, phosphopeptide enrichment, and quantitative MS to identify dynamic changes of phosphorylation downstream of mutant EGFRs in lung adenocarcinoma cells harboring EGFR(L858R) and EGFR(L858R/T790M) , the TKI-sensitive, and TKI-resistant mutations, respectively. Top canonical pathways that were inhibited upon erlotinib treatment in sensitive cells, but not in the resistant cells include EGFR, insulin receptor, hepatocyte growth factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, mechanistic target of rapamycin, ribosomal protein S6 kinase beta 1, and Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription signaling. We identified phosphosites in proteins of the autophagy network, such as ULK1 (S623) that is constitutively phosphorylated in these lung adenocarcinoma cells; phosphorylation is inhibited upon erlotinib treatment in sensitive cells, but not in resistant cells. Finally, kinase-substrate prediction analysis from our data indicated that substrates of basophilic kinases from, AGC and Calcium and calmodulin-dependent kinase groups, as well as STE group kinases were significantly enriched and those of proline-directed kinases from, CMGC and Casein kinase groups were significantly depleted among substrates that exhibited increased phosphorylation upon EGF stimulation and reduced phosphorylation upon TKI inhibition. This is the first study to date to examine global phosphorylation changes upon erlotinib treatment of lung adenocarcinoma cells and results from this study provide new insights into signaling downstream of mutant EGFRs in lung adenocarcinoma. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001101 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD001101).
PXD000261	25404878	Host response profile of human brain proteome in toxoplasma encephalitis co-infected with HIV. 	Host response profile of human brain proteome in toxoplasma encephalitis	LTQ-Orbitrap Velos, immunosuppression, neuroinfections	BACKGROUND: Toxoplasma encephalitis is caused by the opportunistic protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii. Primary infection with T. gondii in immunocompetent individuals remains largely asymptomatic. In contrast, in immunocompromised individuals, reactivation of the parasite results in severe complications and mortality. Molecular changes at the protein level in the host central nervous system and proteins associated with pathogenesis of toxoplasma encephalitis are largely unexplored. We used a global quantitative proteomic strategy to identify differentially regulated proteins and affected molecular networks in the human host during T. gondii infection with HIV co-infection. RESULTS: We identified 3,496 proteins out of which 607 proteins were differentially expressed (>=1.5-fold) when frontal lobe of the brain from patients diagnosed with toxoplasma encephalitis was compared to control brain tissues. We validated differential expression of 3 proteins through immunohistochemistry, which was confirmed to be consistent with mass spectrometry analysis. Pathway analysis of differentially expressed proteins indicated deregulation of several pathways involved in antigen processing, immune response, neuronal growth, neurotransmitter transport and energy metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Global quantitative proteomic approach adopted in this study generated a comparative proteome profile of brain tissues from toxoplasma encephalitis patients co-infected with HIV. Differentially expressed proteins include previously reported and several new proteins in the context of T. gondii and HIV infection, which can be further investigated. Molecular pathways identified to be associated with the disease should enhance our understanding of pathogenesis in toxoplasma encephalitis.
PXD000742	25406675	Anatomo-proteomic characterization of human basal ganglia: focus on striatum and globus pallidus. 	Caudate nucleus proteome	caudate nucleus	BACKGROUND: The basal ganglia (BG) are a complex network of subcortical nuclei involved in the coordination and integration of the motor activity. Although these independent anatomical structures are functionally related, the proteome present in each isolated nucleus remains largely unexplored. In order to analyse the BG proteome in a large-scale format, we used a multi-dimensional fractionation approach which combines isolation of anatomically-defined nuclei, and protein/peptide chromatographic fractionation strategies coupled to mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Using this workflow, we have obtained a proteomic expression profile across striatum and globus pallidus structures among which 1681 proteins were located in caudate nucleus (CN), 1329 in putamen, 1419 in medial globus pallidus (GPi), and 1480 in lateral globus pallidus (GPe), establishing a BG reference proteome to a depth of 2979 unique proteins. Protein interactome mapping highlighted significant clustering of common proteins in striatal and pallidal structures, contributing to oxidative phosphorylation, protein degradation and neurotrophin signalling pathways. In silico analyses emphasized specific pathways represented in striatal and pallidal structures highlighting 5-hydroxytryptamine degradation, synaptic vesicle trafficking, and dopamine, metabotropic glutamate and muscarinic acetylcholine receptor pathways. Additional bioinformatic analyses also revealed that: i) nearly 4% of identified proteins have been previously associated to neurodegenerative syndromes, ii) 11% of protein set tends to localize to synaptic terminal, and iii) 20% of identified proteins were also localized in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the anatomo-proteomic profiling of BG complements the anatomical atlas of the human brain transcriptome, increasing our knowledge about the molecular basis of the BG and the etiology of the movement disorders.
PXD000382	25412983	MetaProSIP: automated inference of stable isotope incorporation rates in proteins for functional metaproteomics. 	MetaProSIP protein-SIP data -  MetaProSIP: automated inference of stable isotope incorporation rates in proteins for functional metaproteomics	MetaProSIP, protein-SIP	We propose a joint experimental and theoretical approach to the automated reconstruction of elemental fluxes in microbial communities. While stable isotope probing of proteins (protein-SIP) has been successfully applied to study interactions and elemental carbon and nitrogen fluxes, the volume and complexity of mass spectrometric data in protein-SIP experiments pose new challenges for data analysis. Together with a flexible experimental setup, the novel bioinformatics tool MetaProSIP offers an automated high-throughput solution for a wide range of (13)C or (15)N protein-SIP experiments with special emphasis on the analysis of metaproteomic experiments where differential labeling of organisms can occur. The information calculated in MetaProSIP includes the determination of multiple relative isotopic abundances, the labeling ratio between old and new synthesized proteins, and the shape of the isotopic distribution. These parameters define the metabolic capacities and dynamics within the investigated microbial culture. MetaProSIP features a high degree of reproducibility, reliability, and quality control reporting. The ability to embed into the OpenMS framework allows for flexible construction of custom-tailored workflows. Software and documentation are available under an open-source license at www.openms.de/MetaProSIP.
PXD000543	25413384	Global 3' UTR shortening has a limited effect on protein abundance in proliferating T cells. 	Quantitative analysis of murine T-cells	T-cells, TMT labeling, quantitative analysis	Alternative polyadenylation is a cellular mechanism that generates mRNA isoforms differing in their 3' untranslated regions (3' UTRs). Changes in polyadenylation site usage have been described upon induction of proliferation in resting cells, but the underlying mechanism and functional significance of this phenomenon remain largely unknown. To understand the functional consequences of shortened 3' UTR isoforms in a physiological setting, we used 3' end sequencing and quantitative mass spectrometry to determine polyadenylation site usage, mRNA and protein levels in murine and human naive and activated T cells. Although 3' UTR shortening in proliferating cells is conserved between human and mouse, orthologous genes do not exhibit similar expression of alternative 3' UTR isoforms. We generally find that 3' UTR shortening is not accompanied by a corresponding change in mRNA and protein levels. This suggests that although 3' UTR shortening may lead to changes in the RNA-binding protein interactome, it has limited effects on protein output.
PXD001113	25419962	LysargiNase mirrors trypsin for protein C-terminal and methylation-site identification. 	LysargiNase and tryptic digest of MDA-MB 231 cell lysates	MDA-MB 231, cell line	To improve proteome coverage and protein C-terminal identification, we characterized the Methanosarcina acetivorans thermophilic proteinase LysargiNase, which cleaves before lysine and arginine up to 55 degreesC. Unlike trypsin, LysargiNase-generated peptides had N-terminal lysine or arginine residues and fragmented with b ion-dominated spectra. This improved protein C terminal-peptide identification and several arginine-rich phosphosite assignments. Notably, cleavage also occurred at methylated or dimethylated lysine and arginine, facilitating detection of these epigenetic modifications.
PXD000853	25429762	Integrated omic analysis of lung cancer reveals metabolism proteome signatures with prognostic impact. 	Profiling of human lung tissues on 11 normal control, 11 patient and 11 corresponding mouse xenograft tumours	Human Lung tumor, mouse xenograft	Cancer results from processes prone to selective pressure and dysregulation acting along the sequence-to-phenotype continuum DNA --> RNA --> protein --> disease. However, the extent to which cancer is a manifestation of the proteome is unknown. Here we present an integrated omic map representing non-small cell lung carcinoma. Dysregulated proteins not previously implicated as cancer drivers are encoded throughout the genome including, but not limited to, regions of recurrent DNA amplification/deletion. Clustering reveals signatures composed of metabolism proteins particularly highly recapitulated between patient-matched primary and xenograft tumours. Interrogation of The Cancer Genome Atlas reveals cohorts of patients with lung and other cancers that have DNA alterations in genes encoding the signatures, and this was accompanied by differences in survival. The recognition of genome and proteome alterations as related products of selective pressure driving the disease phenotype may be a general approach to uncover and group together cryptic, polygenic disease drivers.
PXD001217	25452133	Snake venom serine proteinases specificity mapping by proteomic identification of cleavage sites. 	Snake venom serine proteinases specificity mapping by proteomic identification of cleavage sites	pProteomic Identification of protease Cleavage Sites, proteinase, serine proteinase, snake venom	Many snake venom toxins are serine proteases but their specific in vivo targets are mostly unknown. Various act on components of the coagulation cascade, and fibrinolytic and kallikrein-kinin systems to trigger various pathological effects observed in the envenomation. Despite showing high similarity in terms of primary structure snake venom serine proteinases (SVSPs) show exquisite specificity towards macromolecular substrates. Therefore, the characterization of their peptide bond specificity is important for understanding the active site preference associated with effective proteolysis as well as for the design of peptide substrates and inhibitors. Bothrops jararaca contains various SVSPs among which Bothrops protease A is a specific fibrinogenolytic agent and PA-BJ is a platelet-activating enzyme. In this study we used proteome derived peptide libraries in the Proteomic Identification of protease Cleavage Sites (PICS) approach to explore the peptide bond specificity of Bothrops protease A and PA-BJ in order to determine their individual peptide cleavage sequences. A total of 371 cleavage sites (208 for Bothrops protease A and 163 for PA-BJ) were detected and both proteinases displayed a clear preference for arginine at the P1 position. Moreover, the analysis of the specificity profiles of Bothrops protease A and PA-BJ revealed subtle differences in the preferences along P6-P6', despite a common yet unusual preference for Pro at P2. Taken together, these results map the subsite specificity of both SVSPs and shed light in the functional differences between these proteinases. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Proteolysis is key to various pathological effects observed upon envenomation by viperid snakes. The use of the Proteomic Identification of protease Cleavage Sites (PICS) approach for the easy mapping of proteinase subsite preferences at both the prime- and non-prime sides concurrently gives rise to a fresh understanding of the interaction of the snake venom serine proteinases with peptide and macromolecular substrates and indicates that their hydrolytic activity is influenced by the amino acid sequences adjacent to the scissile bond.
PXD000296	25453901	Inhibition of de novo NAD(+) synthesis by oncogenic URI causes liver tumorigenesis through DNA damage. 	Female mouse liver quantitative analysis	LTQ Orbitrap Velos, URI, iTRAQ, liver	Molecular mechanisms responsible for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain largely unknown. Using genetically engineered mouse models, we show that hepatocyte-specific expression of unconventional prefoldin RPB5 interactor (URI) leads to a multistep process of HCC development, whereas its genetic reduction in hepatocytes protects against diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced HCC. URI inhibits aryl hydrocarbon (AhR)- and estrogen receptor (ER)-mediated transcription of enzymes implicated in L-tryptophan/kynurenine/nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) metabolism, thereby causing DNA damage at early stages of tumorigenesis. Restoring NAD(+) pools with nicotinamide riboside (NR) prevents DNA damage and tumor formation. Consistently, URI expression in human HCC is associated with poor survival and correlates negatively with L-tryptophan catabolism pathway. Our results suggest that boosting NAD(+) can be prophylactic or therapeutic in HCC.
PXD001177	25464831	Modulation of RNA polymerase II phosphorylation downstream of pathogen perception orchestrates plant immunity. 	MPK phosphorylation of CDKC	CDKC, MPK	Perception of microbe-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs) elicits host transcriptional reprogramming as part of the immune response. Although pathogen perception is well studied, the signaling networks orchestrating immune gene expression remain less clear. In a genetic screen for components involved in the early immune gene transcription reprogramming, we identified Arabidopsis RNA polymerase II C-terminal domain (CTD) phosphatase-like 3 (CPL3) as a negative regulator of immune gene expression. MAMP perception induced rapid and transient cyclin-dependent kinase C (CDKC)-mediated phosphorylation of Arabidopsis CTD. The CDKCs, which are in turn phosphorylated and activated by a canonical MAP kinase (MAPK) cascade, represent a point of signaling convergence downstream of multiple immune receptors. CPL3 directly dephosphorylated CTD to counteract MAPK-mediated CDKC regulation. Thus, modulation of the phosphorylation dynamics of eukaryotic RNA polymerase II transcription machinery by MAPKs, CTD kinases, and phosphatases constitutes an essential mechanism for rapid orchestration of host immune gene expression and defense upon pathogen attacks.
PXD001414	25464976	Tomato nuclear proteome reveals the involvement  of specific E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes in  fruit ripening. 	Tomato nuclear proteome reveals the involvement of specific E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes in fruit ripening	MADS-RIN, Nucleus, fruit ripening, tomato, ubiquitination	BACKGROUND: Fruits are unique to flowering plants and play a central role in seed maturation and dispersal. Molecular dissection of fruit ripening has received considerable interest because of the biological and dietary significance of fruit. To better understand the regulatory mechanisms underlying fruit ripening, we report here the first comprehensive analysis of the nuclear proteome in tomato fruits. RESULTS: Nuclear proteins were isolated from tomatoes in different stages of ripening, and subjected to iTRAQ (isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification) analysis. We show that the proteins whose abundances change during ripening stages are involved in various cellular processes. We additionally evaluate changes in the nuclear proteome in the ripening-deficient mutant, ripening-inhibitor (rin), carrying a mutation in the transcription factor RIN. A set of proteins were identified and particular attention was paid to SlUBC32 and PSMD2, the components of ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Through chromatin immunoprecipitation and gel mobility shift assays, we provide evidence that RIN directly binds to the promoters of SlUBC32 and PSMD2. Moreover, loss of RIN function affects protein ubiquitination in nuclei. SlUBC32 encodes an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme and a genome-wide survey of the E2 gene family in tomatoes identified five more E2s as direct targets of RIN. Virus-induced gene silencing assays show that two E2s are involved in the regulation of fruit ripening. CONCLUSIONS: Our results uncover a novel function of protein ubiquitination, identifying specific E2s as regulators of fruit ripening. These findings contribute to the unraveling of the gene regulatory networks that control fruit ripening.
PXD000448	25468996	E-cadherin interactome complexity and robustness resolved by quantitative proteomics. 	E-cadherin interactome complexity and robustness resolved by quantitative proteomics	E-cadherin, SILAC, cancer, interactome, label-free	E-cadherin-mediated cell-cell adhesion and signaling plays an essential role in development and maintenance of healthy epithelial tissues. Adhesiveness mediated by E-cadherin is conferred by its extracellular cadherin domains and is regulated by an assembly of intracellular adaptors and enzymes associated with its cytoplasmic tail. We used proximity biotinylation and quantitative proteomics to identify 561 proteins in the vicinity of the cytoplasmic tail of E-cadherin. In addition, we used proteomics to identify proteins associated with E-cadherin-containing adhesion plaques from a cell-glass interface, which enabled the assignment of cellular localization to putative E-cadherin-interacting proteins. Moreover, by tagging identified proteins with GFP (green fluorescent protein), we determined the subcellular localization of 83 putative E-cadherin-proximal proteins and identified 24 proteins that were previously uncharacterized as part of adherens junctions. We constructed and characterized a comprehensive E-cadherin interaction network of 79 published and 394 previously uncharacterized proteins using a structure-informed database of protein-protein interactions. Finally, we found that calcium chelation, which disrupts the interaction of the extracellular E-cadherin domains, did not disrupt most intracellular protein interactions with E-cadherin, suggesting that the E-cadherin intracellular interactome is predominantly independent of cell-cell adhesion.
PXD000867	25470552	Cell-type-resolved quantitative proteomics of murine liver. 	Cell type-resolved quantitative proteomics of mouse liver	Liver, Murine, cell type, quantitative proteomics	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics provides a powerful approach to globally investigate the biological function of individual cell types in mammalian organs. Here, we applied this technology to the in-depth analysis of purified hepatic cell types from mouse. We quantified 11,520 proteins, making this the most comprehensive proteomic resource of any organ to date. Global protein copy number determination demonstrated that a large proportion of the hepatocyte proteome is dedicated to fatty acid and xenobiotic metabolism. We identified as-yet-unknown components of the TGF-beta signaling pathway and extracellular matrix in hepatic stellate cells, uncovering their regulative role in liver physiology. Moreover, our high-resolution proteomic data set enabled us to compare the distinct functional roles of hepatic cell types in cholesterol flux, cellular trafficking, and growth factor receptor signaling. This study provides a comprehensive resource for liver biology and biomedicine.
PXD006274	25471130	Proteomics of Colwellia psychrerythraea at subzero temperatures - a life with limited movement, flexible membranes and vital DNA repair. 	Proteomics of Colwellia psychrerythraea grown at multiple subzero temperatures	Adaptation Physiological/genetics, Alteromonadaceae/metabolism, Bacterial Protein, Bacterial Proteins/genetics, Colwellia pschrerythraea, DNA Repair, Iron/metabolism, Movement, Nitrogen/metabolism	The mechanisms that allow psychrophilic bacteria to remain metabolically active at subzero temperatures result from form and function of their proteins. We present first proteomic evidence of physiological changes of the marine psychrophile Colwellia psychrerythraea 34H (Cp34H) after exposure to subzero temperatures (-1, and -10degreesC in ice) through 8 weeks. Protein abundance was compared between different treatments to understand the effects of temperature and time, independently and jointly, within cells transitioning to, and being maintained in ice. Parallel [3H]-leucine and [3H]-thymidine incubations indicated active protein and DNA synthesis to -10degreesC. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics identified 1763 proteins across four experimental treatments. Proteins involved in osmolyte regulation and polymer secretion were found constitutively present across all treatments, suggesting that they are required for metabolic success below 0degreesC. Differentially abundant protein groups indicated a reallocation of resources from DNA binding to DNA repair and from motility to chemo-taxis and sensing. Changes to iron and nitrogen metabolism, cellular membrane structures, and protein synthesis and folding were also revealed. By elucidating vital strategies during life in ice, this study provides novel insight into the extensive molecular adaptations that occur in cold-adapted marine organisms to sustain cellular function in their habitat.
PXD001075	25475747	Identification of Biomarkers for PKD1 Using Urinary Exosomes. 	Identification of biomarkers for PKD1 using urinary exosomes	ADPKD, PKD, Urine, autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, exosome-like vesicles, exosomes	Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is a common cause of ESRD. Affected individuals inherit a defective copy of either PKD1 or PKD2, which encode polycystin-1 (PC1) or polycystin-2 (PC2), respectively. PC1 and PC2 are secreted on urinary exosome-like vesicles (ELVs) (100-nm diameter vesicles), in which PC1 is present in a cleaved form and may be complexed with PC2. Here, label-free quantitative proteomic studies of urine ELVs in an initial discovery cohort (13 individuals with PKD1 mutations and 18 normal controls) revealed that of 2008 ELV proteins, 9 (0.32%) were expressed at significantly different levels in samples from individuals with PKD1 mutations compared to controls (P<0.03). In samples from individuals with PKD1 mutations, levels of PC1 and PC2 were reduced to 54% (P<0.02) and 53% (P<0.001), respectively. Transmembrane protein 2 (TMEM2), a protein with homology to fibrocystin, was 2.1-fold higher in individuals with PKD1 mutations (P<0.03). The PC1/TMEM2 ratio correlated inversely with height-adjusted total kidney volume in the discovery cohort, and the ratio of PC1/TMEM2 or PC2/TMEM2 could be used to distinguish individuals with PKD1 mutations from controls in a confirmation cohort. In summary, results of this study suggest that a test measuring the urine exosomal PC1/TMEM2 or PC2/TMEM2 ratio may have utility in diagnosis and monitoring of polycystic kidney disease. Future studies will focus on increasing sample size and confirming these studies. The data were deposited in the ProteomeXchange (identifier PXD001075).
PXD000551	25489052	Biochemical and cellular analysis of Ogden syndrome reveals downstream Nt-acetylation defects. 	Structural, molecular and cellular impact of the Ogden syndrome mutant N-terminal acetyltransferase hNaa10-Ser37Pro	Cofradic, hNaa10p	The X-linked lethal Ogden syndrome was the first reported human genetic disorder associated with a mutation in an N-terminal acetyltransferase (NAT) gene. The affected males harbor an Ser37Pro (S37P) mutation in the gene encoding Naa10, the catalytic subunit of NatA, the major human NAT involved in the co-translational acetylation of proteins. Structural models and molecular dynamics simulations of the human NatA and its S37P mutant highlight differences in regions involved in catalysis and at the interface between Naa10 and the auxiliary subunit hNaa15. Biochemical data further demonstrate a reduced catalytic capacity and an impaired interaction between hNaa10 S37P and Naa15 as well as Naa50 (NatE), another interactor of the NatA complex. N-Terminal acetylome analyses revealed a decreased acetylation of a subset of NatA and NatE substrates in Ogden syndrome cells, supporting the genetic findings and our hypothesis regarding reduced Nt-acetylation of a subset of NatA/NatE-type substrates as one etiology for Ogden syndrome. Furthermore, Ogden syndrome fibroblasts display abnormal cell migration and proliferation capacity, possibly linked to a perturbed retinoblastoma pathway. N-Terminal acetylation clearly plays a role in Ogden syndrome, thus revealing the in vivo importance of N-terminal acetylation in human physiology and disease.
PXD001301	25490046	CRISPR-Cas9-based knockout of the prion protein and its effect on the proteome. 	CRISPR-Cas9-based knockout of the prion protein and its effect on the proteome	CRISPR-Cas9, knockout, kockdown, prion	The molecular function of the cellular prion protein (PrPC) and the mechanism by which it may contribute to neurotoxicity in prion diseases and Alzheimer's disease are only partially understood. Mouse neuroblastoma Neuro2a cells and, more recently, C2C12 myocytes and myotubes have emerged as popular models for investigating the cellular biology of PrP. Mouse epithelial NMuMG cells might become attractive models for studying the possible involvement of PrP in a morphogenetic program underlying epithelial-to-mesenchymal transitions. Here we describe the generation of PrP knockout clones from these cell lines using CRISPR-Cas9 knockout technology. More specifically, knockout clones were generated with two separate guide RNAs targeting recognition sites on opposite strands within the first hundred nucleotides of the Prnp coding sequence. Several PrP knockout clones were isolated and genomic insertions and deletions near the CRISPR-target sites were characterized. Subsequently, deep quantitative global proteome analyses that recorded the relative abundance of>3000 proteins (data deposited to ProteomeXchange Consortium) were undertaken to begin to characterize the molecular consequences of PrP deficiency. The levels of ~ 120 proteins were shown to reproducibly correlate with the presence or absence of PrP, with most of these proteins belonging to extracellular components, cell junctions or the cytoskeleton.
PXD001650	25495137	Evaluation of the effect of trypsin digestion buffers on artificial deamidation. 	Evaluation of the Effect of Trypsin Digestion Buffers on Artificial Deamidation	Kidney, Rat, artificial deamidation	Nonenzymatic deamidation occurs readily under the condition of trypsin digestion, resulting in the identification of many artificial deamidation sites. To evaluate the effect of trypsin digestion buffers on artificial deamidation, we compared the three commonly used buffers Tris-HCl (pH 8), ammonium bicarbonate (ABC), and triethylammonium bicarbonate (TEAB), and ammonium acetate (pH 6), which was reported to reduce Asn deamidation. iTRAQ quantification on rat kidney tissue digested in these four buffers indicates that artificial Asn deamidation is produced in the order of ammonium acetate < Tris-HCl < ABC < TEAB, and Gln deamidation has no significant differences in all tested buffers. Label-free experiments show the same trend, while protein and unique peptide identification are comparable using these four buffers. To explain the differences of these four buffers in producing artificial Asn deamidation, we determined the half-life of Asn deamidation in these buffers using synthetic peptides containing -Asn-Gly- sequences. It is 51.4 +/- 6.0 days in 50 mM of ammonium acetate (pH 6) at 37 degreesC, which is about 23, 104, and 137 times that in Tris-HCl, ABC, and TEAB buffers, respectively. In conclusion, ammonium acetate (pH 6) is more suitable than other tested buffers for characterizing endogenous deamidation and N-glycosylation.
PXD000716	25497329	Proteome-wide analysis of SUMO2 targets in response to pathological DNA replication stress in human cells. 	Proteome-wide analysis of SUMO2 targets in response to pathological DNA replication stress in human cells	SUMO2, replication stress	SUMOylation is a form of post-translational modification involving covalent attachment of SUMO (Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier) polypeptides to specific lysine residues in the target protein. In human cells, there are four SUMO proteins, SUMO1-4, with SUMO2 and SUMO3 forming a closely related subfamily. SUMO2/3, in contrast to SUMO1, are predominantly involved in the cellular response to certain stresses, including heat shock. Substantial evidence from studies in yeast has shown that SUMOylation plays an important role in the regulation of DNA replication and repair. Here, we report a proteomic analysis of proteins modified by SUMO2 in response to DNA replication stress in S phase in human cells. We have identified a panel of 22 SUMO2 targets with increased SUMOylation during DNA replication stress, many of which play key functions within the DNA replication machinery and/or in the cellular response to DNA damage. Interestingly, POLD3 was found modified most significantly in response to a low dose aphidicolin treatment protocol that promotes common fragile site (CFS) breakage. POLD3 is the human ortholog of POL32 in budding yeast, and has been shown to act during break-induced recombinational repair. We have also shown that deficiency of POLD3 leads to an increase in RPA-bound ssDNA when cells are under replication stress, suggesting that POLD3 plays a role in the cellular response to DNA replication stress. Considering that DNA replication stress is a source of genome instability, and that excessive replication stress is a hallmark of pre-neoplastic and tumor cells, our characterization of SUMO2 targets during a perturbed S-phase should provide a valuable resource for future functional studies in the fields of DNA metabolism and cancer biology.
PXD001205	25502872	Different binding motifs of the celiac disease-associated HLA molecules DQ2.5, DQ2.2, and DQ7.5 revealed by relative quantitative proteomics of endogenous peptide repertoires. 	Different Binding Motifs of the Celiac Disease Associated HLA Molecules DQ2.5, DQ2.2 and DQ7.5 Revealed by Relative Quantitative Proteomics of Endogenous Peptide Repertoires	HLA, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), affinity precipitation, celiac disease	Celiac disease is caused by intolerance to cereal gluten proteins, and HLA-DQ molecules are involved in the disease pathogenesis by presentation of gluten peptides to CD4(+) T cells. The alpha- or beta-chain sharing HLA molecules DQ2.5, DQ2.2, and DQ7.5 display different risks for the disease. It was recently demonstrated that T cells of DQ2.5 and DQ2.2 patients recognize distinct sets of gluten epitopes, suggesting that these two DQ2 variants select different peptides for display. To explore whether this is the case, we performed a comprehensive comparison of the endogenous self-peptides bound to HLA-DQ molecules of B-lymphoblastoid cell lines. Peptides were eluted from affinity-purified HLA molecules of nine cell lines and subjected to quadrupole orbitrap mass spectrometry and MaxQuant software analysis. Altogether, 12,712 endogenous peptides were identified at very different relative abundances. Hierarchical clustering of normalized quantitative data demonstrated significant differences in repertoires of peptides between the three DQ variant molecules. The neural network-based method, NNAlign, was used to identify peptide-binding motifs. The binding motifs of DQ2.5 and DQ7.5 concurred with previously established binding motifs. The binding motif of DQ2.2 was strikingly different from that of DQ2.5 with position P3 being a major anchor having a preference for threonine and serine. This is notable as three recently identified epitopes of gluten recognized by T cells of DQ2.2 celiac patients harbor serine at position P3. This study demonstrates that relative quantitative comparison of endogenous peptides sampled from our protein metabolism by HLA molecules provides clues to understand HLA association with disease.
PXD001456	25503233	Genome-wide characterization of the routes to pluripotency. 	Project Grandiose, cell surface protein capture	iPSC, stem cells	Somatic cell reprogramming to a pluripotent state continues to challenge many of our assumptions about cellular specification, and despite major efforts, we lack a complete molecular characterization of the reprograming process. To address this gap in knowledge, we generated extensive transcriptomic, epigenomic and proteomic data sets describing the reprogramming routes leading from mouse embryonic fibroblasts to induced pluripotency. Through integrative analysis, we reveal that cells transition through distinct gene expression and epigenetic signatures and bifurcate towards reprogramming transgene-dependent and -independent stable pluripotent states. Early transcriptional events, driven by high levels of reprogramming transcription factor expression, are associated with widespread loss of histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27me3) trimethylation, representing a general opening of the chromatin state. Maintenance of high transgene levels leads to re-acquisition of H3K27me3 and a stable pluripotent state that is alternative to the embryonic stem cell (ESC)-like fate. Lowering transgene levels at an intermediate phase, however, guides the process to the acquisition of ESC-like chromatin and DNA methylation signature. Our data provide a comprehensive molecular description of the reprogramming routes and is accessible through the Project Grandiose portal at http://www.stemformatics.org.
PXD001446	25506391	A comparative multidimensional LC-MS proteomic analysis reveals mechanisms for furan aldehyde detoxification in Thermoanaerobacter pseudethanolicus 39E. 	T. pseudoethanolicus response to furfural stress - LC-MS/MS	TPS, furfural, proteomics., stress	BACKGROUND: Chemical and physical pretreatment of lignocellulosic biomass improves substrate reactivity for increased microbial biofuel production, but also restricts growth via the release of furan aldehydes, such as furfural and 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (5-HMF). The physiological effects of these inhibitors on thermophilic, fermentative bacteria are important to understand; especially as cellulolytic strains are being developed for consolidated bioprocessing (CBP) of lignocellulosic feedstocks. Identifying mechanisms for detoxification of aldehydes in naturally resistant strains, such as Thermoanaerobacter spp., may also enable improvements in candidate CBP microorganisms. RESULTS: Thermoanaerobacter pseudethanolicus 39E, an anaerobic, saccharolytic thermophile, was found to grow readily in the presence of 30 mM furfural and 20 mM 5-HMF and reduce these aldehydes to their respective alcohols in situ. The proteomes of T. pseudethanolicus 39E grown in the presence or absence of 15 mM furfural were compared to identify upregulated enzymes potentially responsible for the observed reduction. A total of 225 proteins were differentially regulated in response to the 15 mM furfural treatment with 152 upregulated versus 73 downregulated. Only 87 proteins exhibited a twofold or greater change in abundance in either direction. Of these, 54 were upregulated in the presence of furfural and 33 were downregulated. Two oxidoreductases were upregulated at least twofold by furfural and were targeted for further investigation. Teth39_1597 encodes a predicted butanol dehydrogenase (BdhA) and Teth39_1598, a predicted aldo/keto reductase (AKR). Both genes were cloned from T. pseudethanolicus 39E, with the respective enzymes overexpressed in E. coli and specific activities determined against a variety of aldehydes. Overexpressed BdhA showed significant activity with all aldehydes tested, including furfural and 5-HMF, using NADPH as the cofactor. Cell extracts with AKR also showed activity with NADPH, but only with four-carbon butyraldehyde and isobutyraldehyde. CONCLUSIONS: T. pseudethanolicus 39E displays intrinsic tolerance to the common pretreatment inhibitors furfural and 5-HMF. Multidimensional proteomic analysis was used as an effective tool to identify putative mechanisms for detoxification of furfural and 5-HMF. T. pseudethanolicus was found to upregulate an NADPH-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase 6.8-fold in response to furfural. In vitro enzyme assays confirmed the reduction of furfural and 5-HMF to their respective alcohols.
PXD001226	25518064	Protein acetylation affects acetate metabolism, motility and acid stress response in Escherichia coli. 	Protein deacetylation affects acetate metabolism, motility and acid stress response in Escherichia coli	acetate metabolism, glyoxylate shunt, motility, protein acetylation, sirtuins	Although protein acetylation is widely observed, it has been associated with few specific regulatory functions making it poorly understood. To interrogate its functionality, we analyzed the acetylome in Escherichia coli knockout mutants of cobB, the only known sirtuin-like deacetylase, and patZ, the best-known protein acetyltransferase. For four growth conditions, more than 2,000 unique acetylated peptides, belonging to 809 proteins, were identified and differentially quantified. Nearly 65% of these proteins are related to metabolism. The global activity of CobB contributes to the deacetylation of a large number of substrates and has a major impact on physiology. Apart from the regulation of acetyl-CoA synthetase, we found that CobB-controlled acetylation of isocitrate lyase contributes to the fine-tuning of the glyoxylate shunt. Acetylation of the transcription factor RcsB prevents DNA binding, activating flagella biosynthesis and motility, and increases acid stress susceptibility. Surprisingly, deletion of patZ increased acetylation in acetate cultures, which suggests that it regulates the levels of acetylating agents. The results presented offer new insights into functional roles of protein acetylation in metabolic fitness and global cell regulation.
PXD001201	25531588	Uncovering surface-exposed antigens of Lactobacillus rhamnosus by cell shaving proteomics and two-dimensional immunoblotting. 	Surfacome analysis of Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG and Lactobacillus rhamnosus Lc705	L. rhamnosus GG and L. rhamnosus Lc705, cell-surface bound proteins	The present study reports the identification and comparison of all expressed cell-surface exposed proteins from the well-known probiotic L. rhamnosus GG and a related dairy strain, Lc705. To obtain this information, the cell-surface bound proteins were released from intact cells by trypsin shaving under hypertonic conditions with and without DTT. Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analyses of the purified peptides identified a total of 102 and 198 individual proteins from GG and Lc705, respectively. Comparison of both data sets suggested that the Msp-type antigens (Msp1, Msp2) and the serine protease HtrA were uniquely exposed at the cell surface of GG, whereas the Lc705-specific proteins included lactocepin and a wider range of different moonlighting proteins. ImmunoEM analyses with the GG and Lc705 antibodies suggested that the whole-cell immunization yielded antibodies toward surface-bound proteins and proteins that were secreted or released from the cell-surface. One of the detected antigens was a pilus-like structure on the surface of GG cells, which was not detected with Lc705 antibodies. Further 2-DE immunoblotting analysis of GG proteins with both L. rhamnosus antisera revealed that majority of the detected antigens were moonlighting proteins with potential roles in adhesion, pathogen exclusion or immune stimulation. The present study provides the first catalog of surface-exposed proteins from lactobacilli and highlights the importance of the specifically exposed moonlighting proteins for adaptation and probiotic functions of L. rhamnosus.
PXD001269	25532521	Integrating phosphoproteome and transcriptome reveals new determinants of macrophage multinucleation. 	Investigating macrophage multinucleation by LC-MS/MS	Macrophage, WKY, protein, rat	Macrophage multinucleation (MM) is essential for various biological processes such as osteoclast-mediated bone resorption and multinucleated giant cell-associated inflammatory reactions. Here we study the molecular pathways underlying multinucleation in the rat through an integrative approach combining MS-based quantitative phosphoproteomics (LC-MS/MS) and transcriptome (high-throughput RNA-sequencing) to identify new regulators of MM. We show that a strong metabolic shift toward HIF1-mediated glycolysis occurs at transcriptomic level during MM, together with modifications in phosphorylation of over 50 proteins including several ARF GTPase activators and polyphosphate inositol phosphatases. We use shortest-path analysis to link differential phosphorylation with the transcriptomic reprogramming of macrophages and identify LRRFIP1, SMARCA4, and DNMT1 as novel regulators of MM. We experimentally validate these predictions by showing that knock-down of these latter reduce macrophage multinucleation. These results provide a new framework for the combined analysis of transcriptional and post-translational changes during macrophage multinucleation, prioritizing essential genes, and revealing the sequential events leading to the multinucleation of macrophages.
PXD000497	25538140	ROCK1 is a potential combinatorial drug target for BRAF mutant melanoma. 	Proteomics and phosphoproteomics analysis of melanoma BRAF	BRAF, Melanoma, Phospho Proteome, Whole proteome	Treatment of BRAF mutant melanomas with specific BRAF inhibitors leads to tumor remission. However, most patients eventually relapse due to drug resistance. Therefore, we designed an integrated strategy using (phospho)proteomic and functional genomic platforms to identify drug targets whose inhibition sensitizes melanoma cells to BRAF inhibition. We found many proteins to be induced upon PLX4720 (BRAF inhibitor) treatment that are known to be involved in BRAF inhibitor resistance, including FOXD3 and ErbB3. Several proteins were down-regulated, including Rnd3, a negative regulator of ROCK1 kinase. For our genomic approach, we performed two parallel shRNA screens using a kinome library to identify genes whose inhibition sensitizes to BRAF or ERK inhibitor treatment. By integrating our functional genomic and (phospho)proteomic data, we identified ROCK1 as a potential drug target for BRAF mutant melanoma. ROCK1 silencing increased melanoma cell elimination when combined with BRAF or ERK inhibitor treatment. Translating this to a preclinical setting, a ROCK inhibitor showed augmented melanoma cell death upon BRAF or ERK inhibition in vitro. These data merit exploration of ROCK1 as a target in combination with current BRAF mutant melanoma therapies.
PXD001079	25540406	Endogenous human milk peptide release is greater after preterm birth than term birth. 	Preterm birth increases endogenous human milk peptide release compared to term birth	human milk, peptidomics	BACKGROUND: Hundreds of naturally occurring milk peptides are present in term human milk. Preterm milk is produced before complete maturation of the mammary gland, which could change milk synthesis and secretion processes within the mammary gland, leading to differences in protein expression and enzymatic activity, thereby resulting in an altered peptide profile. OBJECTIVE: This study examined differences in peptides present between milk from women delivering at term and women delivering prematurely. METHODS: Nano-LC tandem mass spectrometry was employed to identify naturally occurring peptides and compare their abundances between term and preterm human milk samples at multiple time points over lactation. Term milk samples were collected from 8 mothers and preterm milk was collected from 14 mothers. The 28 preterm and 32 term human milk samples were divided into 4 groups based on day of collection (<14, 14-28, 29-41, and 42-58 d). RESULTS: Preterm milk peptide counts, ion abundance, and concentration were significantly higher in preterm milk than term milk. Bioinformatic analysis of the cleavage sites for peptides identified suggested that plasmin was more active in preterm milk than term milk and that cytosol aminopeptidase and carboxypeptidase B2 likely contribute to extensive milk protein breakdown. Many identified milk peptides in both term and preterm milk overlapped with known functional peptides, including antihypertensive, antimicrobial, and immunomodulatory peptides. CONCLUSION: The high protein degradation by endogenous proteases in preterm milk might attenuate problems because of the preterm infant's immature digestive system. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01817127.
PXD001240	25545627	In-depth evaluation of software tools for data-independent acquisition based label-free quantification. 	Benchmarking label-free quantification based on data-independent acquisition (DIA) workflows	E.coli	Label-free quantification (LFQ) based on data-independent acquisition workflows currently experiences increasing popularity. Several software tools have been recently published or are commercially available. The present study focuses on the evaluation of three different software packages (Progenesis, synapter, and ISOQuant) supporting ion mobility enhanced data-independent acquisition data. In order to benchmark the LFQ performance of the different tools, we generated two hybrid proteome samples of defined quantitative composition containing tryptically digested proteomes of three different species (mouse, yeast, Escherichia coli). This model dataset simulates complex biological samples containing large numbers of both unregulated (background) proteins as well as up- and downregulated proteins with exactly known ratios between samples. We determined the number and dynamic range of quantifiable proteins and analyzed the influence of applied algorithms (retention time alignment, clustering, normalization, etc.) on quantification results. Analysis of technical reproducibility revealed median coefficients of variation of reported protein abundances below 5% for MS(E) data for Progenesis and ISOQuant. Regarding accuracy of LFQ, evaluation with synapter and ISOQuant yielded superior results compared to Progenesis. In addition, we discuss reporting formats and user friendliness of the software packages. The data generated in this study have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with identifier PXD001240 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD001240).
PXD000782	25546135	A quantitative proteomics tool to identify DNA-protein interactions in primary cells or blood. 	A quantitative proteomics tool to identify DNA-protein interactions in primary cells or blood	DNA pull-down, PBMCs, blood, primary cells	Interactions between transcription factors and genomic DNA, and in particular their impact on disease and cell fate, have been extensively studied on a global level using techniques based on next-generation sequencing. These approaches, however, do not allow an unbiased study of protein complexes that bind to certain DNA sequences. DNA pulldowns from crude lysates combined with quantitative mass spectrometry were recently introduced to close this gap. Established protocols, however, are restricted to cell lines because they are based on metabolic labeling or require large amounts of material. We introduce a high-throughput-compatible DNA pulldown that combines on-bead digestion with direct dimethyl labeling or label-free protein quantification. We demonstrate that our method can efficiently identify transcription factors binding to their consensus DNA motifs in extracts from primary foreskin fibroblasts and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) freshly isolated from human donors. Nuclear proteomes with absolute quantification of nearly 7000 proteins in K562 cells and PBMCs clearly link differential interactions to differences in protein abundance, hence stressing the importance of selecting relevant cell extracts for any interaction in question. As shown for rs6904029, a SNP highly associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, our approach can provide invaluable functional data, for example, through integration with GWAS.
PXD002278	25551446	Genomic, proteomic, morphological, and phylogenetic analyses of vB_EcoP_SU10, a podoviridae phage with C3 morphology. 	Bacteriophage vB_EcoP_SU10, LC-MS/MS	Bacteriohage, SU10	A recently isolated phage, vB_EcoP_SU10 (SU10), with the unusual elongated C3 morphotype, can infect a wide range of Escherichia coli strains. We have sequenced the genome of this phage and characterized it further by mass spectrometry based proteomics, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and ultra-thin section electron microscopy. The genome size is 77,327 base pairs and its genes, and genome architecture, show high similarity to the phiEco32 phage genes and genome. The TEM images reveal that SU10 have a quite long tail for being a Podoviridae phage, and that the tail also changes conformation upon infection. The ultra-thin section electron microscopy images of phages at the stage of replication within the host cell show that the phages form a honeycomb-like structure under packaging of genomes and assembly of mature capsids. This implies a tight link between the replication and cutting of the concatemeric genome, genome packaging, and capsid assembly. We have also performed a phylogenetic analysis of the structural genes common between Podoviridae phages of the C1 and C3 morphotypes. The result shows that the structural genes have coevolved, and that they form two distinct groups linked to their morphotypes. The structural genes of C1 and C3 phages appear to have diverged around 280 million years ago applying a molecular clock calibrated according to the presumed split between the Escherichia - Salmonella genera.
PXD001043	25561571	Deciphering preferential interactions within supramolecular protein complexes: the proteasome case. 	Proteasome composition analysis	Proteasome	In eukaryotic cells, intracellular protein breakdown is mainly performed by the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Proteasomes are supramolecular protein complexes formed by the association of multiple sub-complexes and interacting proteins. Therefore, they exhibit a very high heterogeneity whose function is still not well understood. Here, using a newly developed method based on the combination of affinity purification and protein correlation profiling associated with high-resolution mass spectrometry, we comprehensively characterized proteasome heterogeneity and identified previously unknown preferential associations within proteasome sub-complexes. In particular, we showed for the first time that the two main proteasome subtypes, standard proteasome and immunoproteasome, interact with a different subset of important regulators. This trend was observed in very diverse human cell types and was confirmed by changing the relative proportions of both 20S proteasome forms using interferon-gamma. The new method developed here constitutes an innovative and powerful strategy that could be broadly applied for unraveling the dynamic and heterogeneous nature of other biologically relevant supramolecular protein complexes.
PXD001501	25562820	Rb and FZR1/Cdh1 determine CDK4/6-cyclin D requirement in C. elegans and human cancer cells. 	Rb and the APC/C coactivator FZR1 determine CDK4/6-Cyclin D requirement in C. elegans and human cancer cells	Lin-35 Fzr1	Cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 (CDK4/6) in complex with D-type cyclins promote cell cycle entry. Most human cancers contain overactive CDK4/6-cyclin D, and CDK4/6-specific inhibitors are promising anti-cancer therapeutics. Here, we investigate the critical functions of CDK4/6-cyclin D kinases, starting from an unbiased screen in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. We found that simultaneous mutation of lin-35, a retinoblastoma (Rb)-related gene, and fzr-1, an orthologue to the APC/C co-activator Cdh1, completely eliminates the essential requirement of CDK4/6-cyclin D (CDK-4/CYD-1) in C. elegans. CDK-4/CYD-1 phosphorylates specific residues in the LIN-35 Rb spacer domain and FZR-1 amino terminus, resembling inactivating phosphorylations of the human proteins. In human breast cancer cells, simultaneous knockdown of Rb and FZR1 synergistically bypasses cell division arrest induced by the CDK4/6-specific inhibitor PD-0332991. Our data identify FZR1 as a candidate CDK4/6-cyclin D substrate and point to an APC/C(FZR1) activity as an important determinant in response to CDK4/6-inhibitors.
PXD001186	25573745	Proteomics-based metabolic modeling reveals that fatty acid oxidation (FAO) controls endothelial cell (EC) permeability. 	A role for CPT1A to prevent blood vessel permeability revealed by in depth proteomics	CPT1A, FAO, SILAC, endothelial cells, label-free	Endothelial cells (ECs) play a key role to maintain the functionality of blood vessels. Altered EC permeability causes severe impairment in vessel stability and is a hallmark of pathologies such as cancer and thrombosis. Integrating label-free quantitative proteomics data into genome-wide metabolic modeling, we built up a model that predicts the metabolic fluxes in ECs when cultured on a tridimensional matrix and organize into a vascular-like network. We discovered how fatty acid oxidation increases when ECs are assembled into a fully formed network that can be disrupted by inhibiting CPT1A, the fatty acid oxidation rate-limiting enzyme. Acute CPT1A inhibition reduces cellular ATP levels and oxygen consumption, which are restored by replenishing the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Remarkably, global phosphoproteomic changes measured upon acute CPT1A inhibition pinpointed altered calcium signaling. Indeed, CPT1A inhibition increases intracellular calcium oscillations. Finally, inhibiting CPT1A induces hyperpermeability in vitro and leakage of blood vessel in vivo, which were restored blocking calcium influx or replenishing the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Fatty acid oxidation emerges as central regulator of endothelial functions and blood vessel stability and druggable pathway to control pathological vascular permeability.
PXD001372	25575281	An optimized platform for hydrophilic interaction chromatography-immobilized metal affinity chromatography enables deep coverage of the rat liver phosphoproteome. 	Rat Liver Phosphoproteome -  An optimized platform for hydrophilic interaction chromatography-immobilized metal affinity chromatography enables deep coverage of the rat liver phosphoproteome	liver, phosphoproteome, rat	While analysis of the phosphoproteome has become an important component of understanding how cells function, it remains a nontrivial task in terms of the number of sample preparation steps and instrument time needed to achieve sufficient depth of coverage to produce meaningful results. We previously described a multidimensional method that uses hydrophilic interaction chromatography (HILIC) followed by Fe(3+) immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) to reduce complexity, improve selectivity, and increase phosphopeptide identifications. Here we present refinements to our overall protocol that make it simpler and more efficient, while they provide greater coverage of the phosphoproteome. We introduce filter-aided sample prep (FASP) for cell lysis and trypsin digestion. Following HILIC separation, fractions are IMAC enriched using a 96-well filter plate. Finally, enriched samples are analyzed using an LC-MS strategy optimized for the fractionation scheme. The optimized protocol improves protein recovery, simplifies phosphopeptide enrichment, and optimizes instrument time, while it maintains deep coverage of the phosphoproteome. By using the refined protocol, we identified more than 16,000 unique phosphosites from rat liver in a single experiment, which used approximately 1 day of instrument time. All together, we present evidence for 24,485 rat liver phosphosites that represents the deepest coverage of a tissue phosphoproteome to date.
PXD000394	25576301	Mass spectrometry of human leukocyte antigen class I peptidomes reveals strong effects of protein abundance and turnover on antigen presentation. 	Mass spectrometry of HLA-I peptidomes reveals strong effects of protein abundance and turnover on antigen presentation	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), HLA pepti, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP), benchmarking, machine learning	HLA class I molecules reflect the health state of cells to cytotoxic T cells by presenting a repertoire of endogenously derived peptides. However, the extent to which the proteome shapes the peptidome is still largely unknown. Here we present a high-throughput mass-spectrometry-based workflow that allows stringent and accurate identification of thousands of such peptides and direct determination of binding motifs. Applying the workflow to seven cancer cell lines and primary cells, yielded more than 22,000 unique HLA peptides across different allelic binding specificities. By computing a score representing the HLA-I sampling density, we show a strong link between protein abundance and HLA-presentation (p < 0.0001). When analyzing overpresented proteins - those with at least fivefold higher density score than expected for their abundance - we noticed that they are degraded almost 3 h faster than similar but nonpresented proteins (top 20% abundance class; median half-life 20.8h versus 23.6h, p < 0.0001). This validates protein degradation as an important factor for HLA presentation. Ribosomal, mitochondrial respiratory chain, and nucleosomal proteins are particularly well presented. Taking a set of proteins associated with cancer, we compared the predicted immunogenicity of previously validated T-cell epitopes with other peptides from these proteins in our data set. The validated epitopes indeed tend to have higher immunogenic scores than the other detected HLA peptides. Remarkably, we identified five mutated peptides from a human colon cancer cell line, which have very recently been predicted to be HLA-I binders. Altogether, we demonstrate the usefulness of combining MS-analysis with immunogenesis prediction for identifying, ranking, and selecting peptides for therapeutic use.
PXD005318	25576853	Proteomic characterization and comparison of mammalian milk fat globule proteomes by iTRAQ analysis. 	A proteomic characterization reveals differences in the milk fat globule membrane of buffalo and bovine milk	buffalo milk, milk fat globule membrane, xanthine oxidase	Milk fat globule membrane (MFGM) proteins are known to be involved in many biological functions; however, their components and inter-species complexity have not yet been completely elucidated. We investigated the protein composition of the MFGM-enriched fraction from Holstein, Jersey, yak, buffalo, goat, camel, horse, and human. Extracted proteins from the MFGM-enriched fractions were identified and quantified by an iTRAQ proteomic approach. We identified 520 protein species categorized as biological processes, cellular components and molecular function according to their annotation. Cellular process, localization, transport, signal transduction, and response to stimulus were the most common biological processes; binding and catalytic activities were the most prevalent molecular functions. Pathway analysis revealed several pathways, including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor signaling, and fatty acid biosynthesis. Quantified MFGM-enriched proteins were subjected to discriminative proteomic profiling by principal component analysis and a hierarchical clustering method, and then organized into four major clusters: (1) Holstein, Jersey, and yak milk; (2) buffalo and goat milk; (3) Holstein, Jersey, buffalo, yak, and goat milk; and (4) camel, horse, and human milk. These novel quantitative data provide insight into the protein composition of the MFGM and their potential physiological functions, and highlight the significant differences in the MFGM fractions among mammalian species. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Milk fat globule membrane (MFGM) proteins have exhibited a relatively larger diversity than other milk fractions, and implicated health beneficial effects. Proteomic analysis of MFGM protein was mainly focused on human, bovine and goat in previous studies. Recently, there is an increasing demand for natural milk from minor dairy animals. Differences in protein components were not yet elucidated that required the integration of this information across multiple species. Thus, iTRAQ analysis of the proteins in MFGM fractions from Holstein, Jersey, yak, buffalo, goat, camel, horse, and human was performed in this study. A total of 520 proteins were identified and quantified in the MFGM fractions. The results were contributed to a comprehensive overview and discriminative profiling of the MFGM proteome across species.
PXD001631	25580831	Characterization of quinoa seed proteome combining different protein precipitation techniques: Improvement of knowledge of nonmodel plant proteomics. 	Quinoa seed proteome	high resolution mass spectrometry, non-model plants, plant proteomics, protein precipitation, quinoa proteins- Chenopodium Quinoa	A shotgun proteomics approach was used to characterize the quinoa seed proteome. To obtain comprehensive proteomic data from quinoa seeds three different precipitation procedures were employed: MeOH/CHCl3 /double-distilled H2 O, acetone either alone or with trichloroacetic acid; the isolated proteins were then in-solution digested and the resulting peptides were analyzed by nano-liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry. However, since quinoa is a nonmodel plant species, only a few protein sequences are included in the most widely known protein sequence databases. To improve the data reliability a UniProt subdatabase, containing only proteins of Caryophillales order, was used. A total of 352 proteins were identified and evaluated both from a qualitative and quantitative point of view. This combined approach is certainly useful to increase the final number of identifications, but no particular class of proteins was extracted and identified in spite of the different chemistries and the different precipitation protocols. However, with respect to the other two procedures, from the relative quantitative analysis, based on the number of spectral counts, the trichloroacetic acid/acetone protocol was the best procedure for sample handling and quantitative protein extraction. This study could pave the way to further high-throughput studies on Chenopodium Quinoa.
PXD001427	25586196	Cytoplasmic TAF2-TAF8-TAF10 complex provides evidence for nuclear holo-TFIID assembly from preformed submodules. 	Cytoplasmic complex comprising TAF2, TAF8, TAF10 provides evidence for nuclear holo-TFIID assembly from preformed submodules	Assembly, MudPIT analysis, TAFstructure, TFIID	General transcription factor TFIID is a cornerstone of RNA polymerase II transcription initiation in eukaryotic cells. How human TFIID-a megadalton-sized multiprotein complex composed of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) and 13 TBP-associated factors (TAFs)-assembles into a functional transcription factor is poorly understood. Here we describe a heterotrimeric TFIID subcomplex consisting of the TAF2, TAF8 and TAF10 proteins, which assembles in the cytoplasm. Using native mass spectrometry, we define the interactions between the TAFs and uncover a central role for TAF8 in nucleating the complex. X-ray crystallography reveals a non-canonical arrangement of the TAF8-TAF10 histone fold domains. TAF2 binds to multiple motifs within the TAF8 C-terminal region, and these interactions dictate TAF2 incorporation into a core-TFIID complex that exists in the nucleus. Our results provide evidence for a stepwise assembly pathway of nuclear holo-TFIID, regulated by nuclear import of preformed cytoplasmic submodules.
PXD000660	25588737	Characterization of chloroplast protein import without Tic56, a component of the 1-megadalton translocon at the inner envelope membrane of chloroplasts. 	TAILS with Arabidopsis thaliana wilde typ, tic56-1and ppi2	TAILS, plastidic import, ppi2, tic56-1	We report on the characterization of Tic56, a unique component of the recently identified 1-MD translocon at the inner envelope membrane of chloroplasts (TIC) in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) comprising Tic20, Tic100, and Tic214. We isolated Tic56 by copurification with Tandem Affinity Purification-tagged Toc159 in the absence of precursor protein, indicating spontaneous and translocation-independent formation of the translocon at the outer envelope membrane of chloroplasts (TOC) and TIC supercomplexes. Tic56 mutant plants have an albino phenotype and are unable to grow without an external carbon source. Using specific enrichment of protein amino termini, we analyzed the tic56-1 and plastid protein import2 (toc159) mutants to assess the in vivo import capacity of plastids in mutants of an outer and inner envelope component of the anticipated TOC-TIC supercomplex. Inboth mutants, we observed processing of several import substrates belonging to various pathways. Our results suggest that despite the severe developmental defects, protein import into Tic56-deficient plastids is functional to a considerable degree, indicating the existence of alternative translocases at the inner envelope membrane.
PXD000697	25593058	Alterations in the interactome of serine/threonine protein phosphatase type-1 in atrial fibrillation patients. 	Alterations in the Interactome of Serine/Threonine Protein Phosphatase Type-1 in Atrial Fibrillation Patients	LTQ-Orbitrap Elite, Q-exactive, label-free quantification, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, protein phosphatase 1	BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia, yet current pharmacological treatments are limited. Serine/threonine protein phosphatase type-1 (PP1), a major phosphatase in the heart, consists of a catalytic subunit (PP1c) and a large set of regulatory (R)-subunits that confer localization and substrate specificity to the holoenzyme. Previous studies suggest that PP1 is dysregulated in AF, but the mechanisms are unknown. OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that PP1 is dysregulated in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF) at the level of its R-subunits. METHODS: Cardiac lysates were coimmunoprecipitated with anti-PP1c antibody followed by mass spectrometry-based, quantitative profiling of associated R-subunits. Subsequently, label-free quantification (LFQ) was used to evaluate altered R-subunit-PP1c interactions in PAF patients. R-subunits with altered binding to PP1c in PAF were further studied using bioinformatics, Western blotting (WB), immunocytochemistry, and coimmunoprecipitation. RESULTS: A total of 135 and 78 putative PP1c interactors were captured from mouse and human cardiac lysates, respectively, including many previously unreported interactors with conserved PP1c docking motifs. Increases in binding were found between PP1c and PPP1R7, cold-shock domain protein A (CSDA), and phosphodiesterase type-5A (PDE5A) in PAF patients, with CSDA and PDE5A being novel interactors validated by bioinformatics, immunocytochemistry, and coimmunoprecipitation. WB confirmed that these increases in binding cannot be ascribed to their changes in global protein expression alone. CONCLUSIONS: Subcellular heterogeneity in PP1 activity and downstream protein phosphorylation in AF may be attributed to alterations in PP1c-R-subunit interactions, which impair PP1 targeting to proteins involved in electrical and Ca(2+) remodeling. This represents a novel concept in AF pathogenesis and may provide more specific drug targets for treating AF.
PXD001273	25605797	Identification of protein complexes that bind to histone H3 combinatorial modifications using super-SILAC and weighted correlation network analysis. 	Histone H3 tail interactome in MPC11 murine myeloma cells	histone H3 tail interactome, histone modification, peptide capture	The large number of chemical modifications that are found on the histone proteins of eukaryotic cells form multiple complex combinations, which can act as recognition signals for reader proteins. We have used peptide capture in conjunction with super-SILAC quantification to carry out an unbiased high-throughput analysis of the composition of protein complexes that bind to histone H3K9/S10 and H3K27/S28 methyl-phospho modifications. The accurate quantification allowed us to perform Weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) to obtain a systems-level view of the histone H3 histone tail interactome. The analysis reveals the underlying modularity of the histone reader network with members of nuclear complexes exhibiting very similar binding signatures, which suggests that many proteins bind to histones as part of pre-organized complexes. Our results identify a novel complex that binds to the double H3K9me3/S10ph modification, which includes Atrx, Daxx and members of the FACT complex. The super-SILAC approach allows comparison of binding to multiple peptides with different combinations of modifications and the resolution of the WGCNA analysis is enhanced by maximizing the number of combinations that are compared. This makes it a useful approach for assessing the effects of changes in histone modification combinations on the composition and function of bound complexes.
PXD000155	25609142	A proteomic approach reveals integrin activation state-dependent control of microtubule cortical targeting. 	Proteomic analysis of integrin activation-state-dependent adhesion complexes	Activation State, Adhesion Complex, Integrin, K562, MS	Integrin activation, which is regulated by allosteric changes in receptor conformation, enables cellular responses to the chemical, mechanical and topological features of the extracellular microenvironment. A global view of how activation state converts the molecular composition of the region proximal to integrins into functional readouts is, however, lacking. Here, using conformation-specific monoclonal antibodies, we report the isolation of integrin activation state-dependent complexes and their characterization by mass spectrometry. Quantitative comparisons, integrating network, clustering, pathway and image analyses, define multiple functional protein modules enriched in a conformation-specific manner. Notably, active integrin complexes are specifically enriched for proteins associated with microtubule-based functions. Visualization of microtubules on micropatterned surfaces and live cell imaging demonstrate that active integrins establish an environment that stabilizes microtubules at the cell periphery. These data provide a resource for the interrogation of the global molecular connections that link integrin activation to adhesion signalling.
PXD001074	25609615	BDNF stimulation of protein synthesis in cortical neurons requires the MAP kinase-interacting kinase MNK1. 	BDNF stimulation of protein synthesis in cortical neurons requires the eIF4E kinase Mnk1	BDNF, BONCAT, Cortical neurons, FMRP, Mnk1, Obitrap Elite, SILAC, eIF4e	Although the MAP kinase-interacting kinases (MNKs) have been known for >15 years, their roles in the regulation of protein synthesis have remained obscure. Here, we explore the involvement of the MNKs in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-stimulated protein synthesis in cortical neurons from mice. Using a combination of pharmacological and genetic approaches, we show that BDNF-induced upregulation of protein synthesis requires MEK/ERK signaling and the downstream kinase, MNK1, which phosphorylates eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 4E. Translation initiation is mediated by the interaction of eIF4E with the m(7)GTP cap of mRNA and with eIF4G. The latter interaction is inhibited by the interactions of eIF4E with partner proteins, such as CYFIP1, which acts as a translational repressor. We find that BDNF induces the release of CYFIP1 from eIF4E, and that this depends on MNK1. Finally, using a novel combination of BONCAT and SILAC, we identify a subset of proteins whose synthesis is upregulated by BDNF signaling via MNK1 in neurons. Interestingly, this subset of MNK1-sensitive proteins is enriched for functions involved in neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity. Additionally, we find significant overlap between our subset of proteins whose synthesis is regulated by MNK1 and those encoded by known FMRP-binding mRNAs. Together, our data implicate MNK1 as a key component of BDNF-mediated translational regulation in neurons.
PXD001533	25611981	Integrative analysis of genomics and proteomics data on clinical breast cancer tissue specimens extracted with acid guanidinium thiocyanate-phenol-chloroform. 	Integrative analysis of genomics and proteomics data on clinical breast cancer tissue specimens extracted with acid guanidinium thiocyanate-phenol-chloroform	RNA Bee, acid guanidinium phenol-chloroform, breast cancer, proteogenomics, sample preparation, shotgun proteomics	Acid guanidinium thiocyanate, phenol, and chloroform extraction (AGPC) is a commonly used procedure to extract RNA from fresh frozen tissues and cell lines. In addition, DNA and proteins can be recovered, which makes AGPC an attractive source for integrative analysis on tissues of which little material is available, such as clinical specimens. Despite this potential, AGPC has only scarcely been used for proteomic analysis, mainly due to difficulties in extracting proteins. We have used a quantitative mass spectrometry method to show that proteins can readily be recovered from AGPC extracted tissues with high recovery and repeatability, which allows this method to be used for global proteomic profiling. Protein expression data for a selected number of clinically relevant markers, of which transcript and protein levels are known to be correlated, were in agreement with genomic and transcriptomic data obtained from the same AGPC lysate. Furthermore, global proteomic profiling successfully discriminated breast tumor tissues according to their clinical subtype. Lastly, a reference gene set of differentially expressed transcripts was strongly enriched in the differentially abundant proteins in our cohort. AGPC lysates are therefore well suited for comparative protein and integrative analyses.
PXD001584	25616868	Importance of host cell arginine uptake in Francisella phagosomal escape and ribosomal protein amounts. 	Importance of arginine trasporter ArgP in Francisella by comparative proteomics.	Arginine transporter, F. Tularensis, Labelfree, Q Exactive Plus	Upon entry into mammalian host cells, the pathogenic bacterium Francisella must import host cell arginine to multiply actively in the host cytoplasm. We identified and functionally characterized an arginine transporter (hereafter designated ArgP) whose inactivation considerably delayed bacterial phagosomal escape and intracellular multiplication. Intramacrophagic growth of the DeltaargP mutant was fully restored upon supplementation of the growth medium with excess arginine, in both F. tularensis subsp. novicida and F. tularensis subsp. holarctica LVS, demonstrating the importance of arginine acquisition in these two subspecies. High-resolution mass spectrometry revealed that arginine limitation reduced the amount of most of the ribosomal proteins in the DeltaargP mutant. In response to stresses such as nutritional limitation, repression of ribosomal protein synthesis has been observed in all kingdoms of life. Arginine availability may thus contribute to the sensing of the intracellular stage of the pathogen and to trigger phagosomal egress. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange database with identifier PXD001584 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD001584).
PXD000960	25622294	K63 polyubiquitination is a new modulator of the oxidative stress response. 	K63 polyubiquitination is a new modulator of the oxidative stress response, shotgun data	K63 ubiquitination yeast oxidative stress	Ubiquitination is a post-translational modification that signals multiple processes, including protein degradation, trafficking and DNA repair. Polyubiquitin accumulates globally during the oxidative stress response, and this has been mainly attributed to increased ubiquitin conjugation and perturbations in protein degradation. Here we show that the unconventional Lys63 (K63)-linked polyubiquitin accumulates in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae in a highly sensitive and regulated manner as a result of exposure to peroxides. We demonstrate that hydrogen peroxide inhibits the deubiquitinating enzyme Ubp2, leading to accumulation of K63 conjugates assembled by the Rad6 ubiquitin conjugase and the Bre1 ubiquitin ligase. Using linkage-specific isolation methods and stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based quantitative proteomics, we identified >100 new K63-polyubiquitinated targets, which were substantially enriched in ribosomal proteins. Finally, we demonstrate that impairment of K63 ubiquitination during oxidative stress affects polysome stability and protein expression, rendering cells more sensitive to stress, and thereby reveal a new redox-regulatory role for this modification.
PXD001194	25624350	Proteomics of microparticles with SILAC Quantification (PROMIS-Quan): a novel proteomic method for plasma biomarker quantification. 	PROMIS-Quan: a novel proteomic method for plasma biomarker quantification	biomarkers, microparticles, plasma, super-SILAC	Unbiased proteomic analysis of plasma samples holds the promise to reveal clinically invaluable disease biomarkers. However, the tremendous dynamic range of the plasma proteome has so far hampered the identification of such low abundant markers. To overcome this challenge we analyzed the plasma microparticle proteome, and reached an unprecedented depth of over 3000 plasma proteins in single runs. To add a quantitative dimension, we developed PROMIS-Quan-PROteomics of MIcroparticles with Super-Stable Isotope Labeling with Amino Acids in Cell Culture (SILAC) Quantification, a novel mass spectrometry-based technology for plasma microparticle proteome quantification. PROMIS-Quan enables a two-step relative and absolute SILAC quantification. First, plasma microparticle proteomes are quantified relative to a super-SILAC mix composed of cell lines from distinct origins. Next, the absolute amounts of selected proteins of interest are quantified relative to the super-SILAC mix. We applied PROMIS-Quan to prostate cancer and compared plasma microparticle samples of healthy individuals and prostate cancer patients. We identified in total 5374 plasma-microparticle proteins, and revealed a predictive signature of three proteins that were elevated in the patient-derived plasma microparticles. Finally, PROMIS-Quan enabled determination of the absolute quantitative changes in prostate specific antigen (PSA) upon treatment. We propose PROMIS-Quan as an innovative platform for biomarker discovery, validation, and quantification in both the biomedical research and in the clinical worlds.
PXD001512	25645933	Total proteome analysis identifies migration defects as a major pathogenetic factor in immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IGHV)-unmutated chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 	CLL iTRAQ1 -  Total proteome analysis identifies migration defects as a major pathogenetic factor in immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IGHV)-unmutated chronic lymphocytic leukemia	iTRAQ, leukemia, mutation	The mutational status of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region defines two clinically distinct forms of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) known as mutated (M-CLL) and unmutated (UM-CLL). To elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the adverse clinical outcome associated with UM-CLL, total proteomes from nine UM-CLL and nine M-CLL samples were analyzed by isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ)-based mass spectrometry. Based on the expression of 3521 identified proteins, principal component analysis separated CLL samples into two groups corresponding to immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region mutational status. Computational analysis showed that 43 cell migration/adhesion pathways were significantly enriched by 39 differentially expressed proteins, 35 of which were expressed at significantly lower levels in UM-CLL samples. Furthermore, UM-CLL cells underexpressed proteins associated with cytoskeletal remodeling and overexpressed proteins associated with transcriptional and translational activity. Taken together, our findings indicate that UM-CLL cells are less migratory and more adhesive than M-CLL cells, resulting in their retention in lymph nodes, where they are exposed to proliferative stimuli. In keeping with this hypothesis, analysis of an extended cohort of 120 CLL patients revealed a strong and specific association between UM-CLL and lymphadenopathy. Our study illustrates the potential of total proteome analysis to elucidate pathogenetic mechanisms in cancer.
PXD001485	25650440	FOXP1 potentiates Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in diffuse large B cell lymphoma. 	FOXP1 is a transcriptional Coactivator of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma	FLAG APMS, FOXP1, Gain-of-function screening, Wnt signaling	The transcription factor FOXP1 (forkhead box protein P1) is a master regulator of stem and progenitor cell biology. In diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), copy number amplifications and chromosomal translocations result in overexpression of FOXP1. Increased abundance of FOXP1 in DLBCL is a predictor of poor prognosis and resistance to therapy. We developed a genome-wide, mass spectrometry-coupled, gain-of-function genetic screen, which revealed that FOXP1 potentiates beta-catenin-dependent, Wnt-dependent gene expression. Gain- and loss-of-function studies in cell models and zebrafish confirmed that FOXP1 was a general and conserved enhancer of Wnt signaling. In a Wnt-dependent fashion, FOXP1 formed a complex with beta-catenin, TCF7L2 (transcription factor 7-like 2), and the acetyltransferase CBP [CREB (adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate response element-binding protein)-binding protein], and this complex bound the promoters of Wnt target genes. FOXP1 promoted the acetylation of beta-catenin by CBP, and acetylation was required for FOXP1-mediated potentiation of beta-catenin-dependent transcription. In DLBCL, we found that FOXP1 promoted sensitivity to Wnt pathway inhibitors, and knockdown of FOXP1 or blocking beta-catenin transcriptional activity slowed xenograft tumor growth. These data connect excessive FOXP1 with beta-catenin-dependent signal transduction and provide a molecular rationale for Wnt-directed therapy in DLBCL.
PXD000998	25652794	Integrating transcriptomics and proteomics to show that tanshinone IIA suppresses cell growth by blocking glucose metabolism in gastric cancer cells. 	Gastric cancer_iTRAQ	Gastric cancer, Tanshinone IIA, iTRAQ	BACKGROUND: Tanshinone IIA (TIIA) is a diterpene quinone extracted from the plant Danshen (Salvia miltiorrhiza) used in traditional Chinese herbal medicine. It has been reported to have anti-tumor potential against several kinds of cancer, including gastric cancer. In most solid tumors, a metabolic switch to glucose is a hallmark of cancer cells, which do this to provide nutrients for cell proliferation. However, the mechanism associated with glucose metabolism by which TIIA acts on gastric cancer cells remains to be elucidated. RESULTS: We found that TIIA treatment is able to significantly inhibit cell growth and the proliferation of gastric cancer in a dose-dependent manner. Using next-generation sequencing-based RNA-seq transcriptomics and quantitative proteomics-isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ), we characterized the mechanism of TIIA regulation in gastric cancer cell line AGS. In total, 16,603 unique transcripts and 102 proteins were identified. After enrichment analysis, we found that TIIA regulated genes are involved in carbohydrate metabolism, the cell cycle, apoptosis, DNA damage and cytoskeleton reorganization. Our proteomics data revealed the downregulation of intracellular ATP levels, glucose-6-phosphate isomerase and L-lactate dehydrogenase B chains by TIIA, which might work with disorders of glucose metabolism and extracellular lactate levels to suppress cell proliferation. The up-regulation of p53 and down-regulation of AKT was shown in TIIA- treated cells, which indicates the transformation of oncogenes. Severe DNA damage, cell cycle arrest at the G2/M transition and apoptosis with cytoskeleton reorganization were detected in TIIA-treated gastric cancer cells. CONCLUSIONS: Combining transcriptomics and proteomics results, we propose that TIIA treatment could lead cell stresses, including nutrient deficiency and DNA damage, by inhibiting the glucose metabolism of cancer cells. This study provides an insight into how the TIIA regulatory metabolism in gastric cancer cells suppresses cell growth, and may help improve the development of cancer therapy.
PXD001406	25657249	Genomic variation. Impact of regulatory variation from RNA to protein. 	Impact of Regulatory Variation from RNA to Protein	HapMap, RNA-seq, Ribosome profiling, SILAC, eQTL, gene regulation, genetic variation, lymphoblastoid cell line, pQTL, post-translational	The phenotypic consequences of expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) are presumably due to their effects on protein expression levels. Yet the impact of genetic variation, including eQTLs, on protein levels remains poorly understood. To address this, we mapped genetic variants that are associated with eQTLs, ribosome occupancy (rQTLs), or protein abundance (pQTLs). We found that most QTLs are associated with transcript expression levels, with consequent effects on ribosome and protein levels. However, eQTLs tend to have significantly reduced effect sizes on protein levels, which suggests that their potential impact on downstream phenotypes is often attenuated or buffered. Additionally, we identified a class of cis QTLs that affect protein abundance with little or no effect on messenger RNA or ribosome levels, which suggests that they may arise from differences in posttranslational regulation.
PXD001465	25668313	Protective effects of transforming growth factor beta2 in intestinal epithelial cells by regulation of proteins associated with stress and endotoxin responses. 	Effect of TGFbeta-2 on pig gut epithelial cells	IEC, TGF-beta, Transforming growth factor beta, gut epithelial cells, pig	Transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta2 is an important anti-inflammatory protein in milk and colostrum. TGF-beta2 supplementation appears to reduce gut inflammatory diseases in early life, such as necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) in young mice. However, the molecular mechanisms by which TGF-beta2 protects immature intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) remain to be more clearly elucidated before interventions in infants can be considered. Porcine IECs PsIc1 were treated with TGF-beta2 and/or lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and changes in the cellular proteome were subsequently analyzed using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis-MS and LC-MS-based proteomics. TGF-beta2 alone induced the differential expression of 13 proteins and the majority of the identified proteins were associated with stress responses, TGF-beta and Toll-like receptor 4 signaling cascades. In particular, a series of heat shock proteins had similar differential trends as previously shown in the intestine of NEC-resistant preterm pigs and young mice. Furthermore, LC-MS-based proteomics and Western blot analyses revealed 20 differentially expressed proteins following treatment with TGF-beta2 in LPS-challenged IECs. Thirteen of these proteins were associated with stress response pathways, among which five proteins were altered by LPS and restored by TGF-beta2, whereas six were differentially expressed only by TGF-beta2 in LPS-challenged IECs. Based on previously reported biological functions, these patterns indicate the anti-stress and anti-inflammatory effects of TGF-beta2 in IECs. We conclude that TGF-beta2 of dietary or endogenous origin may regulate the IEC responses against LPS stimuli, thereby supporting cellular homeostasis and innate immunity in response to bacterial colonization, and the first enteral feeding in early life.
PXD001126	25675208	Building high-quality assay libraries for targeted analysis of SWATH MS data. 	Building high-quality assay libraries  for targeted analysis of SWATH MS data	ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, SWATH, assay library, machine learning, spectral library	Targeted proteomics by selected/multiple reaction monitoring (S/MRM) or, on a larger scale, by SWATH (sequential window acquisition of all theoretical spectra) MS (mass spectrometry) typically relies on spectral reference libraries for peptide identification. Quality and coverage of these libraries are therefore of crucial importance for the performance of the methods. Here we present a detailed protocol that has been successfully used to build high-quality, extensive reference libraries supporting targeted proteomics by SWATH MS. We describe each step of the process, including data acquisition by discovery proteomics, assertion of peptide-spectrum matches (PSMs), generation of consensus spectra and compilation of MS coordinates that uniquely define each targeted peptide. Crucial steps such as false discovery rate (FDR) control, retention time normalization and handling of post-translationally modified peptides are detailed. Finally, we show how to use the library to extract SWATH data with the open-source software Skyline. The protocol takes 2-3 d to complete, depending on the extent of the library and the computational resources available.
PXD001109	25686879	Shotgun analysis of plasma fibrin clot-bound proteins in patients with acute myocardial infarction. 	Shotgun analysis of plasma fibrin clot-bound proteins in patients with acute myocardial infarction	Cardiovascular, acute coronary syndromes, clot, fibrin, shotgun proteomics	INTRODUCTION: The presence and amount of the proteins within a plasma clot may influence clot properties, like susceptibility to fibrinolysis, however, the clot proteome has not yet been extensively described. The aim of the study was to investigate the protein composition of clots of four patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in two time points: in the acute ischemic phase and two months later during the standard therapy. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Shotgun proteomic method (2DLC-MS/MS) was used to investigate time-dependent protein composition changes of clots prepared ex vivo from citrated plasma of the peripheral blood of patients with AMI. RESULTS: Proteomic analysis revealed a total number of 62 proteins identified in all 8 samples grouping into several distinct functional clusters (e.g. cholesterol transporter activity, immunoglobulin binding and peptidase regulatory activity). The protein signatures of clots differed significantly depending on time after ACS, showing 30% greater variability in protein composition of the clots prepared in the plasma two months after the onset of AMI. Several proteins potentially involved in clot formation and resolution showed an interesting pattern of changes over time. CONCLUSION: We provided the first qualitative analysis of proteomes of fibrin clots generated ex vivo in plasma taken from patients with AMI showing differences between clots generated in the acute ischemic phase and those prepared two months later. It might be hypothesized that differences involving proteins of potential influence on within-clot fibrinolysis and clot stability may partially explain time-dependent changes in the clots structure and firmness in patients with AMI.
PXD001739	25690013	The tyrosine phosphatase PTPN14 (Pez) inhibits metastasis by altering protein trafficking. 	The tyrosine phosphatase Pez (PTPN14) inhibits metastasis by altering protein trafficking	PTPN14, Pez, breast cancer, metastasis, tyrosine phosphatase	Factors secreted by tumor cells shape the local microenvironment to promote invasion and metastasis, as well as condition the premetastatic niche to enable secondary-site colonization and growth. In addition to this secretome, tumor cells have increased abundance of growth-promoting receptors at the cell surface. We found that the tyrosine phosphatase PTPN14 (also called Pez, which is mutated in various cancers) suppressed metastasis by reducing intracellular protein trafficking through the secretory pathway. Knocking down PTPN14 in tumor cells or injecting the peritoneum of mice with conditioned medium from PTPN14-deficient cell cultures promoted the growth and metastasis of breast cancer xenografts. Loss of catalytically functional PTPN14 increased the secretion of growth factors and cytokines, such as IL-8 (interleukin-8), and increased the abundance of EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor) at the cell surface of breast cancer cells and of FLT4 (vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3) at the cell surface of primary lymphatic endothelial cells. We identified RIN1 (Ras and Rab interactor 1) and PRKCD (protein kinase C-delta) as binding partners and substrates of PTPN14. Similar to cells overexpressing PTPN14, receptor trafficking to the cell surface was inhibited in cells that lacked PRKCD or RIN1 or expressed a nonphosphorylatable RIN1 mutant, and cytokine secretion was decreased in cells treated with PRKCD inhibitors. Invasive breast cancer tissue had decreased expression of PTPN14, and patient survival was worse when tumors had increased expression of the genes encoding RIN1 or PRKCD. Thus, PTPN14 prevents metastasis by restricting the trafficking of both soluble and membrane-bound proteins.
PXD001562	25693797	DYn-2 Based Identification of Arabidopsis Sulfenomes. 	DYn-2 based identification of Arabidopsis sulfenomes	DYn-2 click chemistry, H2O2, ROS, biotinylation, sulfenome	Identifying the sulfenylation state of stressed cells is emerging as a strategic approach for the detection of key reactive oxygen species signaling proteins. Here, we optimized an in vivo trapping method for cysteine sulfenic acids in hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) stressed plant cells using a dimedone based DYn-2 probe. We demonstrated that DYn-2 specifically detects sulfenylation events in an H2O2 dose- and time-dependent way. With mass spectrometry, we identified 226 sulfenylated proteins after H2O2 treatment of Arabidopsis cells, residing in the cytoplasm (123); plastid (68); mitochondria (14); nucleus (10); endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi and plasma membrane (7) and peroxisomes (4). Of these, 123 sulfenylated proteins have never been reported before to undergo cysteine oxidative post-translational modifications in plants. All in all, with this DYn-2 approach, we have identified new sulfenylated proteins, and gave a first glance on the locations of the sulfenomes of Arabidopsis thaliana.
PXD001680	25699542	Targeting a cell state common to triple-negative breast cancers. 	A common cell state in Triple Negative Breast Cancers can be targeted through inhibition of Spleen Tyrosine Kinase (SYK)	Human breast cancer, SYK inhibition, phosphotyrosine proteomics	Some mutations in cancer cells can be exploited for therapeutic intervention. However, for many cancer subtypes, including triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), no frequently recurring aberrations could be identified to make such an approach clinically feasible. Characterized by a highly heterogeneous mutational landscape with few common features, many TNBCs cluster together based on their 'basal-like' transcriptional profiles. We therefore hypothesized that targeting TNBC cells on a systems level by exploiting the transcriptional cell state might be a viable strategy to find novel therapies for this highly aggressive disease. We performed a large-scale chemical genetic screen and identified a group of compounds related to the drug PKC412 (midostaurin). PKC412 induced apoptosis in a subset of TNBC cells enriched for the basal-like subtype and inhibited tumor growth in vivo. We employed a multi-omics approach and computational modeling to address the mechanism of action and identified spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) as a novel and unexpected target in TNBC. Quantitative phosphoproteomics revealed that SYK inhibition abrogates signaling to STAT3, explaining the selectivity for basal-like breast cancer cells. This non-oncogene addiction suggests that chemical SYK inhibition may be beneficial for a specific subset of TNBC patients and demonstrates that targeting cell states could be a viable strategy to discover novel treatment strategies.
PXD001838	25717101	Cellular STAT3 functions via PCBP2 to restrain Epstein-Barr Virus lytic activation in B lymphocytes. 	Proteomics of EBV-infected lytic and refractory cells	Epstein-Barr virus, lytic activation, proteomic analysis	A major hurdle to killing Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-infected tumor cells using oncolytic therapy is the presence of a substantial fraction of EBV-infected cells that does not support the lytic phase of EBV despite exposure to lytic cycle-promoting agents. To determine the mechanism(s) underlying this refractory state, we developed a strategy to separate lytic from refractory EBV-positive (EBV(+)) cells. By examining the cellular transcriptome in separated cells, we previously discovered that high levels of host STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 3) curtail the susceptibility of latently infected cells to lytic cycle activation signals. The goals of the present study were 2-fold: (i) to determine the mechanism of STAT3-mediated resistance to lytic activation and (ii) to exploit our findings to enhance susceptibility to lytic activation. We therefore analyzed our microarray data set, cellular proteomes of separated lytic and refractory cells, and a publically available STAT3 chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-Seq) data set to identify cellular PCBP2 [poly(C)-binding protein 2], an RNA-binding protein, as a transcriptional target of STAT3 in refractory cells. Using Burkitt lymphoma cells and EBV(+) cell lines from patients with hypomorphic STAT3 mutations, we demonstrate that single cells expressing high levels of PCBP2 are refractory to spontaneous and induced EBV lytic activation, STAT3 functions via cellular PCBP2 to regulate lytic susceptibility, and suppression of PCBP2 levels is sufficient to increase the number of EBV lytic cells. We expect that these findings and the genome-wide resources that they provide will accelerate our understanding of a longstanding mystery in EBV biology and guide efforts to improve oncolytic therapy for EBV-associated cancers. IMPORTANCE: Most humans are infected with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a cancer-causing virus. While EBV generally persists silently in B lymphocytes, periodic lytic (re)activation of latent virus is central to its life cycle and to most EBV-related diseases. However, a substantial fraction of EBV-infected B cells and tumor cells in a population is refractory to lytic activation. This resistance to lytic activation directly and profoundly impacts viral persistence and the effectiveness of oncolytic therapy for EBV(+) cancers. To identify the mechanisms that underlie susceptibility to EBV lytic activation, we used host gene and protein expression profiling of separated lytic and refractory cells. We find that STAT3, a transcription factor overactive in many cancers, regulates PCBP2, a protein important in RNA biogenesis, to regulate susceptibility to lytic cycle activation signals. These findings advance our understanding of EBV persistence and provide important leads on devising methods to improve viral oncolytic therapies.
PXD001272	25728068	Quantitative proteomic analysis of Giardia duodenalis assemblage A: A baseline for host, assemblage, and isolate variation. 	Giardia duodenalis Assemblage A Quantitative Proteomics	Giardia duodenalis, Variant Surface Protein, assemblage A, label-free quantitative shotgun proteomics, parasite proteomics, variable genome	Giardia duodenalis is a gastrointestinal protozoan parasite of vertebrates and is a species complex comprised of eight assemblages, with the zoonotic assemblage A one of two subtypes infective for humans. With increasing genomic and transcriptomic data publicly available through the centralized giardiaDB.org, we have quantitatively analyzed the proteomes of eight G. duodenalis assemblage A strains (seven A1 and one A2) to provide a proteomic baseline to complement the available data. A nonredundant total of 1197 subassemblage A1 proteins and 719 subassemblage A2 proteins were identified with an average of 770 proteins in each strain. The eight strains were also searched against both assemblage A genome sequences (subassemblage A1 and A2 genomes) and demonstrated subassemblage specific differences in protein identifications, especially for variable gene families. Substantial differences were observed in the numbers and abundance in the variable surface protein family, and two different variable surface protein expression profiles that were independent of host origin, subassemblage, or geographic origin. We hypothesize that this variation in surface antigen switching events may be related to karotype and chromosomal variation, which would indicate an assemblage-independent mechanism of diversity generation in G. duodenalis. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001272 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD001272).
PXD001601	25728394	Comparative proteomics of a tor inducible Aspergillus fumigatus mutant reveals involvement of the Tor kinase in iron regulation. 	Comparative proteomic analysis to study the involvement of the Tor pathway in the human-pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus	TMT, Tor kinase, fungi	The Tor (target of rapamycin) kinase is one of the major regulatory nodes in eukaryotes. Here, we analyzed the Tor kinase in Aspergillus fumigatus, which is the most important airborne fungal pathogen of humans. Because deletion of the single tor gene was apparently lethal, we generated a conditional lethal tor mutant by replacing the endogenous tor gene by the inducible xylp-tor gene cassette. By both 2DE and gel-free LC-MS/MS, we found that Tor controls a variety of proteins involved in nutrient sensing, stress response, cell cycle progression, protein biosynthesis and degradation, but also processes in mitochondria, such as respiration and ornithine metabolism, which is required for siderophore formation. qRT-PCR analyses indicated that mRNA levels of ornithine biosynthesis genes were increased under iron limitation. When tor was repressed, iron regulation was lost. In a deletion mutant of the iron regulator HapX also carrying the xylp-tor cassette, the regulation upon iron deprivation was similar to that of the single tor inducible mutant strain. In line, hapX expression was significantly reduced when tor was repressed. Thus, Tor acts either upstream of HapX or independently of HapX as a repressor of the ornithine biosynthesis genes and thereby regulates the production of siderophores.
PXD000528	25728708	Cooperative induction of apoptosis in NRAS mutant melanoma by inhibition of MEK and ROCK. 	Melanoma NRAS -  Cooperative induction of apoptosis in nras mutant melanoma by inhibition of mek and rock	Melanoma, NRAS, PhosphoProteome, WholeProteome	No effective targeted therapy is currently available for NRAS mutant melanoma. Experimental MEK inhibition is rather toxic and has only limited efficacy in clinical trials. At least in part, this is caused by the emergence of drug resistance, which is commonly seen for single agent treatment and shortens clinical responses. Therefore, there is a dire need to identify effective companion drug targets for NRAS mutant melanoma. Here, we show that at concentrations where single drugs had little effect, ROCK inhibitors GSK269962A or Fasudil, in combination with either MEK inhibitor GSK1120212 (Trametinib) or ERK inhibitor SCH772984 cooperatively caused proliferation inhibition and cell death in vitro. Simultaneous inhibition of MEK and ROCK caused induction of BimEL , PARP, and Puma, and hence apoptosis. In vivo, MEK and ROCK inhibition suppressed growth of established tumors. Our findings warrant clinical investigation of the effectiveness of combinatorial targeting of MAPK/ERK and ROCK in NRAS mutant melanoma.
PXD000672	25730263	Rapid mass spectrometric conversion of tissue biopsy samples into permanent quantitative digital proteome maps. 	PCT-SWATH kidney tissues -  Rapid mass spectrometric conversion of tissue biopsy samples into permanent quantitative digital proteome maps	PCT-SWATH, kidney tissues	Clinical specimens are each inherently unique, limited and nonrenewable. Small samples such as tissue biopsies are often completely consumed after a limited number of analyses. Here we present a method that enables fast and reproducible conversion of a small amount of tissue (approximating the quantity obtained by a biopsy) into a single, permanent digital file representing the mass spectrometry (MS)-measurable proteome of the sample. The method combines pressure cycling technology (PCT) and sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra (SWATH)-MS. The resulting proteome maps can be analyzed, re-analyzed, compared and mined in silico to detect and quantify specific proteins across multiple samples. We used this method to process and convert 18 biopsy samples from nine patients with renal cell carcinoma into SWATH-MS fragment ion maps. From these proteome maps we detected and quantified more than 2,000 proteins with a high degree of reproducibility across all samples. The measured proteins clearly distinguished tumorous kidney tissues from healthy tissues and differentiated distinct histomorphological kidney cancer subtypes.
PXD001155	25732826	An organellar nalpha-acetyltransferase, naa60, acetylates cytosolic N termini of transmembrane proteins and maintains Golgi integrity. 	An organellar Nalpha-acetyltransferase Naa60 acetylates cytosolic N-termini of transmembrane proteins and maintains Golgi integrity	N-terminal COFRADIC, Naa60	N-terminal acetylation is a major and vital protein modification catalyzed by N-terminal acetyltransferases (NATs). NatF, or Nalpha-acetyltransferase 60 (Naa60), was recently identified as a NAT in multicellular eukaryotes. Here, we find that Naa60 differs from all other known NATs by its Golgi localization. A new membrane topology assay named PROMPT and a selective membrane permeabilization assay established that Naa60 faces the cytosolic side of intracellular membranes. An Nt-acetylome analysis of NAA60-knockdown cells revealed that Naa60, as opposed to other NATs, specifically acetylates transmembrane proteins and has a preference for N termini facing the cytosol. Moreover, NAA60 knockdown causes Golgi fragmentation, indicating an important role in the maintenance of the Golgi's structural integrity. This work identifies a NAT associated with membranous compartments and establishes N-terminal acetylation as a common modification among transmembrane proteins, a thus-far poorly characterized part of the N-terminal acetylome.
PXD001131	25739499	Multi-omics of permafrost, active layer and thermokarst bog soil microbiomes. 	Microbial life in permafrost: predictions of microbial response to natural thaw using a multi-omics approach	microbial permafrost response natural thaw omics	Over 20% of Earth's terrestrial surface is underlain by permafrost with vast stores of carbon that, once thawed, may represent the largest future transfer of carbon from the biosphere to the atmosphere. This process is largely dependent on microbial responses, but we know little about microbial activity in intact, let alone in thawing, permafrost. Molecular approaches have recently revealed the identities and functional gene composition of microorganisms in some permafrost soils and a rapid shift in functional gene composition during short-term thaw experiments. However, the fate of permafrost carbon depends on climatic, hydrological and microbial responses to thaw at decadal scales. Here we use the combination of several molecular 'omics' approaches to determine the phylogenetic composition of the microbial communities, including several draft genomes of novel species, their functional potential and activity in soils representing different states of thaw: intact permafrost, seasonally thawed active layer and thermokarst bog. The multi-omics strategy reveals a good correlation of process rates to omics data for dominant processes, such as methanogenesis in the bog, as well as novel survival strategies for potentially active microbes in permafrost.
PXD000724	25748437	Comprehensive proteomics analysis of glycosomes from Leishmania donovani. 	Proteomic analysis of glycosomes from Leishmania donovani	Subcellular organelle, kinetoplastid, leishmaniasis	Leishmania donovani is a kinetoplastid protozoan that causes a severe and fatal disease kala-azar, or visceral leishmaniasis. L. donovani infects human host after the phlebotomine sandfly takes a blood meal and resides within the phagolysosome of infected macrophages. Previous studies on host-parasite interactions have not focused on Leishmania organelles and the role that they play in the survival of this parasite within macrophages. Leishmania possess glycosomes that are unique and specialized subcellular microbody organelles. Glycosomes are known to harbor most peroxisomal enzymes and, in addition, they also possess nine glycolytic enzymes. In the present study, we have carried out proteomic profiling using high resolution mass spectrometry of a sucrose density gradient-enriched glycosomal fraction isolated from L. donovani promastigotes. This study resulted in the identification of 4022 unique peptides, leading to the identification of 1355 unique proteins from a preparation enriched in L. donovani glycosomes. Based on protein annotation, 566 (41.8%) were identified as hypothetical proteins with no known function. A majority of the identified proteins are involved in metabolic processes such as carbohydrate, lipid, and nucleic acid metabolism. Our present proteomic analysis is the most comprehensive study to date to map the proteome of L. donovani glycosomes.
PXD001377	25751058	Acetylation site specificities of lysine deacetylase inhibitors in human cells. 	Unraveling Lysine Deacetylase Inhibitor Specificities for Endogenous Acetylation Sites	Acetylation, HDAC, KDAC, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, SILAC, bufexamac, deacetylase inhibitor, nicotinamide, sirtuin, tenovin-6	Lysine deacetylases inhibitors (KDACIs) are used in basic research, and many are being investigated in clinical trials for treatment of cancer and other diseases. However, their specificities in cells are incompletely characterized. Here we used quantitative mass spectrometry (MS) to obtain acetylation signatures for 19 different KDACIs, covering all 18 human lysine deacetylases. Most KDACIs increased acetylation of a small, specific subset of the acetylome, including sites on histones and other chromatin-associated proteins. Inhibitor treatment combined with genetic deletion showed that the effects of the pan-sirtuin inhibitor nicotinamide are primarily mediated by SIRT1 inhibition. Furthermore, we confirmed that the effects of tubacin and bufexamac on cytoplasmic proteins result from inhibition of HDAC6. Bufexamac also triggered an HDAC6-independent, hypoxia-like response by stabilizing HIF1-alpha, providing a possible mechanistic explanation of its adverse, pro-inflammatory effects. Our results offer a systems view of KDACI specificities, providing a framework for studying function of acetylation and deacetylases.
PXD001731	25755295	Large-Scale Targeted Proteomics Using Internal Standard Triggered-Parallel Reaction Monitoring (IS-PRM). 	Large-Scale Targeted Proteomics Using Internal Standard Triggered-Parallel Reaction Monitoring	Targeted proteomics, high resolution and accurate mass, parallel reaction monitoring, quadrupole-orbitrap, real-time data analysis, remote control	Targeted high-resolution and accurate mass analyses performed on fast sequencing mass spectrometers have opened new avenues for quantitative proteomics. More specifically, parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) implemented on quadrupole-orbitrap instruments exhibits exquisite selectivity to discriminate interferences from analytes. Furthermore, the instrument trapping capability enhances the sensitivity of the measurements. The PRM technique, applied to the analysis of limited peptide sets (typically 50 peptides or less) in a complex matrix, resulted in an improved detection and quantification performance as compared with the reference method of selected reaction monitoring performed on triple quadrupole instruments. However, the implementation of PRM for the analysis of large peptide numbers requires the adjustment of mass spectrometry acquisition parameters, which affects dramatically the quality of the generated data, and thus the overall output of an experiment. A newly designed data acquisition scheme enabled the analysis of moderate-to-large peptide numbers while retaining a high performance level. This new method, called internal standard triggered-parallel reaction monitoring (IS-PRM), relies on added internal standards and the on-the-fly adjustment of acquisition parameters to drive in real-time measurement of endogenous peptides. The acquisition time management was designed to maximize the effective time devoted to measure the analytes in a time-scheduled targeted experiment. The data acquisition scheme alternates between two PRM modes: a fast low-resolution "watch mode" and a "quantitative mode" using optimized parameters ensuring data quality. The IS-PRM method exhibited a highly effective use of the instrument time. Applied to the analysis of large peptide sets (up to 600) in complex samples, the method showed an unprecedented combination of scale and analytical performance, with limits of quantification in the low amol range. The successful analysis of various types of biological samples augurs a broad applicability of the method, which is likely to benefit a wide range of proteomics experiments.
PXD001660	25755299	Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors (HDACi) Cause the Selective Depletion of Bromodomain Containing Proteins (BCPs). 	Histone deacetylase inhibitors cause the selective depletion of bromodomain containing proteins	HDACi, bromodomain, gene expression, nucleus	Histone deacetylases (HDACs) and acetyltransferases control the epigenetic regulation of gene expression through modification of histone marks. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) are small molecules that interfere with histone tail modification, thus altering chromatin structure and epigenetically controlled pathways. They promote apoptosis in proliferating cells and are promising anticancer drugs. While some HDACi have already been approved for therapy and others are in different phases of clinical trials, the exact mechanism of action of this drug class remains elusive. Previous studies have shown that HDACis cause massive changes in chromatin structure but only moderate changes in gene expression. To what extent these changes manifest at the protein level has never been investigated on a proteome-wide scale. Here, we have studied HDACi-treated cells by large-scale mass spectrometry based proteomics. We show that HDACi treatment affects primarily the nuclear proteome and induces a selective decrease of bromodomain-containing proteins (BCPs), the main readers of acetylated histone marks. By combining time-resolved proteome and transcriptome profiling, we show that BCPs are affected at the protein level as early as 12 h after HDACi treatment and that their abundance is regulated by a combination of transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms. Using gene silencing, we demonstrate that the decreased abundance of BCPs is sufficient to mediate important transcriptional changes induced by HDACi. Our data reveal a new aspect of the mechanism of action of HDACi that is mediated by an interplay between histone acetylation and the abundance of BCPs. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001660 and NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus with identifier GSE64689.
PXD001458	25764246	Infection of the brown alga Ectocarpus siliculosus by the oomycete Eurychasma dicksonii induces oxidative stress and halogen metabolism. 	Susceptible interaction Ectocarpus/Eurychasma	Ectocarpus, Eurychasma dicksonii, infection, model brown alga, oomycete, reactive oxygen species, vanadium-dependent bromoperoxidase	Pathogens are increasingly being recognized as key evolutionary and ecological drivers in marine ecosystems. Defence mechanisms of seaweeds, however, have mostly been investigated by mimicking infection using elicitors. We have established an experimental pathosystem between the genome brown model seaweed Ectocarpus siliculosus and the oomycete Eurychasma dicksonii as a powerful new tool to investigate algal responses to infection. Using proteomics, we identified 21 algal proteins differentially accumulated in response to Eu. dicksonii infection. These include classical algal stress response proteins such as a manganese superoxide dismutase, heat shock proteins 70 and a vanadium bromoperoxidase. Transcriptional profiling by qPCR confirmed the induction of the latter during infection. The accumulation of hydrogen peroxide was observed at different infection stages via histochemical staining. Inhibitor studies confirmed that the main source of hydrogen peroxide is superoxide converted by superoxide dismutase. Our data give an unprecedented global overview of brown algal responses to pathogen infection, and highlight the importance of oxidative stress and halogen metabolism in these interactions. This suggests overlapping defence pathways with herbivores and abiotic stresses. We also identify previously unreported actors, in particular a Rad23 and a plastid-lipid-associated protein, providing novel insights into the infection and defence processes in brown algae.
PXD001526	25765363	Catching the tip of the iceberg - evaluation of sample preparation protocols for metaproteomic studies of the rumen microbiota. 	Rumen metaproteomics -  Catching the tip of the iceberg - evaluation of sample preparation protocols for metaproteomic studies of the rumen microbiota	Metaproteomics, metaproteomics, rumen microbiota	Various metabolic processes are performed in the rumen caused by a complex microbiota comprising bacteria, archaea, protozoa, and fungi. Thus, the description of the active microbial fraction and their functions are of great interest for animal nutrition, biotechnology, and climatology. Metaproteomic studies of the rumen microbiota are challenged by the need of optimized sample preparation protocols in order to retrieve an enhanced amount of prokaryotic instead of plant- and bovine-derived cells before protein extraction and subsequent LC-MS/MS analysis. The present study evaluates three different protocols applied to the rumen microbiota either attached to plant fibers or present as planktonic cells. The findings of our work suggest the integration of cheesecloth-gauze filtration in sample preparation to achieve a better protein identification ratio. Our data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001526 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD001526).
PXD001624	25769826	Phosphate Limitation Induces Drastic Physiological Changes, Virulence-Related Gene Expression, and Secondary Metabolite Production in Pseudovibrio sp. Strain FO-BEG1. 	Response to phosphate limitation of Pseudovibrio sp. FO-BEG1, ICPL-LC-MS/MS, Cytoplasmatic proteome	ICPL, Pseudovibrio, bacteria, phosphate limitation	Phosphorus is a vital nutrient for living organisms and is obtained by bacteria primarily via phosphate uptake. However, phosphate is often scarcely accessible in nature, and there is evidence that in many areas of the ocean, its concentration limits bacterial growth. Surprisingly, the phosphate starvation response has been extensively investigated in different model organisms (e.g., Escherichia coli), but there is a dearth of studies on heterotrophic marine bacteria. In this work, we describe the response of Pseudovibrio sp. strain FO-BEG1, a metabolically versatile alphaproteobacterium and potential symbiont of marine sponges, to phosphate limitation. We compared the physiology, protein expression, and secondary metabolite production under phosphate-limited conditions to those under phosphate surplus conditions. We observed that phosphate limitation had a pleiotropic effect on the physiology of the strain, triggering cell elongation, the accumulation of polyhydroxyalkanoate, the degradation of polyphosphate, and the exchange of membrane lipids in favor of phosphorus-free lipids such as sulfoquinovosyl diacylglycerols. Many proteins involved in the uptake and degradation of phospho-organic compounds were upregulated, together with subunits of the ABC transport system for phosphate. Under conditions of phosphate limitation, FO-BEG1 secreted compounds into the medium that conferred an intense yellow coloration to the cultures. Among these compounds, we identified the potent antibiotic tropodithietic acid. Finally, toxin-like proteins and other proteins likely involved in the interaction with the eukaryotic host were also upregulated. Altogether, our data suggest that phosphate limitation leads to a pronounced reorganization of FO-BEG1 physiology, involving phosphorus, carbon, and sulfur metabolism; cell morphology; secondary metabolite production; and the expression of virulence-related genes.
PXD001810	25772364	SUMO-2 Orchestrates Chromatin Modifiers in Response to DNA Damage. 	SUMO-2 Orchestrates Chromatin Modifiers in Response to DNA Damage	DNA, MMS, SUMO, SUMO-2, chromatin, damage, repair, site	Small ubiquitin-like modifiers play critical roles in the DNA damage response (DDR). To increase our understanding of SUMOylation in the mammalian DDR, we employed a quantitative proteomics approach in order to identify dynamically regulated SUMO-2 conjugates and modification sites upon treatment with the DNA damaging agent methyl methanesulfonate (MMS). We have uncovered a dynamic set of 20 upregulated and 33 downregulated SUMO-2 conjugates, and 755 SUMO-2 sites, of which 362 were dynamic in response to MMS. In contrast to yeast, where a response is centered on homologous recombination, we identified dynamically SUMOylated interaction networks of chromatin modifiers, transcription factors, DNA repair factors, and nuclear body components. SUMOylated chromatin modifiers include JARID1B/KDM5B, JARID1C/KDM5C, p300, CBP, PARP1, SetDB1, and MBD1. Whereas SUMOylated JARID1B was ubiquitylated by the SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligase RNF4 and degraded by the proteasome in response to DNA damage, JARID1C was SUMOylated and recruited to the chromatin to demethylate histone H3K4.
PXD001814	25772754	Developmental and Subcellular Organization of Single-Cell C4 Photosynthesis in Bienertia sinuspersici Determined by Large-Scale Proteomics and cDNA Assembly from 454 DNA Sequencing. 	Bienertia s. chloroplast compartments replica 2 CCCP band1to10	Bienertia sinuspersicis, chloroplast compartment, development, shorgun proteomics	Kranz C4 species strictly depend on separation of primary and secondary carbon fixation reactions in different cell types. In contrast, the single-cell C4 (SCC4) species Bienertia sinuspersici utilizes intracellular compartmentation including two physiologically and biochemically different chloroplast types; however, information on identity, localization, and induction of proteins required for this SCC4 system is currently very limited. In this study, we determined the distribution of photosynthesis-related proteins and the induction of the C4 system during development by label-free proteomics of subcellular fractions and leaves of different developmental stages. This was enabled by inferring a protein sequence database from 454 sequencing of Bienertia cDNAs. Large-scale proteome rearrangements were observed as C4 photosynthesis developed during leaf maturation. The proteomes of the two chloroplasts are different with differential accumulation of linear and cyclic electron transport components, primary and secondary carbon fixation reactions, and a triose-phosphate shuttle that is shared between the two chloroplast types. This differential protein distribution pattern suggests the presence of a mRNA or protein-sorting mechanism for nuclear-encoded, chloroplast-targeted proteins in SCC4 species. The combined information was used to provide a comprehensive model for NAD-ME type carbon fixation in SCC4 species.
PXD001204	25775238	Multiple proteases to localize oxidation sites. 	Multiple Proteases to Localize Oxidation Sites	Orbitrap mass spectrometry, bottom-up proteomics, oxidation, top-down, ubiquitin	Proteins present in cellular environments with high levels of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species and/or low levels of antioxidants are highly susceptible to oxidative post-translational modification (PTM). Irreversible oxidative PTMs can generate a complex distribution of modified protein molecules, recently termed as proteoforms. Using ubiquitin as a model system, we mapped oxidative modification sites using trypsin, Lys-C, and Glu-C peptides. Several M+16 Da proteoforms were detected as well as proteoforms that include other previously unidentified oxidative modifications. This work highlights the use of multiple protease digestions to give insights to the complexity of oxidative modifications possible in bottom-up analyses.
PXD001654	25775479	Identification of a biomarker in cerebrospinal fluid for neuronopathic forms of Gaucher disease. 	Identification of a biomarker in cerebrospinal fluid for neuronopathic forms of Gaucher disease	CSF, Gaucher	Gaucher disease, a recessive inherited metabolic disorder caused by defects in the gene encoding glucosylceramidase (GlcCerase), can be divided into three subtypes according to the appearance of symptoms associated with central nervous system involvement. We now identify a protein, glycoprotein non-metastatic B (GPNMB), that acts as an authentic marker of brain pathology in neurological forms of Gaucher disease. Using three independent techniques, including quantitative global proteomic analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in samples from Gaucher disease patients that display neurological symptoms, we demonstrate a correlation between the severity of symptoms and GPNMB levels. Moreover, GPNMB levels in the CSF correlate with disease severity in a mouse model of Gaucher disease. GPNMB was also elevated in brain samples from patients with type 2 and 3 Gaucher disease. Our data suggest that GPNMB can be used as a marker to quantify neuropathology in Gaucher disease patients and as a marker of treatment efficacy once suitable treatments towards the neurological symptoms of Gaucher disease become available.
PXD001385	25780947	MS1-based label-free proteomics using a quadrupole orbitrap mass spectrometer. 	Intensity-based label-free proteomics using a quadrupole orbitrap mass spectrometer	Q Exactive, Quadrupole Orbitrap, label-free	Presented is a data set for benchmarking MS1-based label-free quantitative proteomics using a quadrupole orbitrap mass spectrometer. Escherichia coli digest was spiked into a HeLa digest in four different concentrations, simulating protein expression differences in a background of an unchanged complex proteome. The data set provides a unique opportunity to evaluate the proteomic platform (instrumentation and software) in its ability to perform MS1-intensity-based label-free quantification. We show that the presented combination of informatics and instrumentation produces high precision and quantification accuracy. The data were also used to compare different quantitative protein inference methods such as iBAQ and Hi-N. The data can also be used as a resource for development and optimization of proteomics informatics tools, thus the raw data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001385.
PXD001549	25782750	Hsp90 inhibition induces both protein-specific and global changes in the ubiquitinome. 	Hsp90 inhibition induces both protein-specific and global changes in the ubiquitinome	SILAC, chaperones, hsp90, protein degradation, protein folding, protein synthesis, quantitation, stress, ubiquitin	Inhibition of the essential chaperone Hsp90 with drugs causes a global perturbation of protein folding and the depletion of direct substrates of Hsp90, also called clients. Ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation play a key role in cellular stress responses, but the impact of Hsp90 inhibition on the ubiquitinome has not been characterized on a global scale. We used stable isotope labeling and antibody-based peptide enrichment to quantify more than 1500 protein sites modified with a Gly-Gly motif, the remnant of ubiquitination, in human T-cells treated with an Hsp90 inhibitor. We observed rapid changes in GlyGly-modification sites, with strong increases for some Hsp90 clients but also decreases for a majority of cellular proteins. A comparison with changes in total protein levels and protein synthesis and decay rates from a previous study revealed a complex picture with different regulatory patterns observed for different protein families. Overall the data support the notion that for Hsp90 clients GlyGly-modification correlates with targeting by the ubiquitin-proteasome system and decay, while for other proteins levels of GlyGly-modification appear to be mainly influenced by their synthesis rates. Therefore a correct interpretation of changes in ubiquitination requires knowledge of multiple parameters. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001549. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Proteostasis, i.e. the capacity of the cell to maintain proper synthesis and maturation of proteins, is a fundamental biological process and its perturbations have far-reaching medical implications e.g. in cancer or neurodegenerative diseases. Hsp90 is an essential chaperone responsible for the correct maturation and stability of a number of key proteins. Inhibition of Hsp90 triggers a global stress response caused by accumulation of misfolded chains, which have to be either refolded or eliminated by protein degradation pathways such as the Ubiquitin-Proteasome System (UPS). We present the first global assessment of the changes in the ubiquitinome, the subset of ubiquitin-modified proteins, following Hsp90 inhibition in human T-cells. The results provide clues on how cells respond to a specific proteostasis challenge. Furthermore, our data also suggest that basal ubiquitination levels for most proteins are influenced by synthesis rates. This has broad significance as it implies that a proper interpretation of data on ubiquitination levels necessitates simultaneous knowledge of other parameters.
PXD001762	25789746	Mo-CBP3, an antifungal chitin-binding protein from Moringa oleifera seeds, is a member of the 2S albumin family. 	MoCBP3, an Antifungal Chitin-Binding Protein from Moringa oleifera Seeds, is a Member of the 2S Albumin Family	Chitin-Binding, Moringa oleifera	Mo-CBP3 is a chitin-binding protein from M. oleifera seeds that inhibits the germination and mycelial growth of phytopathogenic fungi. This protein is highly thermostable and resistant to pH changes, and therefore may be useful in the development of new antifungal drugs. However, the relationship of MoCBP3 with the known families of carbohydrate-binding domains has not been established. In the present study, full-length cDNAs encoding 4 isoforms of Mo-CBP3 (Mo-CBP3-1, Mo-CBP3-2, Mo-CBP3-3 and Mo-CBP3-4) were cloned from developing seeds. The polypeptides encoded by the Mo-CBP3 cDNAs were predicted to contain 160 (Mo-CBP3-3) and 163 amino acid residues (Mo-CBP3-1, Mo-CBP3-2 and Mo-CBP3-4) with a signal peptide of 20-residues at the N-terminal region. A comparative analysis of the deduced amino acid sequences revealed that Mo-CBP3 is a typical member of the 2S albumin family, as shown by the presence of an eight-cysteine motif, which is a characteristic feature of the prolamin superfamily. Furthermore, mass spectrometry analysis demonstrated that Mo-CBP3 is a mixture of isoforms that correspond to different mRNA products. The identification of Mo-CBP3 as a genuine member of the 2S albumin family reinforces the hypothesis that these seed storage proteins are involved in plant defense. Moreover, the chitin-binding ability of Mo-CBP3 reveals a novel functionality for a typical 2S albumin.
PXD004408	25792596	Two distinct modes for propagation of histone PTMs across the cell cycle. 	Two distinct modes for propagation of histone PTMs across the cell cycle, H3_Modifications	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Epigenetic states defined by chromatin can be maintained through mitotic cell division. However, it remains unknown how histone-based information is transmitted. Here we combine nascent chromatin capture (NCC) and triple-SILAC (stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture) labeling to track histone modifications and histone variants during DNA replication and across the cell cycle. We show that post-translational modifications (PTMs) are transmitted with parental histones to newly replicated DNA. Di- and trimethylation marks are diluted twofold upon DNA replication, as a consequence of new histone deposition. Importantly, within one cell cycle, all PTMs are restored. In general, new histones are modified to mirror the parental histones. However, H3K9 trimethylation (H3K9me3) and H3K27me3 are propagated by continuous modification of parental and new histones because the establishment of these marks extends over several cell generations. Together, our results reveal how histone marks propagate and demonstrate that chromatin states oscillate within the cell cycle.
PXD001635	25795785	A Proteomic Strategy Identifies Lysine Methylation of Splicing Factor snRNP70 by the SETMAR Enzyme. 	SETMAR methyl-lysine (3xMBT) pull-down	SETMAR, methylation	The lysine methyltransferase (KMT) SETMAR is implicated in the response to and repair of DNA damage, but its molecular function is not clear. SETMAR has been associated with dimethylation of histone H3 lysine 36 (H3K36) at sites of DNA damage. However, SETMAR does not methylate H3K36 in vitro. This and the observation that SETMAR is not active on nucleosomes suggest that H3K36 methylation is not a physiologically relevant activity. To identify potential non-histone substrates, we utilized a strategy on the basis of quantitative proteomic analysis of methylated lysine. Our approach identified lysine 130 of the mRNA splicing factor snRNP70 as a SETMAR substrate in vitro, and we show that the enzyme primarily generates monomethylation at this position. Furthermore, we show that SETMAR methylates snRNP70 Lys-130 in cells. Because snRNP70 is a key early regulator of 5' splice site selection, our results suggest a model in which methylation of snRNP70 by SETMAR regulates constitutive and/or alternative splicing. In addition, the proteomic strategy described here is broadly applicable and is a promising route for large-scale mapping of KMT substrates.
PXD001586	25798856	No evidence of enemy release in pathogen and microbial communities of common wasps (Vespula vulgaris) in their native and introduced range. 	Pathogen or enemy release in invasive wasps?	LCMS, Wasp	When invasive species move to new environments they typically experience population bottlenecks that limit the probability that pathogens and parasites are also moved. The invasive species may thus be released from biotic interactions that can be a major source of density-dependent mortality, referred to as enemy release. We examined for evidence of enemy release in populations of the common wasp (Vespula vulgaris), which attains high densities and represents a major threat to biodiversity in its invaded range. Mass spectrometry proteomic methods were used to compare the microbial communities in wasp populations in the native (Belgium and England) and invaded range (Argentina and New Zealand). We found no evidence of enemy release, as the number of microbial taxa was similar in both the introduced and native range. However, some evidence of distinctiveness in the microbial communities was observed between countries. The pathogens observed were similar to a variety of taxa observed in honey bees. These taxa included Nosema, Paenibacillus, and Yersina spp. Genomic methods confirmed a diversity of Nosema spp., Actinobacteria, and the Deformed wing and Kashmir bee viruses. We also analysed published records of bacteria, viruses, nematodes and fungi from both V. vulgaris and the related invader V. germanica. Thirty-three different microorganism taxa have been associated with wasps including Kashmir bee virus and entomophagous fungi such as Aspergillus flavus. There was no evidence that the presence or absence of these microorganisms was dependent on region of wasp samples (i.e. their native or invaded range). Given the similarity of the wasp pathogen fauna to that from honey bees, the lack of enemy release in wasp populations is probably related to spill-over or spill-back from bees and other social insects. Social insects appear to form a reservoir of generalist parasites and pathogens, which makes the management of wasp and bee disease difficult.
PXD001411	25799987	Ancient proteins resolve the evolutionary history of Darwin's South American ungulates. 	Ancient proteins resolve the evolutionary history of Darwin's South American ungulates	Bruker maXis HD, Macrauchenia, Pleistocene, Thermo Scientific Hybrid Quadrupole-Orbitrap, Toxodon, de novo collagen sequencing	No large group of recently extinct placental mammals remains as evolutionarily cryptic as the approximately 280 genera grouped as 'South American native ungulates'. To Charles Darwin, who first collected their remains, they included perhaps the 'strangest animal[s] ever discovered'. Today, much like 180 years ago, it is no clearer whether they had one origin or several, arose before or after the Cretaceous/Palaeogene transition 66.2 million years ago, or are more likely to belong with the elephants and sirenians of superorder Afrotheria than with the euungulates (cattle, horses, and allies) of superorder Laurasiatheria. Morphology-based analyses have proved unconvincing because convergences are pervasive among unrelated ungulate-like placentals. Approaches using ancient DNA have also been unsuccessful, probably because of rapid DNA degradation in semitropical and temperate deposits. Here we apply proteomic analysis to screen bone samples of the Late Quaternary South American native ungulate taxa Toxodon (Notoungulata) and Macrauchenia (Litopterna) for phylogenetically informative protein sequences. For each ungulate, we obtain approximately 90% direct sequence coverage of type I collagen alpha1- and alpha2-chains, representing approximately 900 of 1,140 amino-acid residues for each subunit. A phylogeny is estimated from an alignment of these fossil sequences with collagen (I) gene transcripts from available mammalian genomes or mass spectrometrically derived sequence data obtained for this study. The resulting consensus tree agrees well with recent higher-level mammalian phylogenies. Toxodon and Macrauchenia form a monophyletic group whose sister taxon is not Afrotheria or any of its constituent clades as recently claimed, but instead crown Perissodactyla (horses, tapirs, and rhinoceroses). These results are consistent with the origin of at least some South American native ungulates from 'condylarths', a paraphyletic assembly of archaic placentals. With ongoing improvements in instrumentation and analytical procedures, proteomics may produce a revolution in systematics such as that achieved by genomics, but with the possibility of reaching much further back in time.
PXD001585	25799991	Phosphodiesterase 9A controls nitric-oxide-independent cGMP and hypertrophic heart disease. 	Phosphodiesterase 9A Controls Nitric-oxide Independent cGMP and Hypertrophic Heart Disease	PDE9, PKG, Phosphodiesterase, cGMP, cyclic GMP	Cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) is a second messenger molecule that transduces nitric-oxide- and natriuretic-peptide-coupled signalling, stimulating phosphorylation changes by protein kinase G. Enhancing cGMP synthesis or blocking its degradation by phosphodiesterase type 5A (PDE5A) protects against cardiovascular disease. However, cGMP stimulation alone is limited by counter-adaptions including PDE upregulation. Furthermore, although PDE5A regulates nitric-oxide-generated cGMP, nitric oxide signalling is often depressed by heart disease. PDEs controlling natriuretic-peptide-coupled cGMP remain uncertain. Here we show that cGMP-selective PDE9A (refs 7, 8) is expressed in the mammalian heart, including humans, and is upregulated by hypertrophy and cardiac failure. PDE9A regulates natriuretic-peptide- rather than nitric-oxide-stimulated cGMP in heart myocytes and muscle, and its genetic or selective pharmacological inhibition protects against pathological responses to neurohormones, and sustained pressure-overload stress. PDE9A inhibition reverses pre-established heart disease independent of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity, whereas PDE5A inhibition requires active NOS. Transcription factor activation and phosphoproteome analyses of myocytes with each PDE selectively inhibited reveals substantial differential targeting, with phosphorylation changes from PDE5A inhibition being more sensitive to NOS activation. Thus, unlike PDE5A, PDE9A can regulate cGMP signalling independent of the nitric oxide pathway, and its role in stress-induced heart disease suggests potential as a therapeutic target.
PXD004993	25803623	An inflammatory equine model demonstrates dynamic changes of immune response and cartilage matrix molecule degradation in vitro. 	Equine OA model -  An inflammatory equine model demonstrates dynamic changes of immune response and cartilage matrix molecule degradation in vitro	Horse, IL-1, TMT, cartilage explant	The molecular aspects of inflammation were investigated in equine articular cartilage explants using quantitative proteomics. Articular cartilage explants were stimulated with interleukin (IL)-1beta in vitro for 25 days, and proteins released into cell culture media were chemically labeled with isobaric mass tags and analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. A total of 127 proteins were identified and quantified in media from explants. IL-1beta-stimulation resulted in an abundance of proteins related to inflammation, including matrix metalloproteinases, acute phase proteins, complement components and IL-6. Extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules were released at different time points, and fragmentation of aggrecan and cartilage oligomeric matrix protein was observed at days 3 and 6, similar to early-stage OA in vivo. Degradation products of the collagenous network were observed at days 18 and 22, similar to late-stage OA. This model displays a longitudinal quantification of released molecules from the ECM of articular cartilage. Identification of dynamic changes of extracellular matrix molecules in the secretome of equine explants stimulated with IL-1beta over time may be useful for identifying components released at different time points during the spontaneous OA process.
PXD004402	25807371	Analysis of disease-associated protein expression using quantitative proteomics--fibulin-5 is expressed in association with hepatic fibrosis. 	Quantification of 7 Disease-associated Proteins in Different Stages of Hepatic Fibrosis	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis are major health problems worldwide. Until now, highly invasive biopsy remains the diagnostic gold standard despite many disadvantages. To develop noninvasive diagnostic assays for the assessment of liver fibrosis, it is urgently necessary to identify molecules that are robustly expressed in association with the disease. We analyzed biopsied tissue samples from 95 patients with HBV/HCV-associated hepatic fibrosis using three different quantification methods. We performed a label-free proteomics discovery study to identify novel disease-associated proteins using a subset of the cohort (n = 27). Subsequently, gene expression data from all available clinical samples were analyzed (n = 77). Finally, we performed a targeted proteomics approach, multiple reaction monitoring (MRM), to verify the disease-associated expression in samples independent from the discovery approach (n = 68). We identified fibulin-5 (FBLN5) as a novel protein expressed in relation to hepatic fibrosis. Furthermore, we confirmed the altered expression of microfibril-associated glycoprotein 4 (MFAP4), lumican (LUM), and collagen alpha-1(XIV) chain (COL14A1) in association to hepatic fibrosis. To our knowledge, no tissue-based quantitative proteomics study for hepatic fibrosis has been performed using a cohort of comparable size. By this means, we add substantial evidence for the disease-related expression of the proteins examined in this study.
PXD001863	25807930	Multifunctional reagents for quantitative proteome-wide analysis of protein modification in human cells and dynamic profiling of protein lipidation during vertebrate development. 	Identification of myristoylated proteins in Human cell lines (HEK293, HeLa, MCF7)	Myristoylated peptides, Protein myristoylation, chemical probes	Novel multifunctional reagents were applied in combination with a lipid probe for affinity enrichment of myristoylated proteins and direct detection of lipid-modified tryptic peptides by mass spectrometry. This method enables high-confidence identification of the myristoylated proteome on an unprecedented scale in cell culture, and allowed the first quantitative analysis of dynamic changes in protein lipidation during vertebrate embryonic development.
PXD001741	25818294	Piwi proteins and piRNAs in mammalian oocytes and early embryos. 	Piwi proteins and piRNAs in mammalian oocytes and early embryos	bovine, cumulus, oocytes, testis	Germ cells of most animals critically depend on piRNAs and Piwi proteins. Surprisingly, piRNAs in mouse oocytes are relatively rare and dispensable. We present compelling evidence for strong Piwi and piRNA expression in oocytes of other mammals. Human fetal oocytes express PIWIL2 and transposon-enriched piRNAs. Oocytes in adult human ovary express PIWIL1 and PIWIL2, whereas those in bovine ovary only express PIWIL1. In human, macaque, and bovine ovaries, we find piRNAs that resemble testis-borne pachytene piRNAs. Isolated bovine follicular oocytes were shown to contain abundant, relatively short piRNAs that preferentially target transposable elements. Using label-free quantitative proteome analysis, we show that these maturing oocytes strongly and specifically express the PIWIL3 protein, alongside other, known piRNA-pathway components. A piRNA pool is still present in early bovine embryos, revealing a potential impact of piRNAs on mammalian embryogenesis. Our results reveal that there are highly dynamic piRNA pathways in mammalian oocytes and early embryos.
PXD001083	25832669	Characterizing the surface-exposed proteome of Planococcus halocryophilus during cryophilic growth. 	Transitional Surfaceomics: Identification of Planococcus halocryophilus Surface-Associated Proteins During Optimal and Sub-Zero Growth	Planococcus halocryophilus, cryophile, halophile, surfaceome	Planococcus halocryophilus OR1 is a bacterial isolate capable of growth at temperatures ranging from -15 to +37 degreesC. During sub-zero (cryophilic) growth, nodular features appear on its cell surface; however, the biochemical compositions of these features as well as any cold-adaptive benefits they may offer are not understood. This study aimed to identify differences in the cell surface proteome (surfaceome) of P. halocryophilus cells grown under optimal (24 degreesC, no added salt), low- and mid-salt (5 and 12 % NaCl, respectively) at 24 degreesC, and low- and mid-salt sub-zero (5 % NaCl at -5 degreesC and 12 % NaCl at -10 degreesC) culture conditions, for the purpose of gaining insight into cold-adapted proteomic traits at the cell surface. Mid-log cells were harvested, treated briefly with trypsin and the resultant peptides were purified followed by identification by LC-MS/MS analysis. One hundred and forty-four proteins were subsequently identified in at least one culture condition. Statistically significant differences in amino acid usage, a known indicator of cold adaptation, were identified through in silico analysis. Two proteins with roles in peptidoglycan (PG) metabolism, an N-acetyl-L-alanine amidase and a multimodular transpeptidase-transglycosylase, were detected, though each was only detected under optimal conditions, indicating that high-salt and high-cold stress each affect PG metabolism. Two iron transport-binding proteins, associated with two different iron transport strategies, were identified, indicating that P. halocryophilus uses a different iron acquisition strategy at very low temperatures. Here we present the first set of data that describes bacterial adaptations at the cellular surface that occur as a cryophilic bacterium is transitioned from optimal to near-inhibitory sub-zero culture conditions.
PXD004394	25838814	An integrated quantification method to increase the precision, robustness, and resolution of protein measurement in human plasma samples. 	Integrated Quantification method for precise and robust protein measurement in clinical proteomics, study 1	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	BACKGROUND: Current quantification methods for mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics either do not provide sufficient control of variability or are difficult to implement for routine clinical testing. RESULTS: We present here an integrated quantification (InteQuan) method that better controls pre-analytical and analytical variability than the popular quantification method using stable isotope-labeled standard peptides (SISQuan). We quantified 16 lung cancer biomarker candidates in human plasma samples in three assessment studies, using immunoaffinity depletion coupled with multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) MS. InteQuan outperformed SISQuan in precision in all three studies and tolerated a two-fold difference in sample loading. The three studies lasted over six months and encountered major changes in experimental settings. Nevertheless, plasma proteins in low ng/ml to low mug/ml concentrations were measured with a median technical coefficient of variation (CV) of 11.9% using InteQuan. The corresponding median CV using SISQuan was 15.3% after linear fitting. Furthermore, InteQuan surpassed SISQuan in measuring biological difference among clinical samples and in distinguishing benign versus cancer plasma samples. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated that InteQuan is a simple yet robust quantification method for MS-based quantitative proteomics, especially for applications in biomarker research and in routine clinical testing.
PXD001105	25839225	Wide-scale quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis reveals that cold treatment of T cells closely mimics soluble antibody stimulation. 	Quantitative phosphoprotoemic analysis of cold induced signaling in jurkat cells	Jurkat, cold induced, label free, phosphorylated	The activation of T lymphocytes through antigen-mediated T cell receptor (TCR) clustering is vital in regulating the adaptive immune response. Although T cell receptor signaling has been extensively studied, the fundamental mechanisms for signal initiation are not fully understood. Reduced temperatures have initiated some of the hallmarks of TCR signaling, such as increased phosphorylation and activation on ERK and calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum, as well as coalesced the T cell membrane microdomains. The precise mechanism of the TCR signaling initiation due to temperature change remains obscure. One critical question is whether the signaling initiated by the cold treatment of T cells differs from the signaling initiated by the cross-linking of the T cell receptor. To address this uncertainty, we performed a wide-scale, quantitative mass-spectrometry-based phosphoproteomic analysis on T cells stimulated either by temperature shifts or through the cross-linking of the TCR. Careful statistical comparisons between the two stimulations revealed a striking level of identity among the subset of 339 sites that changed significantly with both stimulations. This study demonstrates for the first time, in unprecedented detail, that T cell cold treatment was sufficient to initiate signaling patterns that were nearly identical to those of soluble antibody stimulation, shedding new light on the mechanism of activation of these critically important immune cells.
PXD000936	25845586	iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa SJTD-1: A global response to n-octadecane induced stress. 	iTRAQ based quantify for pseudomonas	Pseudomonas aeruginosa SJTD-1, iTRAQ, n-octadecane	N-octadecane, the shortest solid-state alkane, was efficiently consumed by Pseudomonas aeruginosa SJTD-1. To reveal its mechanism, the iTRAQ-LC-MS/MS strategy was applied for quantification of proteins in response to alkane. As a result, 383 alkane-responsive proteins were identified and these proteins could be linked to multiple biochemical pathways. Above all, the level of alkane hydroxylase AlkB2 has been significantly higher in alkane condition. Also, the presence of a putative novel AlmA-like monooxygenase and its role on alkane hydroxylation were firstly proposed in Pseudomonas. In addition, other proteins for chemotaxic, beta-oxidation, glyoxylate bypass, alkane uptake, cross membrane transport, enzymatic steps and the carbon flow may have important roles in the cellular response to alkane. Most of those differently expressed proteins were functionally mapped into pathways of alkane degradation or metabolism thereof. In this sense, findings in this study provide critical clues to reveal biodegradation of long chain n-alkanes and rationally be important for potent biocatalyst for bioremediation in future. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: We use iTRAQ strategy firstly to compare the proteomes of Pseudomonas SJTD-1 degrading alkane. Changes in protein clearly provide a comprehensive overview on alkane hydroxylation of SJTD-1, including those proteins for chemotaxis, alkane uptake, cross membrane transport, enzymatic steps and the carbon flow. AlkB2 and a putative novel AlmA-like monooxygenase have been highlighted for their outstanding contribution to alkane use. We found that several chemotaxic proteins were altered in abundance in alkane-grown cells. These results may be helpful for understanding alkane use for Pseudomonas.
PXD001666	25847399	Quantitative proteomics of heat-treated human cells show an across-the-board mild depletion of housekeeping proteins to massively accumulate few HSPs. 	Quantitative proteomics of heat-treated human cells show an across-the-board mild depletion of housekeeping proteins to massively accumulate few HSPs	T-cells, chaperones, heat shock, mRNA, stress response	Classic semiquantitative proteomic methods have shown that all organisms respond to a mild heat shock by an apparent massive accumulation of a small set of proteins, named heat-shock proteins (HSPs) and a concomitant slowing down in the synthesis of the other proteins. Yet unexplained, the increased levels of HSP messenger RNAs (mRNAs) may exceed 100 times the ensuing relative levels of HSP proteins. We used here high-throughput quantitative proteomics and targeted mRNA quantification to estimate in human cell cultures the mass and copy numbers of the most abundant proteins that become significantly accumulated, depleted, or unchanged during and following 4 h at 41 degreesC, which we define as mild heat shock. This treatment caused a minor across-the-board mass loss in many housekeeping proteins, which was matched by a mass gain in a few HSPs, predominantly cytosolic HSPCs (HSP90s) and HSPA8 (HSC70). As the mRNAs of the heat-depleted proteins were not significantly degraded and less ribosomes were recruited by excess new HSP mRNAs, the mild depletion of the many housekeeping proteins during heat shock was attributed to their slower replenishment. This differential protein expression pattern was reproduced by isothermal treatments with Hsp90 inhibitors. Unexpectedly, heat-treated cells accumulated 55 times more new molecules of HSPA8 (HSC70) than of the acknowledged heat-inducible isoform HSPA1A (HSP70), implying that when expressed as net copy number differences, rather than as mere "fold change" ratios, new biologically relevant information can be extracted from quantitative proteomic data. Raw data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001666.
PXD000227	25848929	Specific pools of endogenous peptides are present in gametophore, protonema, and protoplast cells of the moss Physcomitrella patens. 	Analysis of the peptidome of the moss Physcomitrella patens	Physcomitrella patens, endogenous peptide, moss, plant peptidome	BACKGROUND: Protein degradation is a basic cell process that operates in general protein turnover or to produce bioactive peptides. However, very little is known about the qualitative and quantitative composition of a plant cell peptidome, the actual result of this degradation. In this study we comprehensively analyzed a plant cell peptidome and systematically analyzed the peptide generation process. RESULTS: We thoroughly analyzed native peptide pools of Physcomitrella patens moss in two developmental stages as well as in protoplasts. Peptidomic analysis was supplemented by transcriptional profiling and quantitative analysis of precursor proteins. In total, over 20,000 unique endogenous peptides, ranging in size from 5 to 78 amino acid residues, were identified. We showed that in both the protonema and protoplast states, plastid proteins served as the main source of peptides and that their major fraction formed outside of chloroplasts. However, in general, the composition of peptide pools was very different between these cell types. In gametophores, stress-related proteins, e.g., late embryogenesis abundant proteins, were among the most productive precursors. The Driselase-mediated protonema conversion to protoplasts led to a peptide generation "burst", with a several-fold increase in the number of components in the latter. Degradation of plastid proteins in protoplasts was accompanied by suppression of photosynthetic activity. CONCLUSION: We suggest that peptide pools in plant cells are not merely a product of waste protein degradation, but may serve as important functional components for plant metabolism. We assume that the peptide "burst" is a form of biotic stress response that might produce peptides with antimicrobial activity from originally functional proteins. Potential functions of peptides in different developmental stages are discussed.
PXD001873	25849741	Quantitative analysis of the TNF-alpha-induced phosphoproteome reveals AEG-1/MTDH/LYRIC as an IKKbeta substrate. 	MCF-7 phosphoproteome LC-MS/MS	IKKb, MCF-7, TNF stimulation, phosphoproteome	The inhibitor of the nuclear factor-kappaB (IkappaB) kinase (IKK) complex is a key regulator of the canonical NF-kappaB signalling cascade and is crucial for fundamental cellular functions, including stress and immune responses. The majority of IKK complex functions are attributed to NF-kappaB activation; however, there is increasing evidence for NF-kappaB pathway-independent signalling. Here we combine quantitative mass spectrometry with random forest bioinformatics to dissect the TNF-alpha-IKKbeta-induced phosphoproteome in MCF-7 breast cancer cells. In total, we identify over 20,000 phosphorylation sites, of which ~1% are regulated up on TNF-alpha stimulation. We identify various potential novel IKKbeta substrates including kinases and regulators of cellular trafficking. Moreover, we show that one of the candidates, AEG-1/MTDH/LYRIC, is directly phosphorylated by IKKbeta on serine 298. We provide evidence that IKKbeta-mediated AEG-1 phosphorylation is essential for IkappaBalpha degradation as well as NF-kappaB-dependent gene expression and cell proliferation, which correlate with cancer patient survival in vivo.
PXD001560	25850435	A Phosphoproteomic Comparison of B-RAFV600E and MKK1/2 Inhibitors in Melanoma Cells. 	A phosphoproteomic comparison of B-RAFV600E and MKK1/2 inhibitors in melanoma cells, part 1	AZD6244, Melanoma, PLX4032, SILAC	Inhibitors of oncogenic B-RAF(V600E) and MKK1/2 have yielded remarkable responses in B-RAF(V600E)-positive melanoma patients. However, the efficacy of these inhibitors is limited by the inevitable onset of resistance. Despite the fact that these inhibitors target the same pathway, combination treatment with B-RAF(V600E) and MKK1/2 inhibitors has been shown to improve both response rates and progression-free survival in B-RAF(V600E) melanoma patients. To provide insight into the molecular nature of the combinatorial response, we used quantitative mass spectrometry to characterize the inhibitor-dependent phosphoproteome of human melanoma cells treated with the B-RAF(V600E) inhibitor PLX4032 (vemurafenib) or the MKK1/2 inhibitor AZD6244 (selumetinib). In three replicate experiments, we quantified changes at a total of 23,986 phosphosites on 4784 proteins. This included 1317 phosphosites that reproducibly decreased in response to at least one inhibitor. Phosphosites that responded to both inhibitors grouped into networks that included the nuclear pore complex, growth factor signaling, and transcriptional regulators. Although the majority of phosphosites were responsive to both inhibitors, we identified 16 sites that decreased only in response to PLX4032, suggesting rare instances where oncogenic B-RAF signaling occurs in an MKK1/2-independent manner. Only two phosphosites were identified that appeared to be uniquely responsive to AZD6244. When cells were treated with the combination of AZD6244 and PLX4032 at subsaturating concentrations (30 nm), responses at nearly all phosphosites were additive. We conclude that AZD6244 does not substantially widen the range of phosphosites inhibited by PLX4032 and that the benefit of the drug combination is best explained by their additive effects on suppressing ERK1/2 signaling. Comparison of our results to another recent ERK1/2 phosphoproteomics study revealed a surprising degree of variability in the sensitivity of phosphosites to MKK1/2 inhibitors in human cell lines, revealing unexpected cell specificity in the molecular responses to pathway activation.
PXD001929	25871631	Label-free protein quantification in freshly ejaculated versus post-mating spermatophores of the noble crayfish Astacus astacus. 	Label-free protein quantification in freshly ejaculated versus post-mating spermatophores of the noble crayfish Astacus astacus	alpha-2-macroglobulin, hemocyanin, histone, ryanodine receptor, sodium/hydrogen exchanger	Crayfish spermatophores are deposited on the body surface of the female during mating and remain there for a period of time before fertilization ensues. Post-mating changes in protein expression level in the noble crayfish Astacus astacus spermatophore were quantified. In-gel digestion and high resolution mass spectrometry were used for label-free protein quantification. One hundred twelve proteins were identified in the spermatophore of noble crayfish. After 7 days of storage on the body of the female, 6 proteins were identified in the post-mating spermatophore that showed significant up-regulation and 4 significant down-regulations (p < 0.05, fold change >= 2). The highest rate of up-regulation was observed in sodium/hydrogen exchanger, which may indicate the importance of intracellular pH adjustment for final maturation of the crayfish spermatozoon. The highest rate of down-regulation was observed in histone H2A. This may increase chromatin flexibility and facilitate its transfer into the oocyte during fertilization. The vitellogenin protein was identified in the crayfish spermatophore and its level changed during storage on the body surface of female. Extensive proteomic modification of male gametes during storage on the body surface of the female suggests post-mating final maturation of the crayfish spermatozoon. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Freshwater crayfish comprise a large and diverse group of ecologically and commercially important animals. Molecular studies of gametes in the crayfish can provide insight into the complex process of reproduction in this diverse group of animals. The results of such studies can be used for development of new techniques for artificial reproduction of these economically important species.
PXD001831	25873915	Phosphoproteome of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 and its dynamics during nitrogen starvation. 	Phosphoproteome of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 and its dynamics during nitrogen starvation	Cyanobacteria, LTQ-Orbitrap, Nitrogen starvation, Phosphoproteome, Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, peptide dimethylation labeling	Cyanobacteria have shaped the earth's biosphere as the first oxygenic photoautotrophs and still play an important role in many ecosystems. The ability to adapt to changing environmental conditions is an essential characteristic in order to ensure survival. To this end, numerous studies have shown that bacteria use protein post-translational modifications such as Ser/Thr/Tyr phosphorylation in cell signaling, adaptation, and regulation. Nevertheless, our knowledge of cyanobacterial phosphoproteomes and their dynamic response to environmental stimuli is relatively limited. In this study, we applied gel-free methods and high accuracy mass spectrometry toward the detection of Ser/Thr/Tyr phosphorylation events in the model cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. We could identify over 300 phosphorylation events in cultures grown on nitrate as exclusive nitrogen source. Chemical dimethylation labeling was applied to investigate proteome and phosphoproteome dynamics during nitrogen starvation. Our dataset describes the most comprehensive (phospho)proteome of Synechocystis to date, identifying 2382 proteins and 183 phosphorylation events and quantifying 2111 proteins and 148 phosphorylation events during nitrogen starvation. Global protein phosphorylation levels were increased in response to nitrogen depletion after 24 h. Among the proteins with increased phosphorylation, the PII signaling protein showed the highest fold-change, serving as positive control. Other proteins with increased phosphorylation levels comprised functions in photosynthesis and in carbon and nitrogen metabolism. This study reveals dynamics of Synechocystis phosphoproteome in response to environmental stimuli and suggests an important role of protein Ser/Thr/Tyr phosphorylation in fundamental mechanisms of homeostatic control in cyanobacteria.
PXD000644	25874956	Comprehensive analysis of temporal alterations in cellular proteome of Bacillus subtilis under curcumin treatment. 	Bacillus subtilis under Curcumin treatment LC-MS/MS	Bacillus, Curcumin	Curcumin is a natural dietary compound with antimicrobial activity against various gram positive and negative bacteria. This study aims to investigate the proteome level alterations in Bacillus subtilis due to curcumin treatment and identification of its molecular/cellular targets to understand the mechanism of action. We have performed a comprehensive proteomic analysis of B. subtilis AH75 strain at different time intervals of curcumin treatment (20, 60 and 120 min after the drug exposure, three replicates) to compare the protein expression profiles using two complementary quantitative proteomic techniques, 2D-DIGE and iTRAQ. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive longitudinal investigation describing the effect of curcumin treatment on B. subtilis proteome. The proteomics analysis revealed several interesting targets such UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 1-carboxyvinyltransferase 1, putative septation protein SpoVG and ATP-dependent Clp protease proteolytic subunit. Further, in silico pathway analysis using DAVID and KOBAS has revealed modulation of pathways related to the fatty acid metabolism and cell wall synthesis, which are crucial for cell viability. Our findings revealed that curcumin treatment lead to inhibition of the cell wall and fatty acid synthesis in addition to differential expression of many crucial proteins involved in modulation of bacterial metabolism. Findings obtained from proteomics analysis were further validated using 5-cyano-2,3-ditolyl tetrazolium chloride (CTC) assay for respiratory activity, resazurin assay for metabolic activity and membrane integrity assay by potassium and inorganic phosphate leakage measurement. The gene expression analysis of selected cell wall biosynthesis enzymes has strengthened the proteomics findings and indicated the major effect of curcumin on cell division.
PXD001871	25887480	Proteomic analysis of Citrus sinensis roots and leaves in response to long-term magnesium-deficiency. 	Proteomic analysis of Citrus sinensis roots and leaves in response to long-term magnesium-deficiency	Citrus sinensis, Proteomic analysis	BACKGROUND: Magnesium (Mg)-deficiency is frequently observed in Citrus plantations and is responsible for the loss of productivity and poor fruit quality. Knowledge on the effects of Mg-deficiency on upstream targets is scarce. Seedlings of 'Xuegan' [Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck] were irrigated with Mg-deficient (0 mM MgSO4) or Mg-sufficient (1 mM MgSO4) nutrient solution for 16 weeks. Thereafter, we first investigated the proteomic responses of C. sinensis roots and leaves to Mg-deficiency using two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) in order to (a) enrich our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of plants to deal with Mg-deficiency and (b) understand the molecular mechanisms by which Mg-deficiency lead to a decrease in photosynthesis. RESULTS: Fifty-nine upregulated and 31 downregulated protein spots were isolated in Mg-deficient leaves, while only 19 upregulated and 12 downregulated protein spots in Mg-deficient roots. Many Mg-deficiency-responsive proteins were involved in carbohydrate and energy metabolism, followed by protein metabolism, stress responses, nucleic acid metabolism, cell wall and cytoskeleton metabolism, lipid metabolism and cell transport. The larger changes in leaf proteome versus root one in response to Mg-deficiency was further supported by our observation that total soluble protein concentration was decreased by Mg-deficiency in leaves, but unaffected in roots. Mg-deficiency had decreased levels of proteins [i.e. ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco), rubisco activase, oxygen evolving enhancer protein 1, photosynthetic electron transfer-like protein, ferredoxin-NADP reductase (FNR), aldolase] involved in photosynthesis, thus decreasing leaf photosynthesis. To cope with Mg-deficiency, C. sinensis leaves and roots might respond adaptively to Mg-deficiency through: improving leaf respiration and lowering root respiration, but increasing (decreasing) the levels of proteins related to ATP synthase in roots (leaves); enhancing the levels of proteins involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging and other stress-responsive proteins; accelerating proteolytic cleavage of proteins by proteases, protein transport and amino acid metabolism; and upregulating the levels of proteins involved in cell wall and cytoskeleton metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrated that proteomics were more affected by long-term Mg-deficiency in leaves than in roots, and that the adaptive responses differed between roots and leaves when exposed to long-term Mg-deficiency. Mg-deficiency decreased the levels of many proteins involved in photosynthesis, thus decreasing leaf photosynthesis.
PXD012414	25889401	Diagnosing inflammation and infection in the urinary system via proteomics. 	Diagnosing inflammation and infection in the urinary system via proteomics	Gardnerella, Inflammation, Innate immune response, Klebsiella, Metaproteomics, Neutrophil infiltration, Urinary tract infection, Urine diagnostics, Uropathogen	BACKGROUND: Current methodology for the diagnosis of diseases in the urinary system includes patient symptomology, urine analysis and urine culture. Asymptomatic bacteriuria from urethral colonization or indwelling catheters, sample contamination from perineal or vaginal sources, and non-infectious inflammatory conditions can mimic UTIs, leading to uncertainty on medical treatment decisions. METHODS: Innovative shotgun metaproteomic methods were used to analyze urine sediments from 120 patients also subjected to conventional urinalysis for various clinical reasons including suspected UTIs. The proteomic data were simultaneously searched for the presence of microbial agents, inflammation, immune responses against pathogens, and evidence of urothelial tissue injury. Hierarchical clustering analysis was performed to identify host protein patterns discerning UTI from urethral colonization and vaginal contamination of urine samples. RESULTS: Organisms causing more than 98% of all UTIs and commensal microbes of the urogenital and perineal area were identified from 76 urine sediments with detection sensitivities estimated to be similar to urine culture. Proteomic data permitted a thorough evaluation of inflammatory and antimicrobial immune responses. Hierarchical clustering of the data revealed that high abundances of proteins from activated neutrophils were associated with pathogens in most cases, and correlated well with leukocyte esterase activities and leukocyte counts via microscopy. Proteomic data also allowed assessments of urothelial injury, by quantifying proteins highly expressed in red blood cells and contributing to the acute phase response. Lactobacillus and Gardnerella vaginalis were frequently identified suggesting urethral colonization and/or vaginal contamination of urine. CONCLUSIONS: A metaproteomic approach of interest for routine urine clinical diagnostics is presented. As compared to urinalysis and urine culture methods, the data are derived from a single experiment for a given sample and provide additional insights into presence or absence of inflammatory responses and vaginal contamination of urine specimens.
PXD000589	25894527	A mass spectrometric-derived cell surface protein atlas. 	Cell Surface Protein Atlas	CSPA, cell surface capture, surfaceome	Cell surface proteins are major targets of biomedical research due to their utility as cellular markers and their extracellular accessibility for pharmacological intervention. However, information about the cell surface protein repertoire (the surfaceome) of individual cells is only sparsely available. Here, we applied the Cell Surface Capture (CSC) technology to 41 human and 31 mouse cell types to generate a mass-spectrometry derived Cell Surface Protein Atlas (CSPA) providing cellular surfaceome snapshots at high resolution. The CSPA is presented in form of an easy-to-navigate interactive database, a downloadable data matrix and with tools for targeted surfaceome rediscovery (http://wlab.ethz.ch/cspa). The cellular surfaceome snapshots of different cell types, including cancer cells, resulted in a combined dataset of 1492 human and 1296 mouse cell surface glycoproteins, providing experimental evidence for their cell surface expression on different cell types, including 136 G-protein coupled receptors and 75 membrane receptor tyrosine-protein kinases. Integrated analysis of the CSPA reveals that the concerted biological function of individual cell types is mainly guided by quantitative rather than qualitative surfaceome differences. The CSPA will be useful for the evaluation of drug targets, for the improved classification of cell types and for a better understanding of the surfaceome and its concerted biological functions in complex signaling microenvironments.
PXD000811	25896609	Genetic Background is a Key Determinant of Glomerular Extracellular Matrix Composition and Organization. 	Mouse kidney glomerular extracellular matrix LC-MSMS	extracellular matrix, glomerular, kidney	Glomerular disease often features altered histologic patterns of extracellular matrix (ECM). Despite this, the potential complexities of the glomerular ECM in both health and disease are poorly understood. To explore whether genetic background and sex determine glomerular ECM composition, we investigated two mouse strains, FVB and B6, using RNA microarrays of isolated glomeruli combined with proteomic glomerular ECM analyses. These studies, undertaken in healthy young adult animals, revealed unique strain- and sex-dependent glomerular ECM signatures, which correlated with variations in levels of albuminuria and known predisposition to progressive nephropathy. Among the variation, we observed changes in netrin 4, fibroblast growth factor 2, tenascin C, collagen 1, meprin 1-alpha, and meprin 1-beta. Differences in protein abundance were validated by quantitative immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis, and the collective differences were not explained by mutations in known ECM or glomerular disease genes. Within the distinct signatures, we discovered a core set of structural ECM proteins that form multiple protein-protein interactions and are conserved from mouse to man. Furthermore, we found striking ultrastructural changes in glomerular basement membranes in FVB mice. Pathway analysis of merged transcriptomic and proteomic datasets identified potential ECM regulatory pathways involving inhibition of matrix metalloproteases, liver X receptor/retinoid X receptor, nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2, notch, and cyclin-dependent kinase 5. These pathways may therefore alter ECM and confer susceptibility to disease.
PXD001580	25896739	Proteomic analysis of canola root inoculated with bacteria under salt stress. 	Proteomic Analysis of Canola Inoculated with Bacteria under Salt Stress	bacteria, canola, salinity	Plant-growth promoting bacteria can ameliorate the negative effects of salt stress on canola. To better understand the role of bacteria in canola under salt stress, salt-sensitive (Sarigol) and salt-tolerant (Hyola308) cultivars were inoculated with Pseudomonas fluorescens and protein profiles of roots were compared. Bacterial inoculation increased the dry weight and length of canola roots under salt stress. Using a gel-free proteomic technique, 55 commonly changed proteins were identified in Sarigol and Hyola308 roots inoculated with bacteria under salt stress. In both canola cultivars, proteins related to amino acid metabolism and tricarboxylic acid cycle were affected. Hierarchical cluster analysis divided the identified proteins into three clusters. Proteins related to Clusters II and III, which were secretion-associated RAS super family 1, dynamin-like protein, and histone, were increased in roots of both Sarigol and Hyola308 inoculated with bacteria under salt stress. Based on pathway mapping, proteins related to amino acid metabolism and the tricarboxylic acid cycle significantly changed in canola cultivars inoculated with or without bacteria under salt stress. These results suggest that bacterial inoculation of canola roots increases tolerance to salt stress by proteins related to energy metabolism and cell division. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Plant-growth promoting bacteria as an emerging aid can ameliorate the negative effect of salt stress on canola. To understand the role of bacteria in canola under salt stress, salt sensitive Sarigol and tolerant Hyola308 cultivars were used. Dry weight and length of canola root were improved by inoculation of bacteria under salt stress. Using gel-free proteomic technique, 55 commonly changed proteins identified in Sarigol and Hyola308 inoculated with bacteria under salt stress. In both canola cultivars, the number of proteins related to amino acid metabolism and tricarboxylic acid cycle was more than other categories with higher change in protein abundance. Hierarchical cluster analysis divided into 3 clusters. Cluster II including secretion-associated RAS super family 1 and dynamin-like protein and Cluster III including histones H2A were increased by bacterial inoculation in both cultivars. Furthermore, pathway mapping highlighted the importance of S-denosylmethionine synthetase and malate dehydrogenase that decreased in canola inoculated with bacteria under salt stress. These results suggest that bacterial inoculation helps the canola to endure salt stress by modulating the proteins related to energy metabolism and cell division.
PXD000029	25903579	Combined Proteomics and Transcriptomics Identifies Carboxypeptidase B1 and Nuclear Factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) Associated Proteins as Putative Biomarkers of Metastasis in Low Grade Breast Cancer. 	Combined proteomics and transcriptomics identifies carboxypeptidase B1 and NF-B associated proteins as putative biomarkers of metastasis in low grade breast cancer	Breast cancer, Carboxypeptidase-B1, NF-B, Orbitrap FTMS, biomarkers, cancer biology, gene expression, iTRAQ, low grade, metastasis, transcriptomics	Current prognostic factors are insufficient for precise risk-discrimination in breast cancer patients with low grade breast tumors, which, in disagreement with theoretical prognosis, occasionally form early lymph node metastasis. To identify markers for this group of patients, we employed iTRAQ-2DLC-MS/MS proteomics to 24 lymph node positive and 24 lymph node negative grade 1 luminal A primary breast tumors. Another group of 48 high-grade tumors (luminal B, triple negative, Her-2 subtypes) was also analyzed to investigate marker specificity for grade 1 luminal A tumors. From the total of 4405 proteins identified (FDR < 5%), the top 65 differentially expressed together with 30 previously identified and control markers were analyzed also at transcript level. Increased levels of carboxypeptidase B1 (CPB1), PDZ and LIM domain protein 2 (PDLIM2), and ring finger protein 25 (RNF25) were associated specifically with lymph node positive grade 1 tumors, whereas stathmin 1 (STMN1) and thymosin beta 10 (TMSB10) associated with aggressive tumor phenotype also in high grade tumors at both protein and transcript level. For CPB1, these differences were also observed by immunohistochemical analysis on tissue microarrays. Up-regulation of putative biomarkers in lymph node positive (versus negative) luminal A tumors was validated by gene expression analysis of an independent published data set (n = 343) for CPB1 (p = 0.00155), PDLIM2 (p = 0.02027) and RELA (p = 0.00015). Moreover, statistically significant connections with patient survival were identified in another public data set (n = 1678). Our findings indicate unique pro-metastatic mechanisms in grade 1 tumors that can include up-regulation of CPB1, activation of NF-kappaB pathway and changes in cell survival and cytoskeleton. These putative biomarkers have potential to identify the specific minor subpopulation of breast cancer patients with low grade tumors who are at higher than expected risk of recurrence and who would benefit from more intensive follow-up and may require more personalized therapy.
PXD004890	25909888	Synaptic dysfunction, memory deficits and hippocampal atrophy due to ablation of mitochondrial fission in adult forebrain neurons. 	Analysis of ablation of mitochondrial fission in adult forebrain neurons	TMT, neurons, synaptic dysfunction	Well-balanced mitochondrial fission and fusion processes are essential for nervous system development. Loss of function of the main mitochondrial fission mediator, dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1), is lethal early during embryonic development or around birth, but the role of mitochondrial fission in adult neurons remains unclear. Here we show that inducible Drp1 ablation in neurons of the adult mouse forebrain results in progressive, neuronal subtype-specific alterations of mitochondrial morphology in the hippocampus that are marginally responsive to antioxidant treatment. Furthermore, DRP1 loss affects synaptic transmission and memory function. Although these changes culminate in hippocampal atrophy, they are not sufficient to cause neuronal cell death within 10 weeks of genetic Drp1 ablation. Collectively, our in vivo observations clarify the role of mitochondrial fission in neurons, demonstrating that Drp1 ablation in adult forebrain neurons compromises critical neuronal functions without causing overt neurodegeneration.
PXD001785	25909947	Proteome Analysis of Watery Saliva Secreted by Green Rice Leafhopper, Nephotettix cincticeps. 	Gel-free based nano LC-MS/MS analysis of green rice leafhopper saliva	Gel-free, green rice leafhopper saliva, nano LC-MS/MS	The green rice leafhopper, Nephotettix cincticeps, is a vascular bundle feeder that discharges watery and gelling saliva during the feeding process. To understand the potential functions of saliva for successful and safe feeding on host plants, we analyzed the complexity of proteinaceous components in the watery saliva of N. cincticeps. Salivary proteins were collected from a sucrose diet that adult leafhoppers had fed on through a membrane of stretched parafilm. Protein concentrates were separated using SDS-PAGE under reducing and non-reducing conditions. Six proteins were identified by a gas-phase protein sequencer and two proteins were identified using LC-MS/MS analysis with reference to expressed sequence tag (EST) databases of this species. Full -length cDNAs encoding these major proteins were obtained by rapid amplification of cDNA ends-PCR (RACE-PCR) and degenerate PCR. Furthermore, gel-free proteome analysis that was performed to cover the broad range of salivary proteins with reference to the latest RNA-sequencing data from the salivary gland of N. cincticeps, yielded 63 additional protein species. Out of 71 novel proteins identified from the watery saliva, about 60 % of those were enzymes or other functional proteins, including GH5 cellulase, transferrin, carbonic anhydrases, aminopeptidase, regucalcin, and apolipoprotein. The remaining proteins appeared to be unique and species- specific. This is the first study to identify and characterize the proteins in watery saliva of Auchenorrhyncha species, especially sheath-producing, vascular bundle-feeders.
PXD000774	25914152	Unravelling the proteome of degenerative human mitral valves. 	Mitral Valve Tissue Shotgun Proteomics	Mitral valve, tissue	Degenerative mitral valve disease (DMVD), which includes the syndromes of mitral valve prolapse (MVP) and flail leaflet, is a common valvular condition which can be complicated by mitral regurgitation and adverse cardiovascular outcomes. Although several genetic and other studies of MVP in dog models have provided some information regarding the underlying disease mechanisms, the proteins and molecular events mediating human MVP pathogenesis have not been unraveled. In this study, we report the first large-scale proteome profiling of mitral valve tissue resected from patients with MVP. A total of 1134 proteins were identified, some of which were validated using SWATH-MS and western blotting. GO annotation of these proteins confirmed the validity of this proteome database in various cardiovascular processes. Among the list of proteins, we found several structural and extracellular matrix proteins, such as asporin, biglycan, decorin, lumican, mimecan, prolargin, versican, and vinculin, that have putative roles in the pathophysiology of MVP. These proteins could also be involved in the cardiac remodeling associated with mitral regurgitation. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000774 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000774).
PXD000911	25921291	Dynamic phosphoproteomics reveals TORC1-dependent regulation of yeast nucleotide and amino acid biosynthesis. 	Dynamic phosphoprotemics yeast nitrogen up-shift	dynamic phosphoproteomic, glutamine, nitrogen upshift, proline	Phosphoproteomics studies have unraveled the extent of protein phosphorylation as a key cellular regulation mechanism, but assigning functionality to specific phosphorylation events remains a major challenge. TORC1 (target of rapamycin complex 1) is a kinase-containing protein complex that transduces changes in nutrient availability into phosphorylation signaling events that alter cell growth and proliferation. To resolve the temporal sequence of phosphorylation responses to nutritionally and chemically induced changes in TORC1 signaling and to identify previously unknown kinase-substrate relationships in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we performed quantitative mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomic analyses after shifts in nitrogen sources and rapamycin treatment. From early phosphorylation events that were consistent over at least two experimental perturbations, we identified 51 candidate and 10 known proximal targets of TORC1 that were direct substrates of TORC1 or of one of its kinase or phosphatase substrates. By correlating these phosphoproteomics data with dynamic metabolomics data, we inferred the functional role of phosphorylation on the metabolic activity of 12 enzymes, including three candidate TORC1-proximal targets: Amd1, which is involved in nucleotide metabolism; Hom3, which is involved in amino acid metabolism; and Tsl1, which mediates carbohydrate storage. Finally, we identified the TORC1 substrates Sch9 and Atg1 as candidate kinases that phosphorylate Amd1 and Hom3, respectively.
PXD001869	25929241	iTRAQ-based quantitative subcellular proteomic analysis of Avibirnavirus-infected cells. 	iTRAQ-based Subcellular Proteome of Avibirnavirus-infected DF-1 Cells	Gallus gallus, IBDV-infected cells, iTRAQ, subcellular proteomics	Infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) enters the host cells via endocytic pathway to achieve viral replication in the cytoplasm. Here, we performed LC-MS/MS coupled with isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification labeling of differentially abundant proteins of IBDV-infected cells using a subcellular fractionation strategy. We show that the viral infection regulates the abundance and/or subcellular localization of 3211 proteins during early infection. In total, 23 cellular proteins in the cytoplasmic proteome and 34 in the nuclear proteome were significantly altered after virus infection. These differentially abundant proteins are involved in such biological processes as immune response, signal transduction, RNA processing, macromolecular biosynthesis, energy metabolism, virus binding, and cellular apoptosis. Moreover, transcriptional profiles of the 25 genes corresponding to the identified proteins were analyzed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis clustered the differentially abundant proteins primarily into the mTOR pathway, PI3K/Akt pathway, and interferon-beta signaling cascades. Confocal microscopy showed colocalization of the viral protein VP3 with host proteins heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein H1, nuclear factor 45, apoptosis inhibitor 5, nuclear protein localization protein 4 and DEAD-box RNA helicase 42 during the virus infection. Together, these identified subcellular constituents provide important information for understanding host-IBDV interactions and underlying mechanisms of IBDV infection and pathogenesis.
PXD001471	25931155	Proteomic analysis of cellular soluble proteins from human bronchial smooth muscle cells by combining nondenaturing micro 2DE and quantitative LC-MS/MS. 1. Preparation of more than 4000 native protein maps. 	Proteomic analysis of cellular soluble proteins from human bronchial smooth muscle cells by combining nondenaturing micro 2DE and quantitative LC-MS/MS: Preparation of more than 4000 native protein maps	cellular proteins, native protein map, nondenaturing micro 2DE, quantitative protein-protein interaction	Soluble proteins of human bronchial smooth muscle cells (HBSMC) were separated by nondenaturing micro 2DE and a 30 mm x 40 mm area of the CBB-stained slab gel (1.0 mm thick) was cut into 1.1 mm x 1.1 mm squares, then the proteins in the 972 gel pieces (squares) were applied to quantitative LC-MS/MS. Grid-cutting of the gel was employed to; (i) ensure the total analysis of the proteins in the area, (ii) standardize the conditions of analysis by LC-MS/MS, (iii) reconstruct the protein distribution patterns from the quantity data [1]. Totally 4323 proteins were identified in successfully analyzed 967 squares and the quantity distribution of each was reconstructed as a color density pattern (a native protein map). The quantity of the proteins distributed from 3.6% to 1 x 10(-5) % of the total protein quantity in the grid area. Each protein map was characterized by several features, including the position of quantity peak square, number of detected squares, and degree of concentration (focused or dispersed). About 4% of the proteins were detected in 100 or more squares, suggesting that they might be ubiquitous and interacting with other proteins. In contrast, many proteins showed more concentrated quantity distribution and the quantity peak positions of 565 proteins with a defined degree of concentration were summarized into a quantity peak map. These results for the first time visualized the distribution patterns of cellular proteins on a nondenaturing 2D gel.
PXD001255	25931508	Sequential Elution Interactome Analysis of the Mind Bomb 1 Ubiquitin Ligase Reveals a Novel Role in Dendritic Spine Outgrowth. 	Sequential elution interactome analysis of Mind bomb 1 and a novel role in dendritic spine outgrowth	Affinity purification, E3 ligase, Notch Signaling, Wnt Signaling, dendritic spines, endocytosis, interactome, neuronal morphogenesis	The mind bomb 1 (Mib1) ubiquitin ligase is essential for controlling metazoan development by Notch signaling and possibly the Wnt pathway. It is also expressed in postmitotic neurons and regulates neuronal morphogenesis and synaptic activity by mechanisms that are largely unknown. We sought to comprehensively characterize the Mib1 interactome and study its potential function in neuron development utilizing a novel sequential elution strategy for affinity purification, in which Mib1 binding proteins were eluted under different stringency and then quantified by the isobaric labeling method. The strategy identified the Mib1 interactome with both deep coverage and the ability to distinguish high-affinity partners from low-affinity partners. A total of 817 proteins were identified during the Mib1 affinity purification, including 56 high-affinity partners and 335 low-affinity partners, whereas the remaining 426 proteins are likely copurified contaminants or extremely weak binding proteins. The analysis detected all previously known Mib1-interacting proteins and revealed a large number of novel components involved in Notch and Wnt pathways, endocytosis and vesicle transport, the ubiquitin-proteasome system, cellular morphogenesis, and synaptic activities. Immunofluorescence studies further showed colocalization of Mib1 with five selected proteins: the Usp9x (FAM) deubiquitinating enzyme, alpha-, beta-, and delta-catenins, and CDKL5. Mutations of CDKL5 are associated with early infantile epileptic encephalopathy-2 (EIEE2), a severe form of mental retardation. We found that the expression of Mib1 down-regulated the protein level of CDKL5 by ubiquitination, and antagonized CDKL5 function during the formation of dendritic spines. Thus, the sequential elution strategy enables biochemical characterization of protein interactomes; and Mib1 analysis provides a comprehensive interactome for investigating its role in signaling networks and neuronal development.
PXD004401	25944384	A Combined Shotgun and Targeted Mass Spectrometry Strategy for Breast Cancer Biomarker Discovery. 	A Combined Shotgun and Targeted Mass Spectrometry Strategy for Breast Cancer Biomarker Discovery	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	It is of highest importance to find proteins responsible for breast cancer dissemination, for use as biomarkers or treatment targets. We established and performed a combined nontargeted LC-MS/MS and a targeted LC-SRM workflow for discovery and validation of protein biomarkers. Eighty breast tumors, stratified for estrogen receptor status and development of distant recurrence (DR +/- ), were collected. After enrichment of N-glycosylated peptides, label-free LC-MS/MS was performed on each individual tumor in triplicate. In total, 1515 glycopeptides from 778 proteins were identified and used to create a map of the breast cancer N-glycosylated proteome. Based on this specific proteome map, we constructed a 92-plex targeted label-free LC-SRM panel. These proteins were quantified across samples by LC-SRM, resulting in 10 proteins consistently differentially regulated between DR+/DR- tumors. Five proteins were further validated in a separate cohort as prognostic biomarkers at the gene expression level. We also compared the LC-SRM results to clinically reported HER2 status, demonstrating its clinical accuracy. In conclusion, we demonstrate a combined mass spectrometry strategy, at large scale on clinical samples, leading to the identification and validation of five proteins as potential biomarkers for breast cancer recurrence. All MS data are available via ProteomeXchange and PASSEL with identifiers PXD001685 and PASS00643.
PXD001932	25952688	Targeted analysis of recombinant NF kappa B (RelA/p65) by denaturing and native top down mass spectrometry. 	p65-HaloTag copurifying proteins in human 293T cells	293T, NF kappa B, RelA, p65	Measuring post-translational modifications on transcription factors by targeted mass spectrometry is hampered by low protein abundance and inefficient isolation. Here, we utilized HaloTag technology to overcome these limitations and evaluate various top down mass spectrometry approaches for measuring NF-kappaB p65 proteoforms isolated from human cells. We show isotopic resolution of N-terminally acetylated p65 and determined it is the most abundant proteoform expressed following transfection in 293T cells. We also show MS(1) evidence for monophosphorylation of p65 under similar culture conditions and describe a high propensity for p65 proteoforms to fragment internally during beam-style MS(2) fragmentation; up to 71% of the fragment ions could be matched as internals in some fragmentation spectra. Finally, we used native spray mass spectrometry to measure proteins copurifying with p65 and present evidence for the native detection of p65, 71kDa heat shock protein, and p65 homodimer. Collectively, our work demonstrates the efficient isolation and top down mass spectrometry analysis of p65 from human cells, and we discuss the perturbations of overexpressing tagged proteins to study their biochemistry. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Protein Species. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Characterizing transcription factor proteoforms in human cells is of high value to the field of molecular biology; many agree that post-translational modifications and combinations thereof play a critical role in modulating transcription factor activity. Thus, measuring these modifications promises increased understanding of molecular mechanisms governing the regulation of complex gene expression outcomes. To date, comprehensive characterization of transcription factor proteoforms within human cells has eluded measurement, owing primarily-with regard to top down mass spectrometry-to large protein size and low relative abundance. Here, we utilized HaloTag technology and recombinant protein expression to overcome these limitations and show top down mass spectrometry characterization of proteoforms of the 60kDa NF-kB protein, p65. By optimizing the analytical procedure (i.e. purification, MS(1), and MS(2)), our results make important progress toward the ultimate goal of targeted transcription factor characterization from endogenous loci.
PXD001482	25954265	Time dynamics of the Bacillus cereus exoproteome are shaped by cellular oxidation. 	Bacillus cereus proteomics (Exoproteome)	exoproteome, shotgun proteomics, toxin	At low density, Bacillus cereus cells release a large variety of proteins into the extracellular medium when cultivated in pH-regulated, glucose-containing minimal medium, either in the presence or absence of oxygen. The majority of these exoproteins are putative virulence factors, including toxin-related proteins. Here, B. cereus exoproteome time courses were monitored by nanoLC-MS/MS under low-oxidoreduction potential (ORP) anaerobiosis, high-ORP anaerobiosis, and aerobiosis, with a specific focus on oxidative-induced post-translational modifications of methionine residues. Principal component analysis (PCA) of the exoproteome dynamics indicated that toxin-related proteins were the most representative of the exoproteome changes, both in terms of protein abundance and their methionine sulfoxide (Met(O)) content. PCA also revealed an interesting interconnection between toxin-, metabolism-, and oxidative stress-related proteins, suggesting that the abundance level of toxin-related proteins, and their Met(O) content in the B. cereus exoproteome, reflected the cellular oxidation under both aerobiosis and anaerobiosis.
PXD001384	25957687	Rod-derived cone viability factor promotes cone survival by stimulating aerobic glycolysis. 	Rod-derived Cone Viability Factor	BSG1, GLUT1, Glucose, RdCVF	Rod-derived cone viability factor (RdCVF) is an inactive thioredoxin secreted by rod photoreceptors that protects cones from degeneration. Because the secondary loss of cones in retinitis pigmentosa (RP) leads to blindness, the administration of RdCVF is a promising therapy for this untreatable neurodegenerative disease. Here, we investigated the mechanism underlying the protective role of RdCVF in RP. We show that RdCVF acts through binding to Basigin-1 (BSG1), a transmembrane protein expressed specifically by photoreceptors. BSG1 binds to the glucose transporter GLUT1, resulting in increased glucose entry into cones. Increased glucose promotes cone survival by stimulation of aerobic glycolysis. Moreover, a missense mutation of RdCVF results in its inability to bind to BSG1, stimulate glucose uptake, and prevent secondary cone death in a model of RP. Our data uncover an entirely novel mechanism of neuroprotection through the stimulation of glucose metabolism.
PXD001949	25963833	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Dynamic Interactions of the Minichromosome Maintenance Complex (MCM) in the Cellular Response to Etoposide Induced DNA Damage. 	AP-MS of GFP-MCM2 in the cellular response to etoposide induced DNA damage.	DNA repair, Etoposide, MCM2	The minichromosome maintenance complex (MCM) proteins are required for processive DNA replication and are a target of S-phase checkpoints. The eukaryotic MCM complex consists of six proteins (MCM2-7) that form a heterohexameric ring with DNA helicase activity, which is loaded on chromatin to form the pre-replication complex. Upon entry in S phase, the helicase is activated and opens the DNA duplex to recruit DNA polymerases at the replication fork. The MCM complex thus plays a crucial role during DNA replication, but recent work suggests that MCM proteins could also be involved in DNA repair. Here, we employed a combination of stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based quantitative proteomics with immunoprecipitation of green fluorescent protein-tagged fusion proteins to identify proteins interacting with the MCM complex, and quantify changes in interactions in response to DNA damage. Interestingly, the MCM complex showed very dynamic changes in interaction with proteins such as Importin7, the histone chaperone ASF1, and the Chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 3 (CHD3) following DNA damage. These changes in interactions were accompanied by an increase in phosphorylation and ubiquitination on specific sites on the MCM proteins and an increase in the co-localization of the MCM complex with gamma-H2AX, confirming the recruitment of these proteins to sites of DNA damage. In summary, our data indicate that the MCM proteins is involved in chromatin remodeling in response to DNA damage.
PXD002158	25969537	Members of the Plant CRK Superfamily Are Capable of Trans- and Autophosphorylation of Tyrosine Residues. 	Members of the Plant CRK-superfamily are Capable of trans-/auto-Phosphorylation of Tyrosine Residues	phosphotyrosine signaling	Protein phosphorylation on Tyr residues is a key post-translational modification in mammals. In plants, recent studies have identified Tyr-specific protein phosphatase and Tyr-phosphorylated proteins in Arabidopsis by phosphoproteomic screenings, implying that plants have a Tyr phosphorylation signal pathway. However, little is known about the protein kinases (PKs) involved in Tyr phosphorylation in plants. Here, we demonstrate that Arabidopsis calcium-dependent protein kinase (CDPK/CPK)-related PKs (CRKs) have high Tyr-autophosphorylation activity and that they can phosphorylate Tyr residue(s) on substrate proteins in Arabidopsis. To identify PKs for Tyr phosphorylation, we examined the autophosphorylation activity of 759 PKs using an Arabidopsis protein array based on a wheat cell-free system. In total, we identified 38 PKs with Tyr-autophosphorylation activity. The CRK family was a major protein family identified. A cell-free substrate screening revealed that these CRKs phosphorylate beta-tubulin (TBB) 2, TBB7, and certain transcription factors (TFs) such as ethylene response factor 13 (ERF13). All five CRKs tested showed Tyr-auto/trans-phosphorylation activity and especially two CRKs, CRK2 and CRK3, showed a high ERF13 Tyr-phosphorylation activity. A cell-based transient expression assay revealed that Tyr(16/)Tyr(207) sites in ERF13 were phosphorylated by CRK3 and that Tyr phosphorylation of endogenous TBBs occurs in CRK2 overexpressing cells. Furthermore, crk2 and crk3 mutants showed a decrease in the Tyr phosphorylation level of TBBs. These results suggest that CRKs have Tyr kinase activity, and these might be one of the major PKs responsible for protein Tyr phosphorylation in Arabidopsis plants.
PXD001348	25973932	The 4E-BP Caf20p Mediates Both eIF4E-Dependent and Independent Repression of Translation. 	Proteomics analysis of the effect of deletion and mutation of eIF4E binding proteins Caf20 and Eap1 on yeast via LC-MSMS.	Label-free quantification	Translation initiation factor eIF4E mediates mRNA selection for protein synthesis via the mRNA 5'cap. A family of binding proteins, termed the 4E-BPs, interact with eIF4E to hinder ribosome recruitment. Mechanisms underlying mRNA specificity for 4E-BP control remain poorly understood. Saccharomyces cerevisiae 4E-BPs, Caf20p and Eap1p, each regulate an overlapping set of mRNAs. We undertook global approaches to identify protein and RNA partners of both 4E-BPs by immunoprecipitation of tagged proteins combined with mass spectrometry or next-generation sequencing. Unexpectedly, mass spectrometry indicated that the 4E-BPs associate with many ribosomal proteins. 80S ribosome and polysome association was independently confirmed and was not dependent upon interaction with eIF4E, as mutated forms of both Caf20p and Eap1p with disrupted eIF4E-binding motifs retain ribosome interaction. Whole-cell proteomics revealed Caf20p mutations cause both up and down-regulation of proteins and that many changes were independent of the 4E-binding motif. Investigations into Caf20p mRNA targets by immunoprecipitation followed by RNA sequencing revealed a strong association between Caf20p and mRNAs involved in transcription and cell cycle processes, consistent with observed cell cycle phenotypes of mutant strains. A core set of over 500 Caf20p-interacting mRNAs comprised of both eIF4E-dependent (75%) and eIF4E-independent targets (25%), which differ in sequence attributes. eIF4E-independent mRNAs share a 3' UTR motif. Caf20p binds all tested motif-containing 3' UTRs. Caf20p and the 3'UTR combine to influence ERS1 mRNA polysome association consistent with Caf20p contributing to translational control. Finally ERS1 3'UTR confers Caf20-dependent repression of expression to a heterologous reporter gene. Taken together, these data reveal conserved features of eIF4E-dependent Caf20p mRNA targets and uncover a novel eIF4E-independent mode of Caf20p binding to mRNAs that extends the regulatory role of Caf20p in the mRNA-specific repression of protein synthesis beyond its interaction with eIF4E.
PXD000954	25977788	A repository of assays to quantify 10,000 human proteins by SWATH-MS. 	The Pan-Human Library: A repository of assays to quantify 10 000 proteins by SWATH-MS / SWATH-MS validation data	OpenSWATH, Pan-Human Library, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, SWATH, SWATH-MS, Targeted Proteomics, benchmarking, machine learning, retention time	Mass spectrometry is the method of choice for deep and reliable exploration of the (human) proteome. Targeted mass spectrometry reliably detects and quantifies pre-determined sets of proteins in a complex biological matrix and is used in studies that rely on the quantitatively accurate and reproducible measurement of proteins across multiple samples. It requires the one-time, a priori generation of a specific measurement assay for each targeted protein. SWATH-MS is a mass spectrometric method that combines data-independent acquisition (DIA) and targeted data analysis and vastly extends the throughput of proteins that can be targeted in a sample compared to selected reaction monitoring (SRM). Here we present a compendium of highly specific assays covering more than 10,000 human proteins and enabling their targeted analysis in SWATH-MS datasets acquired from research or clinical specimens. This resource supports the confident detection and quantification of 50.9% of all human proteins annotated by UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and is therefore expected to find wide application in basic and clinical research. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD000953-954) and SWATHAtlas (SAL00016-35).
PXD008284	25979772	Stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture based proteomics reveals differences in protein abundances between spiral and coccoid forms of the gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori. 	Stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture based proteomics reveals differences in protein abundances between spiral and coccoid forms of the gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori	Helicobacter pylori, SILAC	Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a epsilon-proteobacterium that colonizes the stomach of about half of the world's population. Persistent infections have been associated with several gastric diseases. Mainly rod- or spiral shaped but also coccoid H. pylori forms have been isolated from mucus layer biopsies of patients. It is still being debated whether the coccoid form can be transformed back into the spiral form or whether this morphology is a result of bacterial cell death or persistence. We established stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) for quantitative proteomics of H. pylori and applied it to investigate differences between the spiral and the coccoid morphology. We detected 72% and were able to relatively quantify 47% of the H. pylori proteome. Proteins involved in cell division and transcriptional and translational processes showed a lower abundance in coccoid cells. Additionally, proteins related to host colonization, including CagA, the arginase RocF, and the TNF-alpha inducing protein were down-regulated. The fact that outer membrane proteins were observed at higher abundances might represent a mechanism for immune evasion but also preserves adherence to host cells. The established protocol for relative protein quantification of H. pylori samples offers new possibilities for research on H. pylori. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Our study shows that SILAC can be employed to study protein abundance changes in H. pylori. We have chosen to establish SILAC for H. pylori because it facilitates fractionation on both, protein and peptide level and thus enables deep proteome coverage. Furthermore, SILAC allows robust and highly accurate protein quantification. The manuscript includes a detailed description of the applied method, suggestions for further improvement as well as a practical application. The investigation of differences between the coccoid and infectious spiral morphology of H. pylori with SILAC revealed the regulation of proteins that are involved in host colonization, motility, cell division as well as transcriptional and translational processes. The data will help molecular biologist to focus on relevant pathways that were found to be regulated in response to morphological changes. Furthermore, the application of SILAC offers new possibilities to study the biology of H. pylori. It enables to monitor protein abundance changes in response to certain stimuli such as oxygen stress or antibiotics. Moreover, SILAC raises the possibility to study co-cultures of host cells and H. pylori on protein level. Additionally, pulsed SILAC experiments enable the quantification of protein turnover.
PXD001964	25982383	Quantitative time-course proteome analysis of Mesorhizobium loti during nodule maturation. 	Mesorhizobium loti proteomics .	Proteomics of Mesorhizobium loti bacteroid	Rhizobia are nitrogen-fixing bacteria that establish a symbiotic relationship with leguminous plants. To understand the mechanism by which rhizobia alter their metabolism to establish successful nitrogen-fixing symbiotic relationship with hosts, Lotus japonicus were inoculated with Mesorhizobium loti. Bacteroids were isolated from nodules harvested at 2weeks (the early stage of nodule development), and at 3 and 4weeks (the intermediate stage of nodule development) post-inoculation. Using a quantitative time-course proteome analysis, we quantified the variations in the production of 537 proteins in M. loti bacteroids during the course of nodule maturation. The results revealed significant changes in the carbon and amino acid metabolisms by M. loti upon differentiating into bacteroids. Furthermore, our findings suggested that M. loti enters a nitrogen-deficient condition during the early stages of nodule development, and then a nitrogen-rich condition during the intermediate stages of nodule development. In addition, our data indicated that M. loti assimilated ammonia during the intermediate stages of nodule development. Our results provide new insights into the course of physiological transitions undergone by M. loti during nodule maturation.
PXD001908	25989903	The fission yeast MTREC complex targets CUTs and unspliced pre-mRNAs to the nuclear exosome. 	The fission yeast MTREC complex targets CUTs and unspliced mRNAs to the nuclear exosome	CUTs, MTREC, RNA decay, RNA surveillance, TRAMP, ncRNA, splicing	Cryptic unstable transcripts (CUTs) are rapidly degraded by the nuclear exosome. However, the mechanism by which they are recognized and targeted to the exosome is not fully understood. Here we report that the MTREC complex, which has recently been shown to promote degradation of meiotic mRNAs and regulatory ncRNAs, is also the major nuclear exosome targeting complex for CUTs and unspliced pre-mRNAs in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The MTREC complex specifically binds to CUTs, meiotic mRNAs and unspliced pre-mRNA transcripts and targets these RNAs for degradation by the nuclear exosome, while the TRAMP complex has only a minor role in this process. The MTREC complex physically interacts with the nuclear exosome and with various RNA-binding and RNA-processing complexes, coupling RNA processing to the RNA degradation machinery. Our study reveals the central role of the evolutionarily conserved MTREC complex in RNA quality control, and in the recognition and elimination of CUTs.
PXD002023	25990959	The catalytic activity of the kinase ZAP-70 mediates basal signaling and negative feedback of the T cell receptor pathway. 	The catalytic activity of the kinase Zap-70 mediates basal signaling and negative feedback of the T cell receptor pathway	T cell, phosphoproteomics	T cell activation by antigens binding to the T cell receptor (TCR) must be properly regulated to ensure normal T cell development and effective immune responses to pathogens and transformed cells while avoiding autoimmunity. The Src family kinase Lck and the Syk family kinase ZAP-70 (zeta chain-associated protein kinase of 70 kD) are sequentially activated in response to TCR engagement and serve as critical components of the TCR signaling machinery that leads to T cell activation. We performed a mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomic study comparing the quantitative differences in the temporal dynamics of phosphorylation in stimulated and unstimulated T cells with or without inhibition of ZAP-70 catalytic activity. The data indicated that the kinase activity of ZAP-70 stimulates negative feedback pathways that target Lck and thereby modulate the phosphorylation patterns of the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAMs) of the CD3 and zeta chain components of the TCR and of signaling molecules downstream of Lck, including ZAP-70. We developed a computational model that provides a mechanistic explanation for the experimental findings on ITAM phosphorylation in wild-type cells, ZAP-70-deficient cells, and cells with inhibited ZAP-70 catalytic activity. This model incorporated negative feedback regulation of Lck activity by the kinase activity of ZAP-70 and predicted the order in which tyrosines in the ITAMs of TCR zeta chains must be phosphorylated to be consistent with the experimental data.
PXD002031	26026062	The Tec Kinase-Regulated Phosphoproteome Reveals a Mechanism for the Regulation of Inhibitory Signals in Murine Macrophages. 	Tec kinase deficiency in macrophages	Tec kinase macrophage	Previous work has shown conflicting roles for Tec family kinases in regulation of TLR-dependent signaling in myeloid cells. In the present study, we performed a detailed investigation of the role of the Tec kinases Btk and Tec kinases in regulating TLR signaling in several types of primary murine macrophages. We demonstrate that primary resident peritoneal macrophages deficient for Btk and Tec secrete less proinflammatory cytokines in response to TLR stimulation than do wild-type cells. In contrast, we found that bone marrow-derived and thioglycollate-elicited peritoneal macrophages deficient for Btk and Tec secrete more proinflammatory cytokines than do wild-type cells. We then compared the phosphoproteome regulated by Tec kinases and LPS in primary peritoneal and bone marrow-derived macrophages. From this analysis we determined that Tec kinases regulate different signaling programs in these cell types. In additional studies using bone marrow-derived macrophages, we found that Tec and Btk promote phosphorylation events necessary for immunoreceptor-mediated inhibition of TLR signaling. Taken together, our results are consistent with a model where Tec kinases (Btk, Tec, Bmx) are required for TLR-dependent signaling in many types of myeloid cells. However, our data also support a cell type-specific TLR inhibitory role for Btk and Tec that is mediated by immunoreceptor activation and signaling via PI3K.
PXD002079	26029660	Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Cell-Based Resistance to BRAF Inhibitor Therapy in Melanoma. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of cell-based resistance to BRAF inhibitor therapy in melanoma	BRAF, Drug resistance, Kinases, Label free quantitation, Phosphoproteomics	The treatment of melanoma by targeted inhibition of the mutated kinase BRAF with small molecules only temporarily suppresses metastatic disease. In the face of chemical inhibition tumor plasticity, both innate and adaptive, promotes survival through the biochemical and genetic reconfiguration of cellular pathways that can engage proliferative and migratory systems. To investigate this process, high-resolution mass spectrometry was used to characterize the phosphoproteome of this transition in vitro. A simple and accurate, label-free quantitative method was used to localize and quantitate thousands of phosphorylation events. We also correlated changes in the phosphoproteome with the proteome to more accurately determine changes in the activity of regulatory kinases determined by kinase landscape profiling. The abundance of phosphopeptides with sites that function in cytoskeletal regulation, GTP/GDP exchange, protein kinase C, IGF signaling, and melanosome maturation were highly divergent after transition to a drug resistant phenotype.
PXD000927	26032504	Ablation of Dicer leads to widespread perturbation of signaling pathways. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of liver of Dicer knockout mice	Dicer, miRNA, phosphotyrosine, signaling pathways	Dicer is an essential ribonuclease involved in the biogenesis of miRNAs. Previous studies have reported downregulation of Dicer in multiple cancers including hepatocellular carcinoma. To identify signaling pathways that are altered upon Dicer depletion, we carried out quantitative phosphotyrosine profiling of liver tissue from Dicer knockout mice. We employed antibody-based enrichment of phosphotyrosine containing peptides coupled with SILAC spike-in approach for quantitation. High resolution mass spectrometry-based analysis identified 349 phosphotyrosine peptides corresponding to 306 unique phosphosites of which 75 were hyperphosphorylated and 78 were hypophosphorylated. Several receptor tyrosine kinases including MET, PDGF receptor alpha, Insulin-like growth factor 1 and Insulin receptor as well as non-receptor tyrosine kinases such as Src family kinases were found to be hyperphosphorylated upon depletion of Dicer. In addition, signaling molecules such as IRS-2 and STAT3 were hyperphosphorylated. Activation of these signaling pathways has been implicated previously in various types of cancers. Interestingly, we observed hypophosphorylation of molecules including focal adhesion kinase and paxillin. Our study profiles the perturbed signaling pathways in response to dysregulated miRNAs resulting from depletion of Dicer. Our findings warrant further studies to investigate oncogenic effects of downregulation of Dicer in cancers.
PXD001774	26035336	Proteomic Analysis of Phosphoproteins in the Rice Nucleus During the Early Stage of Seed Germination. 	Proteomic Analysis to Reveal the Role of Phosphoproteins in Rice Nucleus during Early Stage of Germination	germination phosphonetwork, nucleus, phosphoproteomics, rice	The early stage of seed germination is the first step in the plant life cycle without visible morphological change. To investigate the mechanism controlling the early stage of rice seed germination, we performed gel-and label-free nuclear phosphoproteomics. A total of 3467 phosphopeptides belonging to 102 nuclear phosphoproteins from rice embryos were identified. Protein-synthesis-related proteins were mainly phosphorylated. During the first 24 h following imbibition, 115 nuclear phosphoproteins were identified, and significant changes in the phosphorylation level over time were observed in 29 phosphoproteins. Cluster analysis indicated that nucleotide-binding proteins and zinc finger CCCH- and BED-type proteins increased in abundance during the first 12 h of imbibition and then decreased. The in silico protein-protein interactions for 29 nuclear phosphoproteins indicated that the Sas10/Utp3 protein, which functions in snoRNA binding and gene silencing, was the center of the phosphoprotein network in nuclei. The germination rate of seeds was significantly slowed with phosphatase inhibitor treatment. The mRNA expression of the zinc finger CCCH-type protein did not change, and the zinc finger BED-type protein was upregulated in rice embryos during the early stage of germination with phosphatase inhibitor treatment. These results suggest that the phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of nuclear proteins are involved in rice seed germination. Furthermore, transcription factors such as zinc finger CCCH- and BED-type proteins might play a key role through nuclear phosphoproteins, and Sas10/Utp3 protein might interact with nuclear phosphoproteins in rice embryos to mediate the early stage of seed germination.
PXD002022	26043137	Vav1 Regulates T-Cell Activation through a Feedback Mechanism and Crosstalk between the T-Cell Receptor and CD28. 	Vav1 regulates T cell activation through a feedback mechanism and crosstalk between the T cell receptor and CD28 in CD3-stimulated T cells	T cell receptor, Vav1, tyrosine phosphorylaiton	Vav1, a Rac/Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor and a critical component of the T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling cascade is tyrosine phosphorylated rapidly in response to T-cell activation. Vav1 has established roles in proliferation, cytokine secretion, Ca(2+) responses, and actin cytoskeleton regulation; however, its function in the regulation of phosphorylation of TCR components, including the zeta chain, the CD3 delta, epsilon, gamma chains, and the associated kinases Lck and ZAP-70, is not well established. To obtain a more comprehensive picture of the role of Vav1 in receptor proximal signaling, we performed a wide-scale characterization of Vav1-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation events using quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of Vav1-deficient T cells across a time course of TCR stimulation. Importantly, this study revealed a new function for Vav1 in the negative feedback regulation of the phosphorylation of immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs within the zeta chains, CD3 delta, epsilon, gamma chains, as well as activation sites on the critical T cell tyrosine kinases Itk, Lck, and ZAP-70. Our study also uncovered a previously unappreciated role for Vav1 in crosstalk between the CD28 and TCR signaling pathways.
PXD002227	26047021	An effective plasma membrane proteomics approach for small tissue samples. 	An effective plasma membrane proteomics approach for small tissue samples	Acute slice biotinylation assay, Orbitrap Velos, Shotgun proteomics, affinity-purification, membrane proteomics, mice	Advancing the quest for new drug targets demands the development of innovative plasma membrane proteome research strategies applicable to small, functionally defined tissue samples. Biotinylation of acute tissue slices and streptavidin pull-down followed by shotgun proteomics allowed the selective extraction and identification of >1,600 proteins of which >60% are associated with the plasma membrane, including (G-protein coupled) receptors, ion channels and transporters, and this from mm(3)-scale tissue.
PXD003461	26051182	The Unfolded Protein Response Triggers Site-Specific Regulatory Ubiquitylation of 40S Ribosomal Proteins. 		protein ubiquitylation	Insults to ER homeostasis activate the unfolded protein response (UPR), which elevates protein folding and degradation capacity and attenuates protein synthesis. While a role for ubiquitin in regulating the degradation of misfolded ER-resident proteins is well described, ubiquitin-dependent regulation of translational reprogramming during the UPR remains uncharacterized. Using global quantitative ubiquitin proteomics, we identify evolutionarily conserved, site-specific regulatory ubiquitylation of 40S ribosomal proteins. We demonstrate that these events occur on assembled cytoplasmic ribosomes and are stimulated by both UPR activation and translation inhibition. We further show that ER stress-stimulated regulatory 40S ribosomal ubiquitylation occurs on a timescale similar to eIF2alpha phosphorylation, is dependent upon PERK signaling, and is required for optimal cell survival during chronic UPR activation. In total, these results reveal regulatory 40S ribosomal ubiquitylation as an important facet of eukaryotic translational control.
PXD001676	26054784	Quantitative proteomic analysis of paired colorectal cancer and non-tumorigenic tissues reveals signature proteins and perturbed pathways involved in CRC progression and metastasis. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of paired colorectal cancer and non-tumorigenic tissues reveal proteins and pathways perturbed in colorectal cancer	Colorectal Cancer, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP), mass spectrometery	Modern proteomics has proven instrumental in our understanding of the molecular deregulations associated with the development and progression of cancer. Herein, we profile membrane-enriched proteome of tumor and adjacent normal tissues from eight CRC patients using label-free nanoLC-MS/MS-based quantitative proteomics and advanced pathway analysis. Of the 948 identified proteins, 184 proteins were differentially expressed (P<0.05, fold change>1.5) between the tumor and non-tumor tissue (69 up-regulated and 115 down-regulated in tumor tissues). The CRC tumor and non-tumor tissues clustered tightly in separate groups using hierarchical cluster analysis of the differentially expressed proteins, indicating a strong CRC-association of this proteome subset. Specifically, cancer associated proteins such as FN1, TNC, DEFA1, ITGB2, MLEC, CDH17, EZR and pathways including actin cytoskeleton and RhoGDI signaling were deregulated. Stage-specific proteome signatures were identified including up-regulated ribosomal proteins and down-regulated annexin proteins in early stage CRC. Finally, EGFR(+) CRC tissues showed an EGFR-dependent down-regulation of cell adhesion molecules, relative to EGFR(-) tissues. Taken together, this study provides a detailed map of the altered proteome and associated protein pathways in CRC, which enhances our mechanistic understanding of CRC biology and opens avenues for a knowledge-driven search for candidate CRC protein markers.
PXD003151	26058579	Metaproteomic analysis using the Galaxy framework. 	Protein expression patterns associated with sucrose-induced dysbiosis are conserved across taxonomically diverse oral microcosm biofilm models of dental caries.	Dental caries, Dysbiosis, Galaxy-P, Metaproteomics, Oral Microbiome	Metaproteomics characterizes proteins expressed by microorganism communities (microbiome) present in environmental samples or a host organism (e.g. human), revealing insights into the molecular functions conferred by these communities. Compared to conventional proteomics, metaproteomics presents unique data analysis challenges, including the use of large protein databases derived from hundreds or thousands of organisms, as well as numerous processing steps to ensure high data quality. These challenges limit the use of metaproteomics for many researchers. In response, we have developed an accessible and flexible metaproteomics workflow within the Galaxy bioinformatics framework. Via analysis of human oral tissue exudate samples, we have established a modular Galaxy-based workflow that automates a reduction method for searching large sequence databases, enabling comprehensive identification of host proteins (human) as well as "meta-proteins" from the nonhost organisms. Downstream, automated processing steps enable basic local alignment search tool analysis and evaluation/visualization of peptide sequence match quality, maximizing confidence in results. Outputted results are compatible with tools for taxonomic and functional characterization (e.g. Unipept, MEGAN5). Galaxy also allows for the sharing of complete workflows with others, promoting reproducibility and also providing a template for further modification and enhancement. Our results provide a blueprint for establishing Galaxy as a solution for metaproteomic data analysis. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001655 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD001655).
PXD001841	26058898	Telomere protein Rap1 is a charge resistant scaffolding protein in chromosomal bouquet formation. 	Phosphorylation of S.pombe Rap1 analysed by LC-MS/MS	Rap1, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, phosphorylation	BACKGROUND: Chromosomes reorganize in early meiotic prophase to form the so-called telomere bouquet. In fission yeast, telomeres localize to the nuclear periphery via interaction of the telomeric protein Rap1 with the membrane protein Bqt4. During meiotic prophase, the meiotic proteins Bqt1-2 bind Rap1 and tether to the spindle pole body to form the bouquet. Although it is known that this polarized chromosomal arrangement plays a crucial role in meiotic progression, the molecular mechanisms of telomere bouquet regulation are poorly understood. RESULTS: Here, we detected high levels of Rap1 phospho-modification throughout meiotic prophase, and identified a maximum of 35 phosphorylation sites. Concomitant phosphomimetic mutation of the modification sites suggests that Rap1 hyper-phosphorylation does not directly regulate telomere bouquet formation or dissociation. Despite the negative charge conferred by its highly phosphorylated state, Rap1 maintains interactions with its binding partners. Interestingly, mutations that change the charge of negatively charged residues within the Bqt1-2 binding site of Rap1 abolished the affinity to the Bqt1-2 complex, suggesting that the intrinsic negative charge of Rap1 is crucial for telomere bouquet formation. CONCLUSIONS: Whereas Rap1 hyper-phosphorylation observed in meiotic prophase does not have an apparent role in bouquet formation, the intrinsic negative charge of Rap1 is important for forming interactions with its binding partners. Thus, Rap1 is able to retain bouquet formation under heavily phosphorylated status.
PXD001798	26073453	System-wide identification of wild-type SUMO-2 conjugation sites. 	System-Wide Identification of Wild-Type SUMO-2 Conjugation Sites	Endogenous, SUMO, SUMO-2, Site, System-wide, Wild-type	SUMOylation is a reversible post-translational modification (PTM) regulating all nuclear processes. Identification of SUMOylation sites by mass spectrometry (MS) has been hampered by bulky tryptic fragments, which thus far necessitated the use of mutated SUMO. Here we present a SUMO-specific protease-based methodology which circumvents this problem, dubbed Protease-Reliant Identification of SUMO Modification (PRISM). PRISM allows for detection of SUMOylated proteins as well as identification of specific sites of SUMOylation while using wild-type SUMO. The method is generic and could be widely applied to study lysine PTMs. We employ PRISM in combination with high-resolution MS to identify SUMOylation sites from HeLa cells under standard growth conditions and in response to heat shock. We identified 751 wild-type SUMOylation sites on endogenous proteins, including 200 dynamic SUMO sites in response to heat shock. Thus, we have developed a method capable of quantitatively studying wild-type mammalian SUMO at the site-specific and system-wide level.
PXD001468	26076430	A mass-tolerant database search identifies a large proportion of unassigned spectra in shotgun proteomics as modified peptides. 	A mass-tolerant database search identifies a large proportion of unassigned spectra in shotgun proteomics as modified peptides	Large scale, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, Sequest, benchmarking, immunopeptidomics, machine learning, modifications	Fewer than half of all tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) spectra acquired in shotgun proteomics experiments are typically matched to a peptide with high confidence. Here we determine the identity of unassigned peptides using an ultra-tolerant Sequest database search that allows peptide matching even with modifications of unknown masses up to +/- 500 Da. In a proteome-wide data set on HEK293 cells (9,513 proteins and 396,736 peptides), this approach matched an additional 184,000 modified peptides, which were linked to biological and chemical modifications representing 523 distinct mass bins, including phosphorylation, glycosylation and methylation. We localized all unknown modification masses to specific regions within a peptide. Known modifications were assigned to the correct amino acids with frequencies >90%. We conclude that at least one-third of unassigned spectra arise from peptides with substoichiometric modifications.
PXD002151	26081071	Yeast proteins Gar1p, Nop1p, Npl3p, Nsr1p, and Rps2p are natively methylated and are substrates of the arginine methyltransferase Hmt1p. 	Yeast methylarginine peptide IPS	arginine, methylation	The Hmt1 methyltransferase is the predominant arginine methyltransferase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. There are 18 substrate proteins described for this methyltransferase, however native sites of methylation have only been identified on two of these proteins. Here we used peptide immunoaffinity enrichment, followed by LC-ETD-MS/MS, to discover 21 native sites of arginine methylation on five putative Hmt1 substrate proteins, namely Gar1p (H/ACA ribonucleoprotein complex subunit 1), Nop1p (rRNA 2'-O-methyltransferase fibrillarin), Npl3p (nucleolar protein 3), Nsr1p (nuclear localization sequence-binding protein), and Rps2p (40S ribosomal protein S2). The sites, many of which were found to be mono- or di-methylated, were predominantly found in RGG (Arg-Gly-Gly) motifs. Heavy methyl-SILAC validated the majority of these peptides. The above proteins, and relevant sites of methylation, were subsequently validated by in vitro methylation with recombinant Hmt1. This brings the total of Hmt1 substrate proteins for which native methylation sites have been identified to five.
PXD001839	26084806	Vinculin network-mediated cytoskeletal remodeling regulates contractile function in the aging heart. 	Vinculin-network mediated cytoskeletal remodeling regulates contractile function in the aging heart - Rat Data	Cytoskeleton, Drosophila melanogaster, Macacca mulatta, Rattus norvegicus, biomarkers, stiffness	The human heart is capable of functioning for decades despite minimal cell turnover or regeneration, suggesting that molecular alterations help sustain heart function with age. However, identification of compensatory remodeling events in the aging heart remains elusive. We present the cardiac proteomes of young and old rhesus monkeys and rats, from which we show that certain age-associated remodeling events within the cardiomyocyte cytoskeleton are highly conserved and beneficial rather than deleterious. Targeted transcriptomic analysis in Drosophila confirmed conservation and implicated vinculin as a unique molecular regulator of cardiac function during aging. Cardiac-restricted vinculin overexpression reinforced the cortical cytoskeleton and enhanced myofilament organization, leading to improved contractility and hemodynamic stress tolerance in healthy and myosin-deficient fly hearts. Moreover, cardiac-specific vinculin overexpression increased median life span by more than 150% in flies. A broad array of potential therapeutic targets and regulators of age-associated modifications, specifically for vinculin, are presented. These findings suggest that the heart has molecular mechanisms to sustain performance and promote longevity, which may be assisted by therapeutic intervention to ameliorate the decline of function in aging patient hearts.
PXD001425	26086942	Plasma Glycoproteomics Reveals Sepsis Outcomes Linked to Distinct Proteins in Common Pathways. 	Sepsis related glycopeptides -  Plasma Glycoproteomics Reveals Sepsis Outcomes Linked to Distinct Proteins in Common Pathways	Coagulation, Extracellular glycoproteins	OBJECTIVE: Sepsis remains a predominant cause of mortality in the ICU, yet strategies to increase survival have proved largely unsuccessful. This study aimed to identify proteins linked to sepsis outcomes using a glycoproteomic approach to target extracellular proteins that trigger downstream pathways and direct patient outcomes. DESIGN: Plasma was obtained from the Lactate Assessment in the Treatment of Early Sepsis cohort. N-linked plasma glycopeptides were quantified by solid-phase extraction coupled with mass spectrometry. Glycopeptides were assigned to proteins using RefSeq (National Center of Biotechnology Information, Bethesda, MD) and visualized in a heat map. Protein differences were validated by immunoblotting, and proteins were mapped for biological processes using Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health; Bethesda, MD) and for functional pathways using Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (Kanehisa Laboratories, Kyoto, Japan) databases. SETTING: Hospitalized care. PATIENTS: Patients admitted to the emergency department were enrolled in the study when the diagnosis of sepsis was made, within 6 hours of presentation. INTERVENTIONS: None. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: A total of 501 glycopeptides corresponding to 234 proteins were identified. Of these, 66 glycopeptides were unique to the survivor group and corresponded to 54 proteins, 60 were unique to the nonsurvivor group and corresponded to 43 proteins, and 375 were common responses between groups and corresponded to 137 proteins. Immunoblotting showed that nonsurvivors had increased total kininogen; decreased total cathepsin-L1, vascular cell adhesion molecule, periostin, and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin; and a two-fold decrease in glycosylated clusterin (all p < 0.05). Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis identified six enriched pathways. Interestingly, survivors relied on the extrinsic pathway of the complement and coagulation cascade, whereas nonsurvivors relied on the intrinsic pathway. CONCLUSION: This study identifies proteins linked to patient outcomes and provides insight into unexplored mechanisms that can be investigated for the identification of novel therapeutic targets.
PXD001439	26092463	New Insight into Microbial Iron Oxidation as Revealed by the Proteomic Profile of an Obligate Iron-Oxidizing Chemolithoautotroph. 	Mariprofundus ferrooxydans proteomic profile - membrane	iron oxidation autotrophic neutrophilic zetaproteobacteria	Microaerophilic, neutrophilic, iron-oxidizing bacteria (FeOB) grow via the oxidation of reduced Fe(II) at or near neutral pH, in the presence of oxygen, making them relevant in numerous environments with elevated Fe(II) concentrations. However, the biochemical mechanisms for Fe(II) oxidation by these neutrophilic FeOB are unknown, and genetic markers for this process are unavailable. In the ocean, microaerophilic microorganisms in the genus Mariprofundus of the class Zetaproteobacteria are the only organisms known to chemolithoautotrophically oxidize Fe and concurrently biomineralize it in the form of twisted stalks of iron oxyhydroxides. The aim of this study was to identify highly expressed proteins associated with the electron transport chain of microaerophilic, neutrophilic FeOB. To this end, Mariprofundus ferrooxydans PV-1 was cultivated, and its proteins were extracted, assayed for redox activity, and analyzed via liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry for identification of peptides. The results indicate that a cytochrome c4, cbb3-type cytochrome oxidase subunits, and an outer membrane cytochrome c were among the most highly expressed proteins and suggest an involvement in the process of aerobic, neutrophilic bacterial Fe oxidation. Proteins associated with alternative complex III, phosphate transport, carbon fixation, and biofilm formation were abundant, consistent with the lifestyle of Mariprofundus.
PXD002195	26095360	Fasting, but Not Aging, Dramatically Alters the Redox Status of Cysteine Residues on Proteins in Drosophila melanogaster. 	Fly Stress -  Fasting, but Not Aging, Dramatically Alters the Redox Status of Cysteine Residues on Proteins in Drosophila melanogaster	Drosophila, ROS, aging, starvation	Altering the redox state of cysteine residues on protein surfaces is an important response to environmental challenges. Although aging and fasting alter many redox processes, the role of cysteine residues is uncertain. To address this, we used a redox proteomic technique, oxidative isotope-coded affinity tags (OxICAT), to assess cysteine-residue redox changes in Drosophila melanogaster during aging and fasting. This approach enabled us to simultaneously identify and quantify the redox state of several hundred cysteine residues in vivo. Cysteine residues within young flies had a bimodal distribution with peaks at ~10% and ~85% reversibly oxidized. Surprisingly, these cysteine residues did not become more oxidized with age. In contrast, 24 hr of fasting dramatically oxidized cysteine residues that were reduced under fed conditions while also reducing cysteine residues that were initially oxidized. We conclude that fasting, but not aging, dramatically alters cysteine-residue redox status in D. melanogaster.
PXD002076	26095918	A piRNA-like small RNA interacts with and modulates p-ERM proteins in human somatic cells. 	A piRNA like small RNA interacts with and modulates p-ERM proteins in human somatic cells	pull-down	PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) are thought to silence transposon and gene expression during development. However, the roles of piRNAs in somatic tissues are largely unknown. Here we report the identification of 555 piRNAs in human lung bronchial epithelial (HBE) and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines, including 295 that do not exist in databases termed as piRNA-like sncRNAs or piRNA-Ls. Distinctive piRNA/piRNA-L expression patterns are observed between HBE and NSCLC cells. piRNA-like-163 (piR-L-163), the top downregulated piRNA-L in NSCLC cells, binds directly to phosphorylated ERM proteins (p-ERM), which is dependent on the central part of UUNNUUUNNUU motif in piR-L-163 and the RRRKPDT element in ERM. The piR-L-163/p-ERM interaction is critical for p-ERM's binding capability to filamentous actin (F-actin) and ERM-binding phosphoprotein 50 (EBP50). Thus, piRNA/piRNA-L may play a regulatory role through direct interaction with proteins in physiological and pathophysiological conditions.
PXD002269	26113366	Parasite-induced ER stress response in hepatocytes facilitates Plasmodium liver stage infection. 	ER stress response in hepatocytes upon Plasmodium infection	HuH7 plasmodium infection	Upon infection of a mammalian host, Plasmodium parasites first replicate inside hepatocytes, generating thousands of new parasites. Although Plasmodium intra-hepatic development represents a substantial metabolic challenge to the host hepatocyte, how infected cells respond to and integrate this stress remains poorly understood. Here, we present proteomic and transcriptomic analyses, revealing that the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident unfolded protein response (UPR) is activated in host hepatocytes upon Plasmodium berghei infection. The expression of XBP1s--the active form of the UPR mediator XBP1--and the liver-specific UPR mediator CREBH is induced by P. berghei infection in vivo. Furthermore, this UPR induction increases parasite liver burden. Altogether, our data suggest that ER stress is a central feature of P. berghei intra-hepatic development, contributing to the success of infection.
PXD002067	26124766	Using 7 cm immobilized pH gradient strips to determine levels of clinically relevant proteins in wheat grain extracts. 	Wheat Allergens MALDI-TOF/TOF -  Using 7 cm immobilized pH gradient strips to determine levels of clinically relevant proteins in wheat grain extracts	MALDI-TOF/TOF, Triticum aestivum, allergen, gel-based quantification, grain	The aim of the work was to test a relatively simple proteomics approach based on phenol extraction and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) with 7 cm immobilized pH gradient strips for the determination of clinically relevant proteins in wheat grain. Using this approach, 157 2-DE spots were quantified in biological triplicate, out of which 55 were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization - time of flight tandem mass spectrometry. Clinically relevant proteins associated with celiac disease, wheat dependent exercise induced anaphylaxis, baker's asthma, and food allergy, were detected in 24 2-DE spots. However, alcohol-soluble gliadins were not detected with this approach. The comparison with a recent quantitative study suggested that gel-based and gel-free proteomics approaches are complementary for the detection and quantification of clinically relevant proteins in wheat grain.
PXD002100	26131905	iTRAQ-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of the Initiation of Head Regeneration in Planarians. 	iTRAQ-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of the Initiation of Head Regeneration in Planarians	Planarian, Regenerating head fragments, iTRAQ	The planarian Dugesia japonica has amazing ability to regenerate a head from the anterior ends of the amputated stump with maintenance of the original anterior-posterior polarity. Although planarians present an attractive system for molecular investigation of regeneration and research has focused on clarifying the molecular mechanism of regeneration initiation in planarians at transcriptional level, but the initiation mechanism of planarian head regeneration (PHR) remains unclear at the protein level. Here, a global analysis of proteome dynamics during the early stage of PHR was performed using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based quantitative proteomics strategy, and our data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002100. The results showed that 162 proteins were differentially expressed at 2 h and 6 h following amputation. Furthermore, the analysis of expression patterns and functional enrichment of the differentially expressed proteins showed that proteins involved in muscle contraction, oxidation reduction and protein synthesis were up-regulated in the initiation of PHR. Moreover, ingenuity pathway analysis showed that predominant signaling pathways such as ILK, calcium, EIF2 and mTOR signaling which were associated with cell migration, cell proliferation and protein synthesis were likely to be involved in the initiation of PHR. The results for the first time demonstrated that muscle contraction and ILK signaling might played important roles in the initiation of PHR at the global protein level. The findings of this research provide a molecular basis for further unraveling the mechanism of head regeneration initiation in planarians.
PXD002218	26136760	Cytological and proteomic analyses of horsetail (Equisetum arvense L.) spore germination. 	Cytological and proteomic analyses of horsetail (Equisetum arvense) spore germination	Equisetum arvense L., Spore germination, fern, polar growth, single cell	Spermatophyte pollen tubes and root hairs have been used as single-cell-type model systems to understand the molecular processes underlying polar growth of plant cells. Horsetail (Equisetum arvense L.) is a perennial herb species in Equisetopsida, which creates separately growing spring and summer stems in its life cycle. The mature chlorophyllous spores produced from spring stems can germinate without dormancy. Here we report the cellular features and protein expression patterns in five stages of horsetail spore germination (mature spores, rehydrated spores, double-celled spores, germinated spores, and spores with protonemal cells). Using 2-DE combined with mass spectrometry, 80 proteins were found to be abundance changed upon spore germination. Among them, proteins involved in photosynthesis, protein turnover, and energy supply were over-represented. Thirteen proteins appeared as proteoforms on the gels, indicating the potential importance of post-translational modification. In addition, the dynamic changes of ascorbate peroxidase, peroxiredoxin, and dehydroascorbate reductase implied that reactive oxygen species homeostasis is critical in regulating cell division and tip-growth. The time course of germination and diverse expression patterns of proteins in photosynthesis, energy supply, lipid and amino acid metabolism indicated that heterotrophic and autotrophic metabolism were necessary in light-dependent germination of the spores. Twenty-six proteins were involved in protein synthesis, folding, and degradation, indicating that protein turnover is vital to spore germination and rhizoid tip-growth. Furthermore, the altered abundance of 14-3-3 protein, small G protein Ran, actin, and caffeoyl-CoA O-methyltransferase revealed that signaling transduction, vesicle trafficking, cytoskeleton dynamics, and cell wall modulation were critical to cell division and polar growth. These findings lay a foundation toward understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying fern spore asymmetric division and rhizoid polar growth.
PXD035324	26138685	The antigenic landscape of multiple myeloma: mass spectrometry (re)defines targets for T-cell-based immunotherapy. 	The antigenic landscape of multiple myeloma: mass spectrometry (re)defines targets for T-cell-based immunotherapy	antigens, human leukocyte antigens, immunotherapy, ligands, multiple myeloma, peptides, t-lymphocytes	Direct analysis of HLA-presented antigens by mass spectrometry provides a comprehensive view on the antigenic landscape of different tissues/malignancies and enables the identification of novel, pathophysiologically relevant T-cell epitopes. Here, we present a systematic and comparative study of the HLA class I and II presented, nonmutant antigenome of multiple myeloma (MM). Quantification of HLA surface expression revealed elevated HLA molecule counts on malignant plasma cells compared with normal B cells, excluding relevant HLA downregulation in MM. Analyzing the presentation of established myeloma-associated T-cell antigens on the HLA ligandome level, we found a substantial proportion of antigens to be only infrequently presented on primary myelomas or to display suboptimal degrees of myeloma specificity. However, unsupervised analysis of our extensive HLA ligand data set delineated a panel of 58 highly specific myeloma-associated antigens (including multiple myeloma SET domain containing protein) which are characterized by frequent and exclusive presentation on myeloma samples. Functional characterization of these target antigens revealed peptide-specific, preexisting CD8(+) T-cell responses exclusively in myeloma patients, which is indicative of pathophysiological relevance. Furthermore, in vitro priming experiments revealed that peptide-specific T-cell responses can be induced in response-naive myeloma patients. Together, our results serve to guide antigen selection for T-cell-based immunotherapy of MM.
PXD002205	26142280	Phosphorylation of ubiquitin at Ser65 affects its polymerization, targets, and proteome-wide turnover. 	Ubiquitin S65 proteomics:  Protein turnover analysis	orbitrap, phosphorylation, ubiquitin	Ubiquitylation is an essential post-translational modification that regulates numerous cellular processes, most notably protein degradation. Ubiquitin can itself be phosphorylated at nearly every serine, threonine, and tyrosine residue. However, the effect of this modification on ubiquitin function is largely unknown. Here, we characterized the effects of phosphorylation of yeast ubiquitin at serine 65 in vivo and in vitro. We find this post-translational modification to be regulated under oxidative stress, occurring concomitantly with the restructuring of the ubiquitin landscape into a highly polymeric state. Phosphomimetic mutation of S65 recapitulates the oxidative stress phenotype, causing a dramatic accumulation of ubiquitylated proteins and a proteome-wide reduction of protein turnover rates. Importantly, this mutation impacts ubiquitin chain disassembly, chain linkage distribution, ubiquitin interactions, and substrate targeting. These results demonstrate that phosphorylation is an additional mode of ubiquitin regulation with broad implications in cellular physiology.
PXD001525	26146184	Molecular Characterization of LubX: Functional Divergence of the U-Box Fold by Legionella pneumophila. 	Molecular Characterization of LubX. AP-MS using Legionella lysate	AP-MS, DITS, LTQ XL, Legionella, LubX, SidH	LubX is part of the large arsenal of effectors in Legionella pneumophila that are translocated into the host cytosol during infection. Despite such unique features as the presence of two U-box motifs and its targeting of another effector SidH, the molecular basis of LubX activity remains poorly understood. Here we show that the N terminus of LubX is able to activate an extended number of ubiquitin-conjugating (E2) enzymes including UBE2W, UBEL6, and all tested members of UBE2D and UBE2E families. Crystal structures of LubX alone and in complex with UBE2D2 revealed drastic molecular diversification between the two U-box domains, with only the N-terminal U-box retaining E2 recognition features typical for its eukaryotic counterparts. Extensive mutagenesis followed by functional screening in a yeast model system captured functionally important LubX residues including Arg121, critical for interactions with SidH. Combined, these data provide a new molecular insight into the function of this unique pathogenic factor.
PXD002266	26149123	Phosphoproteomics reveals malaria parasite Protein Kinase G as a signalling hub regulating egress and invasion. 	Phosphoproteomics reveals malaria parasite Protein Kinase G as a signalling hub regulating egress and invasion	Malaria, Parasite, Protein Kinase G, invasion, phosphorylation, quantitation, signalling, tandem mass tags	Our understanding of the key phosphorylation-dependent signalling pathways in the human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, remains rudimentary. Here we address this issue for the essential cGMP-dependent protein kinase, PfPKG. By employing chemical and genetic tools in combination with quantitative global phosphoproteomics, we identify the phosphorylation sites on 69 proteins that are direct or indirect cellular targets for PfPKG. These PfPKG targets include proteins involved in cell signalling, proteolysis, gene regulation, protein export and ion and protein transport, indicating that cGMP/PfPKG acts as a signalling hub that plays a central role in a number of core parasite processes. We also show that PfPKG activity is required for parasite invasion. This correlates with the finding that the calcium-dependent protein kinase, PfCDPK1, is phosphorylated by PfPKG, as are components of the actomyosin complex, providing mechanistic insight into the essential role of PfPKG in parasite egress and invasion.
PXD002154	26151409	Recessive mutations in POLR1C cause a leukodystrophy by impairing biogenesis of RNA polymerase III. 	Recessive mutations in POLR1C cause a leukodystrophy by impairing biogenesis of RNA polymerase III	Leukodystrophy, POLR1C, RNA polymerase III	A small proportion of 4H (Hypomyelination, Hypodontia and Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism) or RNA polymerase III (POLR3)-related leukodystrophy cases are negative for mutations in the previously identified causative genes POLR3A and POLR3B. Here we report eight of these cases carrying recessive mutations in POLR1C, a gene encoding a shared POLR1 and POLR3 subunit, also mutated in some Treacher Collins syndrome (TCS) cases. Using shotgun proteomics and ChIP sequencing, we demonstrate that leukodystrophy-causative mutations, but not TCS mutations, in POLR1C impair assembly and nuclear import of POLR3, but not POLR1, leading to decreased binding to POLR3 target genes. This study is the first to show that distinct mutations in a gene coding for a shared subunit of two RNA polymerases lead to selective modification of the enzymes' availability leading to two different clinical conditions and to shed some light on the pathophysiological mechanism of one of the most common hypomyelinating leukodystrophies, POLR3-related leukodystrophy.
PXD002168	26158509	Biotin starvation causes mitochondrial protein hyperacetylation and partial rescue by the SIRT3-like deacetylase Hst4p. 	Biotin starvation in yeast -  Biotin starvation causes mitochondrial protein hyperacetylation and partial rescue by the SIRT3-like deacetylase Hst4p	Yeast cells starved for biotin	The essential vitamin biotin is a covalent and tenaciously attached prosthetic group in several carboxylases that play important roles in the regulation of energy metabolism. Here we describe increased acetyl-CoA levels and mitochondrial hyperacetylation as downstream metabolic effects of biotin deficiency. Upregulated mitochondrial acetylation sites correlate with the cellular deficiency of the Hst4p deacetylase, and a biotin-starvation-induced accumulation of Hst4p in mitochondria supports a role for Hst4p in lowering mitochondrial acetylation. We show that biotin starvation and knockout of Hst4p cause alterations in cellular respiration and an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS). These results suggest that Hst4p plays a pivotal role in biotin metabolism and cellular energy homeostasis, and supports that Hst4p is a functional yeast homologue of the sirtuin deacetylase SIRT3. With biotin deficiency being involved in various metabolic disorders, this study provides valuable insight into the metabolic effects biotin exerts on eukaryotic cells.
PXD001958	26160915	COA6 is a mitochondrial complex IV assembly factor critical for biogenesis of mtDNA-encoded COX2. 	HEK293T Coa6 knockout mitochondria	HEK293T, mitochondria	Biogenesis of complex IV of the mitochondrial respiratory chain requires assembly factors for subunit maturation, co-factor attachment and stabilization of intermediate assemblies. A pathogenic mutation in COA6, leading to substitution of a conserved tryptophan for a cysteine residue, results in a loss of complex IV activity and cardiomyopathy. Here, we demonstrate that the complex IV defect correlates with a severe loss in complex IV assembly in patient heart but not fibroblasts. Complete loss of COA6 activity using gene editing in HEK293T cells resulted in a profound growth defect due to complex IV deficiency, caused by impaired biogenesis of the copper-bound mitochondrial DNA-encoded subunit COX2 and subsequent accumulation of complex IV assembly intermediates. We show that the pathogenic mutation in COA6 does not affect its import into mitochondria but impairs its maturation and stability. Furthermore, we show that COA6 has the capacity to bind copper and can associate with newly translated COX2 and the mitochondrial copper chaperone SCO1. Our data reveal that COA6 is intricately involved in the copper-dependent biogenesis of COX2.
PXD001804	26162072	The Goblet Cell Protein Clca1 (Alias mClca3 or Gob-5) Is Not Required for Intestinal Mucus Synthesis, Structure and Barrier Function in Naive or DSS-Challenged Mice. 	Mucus proteome in Clca1-/- -  The Goblet Cell Protein Clca1 (Alias mClca3 or Gob-5) Is Not Required for Intestinal Mucus Synthesis, Structure and Barrier Function in Naive or DSS-Challenged Mice	CLCA1, CLCA3, Colitis, Gob-5, MUC2	The secreted, goblet cell-derived protein Clca1 (chloride channel regulator, calcium-activated-1) has been linked to diseases with mucus overproduction, including asthma and cystic fibrosis. In the intestine Clca1 is found in the mucus with an abundance and expression pattern similar to Muc2, the major structural mucus component. We hypothesized that Clca1 is required for the synthesis, structure or barrier function of intestinal mucus and therefore compared wild type and Clca1-deficient mice under naive and at various time points of DSS (dextran sodium sulfate)-challenged conditions. The mucus phenotype in Clca1-deficient compared to wild type mice was systematically characterized by assessment of the mucus protein composition using proteomics, immunofluorescence and expression analysis of selected mucin genes on mRNA level. Mucus barrier integrity was assessed in-vivo by analysis of bacterial penetration into the mucus and translocation into sentinel organs combined analysis of the fecal microbiota and ex-vivo by assessment of mucus penetrability using beads. All of these assays revealed no relevant differences between wild type and Clca1-deficient mice under steady state or DSS-challenged conditions in mouse colon. Clca1 is not required for mucus synthesis, structure and barrier function in the murine colon.
PXD002235	26167961	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Human Liver Tissue and Isolated Hepatocytes with a Focus on Proteins Determining Drug Exposure. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of human liver tissue and isolated hepatocytes with a focus on proteins determining drug exposure	ADME proteins, FASP, Human liver, human hepatocyte	Freshly isolated human hepatocytes are considered the gold standard for in vitro studies of liver functions, including drug transport, metabolism, and toxicity. For accurate predictions of the in vivo outcome, the isolated hepatocytes should reflect the phenotype of their in vivo counterpart, i.e., hepatocytes in human liver tissue. Here, we quantified and compared the membrane proteomes of freshly isolated hepatocytes and human liver tissue using a label-free shotgun proteomics approach. A total of 5144 unique proteins were identified, spanning over 6 orders of magnitude in abundance. There was a good global correlation in protein abundance. However, the expression of many plasma membrane proteins was lower in the isolated hepatocytes than in the liver tissue. This included transport proteins that determine hepatocyte exposure to many drugs and endogenous compounds. Pathway analysis of the differentially expressed proteins confirmed that hepatocytes are exposed to oxidative stress during isolation and suggested that plasma membrane proteins were degraded via the protein ubiquitination pathway. Finally, using pitavastatin as an example, we show how protein quantifications can improve in vitro predictions of in vivo liver clearance. We tentatively conclude that our data set will be a useful resource for improved hepatocyte predictions of the in vivo outcome.
PXD000673	26179671	Proteomic Insight into Functional Changes of Proteorhodopsin-Containing Bacterial Species Psychroflexus torquis under Different Illumination and Salinity Levels. 	Psychroflexus torquis 1D LC/MS	1D LC/MS, Psychroflexus torquis, proteorhodopsin, salinity, sea ice	The extremely psychrophilic proteorhodopsin-containing bacterial species Psychroflexus torquis is considered to be a model sea-ice microorganism, which has adapted to an epiphytic lifestyle. So far, not much is known about proteorhodopsin-based phototrophy and associated life strategies of sea ice bacteria, although it has been previously shown that P. torquis can gain growth advantage from light using a proteorhodopsin proton pump, the activity of which is influenced by environmental salinity. The comprehensive quantitative proteomic study performed here indicated that P. torquis responds to changing salinity and illumination conditions. Proteins in the electron-transfer chain were down-regulated at a suboptimal salinity level, TonB-dependent transporters increased in abundance under supra-optimal salinity and decreased under suboptimal salinity. In addition, several anaplerotic CO2 fixation proteins and three putative light sensing proteins that contain PAS and GAF domains became more abundant under illumination. Furthermore, central metabolic pathways (TCA and glycolysis) were also induced by both salinity stress and illumination. The data suggest that P. torquis responded to changes in both light energy and salinity to modulate membrane and central metabolic proteins that are involved in energy production as well as nutrient uptake and gliding motility processes that would be especially advantageous during the polar summer ice algal bloom.
PXD001976	26183718	p53-Regulated Networks of Protein, mRNA, miRNA, and lncRNA Expression Revealed by Integrated Pulsed Stable Isotope Labeling With Amino Acids in Cell Culture (pSILAC) and Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) Analyses. 	p53-regulated networks of protein, mRNA, miRNA and lncRNA expression revealed by integrated pSILAC and NGS analyses	biomarker, p53, pSILAC, transcriptional network, tumor-suppressor	We determined the effect of p53 activation on de novo protein synthesis using quantitative proteomics (pulsed stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture/pSILAC) in the colorectal cancer cell line SW480. This was combined with mRNA and noncoding RNA expression analyses by next generation sequencing (RNA-, miR-Seq). Furthermore, genome-wide DNA binding of p53 was analyzed by chromatin-immunoprecipitation (ChIP-Seq). Thereby, we identified differentially regulated proteins (542 up, 569 down), mRNAs (1258 up, 415 down), miRNAs (111 up, 95 down) and lncRNAs (270 up, 123 down). Changes in protein and mRNA expression levels showed a positive correlation (r = 0.50, p < 0.0001). In total, we detected 133 direct p53 target genes that were differentially expressed and displayed p53 occupancy in the vicinity of their promoter. More transcriptionally induced genes displayed occupied p53 binding sites (4.3% mRNAs, 7.2% miRNAs, 6.3% lncRNAs, 5.9% proteins) than repressed genes (2.4% mRNAs, 3.2% miRNAs, 0.8% lncRNAs, 1.9% proteins), suggesting indirect mechanisms of repression. Around 50% of the down-regulated proteins displayed seed-matching sequences of p53-induced miRNAs in the corresponding 3'-UTRs. Moreover, proteins repressed by p53 significantly overlapped with those previously shown to be repressed by miR-34a. We confirmed up-regulation of the novel direct p53 target genes LINC01021, MDFI, ST14 and miR-486 and showed that ectopic LINC01021 expression inhibits proliferation in SW480 cells. Furthermore, KLF12, HMGB1 and CIT mRNAs were confirmed as direct targets of the p53-induced miR-34a, miR-205 and miR-486-5p, respectively. In line with the loss of p53 function during tumor progression, elevated expression of KLF12, HMGB1 and CIT was detected in advanced stages of cancer. In conclusion, the integration of multiple omics methods allowed the comprehensive identification of direct and indirect effectors of p53 that provide new insights and leads into the mechanisms of p53-mediated tumor suppression.
PXD002241	26183719	Characterization of Regenerative Phenotype of Unrestricted Somatic Stem Cells (USSC) from Human Umbilical Cord Blood (hUCB) by Functional Secretome Analysis. 	USSC secretome -  Characterization of regenerative phenotype of unrestricted somatic stem cells from human umbilical cord blood by functional secretome analysis	USSC, absolute quantification, nerve regeneration, secretome, spinal cord, stem cell	Stem cell transplantation is a promising therapeutic strategy to enhance axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury. Unrestricted somatic stem cells (USSC) isolated from human umbilical cord blood is an attractive stem cell population available at GMP grade without any ethical concerns. It has been shown that USSC transplantation into acute injured rat spinal cords leads to axonal regrowth and significant locomotor recovery, yet lacking cell replacement. Instead, USSC secrete trophic factors enhancing neurite growth of primary cortical neurons in vitro. Here, we applied a functional secretome approach characterizing proteins secreted by USSC for the first time and validated candidate neurite growth promoting factors using primary cortical neurons in vitro. By mass spectrometric analysis and exhaustive bioinformatic interrogation we identified 1156 proteins representing the secretome of USSC. Using Gene Ontology we revealed that USSC secretome contains proteins involved in a number of relevant biological processes of nerve regeneration such as cell adhesion, cell motion, blood vessel formation, cytoskeleton organization and extracellular matrix organization. We found for instance that 31 well-known neurite growth promoting factors like, e.g. neuronal growth regulator 1, NDNF, SPARC, and PEDF span the whole abundance range of USSC secretome. By the means of primary cortical neurons in vitro assays we verified SPARC and PEDF as significantly involved in USSC mediated neurite growth and therewith underline their role in improved locomotor recovery after transplantation. From our data we are convinced that USSC are a valuable tool in regenerative medicine as USSC's secretome contains a comprehensive network of trophic factors supporting nerve regeneration not only by a single process but also maintained its regenerative phenotype by a multitude of relevant biological processes.
PXD002070	26184334	Comprehensive Protein Interactome Analysis of a Key RNA Helicase: Detection of Novel Stress Granule Proteins. 	Comprehensive protein interactome analysis of a key RNA helicase: the detection of novel stress granule proteins	DDX6, FAM195B, GRAN1, GRAN2, GW bodies, NUFIP2, P bodies, RNA, SUMO, decapping, helicase, mRNA decay, post-transcriptional regulation, processing bo, splicing, stress granules, sumoylation	DDX6 (p54/RCK) is a human RNA helicase with central roles in mRNA decay and translation repression. To help our understanding of how DDX6 performs these multiple functions, we conducted the first unbiased, large-scale study to map the DDX6-centric protein-protein interactome using immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry. Using DDX6 as bait, we identify a high-confidence and high-quality set of protein interaction partners which are enriched for functions in RNA metabolism and ribosomal proteins. The screen is highly specific, maximizing the number of true positives, as demonstrated by the validation of 81% (47/58) of the RNA-independent interactors through known functions and interactions. Importantly, we minimize the number of indirect interaction partners through use of a nuclease-based digestion to eliminate RNA. We describe eleven new interactors, including proteins involved in splicing which is an as-yet unknown role for DDX6. We validated and characterized in more detail the interaction of DDX6 with Nuclear fragile X mental retardation-interacting protein 2 (NUFIP2) and with two previously uncharacterized proteins, FAM195A and FAM195B (here referred to as granulin-1 and granulin-2, or GRAN1 and GRAN2). We show that NUFIP2, GRAN1, and GRAN2 are not P-body components, but re-localize to stress granules upon exposure to stress, suggesting a function in translation repression in the cellular stress response. Using a complementary analysis that resolved DDX6's multiple complex memberships, we further validated these interaction partners and the presence of splicing factors. As DDX6 also interacts with the E3 SUMO ligase TIF1beta, we tested for and observed a significant enrichment of sumoylation amongst DDX6's interaction partners. Our results represent the most comprehensive screen for direct interaction partners of a key regulator of RNA life cycle and localization, highlighting new stress granule components and possible DDX6 functions-many of which are likely conserved across eukaryotes.
PXD002069	26184543	Downregulation of N-terminal acetylation triggers ABA-mediated drought responses in Arabidopsis. 	Proteome imprinting by N-terminal acetylation is a vital hormone-regulated master switch during stress	N-terminal protein acetylation, abscisic acid, drought resistance, embryogenesis	N-terminal acetylation (NTA) catalysed by N-terminal acetyltransferases (Nats) is among the most common protein modifications in eukaryotes, but its significance is still enigmatic. Here we characterize the plant NatA complex and reveal evolutionary conservation of NatA biochemical properties in higher eukaryotes and uncover specific and essential functions of NatA for development, biosynthetic pathways and stress responses in plants. We show that NTA decreases significantly after drought stress, and NatA abundance is rapidly downregulated by the phytohormone abscisic acid. Accordingly, transgenic downregulation of NatA induces the drought stress response and results in strikingly drought resistant plants. Thus, we propose that NTA by the NatA complex acts as a cellular surveillance mechanism during stress and that imprinting of the proteome by NatA is an important switch for the control of metabolism, development and cellular stress responses downstream of abscisic acid.
PXD001473	26187819	Integrating Phosphoproteomics and Bioinformatics to Study Brassinosteroid-Regulated Phosphorylation Dynamics in Arabidopsis. 	Brassinosteroid-Regulated Phosphorylation Dynamics in Arabidopsis	Brassinosteroid, Phosphorylation	BACKGROUND: Protein phosphorylation regulated by plant hormone is involved in the coordination of fundamental plant development. Brassinosteroids (BRs), a group of phytohormones, regulated phosphorylation dynamics remains to be delineated in plants. In this study, we performed a mass spectrometry (MS)-based phosphoproteomics to conduct a global and dynamic phosphoproteome profiling across five time points of BR treatment in the period between 5 min and 12 h. MS coupling with phosphopeptide enrichment techniques has become the powerful tool for profiling protein phosphorylation. However, MS-based methods tend to have data consistency and coverage issues. To address these issues, bioinformatics approaches were used to complement the non-detected proteins and recover the dynamics of phosphorylation events. RESULTS: A total of 1104 unique phosphorylated peptides from 739 unique phosphoproteins were identified. The time-dependent gene ontology (GO) analysis shows the transition of biological processes from signaling transduction to morphogenesis and stress response. The protein-protein interaction analysis found that most of identified phosphoproteins have strongly connections with known BR signaling components. The analysis by using Motif-X was performed to identify 15 enriched motifs, 11 of which correspond to 6 known kinase families. To uncover the dynamic activities of kinases, the enriched motifs were combined with phosphorylation profiles and revealed that the substrates of casein kinase 2 and mitogen-activated protein kinase were significantly phosphorylated and dephosphorylated at initial time of BR treatment, respectively. The time-dependent kinase-substrate interaction networks were constructed and showed many substrates are the downstream of other signals, such as auxin and ABA signaling. While comparing BR responsive phosphoproteome and gene expression data, we found most of phosphorylation changes were not led by gene expression changes. Our results suggested many downstream proteins of BR signaling are induced by phosphorylation via various kinases, not through transcriptional regulation. CONCLUSIONS: Through a large-scale dynamic profile of phosphoproteome coupled with bioinformatics, a complicated kinase-centered network related to BR-regulated growth was deciphered. The phosphoproteins and phosphosites identified in our study provide a useful dataset for revealing signaling networks of BR regulation, and also expanded our knowledge of protein phosphorylation modification in plants as well as further deal to solve the plant growth problems.
PXD002480	26199357	Facile Discovery of Cell-Surface Protein Targets of Cancer Cell Aptamers. 	Facile Discovery of Cell-surface Protein Targets of Cancer Cell Aptamers	Aptamer, Biomarker, MS	Cancer biomarker discovery constitutes a frontier in cancer research. In recent years, cell-binding aptamers have become useful molecular probes for biomarker discovery. However, there are few successful examples, and the critical barrier resides in the identification of the cell-surface protein targets for the aptamers, where only a limited number of aptamer targets have been identified so far. Herein, we developed a universal SILAC-based quantitative proteomic method for target discovery of cell-binding aptamers. The method allowed for distinguishing specific aptamer-binding proteins from nonspecific proteins based on abundance ratios of proteins bound to aptamer-carrying bait and control bait. In addition, we employed fluorescently labeled aptamers for monitoring and optimizing the binding conditions. We were able to identify and validate selectin L and integrin alpha4 as the protein targets for two previously reported aptamers, Sgc-3b and Sgc-4e, respectively. This strategy should be generally applicable for the discovery of protein targets for other cell-binding aptamers, which will promote the applications of these aptamers.
PXD001490	26201687	Metaproteomics and metabolomics analyses of chronically petroleum-polluted sites reveal the importance of general anaerobic processes uncoupled with degradation. 	Metaproteomics analyses of three chronically petroleum-polluted sites	Crude oil, Metaproteomics, hydrocarbon, marine, metaproteomics, microbiology, pollution, sediment	Crude oil is one of the most important natural assets for humankind, yet it is a major environmental pollutant, notably in marine environments. One of the largest crude oil polluted areas in the word is the semi-enclosed Mediterranean Sea, in which the metabolic potential of indigenous microbial populations towards the large-scale chronic pollution is yet to be defined, particularly in anaerobic and micro-aerophilic sites. Here, we provide an insight into the microbial metabolism in sediments from three chronically polluted marine sites along the coastline of Italy: the Priolo oil terminal/refinery site (near Siracuse, Sicily), harbour of Messina (Sicily) and shipwreck of MT Haven (near Genoa). Using shotgun metaproteomics and community metabolomics approaches, the presence of 651 microbial proteins and 4776 metabolite mass features have been detected in these three environments, revealing a high metabolic heterogeneity between the investigated sites. The proteomes displayed the prevalence of anaerobic metabolisms that were not directly related with petroleum biodegradation, indicating that in the absence of oxygen, biodegradation is significantly suppressed. This suppression was also suggested by examining the metabolome patterns. The proteome analysis further highlighted the metabolic coupling between methylotrophs and sulphate reducers in oxygen-depleted petroleum-polluted sediments.
PXD001547	26201837	Metaproteomics of activated sludge from a wastewater treatment plant - a pilot study. 	Metaproteome of the waste water treatment plant Gerwisch/Germany	Activated sludge, MetaProteomeAnalyzer, Metaproteomics, Offgel isoelectric focusing, Wastewater treatment plant	In this study, the impact of protein fractionation techniques prior to LC/MS analysis was investigated on activated sludge samples derived at winter and summer condition from a full-scale wastewater treatment plant (WWTP). For reduction of the sample complexity, different fractionation techniques including RP-LC (1D-approach), SDS-PAGE and RP-LC (2D-approach) as well as RP-LC, SDS-PAGE and liquid IEF (3D-approach) were carried out before subsequent ion trap MS analysis. The derived spectra were identified by MASCOT search using a combination of the public UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot protein database and metagenome data from a WWTP. The results showed a significant increase of identified spectra, enabled by applying IEF and SDS-PAGE to the proteomic workflow. Based on meta-proteins, a core metaproteome and a corresponding taxonomic profile of the wastewater activated sludge were described. Functional aspects were analyzed using the KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) pathway library by plotting KEGG Orthology identifiers (KO numbers) of protein hits into pathway maps of the central carbon (map01200) and nitrogen metabolism (map00910). Using the 3D-approach, most proteins involved in glycolysis and citrate cycle and nearly all proteins of the nitrogen removal were identified, qualifying this approach as most promising for future studies. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001547 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD001547).
PXD002453	26202631	Finding Missing Proteins from the Epigenetically Manipulated Human Cell with Stringent Quality Criteria. 	Finding missing proteins from the epigenetically manipulated human cell with stringent quality criteria	Chromosome-Centric Human Proteome Project, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP), epigenetic, histone, missing proteins	The chromosome-centric human proteome project (C-HPP) has made great progress of finding protein evidence (PE) for missing proteins (PE2-4 proteins defined by the neXtProt), which now becomes an increasingly challenging field. As a majority of samples tested in this field were from adult tissues/cells, the developmental stage specific or relevant proteins could be missed due to biological source availability. We posit that epigenetic interventions may help to partially bypass such a limitation by stimulating the expression of the "silenced" genes in adult cells, leading to the increased chance of finding missing proteins. In this study, we established in vitro human cell models to modify the histone acetylation, demethylation, and methylation with near physiological conditions. With mRNA-seq analysis, we found that histone modifications resulted in overall increases of expressed genes in an even distribution manner across different chromosomes. We identified 64 PE2-4 and six PE5 proteins by MaxQuant (FDR < 1% at both protein and peptide levels) and 44 PE2-4 and 7 PE5 proteins by Mascot (FDR < 1% at peptide level) searches, respectively. However, only 24 PE2-4 and five PE5 proteins in Mascot, and 12 PE2-4 and one PE5 proteins in MaxQuant searches could, respectively, pass our stringently manual spectrum inspections. Collectively, 27 PE2-4 and five PE5 proteins were identified from the epigenetically modified cells; among them, 19 PE2-4 and three PE5 proteins passed FDR < 1% at both peptide and protein levels. Gene ontology analyses revealed that the PE2-4 proteins were significantly involved in development and spermatogenesis, although their chemical-physical features had no statistical difference from the background. In addition, we presented an example of suspicious PE5 peptide spectrum matched with unusual AA substitutions related to post-translational modification. In conclusion, the epigenetically manipulated cell models should be a useful tool for finding missing proteins in C-HPP. The mass spectrometry data have been deposited to the iProx database (accession number: IPX00020200).
PXD001781	26205238	Charting the interactome of PDE3A in human cells using an IBMX based chemical proteomics approach. 	Charting the interactome of PDE3A in human cells using an IBMX based chemical proteomics approach	Chemical proteomics, IBMX, cilostamide, papaverine, phosphodiesterase	In the cell the second messenger cyclic nucleotides cAMP and cGMP mediate a wide variety of external signals. Both signaling molecules are degraded by the superfamily of phosphodiesterases (PDEs) consisting of more than 50 different isoforms. Several of these PDEs are implicated in disease processes inspiring the quest for and synthesis of selective PDE inhibitors, that unfortunately have led to very mixed successes in clinical trials. This may be partially caused by their pharmacological action. Accumulating data suggests that small differences between different PDE isoforms may already result in specific tissue distributions, cellular localization and different involvement in higher order signal protein complexes. The role of PDEs in these higher order signal protein complexes has only been marginally addressed, as no screening methodology is available to address this in a more comprehensive way. Affinity based chemical proteomics is a relatively new tool to identify specific protein-protein interactions. Here, to study the interactome of PDEs, we synthesized a broad spectrum PDE-capturing resin based on the non-selective PDE inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX). Chemical proteomics characterization of this resin in HeLa cell lysates led to the capture of several different PDEs. Combining the IBMX-resin with in-solution competition with the available more selective PDE inhibitors, cilostamide and papaverine, allowed us to selectively probe the interactome of PDE3A in HeLa cells. Besides known interactors such as the family of 14-3-3 proteins, PDE3A was found to associate with a PP2A complex composed of a regulatory, scaffold and catalytic subunit.
PXD002183	26206133	Fgf and Esrrb integrate epigenetic and transcriptional networks that regulate self-renewal of trophoblast stem cells. 	Fgf and Esrrb integrate epigenetic and transcriptional networks that regulate self-renewal of Trophoblast Stem Cells	Esrrb, TS cells, self-renewal, transcription factors	Esrrb (oestrogen-related receptor beta) is a transcription factor implicated in embryonic stem (ES) cell self-renewal, yet its knockout causes intrauterine lethality due to defects in trophoblast development. Here we show that in trophoblast stem (TS) cells, Esrrb is a downstream target of fibroblast growth factor (Fgf) signalling and is critical to drive TS cell self-renewal. In contrast to its occupancy of pluripotency-associated loci in ES cells, Esrrb sustains the stemness of TS cells by direct binding and regulation of TS cell-specific transcription factors including Elf5 and Eomes. To elucidate the mechanisms whereby Esrrb controls the expression of its targets, we characterized its TS cell-specific interactome using mass spectrometry. Unlike in ES cells, Esrrb interacts in TS cells with the histone demethylase Lsd1 and with the RNA Polymerase II-associated Integrator complex. Our findings provide new insights into both the general and context-dependent wiring of transcription factor networks in stem cells by master transcription factors.
PXD003744	26207921	MicroRNA-124 and -137 cooperativity controls caspase-3 activity through BCL2L13 in hippocampal neural stem cells. 	MicroRNA-124 and -137 cooperativity controls caspase-3 activity through BCL2L13 in hippocampal neural stem cells.	Kainate, Label-free, Mouse model, epileptic seizures, expression profiling	Adult neurogenesis continuously contributes new neurons to hippocampal circuits and the programmed death of a subset of immature cells provides a primary mechanism controlling this contribution. Epileptic seizures induce strong structural changes in the hippocampus, including the induction of adult neurogenesis, changes in gene expression and mitochondrial dysfunction, which may all contribute to epileptogenesis. However, a possible interplay between this factors remains largely unexplored. Here, we investigated gene expression changes in the hippocampal dentate gyrus shortly after prolonged seizures induced by kainic acid, focusing on mitochondrial functions. Using comparative proteomics, we identified networks of proteins differentially expressed shortly after seizure induction, including members of the BCL2 family and other mitochondrial proteins. Within these networks, we report for the first time that the atypical BCL2 protein BCL2L13 controls caspase-3 activity and cytochrome C release in neural stem/progenitor cells. Furthermore, we identify BCL2L13 as a novel target of the cooperative action of microRNA-124 and microRNA-137, both upregulated shortly after seizure induction. This cooperative microRNA-mediated fine-tuning of BCL2L13 expression controls casp3 activity, favoring non-apoptotic caspase-3 functions in NSPC exposed to KA and thereby may contribute to the early neurogenic response to epileptic seizures in the dentate gyrus.
PXD000057	26211688	Structural Model for the Spider Silk Protein Spidroin-1. 	MS characterization of spidroin-1	NanoLC-ESI-CID/ETD-MS/MS, Nephila sp., major ampullate silk, phosphorylation, post-translational modifications, spidroin-1	Most reports about the 3-D structure of spidroin-1 have been proposed for the protein in solid state or for individual domains of these proteins. A gel-based mass spectrometry strategy using collision-induced dissociation (CID) and electron-transfer dissociation (ETD) fragmentation methods was used to completely sequence spidroins-1A and -1B and to assign a series of post-translational modifications (PTMs) on to the spidroin sequences. A total of 15 and 16 phosphorylation sites were detected on spidroin-1A and -1B, respectively. In this work, we present the nearly complete amino acid sequence of spidroin-1A and -1B, including the nonrepetitive N- and C-terminal domains and a highly repetitive central core. We also described a fatty acid layer surrounding the protein fibers and PTMs in the sequences of spidroin-1A and -1B, including phosphorylation. Thus, molecular models for phosphorylated spidroins were proposed in the presence of a mixture fatty acids/water (1:1) and submitted to molecular dynamics simulation. The resulting models presented high content of coils, a higher percentage of alpha-helix, and an almost neglected content of 310-helix than the previous models. Knowledge of the complete structure of spidroins-1A and -1B would help to explain the mechanical features of silk fibers. The results of the current investigation provide a foundation for biophysical studies of the mechanoelastic properties of web-silk proteins.
PXD002399	26212333	LMTK3 Represses Tumor Suppressor-like Genes through Chromatin Remodeling in Breast Cancer. 	LMTK3 Represses Tumour Suppressor-Like Genes through Chromatin Remodeling in Breast Cancer	LMTK3 Chromatin Breast Cancer	LMTK3 is an oncogenic receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) implicated in various types of cancer, including breast, lung, gastric, and colorectal cancer. It is localized in different cellular compartments, but its nuclear function has not been investigated so far. We mapped LMTK3 binding across the genome using ChIP-seq and found that LMTK3 binding events are correlated with repressive chromatin markers. We further identified KRAB-associated protein 1 (KAP1) as a binding partner of LMTK3. The LMTK3/KAP1 interaction is stabilized by PP1alpha, which suppresses KAP1 phosphorylation specifically at LMTK3-associated chromatin regions, inducing chromatin condensation and resulting in transcriptional repression of LMTK3-bound tumor suppressor-like genes. Furthermore, LMTK3 functions at distal regions in tethering the chromatin to the nuclear periphery, resulting in H3K9me3 modification and gene silencing. In summary, we propose a model where a scaffolding function of nuclear LMTK3 promotes cancer progression through chromatin remodeling.
PXD000731	26217725	Dataset from proteomic analysis of rat, mouse, and human liver microsomes and S9 fractions. 	Proteomic Analysis of Mouse Liver Microsomes by 2D-LC-MSMS	2D-LC-MSMS, Mouse Liver Microsomes, ProteinPilot, TripleTOF	Rat, mouse and human liver microsomes and S9 fractions were analyzed using an optimized method combining ion exchange fractionation of digested peptides, and ultra-high performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC) coupled to high resolution tandem mass spectrometry (HR-MS/MS). The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org) via the PRIDE partner repository (Vizcaino et al., 2013 [1]) with the dataset identifiers PXD000717, PXD000720, PXD000721, PXD000731, PXD000733 and PXD000734. Data related to the peptides (trypsin digests only) were also uploaded to Peptide Atlas (Farrah et al., 2013 [2]) and are available with the dataset identifiers PASS00407, PASS00409, PASS00411, PASS00412, PASS00413 and PASS00414. The present dataset is associated with a research article published in EuPA Open Proteomics [3].
PXD002572	26223766	MStern Blotting-High Throughput Polyvinylidene Fluoride (PVDF) Membrane-Based Proteomic Sample Preparation for 96-Well Plates. 	MStern Blot vs. FASP - Different sample types	CSF, FASP, HeLa, MStern Blot, Urine	We describe a 96-well plate compatible membrane-based proteomic sample processing method, which enables the complete processing of 96 samples (or multiples thereof) within a single workday. This method uses a large-pore hydrophobic PVDF membrane that efficiently adsorbs proteins, resulting in fast liquid transfer through the membrane and significantly reduced sample processing times. Low liquid transfer speeds have prevented the useful 96-well plate implementation of FASP as a widely used membrane-based proteomic sample processing method. We validated our approach on whole-cell lysate and urine and cerebrospinal fluid as clinically relevant body fluids. Without compromising peptide and protein identification, our method uses a vacuum manifold and circumvents the need for digest desalting, making our processing method compatible with standard liquid handling robots. In summary, our new method maintains the strengths of FASP and simultaneously overcomes one of the major limitations of FASP without compromising protein identification and quantification.
PXD004403	26224564	Biomarker Discovery and Verification of Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Using Integration of SWATH/MRM. 	Biomarker discovery and verification of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma using SWATH and MRM	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	We propose an efficient integration of SWATH with MRM for biomarker discovery and verification when the corresponding ion library is well established. We strictly controlled the false positive rate associated with SWATH MS signals and carefully selected the target peptides coupled with SWATH and MRM. We collected 10 samples of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) tissues paired with tumors and adjacent regions and quantified 1758 unique proteins with FDR 1% at protein level using SWATH, in which 467 proteins were abundance-dependent with ESCC. After carefully evaluating the SWATH MS signals of the up-regulated proteins, we selected 120 proteins for MRM verification. MRM analysis of the pooled and individual esophageal tissues resulted in 116 proteins that exhibited similar abundance response modes to ESCC that were acquired with SWATH. Because the ESCC-related proteins consisted of a high percentile of secreted proteins, we conducted the MRM assay on patient sera that were collected from pre- and postoperation. Of the 116 target proteins, 42 were identified in the ESCC sera, including 11 with lowered abundances postoperation. Coupling SWATH and MRM is thus feasible and efficient for the discovery and verification of cancer-related protein biomarkers.
PXD002244	26230114	Type 1 Diabetes Prone NOD Mice Have Diminished Cxcr1 mRNA Expression in Polymorphonuclear Neutrophils and CD4+ T Lymphocytes. 	Mouse bone marrow derived neutrophils, LC-MSMS	cell membrane-enriched proteins, polymorphonuclear neutrophils	In humans, CXCR1 and CXCR2 are two homologous proteins that bind ELR+ chemokines. Both receptors play fundamental roles in neutrophil functions such as migration and reactive oxygen species production. Mouse Cxcr1 and Cxcr2 genes are located in an insulin-dependent diabetes genetic susceptibility locus. The non obese diabetic (NOD) mouse is a spontaneous well-described animal model for insulin-dependent type 1 diabetes. In this disease, insulin deficiency results from the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells by autoreactive T lymphocytes. This slow-progressing disease is dependent on both environmental and genetic factors. Here, we report descriptive data about the Cxcr1 gene in NOD mice. We demonstrate decreased expression of mRNA for Cxcr1 in neutrophils and CD4+ lymphocytes isolated from NOD mice compared to other strains, related to reduced NOD Cxcr1 gene promoter activity. Looking for Cxcr1 protein, we next analyze the membrane proteome of murine neutrophils by mass spectrometry. Although Cxcr2 protein is clearly found in murine neutrophils, we did not find evidence of Cxcr1 peptides using this method. Nevertheless, in view of recently-published experimental data obtained in NOD mice, we argue for possible Cxcr1 involvement in type 1 diabetes pathogenesis.
PXD002345	26232167	Modelling atherosclerosis by proteomics: Molecular changes in the ascending aortas of cholesterol-fed rabbits. 	Changes in the ascending aorta proteome of cholesterol-fed rabbits	ascending aorta rabbit cholesterol itraq atherosclerosis	The cholesterol-fed rabbit is commonly used as a model to study the vascular effects of hypercholesterolemia and resulting atherosclerotic lesions. Here we undertook a proteomic case-control investigation of ascending aortas from male New Zealand White rabbits after 10 weeks on a high-cholesterol (2% w/w) diet (HCD, n = 5) or control diet (n = 5), in order to determine the changes in response to the HCD. Histology confirmed intimal thickening in the HCD group consistent with atherosclerosis, and LC-MS/MS analysis of individually-obtained ascending aortic extracts labelled with isobaric (iTRAQ) tags enabled the identification and quantitation of 453 unique proteins above the 1% false discovery rate threshold. Of 67 proteins showing significant differences in relative abundance (p < 0.05), 62 were elevated and five decreased in ascending aortas from HCD-fed rabbits compared to controls. Six proteins were selected for validation using Multiple Reaction Monitoring, which confirmed the iTRAQ results. Many of the observed protein changes are consistent with known molecular perturbations in the ascending aorta that occur in response to hypercholesterolemia, e.g. elevation of tissue levels of apolipoproteins, extracellular matrix adhesion proteins, glycolytic enzymes, heat shock proteins and proteins involved in immune defense. We also made a number of novel observations, including a 15-fold elevation of glycoprotein (trans-membrane) nmb-like (Gpnmb) in response to HCD. Gpnmb has previously been linked to angiogenesis but not to atherosclerosis. This and additional novel observations merit further investigation as these perturbations may play important and as yet undiscovered roles in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis in rabbits as well as humans.
PXD001630	26238763	Age-related cleavages of crystallins in human lens cortical fiber cells generate a plethora of endogenous peptides and high molecular weight complexes. 	Age-related cleavages of crystallins in human lens cortical fibre cells generate a plethora of endogenous peptides and high molecular weight complexes	2-D gel electrophoresis, Lens aging, cataract, crystallin, endogenous peptides, nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS, trypsin-like cleavage.	Low molecular weight peptides derived from the breakdown of crystallins have been reported in adult human lenses. The proliferation of these LMW peptides coincides with the earliest stages of cataract formation, suggesting that the protein cleavages involved may contribute to the aggregation and insolubilization of crystallins. This study reports the identification of 238 endogenous LMW crystallin peptides from the cortical extracts of four human lenses representing young, middle and old-age human lenses. Analysis of the peptide terminal amino acids showed that Lys and Arg were situated at the C-terminus with significantly higher frequency compared to other residues, suggesting that trypsin-like proteolysis may be active in the lens cortical fiber cells. Selected reaction monitoring analysis of an endogenous alphaA-crystallin peptide (alphaA(57-65)) showed that the concentration of this peptide in the human lens increased gradually to middle age, after which the rate of alphaA(57-65) formation escalated significantly. Using 2D gel electrophoresis/nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS, 12 protein complexes of 40-150 kDa consisting of multiple crystallin components were characterized from the water soluble cortical extracts of an adult human lens. The detection of these protein complexes suggested the possibility of crystallin cross-linking, with these complexes potentially acting to stabilize degraded crystallins by sequestration into water soluble complexes.
PXD001729	26239621	A Systems Level Analysis of Vasopressin-mediated Signaling Networks in Kidney Distal Convoluted Tubule Cells. 	Quantitative Phosphoproteomic Identification of Novel Vasopressin-mediated Signaling Networks in Kidney Distal Convoluted Tubule Cells	Kidney Distal Convoluted Tubule Cells, Phosphoproteomics, Quantitation, Signaling Networks, Vasopressin	The kidney distal convoluted tubule (DCT) plays an essential role in maintaining body sodium balance and blood pressure. The major sodium reabsorption pathway in the DCT is the thiazide-sensitive NaCl cotransporter (NCC), whose functions can be modulated by the hormone vasopressin (VP) acting via uncharacterized signaling cascades. Here we use a systems biology approach centered on stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) based quantitative phosphoproteomics of cultured mouse DCT cells to map global changes in protein phosphorylation upon acute treatment with a VP type II receptor agonist 1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin (dDAVP). 6330 unique proteins, containing 12333 different phosphorylation sites were identified. 185 sites were altered in abundance following dDAVP. Basophilic motifs were preferential targets for upregulated sites upon dDAVP stimulation, whereas proline-directed motifs were prominent for downregulated sites. Kinase prediction indicated that dDAVP increased AGC and CAMK kinase families' activities and decreased activity of CDK and MAPK families. Network analysis implicated phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase or CAMKK dependent pathways in VP-mediated signaling; pharmacological inhibition of which significantly reduced dDAVP induced increases in phosphorylated NCC at an activating site. In conclusion, this study identifies unique VP signaling cascades in DCT cells that may be important for regulating blood pressure.
PXD002384	26244908	A proteomic perspective of the interplay of Staphylococcus aureus and human alveolar epithelial cells during infection. 	Proteomic characterization of the interplay of Staphylococcus aureus and human alveolar epithelial cells during infection - S. aureus proteins	Staphylococcus aureus, epithelial cells, host-pathogen interaction, internalization	Infectious diseases caused by pathogens such as Staphylococcus aureus are still a major threat for human health. Proteome analyses allow detailed monitoring of the molecular interplay between pathogen and host upon internalization. However, the investigation of the responses of both partners is complicated by the large excess of host cell proteins compared to bacterial proteins as well as by the fact that only a fraction of host cells are infected. In the present study we infected human alveolar epithelial A549 cells with S. aureus HG001 pMV158GFP and separated intact bacteria from host cell debris or infected from non-infected A549 cells by cell sorting to enable detailed proteome analysis. During the first 6.5h in the intracellular milieu S. aureus displayed reduced growth rate, induction of the stringent response, adaptation to microaerobic conditions as well as cell wall stress. Interestingly, both truly infected host cells and those not infected but exposed to secreted S. aureus proteins and host cell factors showed differences in the proteome pattern compared to A549 cells which had never been in contact with S. aureus. However, adaptation reactions were more pronounced in infected compared to non-infected A549 bystander cells.
PXD001495	26245374	Mistargeted mitochondrial proteins activate a proteostatic response in the cytosol. 	Mistargeted mitochondrial proteins activate a proteostatic response in the cytosol	MIA pathway, SILAC, mitochondria, proteasome, protein transport, unfolded protein response	Most of the mitochondrial proteome originates from nuclear genes and is transported into the mitochondria after synthesis in the cytosol. Complex machineries which maintain the specificity of protein import and sorting include the TIM23 translocase responsible for the transfer of precursor proteins into the matrix, and the mitochondrial intermembrane space import and assembly (MIA) machinery required for the biogenesis of intermembrane space proteins. Dysfunction of mitochondrial protein sorting pathways results in diminishing specific substrate proteins, followed by systemic pathology of the organelle and organismal death. The cellular responses caused by accumulation of mitochondrial precursor proteins in the cytosol are mainly unknown. Here we present a comprehensive picture of the changes in the cellular transcriptome and proteome in response to a mitochondrial import defect and precursor over-accumulation stress. Pathways were identified that protect the cell against mitochondrial biogenesis defects by inhibiting protein synthesis and by activation of the proteasome, a major machine for cellular protein clearance. Proteasomal activity is modulated in proportion to the quantity of mislocalized mitochondrial precursor proteins in the cytosol. We propose that this type of unfolded protein response activated by mistargeting of proteins (UPRam) is beneficial for the cells. UPRam provides a means for buffering the consequences of physiological slowdown in mitochondrial protein import and for counteracting pathologies that are caused or contributed by mitochondrial dysfunction.
PXD002137	26245529	Absolute Proteome Analysis of Colorectal Mucosa, Adenoma, and Cancer Reveals Drastic Changes in Fatty Acid Metabolism and Plasma Membrane Transporters. 	Proteome Landscapes of the Human Colorectal Mucosa, and its Adenoma and Cancer	Absolute protein quantification, Adenomatous polyposis coli, Colorectal cancer, Enterocyte, FFPE-tissue, Metabolism, Quantitative proteomics, Total protein approach	Colorectal cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related death. It develops from normal enterocytes, through a benign adenoma stage, into the cancer and finally into the metastatic form. We previously compared the proteomes of normal colorectal enterocytes, cancer and nodal metastasis to a depth of 8100 proteins and found extensive quantitative remodeling between normal and cancer tissues but not cancer and metastasis (Wisniewski et al. PMID 22968445). Here we utilize advances in the proteomic workflow to perform an in depth analysis of the normal tissue (N), the adenoma (A), and the cancer (C). Absolute proteomics of 10 000 proteins per patient from microdissected formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded clinical material established a quantitative protein repository of the disease. Between N and A, 23% of all proteins changed significantly, 17.8% from A to C and 21.6% from N to C. Together with principal component analysis of the patient groups, this suggests that N, A, and C are equidistant but not on one developmental line. Our proteomics approach allowed us to assess changes in varied cell size, the composition of different subcellular components, and alterations in basic biological processes including the energy metabolism, plasma membrane transport, DNA replication, and transcription. This revealed several-fold higher concentrations of enzymes in fatty acid metabolism in C compared with N, and unexpectedly, the same held true of plasma membrane transporters.
PXD002413	26246429	Separating myoblast differentiation from muscle cell fusion using IGF-I and the p38 MAP kinase inhibitor SB202190. 	Mouse myoblast fusion -  Separating myoblast differentiation from muscle cell fusion using IGF-I and the p38 MAP kinase inhibitor SB202190	differentiation, fusion, myoblast	The p38 MAP kinases play critical roles in skeletal muscle biology, but the specific processes regulated by these kinases remain poorly defined. Here we find that activity of p38alpha/beta is important not only in early phases of myoblast differentiation, but also in later stages of myocyte fusion and myofibrillogenesis. By treatment of C2 myoblasts with the promyogenic growth factor insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I, the early block in differentiation imposed by the p38 chemical inhibitor SB202190 could be overcome. Yet, under these conditions, IGF-I could not prevent the later impairment of muscle cell fusion, as marked by the nearly complete absence of multinucleated myofibers. Removal of SB202190 from the medium of differentiating myoblasts reversed the fusion block, as multinucleated myofibers were detected several hours later and reached ~90% of the culture within 30 h. Analysis by quantitative mass spectroscopy of proteins that changed in abundance following removal of the inhibitor revealed a cohort of upregulated muscle-enriched molecules that may be important for both myofibrillogenesis and fusion. We have thus developed a model system that allows separation of myoblast differentiation from muscle cell fusion and should be useful in identifying specific steps regulated by p38 MAP kinase-mediated signaling in myogenesis.
PXD002708	26256475	Systems Analysis of Protein Fatty Acylation in Herpes Simplex Virus-Infected Cells Using Chemical Proteomics. 	Identification of herpes virus proteines palmitoyled in RPE-1 cells	Acyl-RAC, Palmitoylation, chemical proteomics, herpes virus, tagging by substrate	Protein fatty acylation regulates diverse aspects of cellular function and organization and plays a key role in host immune responses to infection. Acylation also modulates the function and localization of virus-encoded proteins. Here, we employ chemical proteomics tools, bio-orthogonal probes, and capture reagents to study myristoylation and palmitoylation during infection with herpes simplex virus (HSV). Using in-gel fluorescence imaging and quantitative mass spectrometry, we demonstrate a generalized reduction in myristoylation of host proteins, whereas palmitoylation of host proteins, including regulators of interferon and tetraspanin family proteins, was selectively repressed. Furthermore, we found that a significant fraction of the viral proteome undergoes palmitoylation; we identified a number of virus membrane glycoproteins, structural proteins, and kinases. Taken together, our results provide broad oversight of protein acylation during HSV infection, a roadmap for similar analysis in other systems, and a resource with which to pursue specific analysis of systems and functions.
PXD002187	26257763	Identification of protein N-termini in Cyanophora paradoxa cyanelles: transit peptide composition and sequence determinants for precursor maturation. 	Identification of protein N-termini in Cyanophora paradoxa cyanelles: Transit peptide composition and sequence determinants for precursor maturation	MS, TAILS, chloroplast transit peptide, cyanophera paradoxa	Glaucophyta, rhodophyta, and chloroplastida represent the three main evolutionary lineages that diverged from a common ancestor after primary endosymbiosis. Comparative analyses between members of these three lineages are a rich source of information on ancestral plastid features. We analyzed the composition and the cleavage site of cyanelle transit peptides from the glaucophyte Cyanophora paradoxa by terminal amine labeling of substrates (TAILS), and compared their characteristics to those of representatives of the chloroplastida. Our data show that transit peptide architecture is similar between members of these two lineages. This entails a comparable modular structure, an overrepresentation of serine or alanine and similarities in the amino acid composition around the processing peptidase cleavage site. The most distinctive difference is the overrepresentation of phenylalanine in the N-terminal 1-10 amino acids of cyanelle transit peptides. A quantitative proteome analysis with periplasm-free cyanelles identified 42 out of 262 proteins without the N-terminal phenylalanine, suggesting that the requirement for phenylalanine in the N-terminal region is not absolute. Proteins in this set are on average of low abundance, suggesting that either alternative import pathways are operating specifically for low abundance proteins or that the gene model annotation is incorrect for proteins with fewer EST sequences. We discuss these two possibilities and provide examples for both interpretations.
PXD001859	26258413	Restoration of Na+/H+ exchanger NHE3-containing macrocomplexes ameliorates diabetes-associated fluid loss. 	Coordinated assembly of NHE3, IRBIT, NHERF1, and ezrin ameliorates fluid malabsorption in diabetes	brush border membrane, diabetes, intestine, ion transporters, scaffold proteins	Diarrhea is one of the troublesome complications of diabetes, and the underlying causes of this problem are complex. Here, we investigated whether altered electrolyte transport contributes to diabetic diarrhea. We found that the expression of Na+/H+ exchanger NHE3 and several scaffold proteins, including NHE3 regulatory factors (NHERFs), inositol trisphosphate (IP3) receptor-binding protein released with IP3 (IRBIT), and ezrin, was decreased in the intestinal brush border membrane (BBM) of mice with streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Treatment of diabetic mice with insulin restored intestinal NHE3 activity and fluid absorption. Molecular analysis revealed that NHE3, NHERF1, IRBIT, and ezrin form macrocomplexes, which are perturbed under diabetic conditions, and insulin administration reconstituted these macrocomplexes and restored NHE3 expression in the BBM. Silencing of NHERF1 or IRBIT prevented NHE3 trafficking to the BBM and insulin-dependent NHE3 activation. IRBIT facilitated the interaction of NHE3 with NHERF1 via protein kinase D2-dependent phosphorylation. Insulin stimulated ezrin phosphorylation, which enhanced the interaction of ezrin with NHERF1, IRBIT, and NHE3. Additionally, oral administration of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) increased NHE3 activity and fluid absorption in diabetic mice via an insulin-independent pathway. Together, these findings indicate the importance of NHE3 in diabetic diarrhea and suggest LPA administration as a potential therapeutic strategy for management of diabetic diarrhea.
PXD001805	26259872	ISG15 counteracts Listeria monocytogenes infection. 	ISG15 counteracts Listeria monocytogenes infection	ISG15, Interferon, Listeria, SILAC	ISG15 is an interferon-stimulated, linear di-ubiquitin-like protein, with anti-viral activity. The role of ISG15 during bacterial infection remains elusive. We show that ISG15 expression in nonphagocytic cells is dramatically induced upon Listeria infection. Surprisingly this induction can be type I interferon independent and depends on the cytosolic surveillance pathway, which senses bacterial DNA and signals through STING, TBK1, IRF3 and IRF7. Most importantly, we observed that ISG15 expression restricts Listeria infection in vitro and in vivo. We made use of stable isotope labeling in tissue culture (SILAC) to identify ISGylated proteins that could be responsible for the protective effect. Strikingly, infection or overexpression of ISG15 leads to ISGylation of ER and Golgi proteins, which correlates with increased secretion of cytokines known to counteract infection. Together, our data reveal a previously uncharacterized ISG15-dependent restriction of Listeria infection, reinforcing the view that ISG15 is a key component of the innate immune response.
PXD001291	26265008	Integrative genomics positions MKRN1 as a novel ribonucleoprotein within the embryonic stem cell gene regulatory network. 	Integrative Genomics Positions MKRN1 as a Novel Ribonucleoprotein within the Embryonic Stem Cell Gene Regulatory Network	IGF2BP1, L1TD1, MKRN1, PABPC1, PABPC4, UPF1, YBX1	In embryonic stem cells (ESCs), gene regulatory networks (GRNs) coordinate gene expression to maintain ESC identity; however, the complete repertoire of factors regulating the ESC state is not fully understood. Our previous temporal microarray analysis of ESC commitment identified the E3 ubiquitin ligase protein Makorin-1 (MKRN1) as a potential novel component of the ESC GRN. Here, using multilayered systems-level analyses, we compiled a MKRN1-centered interactome in undifferentiated ESCs at the proteomic and ribonomic level. Proteomic analyses in undifferentiated ESCs revealed that MKRN1 associates with RNA-binding proteins, and ensuing RIP-chip analysis determined that MKRN1 associates with mRNAs encoding functionally related proteins including proteins that function during cellular stress. Subsequent biological validation identified MKRN1 as a novel stress granule-resident protein, although MKRN1 is not required for stress granule formation, or survival of unstressed ESCs. Thus, our unbiased systems-level analyses support a role for the E3 ligase MKRN1 as a ribonucleoprotein within the ESC GRN.
PXD001617	26266535	Global Gene Expression Profiling through the Complete Life Cycle of Trypanosoma vivax. 	Global gene expression profiling through the complete life cycle of Trypanosoma vivax	Complete life cycle, Trypanosoma vivax	The parasitic flagellate Trypanosoma vivax is a cause of animal trypanosomiasis across Africa and South America. The parasite has a digenetic life cycle, passing between mammalian hosts and insect vectors, and a series of developmental forms adapted to each life cycle stage. Each point in the life cycle presents radically different challenges to parasite metabolism and physiology and distinct host interactions requiring remodeling of the parasite cell surface. Transcriptomic and proteomic studies of the related parasites T. brucei and T. congolense have shown how gene expression is regulated during their development. New methods for in vitro culture of the T. vivax insect stages have allowed us to describe global gene expression throughout the complete T. vivax life cycle for the first time. We combined transcriptomic and proteomic analysis of each life stage using RNA-seq and mass spectrometry respectively, to identify genes with patterns of preferential transcription or expression. While T. vivax conforms to a pattern of highly conserved gene expression found in other African trypanosomes, (e.g. developmental regulation of energy metabolism, restricted expression of a dominant variant antigen, and expression of 'Fam50' proteins in the insect mouthparts), we identified significant differences in gene expression affecting metabolism in the fly and a suite of T. vivax-specific genes with predicted cell-surface expression that are preferentially expressed in the mammal ('Fam29, 30, 42') or the vector ('Fam34, 35, 43'). T. vivax differs significantly from other African trypanosomes in the developmentally-regulated proteins likely to be expressed on its cell surface and thus, in the structure of the host-parasite interface. These unique features may yet explain the species differences in life cycle and could, in the form of bloodstream-stage proteins that do not undergo antigenic variation, provide targets for therapy.
PXD001460	26267517	Activating Mutations in PIK3CA Lead to Widespread Modulation of the Tyrosine Phosphoproteome. 	Activating Mutations in PIK3CA result in Widespread Modulation of the Tyrosine Phosphoproteome	PIK3CA, breast cancer, phosphoproteomics, tyrosine	The human oncogene PIK3CA is frequently mutated in human cancers. Two hotspot mutations in PIK3CA, E545K and H1047R, have been shown to regulate widespread signaling events downstream of AKT, leading to increased cell proliferation, growth, survival, and motility. We used quantitative mass spectrometry to profile the global phosphotyrosine proteome of isogenic knock-in cell lines containing these activating mutations, where we identified 824 unique phosphopeptides. Although it is well understood that these mutations result in hyperactivation of the serine/threonine kinase AKT, we found a surprisingly widespread modulation of tyrosine phosphorylation levels of proteins in the mutant cells. In the tyrosine kinome alone, 29 tyrosine kinases were altered in their phosphorylation status. Many of the regulated phosphosites that we identified were located in the kinase domain or the canonical activation sites, indicating that these kinases and their downstream signaling pathways were activated. Our study demonstrates that there is frequent and unexpected cross-talk that occurs between tyrosine signaling pathways and serine/threonine signaling pathways activated by the canonical PI3K-AKT axis.
PXD002594	26267804	Activity-Based Proteomic Profiling of Deubiquitinating Enzymes in Salmonella-Infected Macrophages Leads to Identification of Putative Function of UCH-L5 in Inflammasome Regulation. 	chicken deubiquitinases in Salmonella infection	ubiquitin	Although protein ubiquitination has been shown to regulate multiple processes during host response to Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium infection, specific functions of host deubiquitinating enzymes remain unknown in this bacterial infection. By using chemical proteomics approach, in which deubiquitinating enzymes were labeled by an active-site probe and analyzed by quantitative proteomics, we identified novel deubiquitinases in chicken macrophages based on their reactivity with the probe. Also, we detected down-regulation of UCH-L3, and USP4 as well as up-regulation of USP5 and UCH-L5 deubiquitinating enzymes in macrophages infected with Salmonella Typhimurium. We showed that decrease in either UCH-L5 activity, or in UCH-L5 protein amount in chicken and human macrophages infected or stimulated with LPS/nigericin, led to decreased IL-1beta release. These data point towards a putative role of UCH-L5 in inflammasome regulation during Salmonella infection. Because inflammasome activation is important in innate resistance to these bacteria, one would expect that naturally occurring or therapeutically induced alteration in UCH-L5 activation would influence disease outcome and could represent a target for new therapeutic approaches.
PXD002058	26269332	The Human Tau Interactome: Binding to the Ribonucleoproteome, and Impaired Binding of the Proline-to-Leucine Mutant at Position 301 (P301L) to Chaperones and the Proteasome. 	Tau interactome -  The human tau interactome: binding to the ribonucleoproteome, and impaired binding of the P301L mutant to chaperones and the proteasome	alzheimer, frontotemporal dementia, interactome, tau	The tau protein is central to the etiology of several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, a subset of frontotemporal dementias, progressive supranuclear palsy and dementia following traumatic brain injury, yet the proteins it interacts with have not been studied using a systematic discovery approach. Here we employed mild in vivo crosslinking, isobaric labeling, and tandem mass spectrometry to characterize molecular interactions of human tau in a neuroblastoma cell model. The study revealed a robust association of tau with the ribonucleoproteome, including major protein complexes involved in RNA processing and translation, and documented binding of tau to several heat shock proteins, the proteasome and microtubule-associated proteins. Follow-up experiments determined the relative contribution of cellular RNA to the tau interactome and mapped interactions to N- or C-terminal tau domains. We further document that expression of P301L mutant tau disrupts interactions of the C-terminal half of tau with heat shock proteins and the proteasome. The data are consistent with a model whereby a higher propensity of P301L mutant tau to aggregate may reflect a perturbation of its chaperone-assisted stabilization and proteasome-dependent degradation. Finally, using a global proteomics approach, we show that heterologous expression of a tau construct that lacks the C-terminal domain, including the microtubule binding domain, does not cause a discernible shift of the proteome except for a significant direct correlation of steady-state levels of tau and cystatin B.
PXD002546	26270474	High Resolution Discovery Proteomics Reveals Candidate Disease Progression Markers of Alzheimer's Disease in Human Cerebrospinal Fluid. 	Candidate disease progression biomarkers in AD		Disease modifying treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD) constitute a major goal in medicine. Current trends suggest that biomarkers reflective of AD neuropathology and modifiable by treatment would provide supportive evidence for disease modification. Nevertheless, a lack of quantitative tools to assess disease modifying treatment effects remains a major hurdle. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biochemical markers such as total tau, p-tau and Ab42 are well established markers of AD; however, global quantitative biochemical changes in CSF in AD disease progression remain largely uncharacterized. Here we applied a high resolution open discovery platform, dMS, to profile a cross-sectional cohort of lumbar CSF from post-mortem diagnosed AD patients versus those from non-AD/non-demented (control) patients. Multiple markers were identified to be statistically significant in the cohort tested. We selected two markers SME-1 (p<0.0001) and SME-2 (p = 0.0004) for evaluation in a second independent longitudinal cohort of human CSF from post-mortem diagnosed AD patients and age-matched and case-matched control patients. In cohort-2, SME-1, identified as neuronal secretory protein VGF, and SME-2, identified as neuronal pentraxin receptor-1 (NPTXR), in AD were 21% (p = 0.039) and 17% (p = 0.026) lower, at baseline, respectively, than in controls. Linear mixed model analysis in the longitudinal cohort estimate a decrease in the levels of VGF and NPTXR at the rate of 10.9% and 6.9% per year in the AD patients, whereas both markers increased in controls. Because these markers are detected by mass spectrometry without the need for antibody reagents, targeted MS based assays provide a clear translation path for evaluating selected AD disease-progression markers with high analytical precision in the clinic.
PXD001123	26279304	Oncoprotein ZNF322A transcriptionally deregulates alpha-adducin, cyclin D1 and p53 to promote tumor growth and metastasis in lung cancer. 	ZNF322A_lung cancer_iTRAQ_LC-MSMS	ZNF322A, iTRAQ, lung cancer	ZNF322A encoding a classical Cys2His2 zinc finger transcription factor was previously revealed as a potential oncogene in lung cancer patients. However, the oncogenic role of ZNF322A and its underlying mechanism in lung tumorigenesis remain elusive. Here we show ZNF322A protein overexpression in 123 Asian and 74 Caucasian lung cancer patients. Multivariate Cox regression analysis indicated that ZNF322A was an independent risk factor for a poor outcome in lung cancer, corroborating the Kaplan-Meier results that patients with ZNF322A protein overexpression had significantly poorer overall survival than other patients. Overexpression of ZNF322A promoted cell proliferation and soft agar growth by prolonging cell cycle in S phase in multiple lung cell lines, including the immortalized lung cell BEAS-2B. In addition, ZNF322A overexpression enhanced cell migration and invasion, whereas knockdown of ZNF322A reduced cell growth, invasion and metastasis abilities in vitro and in vivo. Quantitative proteomic analysis revealed potential ZNF322A-regulated downstream targets, including alpha-adducin (ADD1), cyclin D1 (CCND1), and p53. Using luciferase promoter activity assay combined with site-directed mutagenesis and sequential chromatin immunoprecipitation-PCR assay, we found that ZNF322A could form a complex with c-Jun and cooperatively activate ADD1 and CCND1 but repress p53 gene transcription by recruiting differential chromatin modifiers, such as histone deacetylase 3, in an AP-1 element dependent manner. Reconstitution experiments indicated that CCND1 and p53 were important to ZNF322A-mediated promotion of cell proliferation, whereas ADD1 was necessary for ZNF322A-mediated cell migration and invasion. Our results provide compelling evidence that ZNF322A overexpression transcriptionally dysregulates genes involved in cell growth and motility therefore contributes to lung tumorigenesis and poor prognosis.
PXD002598	26286023	Stromal cell-derived factor 2 is critical for Hsp90-dependent eNOS activation. 	eNOS interactors in human cells	Stromal cell-derived factor 2, eNOS	Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) catalyzes the conversion of l-arginine and molecular oxygen into l-citrulline and nitric oxide (NO), a gaseous second messenger that influences cardiovascular physiology and disease. Several mechanisms regulate eNOS activity and function, including phosphorylation at Ser and Thr residues and protein-protein interactions. Combining a tandem affinity purification approach and mass spectrometry, we identified stromal cell-derived factor 2 (SDF2) as a component of the eNOS macromolecular complex in endothelial cells. SDF2 knockdown impaired agonist-stimulated NO synthesis and decreased the phosphorylation of eNOS at Ser(1177), a key event required for maximal activation of eNOS. Conversely, SDF2 overexpression dose-dependently increased NO synthesis through a mechanism involving Akt and calcium (induced with ionomycin), which increased the phosphorylation of Ser(1177) in eNOS. NO synthesis by iNOS (inducible NOS) and nNOS (neuronal NOS) was also enhanced upon SDF2 overexpression. We found that SDF2 was a client protein of the chaperone protein Hsp90, interacting preferentially with the M domain of Hsp90, which is the same domain that binds to eNOS. In endothelial cells exposed to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), SDF2 was required for the binding of Hsp90 and calmodulin to eNOS, resulting in eNOS phosphorylation and activation. Thus, our data describe a function for SDF2 as a component of the Hsp90-eNOS complex that is critical for signal transduction in endothelial cells.
PXD001875	26288071	The Prion Protein Controls Polysialylation of Neural Cell Adhesion Molecule 1 during Cellular Morphogenesis. 	The prion protein contributes to epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in the mouse NMuMG epithelial cell model	Orbitrap fusion, TMT, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, prion protein	Despite its multi-faceted role in neurodegenerative diseases, the physiological function of the prion protein (PrP) has remained elusive. On the basis of its evolutionary relationship to ZIP metal ion transporters, we considered that PrP may contribute to the morphogenetic reprogramming of cells underlying epithelial-to-mesenchymal transitions (EMT). Consistent with this hypothesis, PrP transcription increased more than tenfold during EMT, and stable PrP-deficient cells failed to complete EMT in a mammalian cell model. A global comparative proteomics analysis identified the neural cell adhesion molecule 1 (NCAM1) as a candidate mediator of this impairment, which led to the observation that PrP-deficient cells fail to undergo NCAM1 polysialylation during EMT. Surprisingly, this defect was caused by a perturbed transcription of the polysialyltransferase ST8SIA2 gene. Proteomics data pointed toward beta-catenin as a transcriptional regulator affected in PrP-deficient cells. Indeed, pharmacological blockade or siRNA-based knockdown of beta-catenin mimicked PrP-deficiency in regards to NCAM1 polysialylation. Our data established the existence of a PrP-ST8SIA2-NCAM signaling loop, merged two mature fields of investigation and offer a simple model for explaining phenotypes linked to PrP.
PXD000212	26300262	MCM9 Is Required for Mammalian DNA Mismatch Repair. 	MCM9 is Required for Mammalian DNA Mismatch Repair	MCM9 Human DNA replication helicase MMR mismatch repair	DNA mismatch repair (MMR) is an evolutionarily conserved process that corrects DNA polymerase errors during replication to maintain genomic integrity. In E. coli, the DNA helicase UvrD is implicated in MMR, yet an analogous helicase activity has not been identified in eukaryotes. Here, we show that mammalian MCM9, a protein involved in replication and homologous recombination, forms a complex with MMR initiation proteins (MSH2, MSH3, MLH1, PMS1, and the clamp loader RFC) and is essential for MMR. Mcm9-/- cells display microsatellite instability and MMR deficiency. The MCM9 complex has a helicase activity that is required for efficient MMR since wild-type but not helicase-dead MCM9 restores MMR activity in Mcm9-/- cells. Moreover, MCM9 loading onto chromatin is MSH2-dependent, and in turn MCM9 stimulates the recruitment of MLH1 to chromatin. Our results reveal a role for MCM9 and its helicase activity in mammalian MMR.
PXD002539	26300900	Proteomic and metabolic traits of grape exocarp to explain different anthocyanin concentrations of the cultivars. 	Proteomic study of fruit exocarp tissue in four cultivars of Vitis Vinifera	2-DE, Grape berry, Vitis vinifera	The role of grape berry skin as a protective barrier against damage by physical injuries and pathogen attacks requires a metabolism able to sustain biosynthetic activities such as those relating to secondary compounds (i.e., flavonoids). In order to draw the attention on these biochemical processes, a proteomic and metabolomic comparative analysis was performed among Riesling Italico, Pinot Gris, Pinot Noir, and Croatina cultivars, which are known to accumulate anthocyanins to a different extent. The application of multivariate statistics on the dataset pointed out that the cultivars were distinguishable from each other and the order in which they were grouped mainly reflected their relative anthocyanin contents. Sorting the spots according to their significance 100 proteins were characterized by LC-ESI-MS/MS. Through GC-MS, performed in Selected Ion Monitoring (SIM) mode, 57 primary metabolites were analyzed and the differences in abundance of 16 of them resulted statistically significant to ANOVA test. Considering the functional distribution, the identified proteins were involved in many physiological processes such as stress, defense, carbon metabolism, energy conversion and secondary metabolism. The trends of some metabolites were related to those of the protein data. Taken together, the results permitted to highlight the relationships between the secondary compound pathways and the main metabolism (e.g., glycolysis and TCA cycle). Moreover, the trend of accumulation of many proteins involved in stress responses, reinforced the idea that they could play a role in the cultivar specific developmental plan.
PXD000687	26306318	Quantitative proteomics unravels that the post-transcriptional regulator Crc modulates the generation of vesicles and secreted virulence determinants of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	Comparative study of secretomes and vesicular subproteomes from Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PAO1)	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, quantitation, secretome, vesicles	Crc is a post-transcriptional regulator in Pseudomonas aeruginosa that modulates its metabolism, but also its susceptibility to antibiotics and virulence. Most of P. aeruginosa virulence factors are secreted or engulfed in vesicles. A Crc deficient mutant was created and the extracellular vesicles associated exoproteome and the vesicle-free secretome was quantified using iTRAQ. Fifty vesicles-associated proteins were more abundant and 14 less abundant in the Crc-defective strain, whereas 37 were more abundant and 17 less abundant in the vesicle-free secretome. Different virulence determinants, such as ToxA, protease IV, azurin, chitin-binding protein, PlcB and Hcp1, were less abundant in the Crc-defective mutant. We also observed that the crc mutant presented an impaired vesicle-associated secretion of quorum sensing signal molecules and less cytotoxicity than its wild-type strain, in agreement with the low secretion of proteins related to virulence. Our results offer new insights into the mechanisms by which Crc regulates P. aeruginosa virulence, through the modulation of vesicle formation and secretion of both virulence determinants and quorum sensing signals.
PXD002434	26310817	Deep proteomic profiling of vasopressin-sensitive collecting duct cells. II. Bioinformatic analysis of vasopressin signaling. 	Deep Proteomic Profiling of Vasopressin-Sensitive Collecting Duct Cells	SDS-PAGE, aquaporin-2, differential centrifugation, kidney cortical collection duct	Vasopressin controls osmotic water transport in the renal collecting duct through regulation of aquaporin-2 (AQP2). We carried out bioinformatic analysis of quantitative proteomic data from the accompanying article to investigate the mechanisms involved. The experiments used stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture in cultured mpkCCD cells to quantify each protein species in each of five differential-centrifugation (DC) fractions with or without the vasopressin analog 1-desamino-8-d-arginine-vasopressin (dDAVP). The mass spectrometry data and parallel Western blot experiments confirmed that dDAVP addition is associated with an increase in AQP2 abundance in the 17,000-g pellet and a corresponding decrease in the 200,000-g pellet. Remarkably, all subunits of the cytoplasmic ribosome also increased in the 17,000-g pellet in response to dDAVP (P < 10(-34)), with a concomitant decrease in the 200,000-g pellet. Eukaryotic translation initiation complex 3 (eIF3) subunits underwent parallel changes (P < 10(-6)). These findings are consistent with translocation of assembled ribosomes and eIF3 complexes into the rough endoplasmic reticulum in response to dDAVP. Conversely, there was a systematic decrease in small GTPase abundances in the 17,000-g fraction. In contrast, most proteins, including protein kinases, showed no systematic redistribution among DC fractions. Of the 521 protein kinases coded by the mouse genome, 246 were identified, but many fewer were found to colocalize with AQP2 among DC fractions. Bayes' rule was used to integrate the new colocalization data with prior data to identify protein kinases most likely to phosphorylate aquaporin-2 at Ser(256) (Camk2b > Camk2d > Prkaca) and Ser(261) (Mapk1 = Mapk3 > Mapk14).
PXD001529	26322327	Data from proteomic characterization of the role of Snail1 in murine mesenchymal stem cells and 3T3-L1 fibroblasts differentiation. 	Proteomic characterization of the role of Snail1 in the differentiation of 3T3-L1 fibroblasts	IL-17, LTQ orbitrap Velos, Nr2f6, SILAC, Snail, adipogenesis, obesity	The transcription factor (TF) Snail1 is a major inducer of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) during embryonic development and cancer progression. Ectopic expression of Snail in murine mesenchymal stem cells (mMSC) abrogated their differentiation to osteoblasts or adipocytes. We used either stable isotopic metabolic labeling (SILAC) for 3T3-L1 cells or isobaric labeling with tandem mass tags (TMT) for mMSC stably transfected cells with Snail1 or control. We carried out a proteomic analysis on the nuclear fraction since Snail is a nuclear TF that mediates its effects mainly through the regulation of other TFs. Proteomics data have been deposited in ProteomeXchange via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifiers PXD001529 and PXD002157 (Vizcaino et al., 2014) [1]. Data are associated with a research article published in Molecular and Cellular Proteomics (Pelaez-Garcia et al., 2015) [2].
PXD000794	26324778	Transcription Factor 7 Limits Regulatory T Cell Generation in the Thymus. 	Regulatory T-cell LC-MSMS -  Transcription Factor 7 Limits Regulatory T Cell Generation in the Thymus	Treg	Regulatory T cells (Tregs) differentiate in the thymus, but the mechanisms that control this process are not fully understood. We generated a comprehensive quantitative and differential proteome of murine Tregs and conventional T cells. We identified 5225 proteins, 164 of which were differentially expressed in Tregs. Together with the comparative analysis of proteome and gene expression data, we identified TCF7 as a promising candidate. Genetic elimination of transcription factor 7 (TCF7) led to increased fractions of Tregs in the thymus. Reduced levels of TCF7, found in the heterozygote, resulted in a greater potential for Treg precursors to differentiate into the Treg lineage. In contrast, activation of TCF7 through beta-catenin had the opposite effect. TCF7 levels influenced the required TCR signaling strength of Treg precursors, and TCF7 deficiency broadened the repertoire and allowed lower TCR affinities to be recruited into the Treg lineage. FOXP3 was able to repress TCF7 protein expression. In summary, we propose a regulatory role for TCF7 in limiting access to the Treg lineage.
PXD004376	26330466	Dysregulated miRNA biogenesis downstream of cellular stress and ALS-causing mutations: a new mechanism for ALS. 	SRM quantitative analysis of patients CSF	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Interest in RNA dysfunction in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) recently aroused upon discovering causative mutations in RNA-binding protein genes. Here, we show that extensive down-regulation of miRNA levels is a common molecular denominator for multiple forms of human ALS. We further demonstrate that pathogenic ALS-causing mutations are sufficient to inhibit miRNA biogenesis at the Dicing step. Abnormalities of the stress response are involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration, including ALS. Accordingly, we describe a novel mechanism for modulating microRNA biogenesis under stress, involving stress granule formation and re-organization of DICER and AGO2 protein interactions with their partners. In line with this observation, enhancing DICER activity by a small molecule, enoxacin, is beneficial for neuromuscular function in two independent ALS mouse models. Characterizing miRNA biogenesis downstream of the stress response ties seemingly disparate pathways in neurodegeneration and further suggests that DICER and miRNAs affect neuronal integrity and are possible therapeutic targets.
PXD001812	26330541	Phosphoproteomic Analysis Identifies Focal Adhesion Kinase 2 (FAK2) as a Potential Therapeutic Target for Tamoxifen Resistance in Breast Cancer. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of tamoxifen resistant breast cancer	FAK, SILAC, estrogen receptor, tamoxifen	Tamoxifen, an estrogen receptor-alpha (ER) antagonist, is an important agent for the treatment of breast cancer. However, this therapy is complicated by the fact that a substantial number of patients exhibit either de novo or acquired resistance. To characterize the signaling mechanisms underlying this resistance, we treated the MCF7 breast cancer cell line with tamoxifen for over six months and showed that this cell line acquired resistance to tamoxifen in vitro and in vivo. We performed SILAC-based quantitative phosphoproteomic profiling on the tamoxifen resistant and vehicle-treated sensitive cell lines to quantify the phosphorylation alterations associated with tamoxifen resistance. From >5600 unique phosphopeptides identified, 1529 peptides exhibited hyperphosphorylation and 409 peptides showed hypophosphorylation in the tamoxifen resistant cells. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed that focal adhesion pathway was one of the most enriched signaling pathways activated in tamoxifen resistant cells. Significantly, we showed that the focal adhesion kinase FAK2 was not only hyperphosphorylated but also transcriptionally up-regulated in tamoxifen resistant cells. FAK2 suppression by specific siRNA knockdown or a small molecule inhibitor repressed cellular proliferation in vitro and tumor formation in vivo. More importantly, our survival analysis revealed that high expression of FAK2 is significantly associated with shorter metastasis-free survival in estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen. Our studies suggest that FAK2 is a potential therapeutic target for the management of hormone-refractory breast cancers.
PXD003513	26330542	Protein-Protein Interactions Modulate the Docking-Dependent E3-Ubiquitin Ligase Activity of Carboxy-Terminus of Hsc70-Interacting Protein (CHIP). 	HDX-MS of CHIP wt and K30A mutant	Allostery, Cochaperones, E3-ligase, HDX-MS, TPR-domain, Ubiquitination	CHIP is a tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain protein that functions as an E3-ubiquitin ligase. As well as linking the molecular chaperones to the ubiquitin proteasome system, CHIP also has a docking-dependent mode where it ubiquitinates native substrates, thereby regulating their steady state levels and/or function. Here we explore the effect of Hsp70 on the docking-dependent E3-ligase activity of CHIP. The TPR-domain is revealed as a binding site for allosteric modulators involved in determining CHIP's dynamic conformation and activity. Biochemical, biophysical and modeling evidence demonstrate that Hsp70-binding to the TPR, or Hsp70-mimetic mutations, regulate CHIP-mediated ubiquitination of p53 and IRF-1 through effects on U-box activity and substrate binding. HDX-MS was used to establish that conformational-inhibition-signals extended from the TPR-domain to the U-box. This underscores inter-domain allosteric regulation of CHIP by the core molecular chaperones. Defining the chaperone-associated TPR-domain of CHIP as a manager of inter-domain communication highlights the potential for scaffolding modules to regulate, as well as assemble, complexes that are fundamental to protein homeostatic control.
PXD001683	26332065	Perchlorate and chlorate reduction by the Crenarchaeon Aeropyrum pernix and two thermophilic Firmicutes. 	Aeropyrum pernix K1 LC-MSMS	Aeropyrum, Crenarchaeon, hyperthermophile	This study reports the ability of one hyperthermophilic and two thermophilic microorganisms to grow anaerobically by the reduction of chlorate and perchlorate. Physiological, genomic and proteome analyses suggest that the Crenarchaeon Aeropyrum pernix reduces perchlorate with a periplasmic enzyme related to nitrate reductases, but that it lacks a functional chlorite-disproportionating enzyme (Cld) to complete the pathway. Aeropyrum pernix, previously described as a strictly aerobic microorganism, seems to rely on the chemical reactivity of reduced sulfur compounds with chlorite, a mechanism previously reported for perchlorate-reducing Archaeoglobus fulgidus. The chemical oxidation of thiosulfate (in excessive amounts present in the medium) and the reduction of chlorite result in the release of sulfate and chloride, which are the products of a biotic-abiotic perchlorate reduction pathway in Ae. pernix. The apparent absence of Cld in two other perchlorate-reducing microorganisms, Carboxydothermus hydrogenoformans and Moorella glycerini strain NMP, and their dependence on sulfide for perchlorate reduction is consistent with the observations made on Ar. fulgidus. Our findings suggest that microbial perchlorate reduction at high temperature differs notably from the physiology of perchlorate- and chlorate-reducing mesophiles and that it is characterized by the lack of a chlorite dismutase and is enabled by a combination of biotic and abiotic reactions.
PXD014452	26335048	Fragment ion patchwork quantification for measuring site-specific acetylation degrees. 	Histone acetyltransferase 2 links H4 acetylation, H2A.Z deposition and transcription start site-choice in African trypanosomes	histone acetylation H2A.Z transcription trypanosome	We introduce fragment ion patchwork quantification as a new mass spectrometry-based approach for the highly accurate quantification of site-specific acetylation degrees. This method combines (13)C1-acetyl derivatization on the protein level, proteolysis by low-specificity proteases and quantification on the fragment ion level. Acetylation degrees are determined from the isotope patterns of acetylated b and y ions. We show that this approach allows to determine site-specific acetylation degrees of all lysine residues for all core histones of Trypanosoma brucei. In addition, we demonstrate how this approach can be used to identify substrate sites of histone acetyltransferases.
PXD000741	26338901	Dual Labeling Biotin Switch Assay to Reduce Bias Derived From Different Cysteine Subpopulations: A Method to Maximize S-Nitrosylation Detection. 	TMT-switch assay for the detection of SNO	S-nitrosation, S-nitrosylation, Tandem Mass Tag	RATIONALE: S-nitrosylation (SNO), an oxidative post-translational modification of cysteine residues, responds to changes in the cardiac redox-environment. Classic biotin-switch assay and its derivatives are the most common methods used for detecting SNO. In this approach, the labile SNO group is selectively replaced with a single stable tag. To date, a variety of thiol-reactive tags have been introduced. However, these methods have not produced a consistent data set, which suggests an incomplete capture by a single tag and potentially the presence of different cysteine subpopulations. OBJECTIVE: To investigate potential labeling bias in the existing methods with a single tag to detect SNO, explore if there are distinct cysteine subpopulations, and then, develop a strategy to maximize the coverage of SNO proteome. METHODS AND RESULTS: We obtained SNO-modified cysteine data sets for wild-type and S-nitrosoglutathione reductase knockout mouse hearts (S-nitrosoglutathione reductase is a negative regulator of S-nitrosoglutathione production) and nitric oxide-induced human embryonic kidney cell using 2 labeling reagents: the cysteine-reactive pyridyldithiol and iodoacetyl based tandem mass tags. Comparison revealed that <30% of the SNO-modified residues were detected by both tags, whereas the remaining SNO sites were only labeled by 1 reagent. Characterization of the 2 distinct subpopulations of SNO residues indicated that pyridyldithiol reagent preferentially labels cysteine residues that are more basic and hydrophobic. On the basis of this observation, we proposed a parallel dual-labeling strategy followed by an optimized proteomics workflow. This enabled the profiling of 493 SNO sites in S-nitrosoglutathione reductase knockout hearts. CONCLUSIONS: Using a protocol comprising 2 tags for dual-labeling maximizes overall detection of SNO by reducing the previously unrecognized labeling bias derived from different cysteine subpopulations.
PXD001895	26344131	Analysis of soybean tissue culture protein dynamics using difference gel electrophoresis. 	Soybean Suspension culture analysis	LC-MS, Suspension culture, proteiomics, secretome	Excised hypocotyls from developing soybean (Glycine max (L.) merr. cv. Jack) were cultivated on agar-solidified medium until callus formed. The calli were then propagated in liquid medium until stable, relatively uniform, finely-divided suspension cultures were obtained. Cells were typically transferred to fresh medium at 7-day intervals. Cultures were harvested by filtration five days (early log phase) or eight days (late log phase) after transfer. In order to evaluate dynamic changes, both intracellular and extracellular proteins were analyzed by 2-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis. Selected spots were subjected to in-gel tryptic-digestion and the resultant peptides were analyzed by nLC-MS/MS. In follow-up studies gel-free shot-gun analyses led to identification of 367 intracellular proteins and 188 extracellular proteins. SIGNIFICANCE: The significance of the described research is two-fold. First a gel-based proteomics method was applied to the study of the dynamics of the secretome (extracellular proteins). Second, results of a shot-gun non-gel based proteomic survey of both cellular and extracellular proteins are presented.
PXD002274	26344132	N-Myristoylation of the Rpt2 subunit of the yeast 26S proteasome is implicated in the subcellular compartment-specific protein quality control system. 	Analysis of the ubiquitinated peptides using the yeast Rpt2-normal, G2A and G2delta strains	proteasome, ubiquitin	Ubiquitination is the posttranslational modification of a protein by covalent attachment of ubiquitin. Controlled proteolysis via the ubiquitin-proteasome system (\UPS) alleviates cellular stress by clearing misfolded proteins. In budding yeast, UPS within the nucleus degrades the nuclear proteins as well as proteins imported from the cytoplasm. While the predominantly nuclear localization of the yeast proteasome is maintained by the importin-mediated transport, N-myristoylation of the proteasome subunit Rpt2 was indicated to cause dynamic nucleo-cytoplasmic localization of proteasomes. Here, we quantitatively analyzed the ubiquitinated peptides using anti-K-epsilon-GG antibody in yeast cell lines with or without a mutation in the N-myristoylation site of Rpt2 and detected upregulated ubiquitination of proteins with nucleo-cytoplasmic localizations in the mutant strains. Moreover, both the protein and ubiquitinated peptide levels of two Hsp70 family chaperones involved in the nuclear import of misfolded proteins, Ssa and Sse1, were elevated in the mutant strains, whereas levels of an Hsp70 family chaperone involved in the nuclear export, Ssb, were reduced. Taken together, our results indicate that N-myristoylation of Rpt2 is involved in controlled proteolysis via regulation of the nucleo-cytoplasmic localization of the yeast proteasome.
PXD002670	26350902	Identification of potential drug targets for tuberous sclerosis complex by synthetic screens combining CRISPR-based knockouts with RNAi. 	Drosophila S2R+ / TSC1 / TSC2 mutant phosphoproteomics	Drosophila, TSC1, TSC2, phosphoproteomics	The tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) family of tumor suppressors, TSC1 and TSC2, function together in an evolutionarily conserved protein complex that is a point of convergence for major cell signaling pathways that regulate mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1). Mutation or aberrant inhibition of the TSC complex is common in various human tumor syndromes and cancers. The discovery of novel therapeutic strategies to selectively target cells with functional loss of this complex is therefore of clinical relevance to patients with nonmalignant TSC and those with sporadic cancers. We developed a CRISPR-based method to generate homogeneous mutant Drosophila cell lines. By combining TSC1 or TSC2 mutant cell lines with RNAi screens against all kinases and phosphatases, we identified synthetic interactions with TSC1 and TSC2. Individual knockdown of three candidate genes (mRNA-cap, Pitslre, and CycT; orthologs of RNGTT, CDK11, and CCNT1 in humans) reduced the population growth rate of Drosophila cells lacking either TSC1 or TSC2 but not that of wild-type cells. Moreover, individual knockdown of these three genes had similar growth-inhibiting effects in mammalian TSC2-deficient cell lines, including human tumor-derived cells, illustrating the power of this cross-species screening strategy to identify potential drug targets.
PXD001222	26356563	Global phosphotyrosine survey in triple-negative breast cancer reveals activation of multiple tyrosine kinase signaling pathways. 	Global phosphotyrosine survey reveals activation of multiple tyrosine kinase signaling pathways in triple negative breast cancer	Triple negative breast cancer, phosphorylation, tyrosine phosphorylation	Breast cancer is the most prevalent cancer in women worldwide. About 15-20% of all breast cancers are triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) and are often highly aggressive when compared to other subtypes of breast cancers. To better characterize the biology that underlies the TNBC phenotype, we profiled the phosphotyrosine proteome of a panel of twenty-six TNBC cell lines using quantitative high resolution Fourier transform mass spectrometry. A heterogeneous pattern of tyrosine kinase activation was observed based on 1,789 tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides identified from 969 proteins. One of the tyrosine kinases, AXL, was found to be activated in a majority of aggressive TNBC cell lines and was accompanied by a higher level of AXL expression. High levels of AXL expression are correlated with a significant decrease in patient survival. Treatment of cells bearing activated AXL with a humanized AXL antibody inhibited cell proliferation and migration in vitro, and tumor growth in mice. Overall, our global phosphoproteomic analysis provided new insights into the heterogeneity in the activation status of tyrosine kinase pathways in TNBCs. Our approach presents an effective means of identifying important novel biomarkers and targets for therapy such as AXL in TNBC.
PXD002756	26360816	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses reveal extensive phosphorylation of regulatory proteins in developing rice anthers. 	Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Analyses Reveal Extensive Phosphorylation of Regulatory Proteins in Developing Rice Anthers	Oryza sativa, anther development, meiosis, phosphoproteomics	Anther development, particularly around the time of meiosis, is extremely crucial for plant sexual reproduction. Meanwhile, cell-to-cell communication between somatic (especial tapetum) cells and meiocytes are important for both somatic anther development and meiosis. To investigate possible molecular mechanisms modulating protein activities during anther development, we applied high-resolution mass spectrometry-based proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses for developing rice (Oryza sativa) anthers around the time of meiosis (RAM). In total, we identified 4984 proteins and 3203 phosphoproteins with 8973 unique phosphorylation sites (p-sites). Among those detected here, 1544 phosphoproteins are currently absent in the Plant Protein Phosphorylation DataBase (P3 DB), substantially enriching plant phosphorylation information. Mapman enrichment analysis showed that 'DNA repair','transcription regulation' and 'signaling' related proteins were overrepresented in the phosphorylated proteins. Ten genetically identified rice meiotic proteins were detected to be phosphorylated at a total of 25 p-sites; moreover more than 400 meiotically expressed proteins were revealed to be phosphorylated and their phosphorylation sites were precisely assigned. 163 putative secretory proteins, possibly functioning in cell-to-cell communication, are also phosphorylated. Furthermore, we showed that DNA synthesis, RNA splicing and RNA-directed DNA methylation pathways are extensively affected by phosphorylation. In addition, our data support 46 kinase-substrate pairs predicted by the rice Kinase-Protein Interaction Map, with SnRK1 substrates highly enriched. Taken together, our data revealed extensive protein phosphorylation during anther development, suggesting an important post-translational modification affecting protein activity.
PXD002185	26370134	Proteomic Analysis on Cercariae and Schistosomula in Reference to Potential Proteases Involved in Host Invasion of Schistosoma japonicum Larvae. 	Schistosoma japonicum cercaria and schistosomula	cercaria, schistosoma japonicum, schistosomula	Schistosomiasis is a parasitic zoonosis posing great threat to human health. The infection is acquired by larval cercariae penetrating host skin and transforming into juveniles, schistosomula. Proteolytic enzymes secreted from the cercarial acetabular glands are known to aid to the skin penetration, but molecular mechanisms remain largely unclear. To profile the protein composition and identify potential invasive proteases, we developed a new method for simulating cercarial transformation and collecting schistosomula, and for the first time, we compared the proteomes of Schistosoma japonicum cercariae and schistosomula by using in-gel shotgun proteomic analysis. Totally, 1972 proteins were identified in association with ten main biological processes based on Gene Ontology analysis; 46 proteases were detected in cercariae, and among them, 25 proteases disappeared after penetrated. Notably, leishmanolysins and serine and cysteine proteases were found abundant but differentially expressed. Recombinant serine protease SjCE2b and cysteine protease SjCB2 were produced and used for validation of native proteins. Immunofluorescence and Western blotting assays detected SjCE2b and SjCB2 in cercariae but not in schistosomula, suggesting the two enzymes might be consumed upon skin migration. Our data comprehensively chart the proteomic changes during cercarial invasion, revealing the potential proteases involved, providing a platform for the development of molecular anti-infection strategy.
PXD002214	26371159	Quantitative Proteome Analysis Reveals Increased Content of Basement Membrane Proteins in Arteries From Patients With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Lower Levels Among Metformin Users. 	Quantitative Proteome Analysis Reveals Increased Content of Basement Membrane Proteins in Arteries from Patients with Type 2 Diabetes and Lower Levels among Metformin Users	type 2 diabetes artery proteomics	BACKGROUND: The increased risk of cardiovascular diseases in type 2 diabetes mellitus has been extensively documented, but the origins of the association remain largely unknown. We sought to determine changes in protein expressions in arterial tissue from patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and moreover hypothesized that metformin intake influences the protein composition. METHODS AND RESULTS: We analyzed nonatherosclerotic repair arteries gathered at coronary bypass operations from 30 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and from 30 age- and sex-matched nondiabetic individuals. Quantitative proteome analysis was performed by isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation-labeling and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry analysis on individual arterial samples. The amounts of the basement membrane components, alpha1-type IV collagen and alpha2-type IV collagen, gamma1-laminin and beta2-laminin, were significantly increased in patients with diabetes mellitus. Moreover, the expressions of basement membrane components and other vascular proteins were significantly lower among metformin users when compared with nonusers. Patients treated with or without metformin had similar levels of hemoglobin A1c, cholesterol, and blood pressure. In addition, quantitative histomorphometry showed increased area fractions of collagen-stainable material in tunica intima and media among patients with diabetes mellitus. CONCLUSIONS: The distinct accumulation of arterial basement membrane proteins in type 2 diabetes mellitus discloses a similarity between the diabetic macroangiopathy and microangiopathy and suggests a molecular explanation behind the alterations in vascular remodeling, biomechanical properties, and aneurysm formation described in diabetes mellitus. The lower amounts of basement membrane components in metformin-treated individuals are compatible with the hypothesis of direct beneficial drug effects on the matrix composition in the vasculature.
PXD004406	26376940	Diet-induced neuropeptide expression: feasibility of quantifying extended and highly charged endogenous peptide sequences by selected reaction monitoring. 	Quantifying diet-induced expression of highly charged endogenous neuropeptides in rat hypothalami	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Understanding regulation and action of endogenous peptides, especially neuropeptides, which serve as inter- and intracellular signal transmitters, is key in understanding a variety of functional processes, such as energy balance, memory, circadian rhythm, drug addiction, etc. Therefore, accurate and reproducible quantification of these bioactive endogenous compounds is highly relevant. The biosynthesis of endogenous peptides, involving multiple possible trimming and modification events, hinders the de novo prediction of the active peptide sequences, making MS-based measurements very valuable in determining the actual active compounds. Here, we report an extended selected reaction monitoring (SRM)-based strategy to reproducibly and quantitatively monitor the abundances of a set of 15 endogenously occurring peptides from Rattus norvegicus hypothalamus. We demonstrate that SRM can be extended toward reproducible detection and quantification of peptides, bearing characteristics very different from tryptic peptides. We show that long peptide sequences, producing precursors with up to five and MS2 fragment ions with up to three charges, can be targeted by SRM on a triple quadrupole instrument. Using this approach to quantify endogenous peptide levels in hypothalami of animals subjected to different diets revealed several significant changes, most notably the significant upregulation of VGF-derived signaling peptide AQEE-30 upon high caloric feeding.
PXD001256	26377011	The impact of carbon-13 and deuterium on relative quantification of proteins using stable isotope diethyl labeling. 	Diethylation                  .	Diethylation, OrbitrapXL, reductive amination, retention time shift, stable isotope labeling	RATIONALE: Stable isotopic labeling techniques are useful for quantitative proteomics. A cost-effective and convenient method for diethylation by reductive amination was established. The impact using either carbon-13 or deuterium on quantification accuracy and precision was investigated using diethylation. METHODS: We established an effective approach for stable isotope labeling by diethylation of amino groups of peptides. The approach was validated using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) and nanospray liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization (nanoLC/ESI)-ion trap/orbitrap for mass spectrometric analysis as well as MaxQuant for quantitative data analysis. RESULTS: Reaction conditions with low reagent costs, high yields and minor side reactions were established for diethylation. Furthermore, we showed that diethylation can be applied to up to sixplex labeling. For duplex experiments, we compared diethylation in the analysis of the proteome of HeLa cells using acetaldehyde-(13) C(2)/(12) C(2) and acetaldehyde-(2) H(4)/(1) H(4). Equal numbers of proteins could be identified and quantified; however, (13) C(4)/(12) C(4) -diethylation revealed a lower variance of quantitative peptide ratios within proteins resulting in a higher precision of quantified proteins and less falsely regulated proteins. The results were compared with dimethylation showing minor effects because of the lower number of deuteriums. CONCLUSIONS: The described approach for diethylation of primary amines is a cost-effective and accurate method for up to sixplex relative quantification of proteomes. (13) C(4)/(12) C(4) -diethylation enables duplex quantification based on chemical labeling without using deuterium which reduces identification of false-negatives and increases the quality of the quantification results.
PXD002635	26378887	Evaluation of Kinase Activity Profiling Using Chemical Proteomics. 	Evaluation of of kinase acitivity profiling using chemical proteomics	Activity, Chemical Proteomics, Kinase, Phosphoprotoemics	Protein kinases are important mediators of intracellular signaling and are reversibly activated by phosphorylation. Immobilized kinase inhibitors can be used to enrich these often low-abundance proteins, to identify targets of kinase inhibitors, or to probe their selectivity. It has been suggested that the binding of kinases to affinity beads reflects a kinase's activation status, a concept that is under considerable debate. To assess the merits of the idea, we performed a series of experiments including quantitative phosphoproteomics and purification of kinases by single or mixed affinity matrices from signaling activated or resting cancer cells. The data show that mixed affinity beads largely bind kinases independent of their activation status, and experiments using individual immobilized kinase inhibitors show mixed results in terms of preference for binding the active or inactive conformation. Taken together, activity- or conformation-dependent binding to such affinity resins depends (i) on the kinase, (ii) on the affinity probe, and (iii) on the activation status of the lysate or cell. As a result, great caution should be exercised when inferring kinase activity from such binding data. The results also suggest that assaying kinase activity using binding data is restricted to a limited number of well-chosen cases.
PXD013774	26379230	Thermal proteome profiling for unbiased identification of direct and indirect drug targets using multiplexed quantitative mass spectrometry. 	Protocol for performing and analyzing TPP-TR and TPP-CCR experiments	Panobinostat, TPP-CCR, TPP-TR	The direct detection of drug-protein interactions in living cells is a major challenge in drug discovery research. Recently, we introduced an approach termed thermal proteome profiling (TPP), which enables the monitoring of changes in protein thermal stability across the proteome using quantitative mass spectrometry. We determined the intracellular thermal profiles for up to 7,000 proteins, and by comparing profiles derived from cultured mammalian cells in the presence or absence of a drug we showed that it was possible to identify direct and indirect targets of drugs in living cells in an unbiased manner. Here we demonstrate the complete workflow using the histone deacetylase inhibitor panobinostat. The key to this approach is the use of isobaric tandem mass tag 10-plex (TMT10) reagents to label digested protein samples corresponding to each temperature point in the melting curve so that the samples can be analyzed by multiplexed quantitative mass spectrometry. Important steps in the bioinformatic analysis include data normalization, melting curve fitting and statistical significance determination of compound concentration-dependent changes in protein stability. All analysis tools are made freely available as R and Python packages. The workflow can be completed in 2 weeks.
PXD002166	26379694	Identification of B6T173 (ZmPrx35) as the prevailing peroxidase in highly insect-resistant maize (Zea mays, p84C3) kernels by activity-directed purification. 	Peroxidase B6T173 (ZmPrx35) from insect-resistant maize (Zea mays, p84C3) kernels	activity-directed proteomics, insect resistance, plant peroxidase	Plant peroxidases (PODs) are involved in diverse physiological processes, including defense against pathogens and insects. Contrary to their biological importance, only very few plant PODs have been proven on protein level, because their low abundance makes them difficult to detect in standard proteomics work-flows. A statistically significant positive correlation between POD activity and post-harvest insect resistance has been found for maize (Zea mays, p84C3) kernels. In combining activity-directed protein purification, genomic and proteomic tools we found that protein B6T173 (ZmPrx35) is responsible for the majority of the POD activity of the kernel. We successfully produced recombinant ZmPrx35 protein in Escherichia coli and demonstrate both, in vitro activity and the presence of a haem (heme) cofactor of the enzyme. Our findings support the screening for insect resistant maize variants and the construction of genetically optimized maize plants.
PXD002254	26380837	Data for comparative proteomics of ovaries from five non-model, crustacean amphipods. 	Using proteomics to understand seed development in Phaseolus vulgaris L.: developing resources to modulate seed quality traits	ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, label-free, metabolic pathways, seed development, seed quality, seed trait modulation	Ovaries were taken from five sexually mature amphipods: Gammarus fossarum, Gammarus pulex, Gammarus roeseli, Hyallela azteca and Parhyale hawaiensis. The soluble proteome extracted from individual pair of ovaries from five biological replicates was trypsin digested and the resulting peptides were analyzed by high resolution tandem mass spectrometry. The spectra were assigned with four protein sequence databases with different specificities: a RNAseq-derived G. fossarum database; a RNAseq-derived P. hawaiensis database; both originating from ovaries transcriptome; the Daphnia pulex database derived from whole-genome sequencing and the NCBInr database. The best interpretation was obtained for most animals with the specific RNA-seq protein database previously established by means of RNAseq carried out on G. fossarum. Proteins identified in the five amphipod species allow defining the core-proteome of female reproductive tissues of the Senticaudata suborder. The data accompanying the manuscript describing the database searches and comparative analysis Trapp et al., 2015 [1] have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD002253 (G. fossarum), PXD002254 (G. pulex), PXD002255 (G. roeseli), PXD002256 (H. Azteca), and PXD002257 (P. hawaiensis).
PXD002559	26381121	Phosphoproteome dynamics mediate revival of bacterial spores. 	Phosphoproteome Dynamics Mediate Revival of Bacterial Spores	Bacillus subtilis, Germination, Phosphoproteome, Spore	BACKGROUND: Bacterial spores can remain dormant for decades, yet harbor the exceptional capacity to rapidly resume metabolic activity and recommence life. Although germinants and their corresponding receptors have been known for more than 30 years, the molecular events underlying this remarkable cellular transition from dormancy to full metabolic activity are only partially defined. RESULTS: Here, we examined whether protein phospho-modifications occur during germination, the first step of exiting dormancy, thereby facilitating spore revival. Utilizing Bacillus subtilis as a model organism, we performed phosphoproteomic analysis to define the Ser/Thr/Tyr phosphoproteome of a reviving spore. The phosphoproteome was found to chiefly comprise newly identified phosphorylation sites located within proteins involved in basic biological functions, such as transcription, translation, carbon metabolism, and spore-specific determinants. Quantitative comparison of dormant and germinating spore phosphoproteomes revealed phosphorylation dynamics, indicating that phospho-modifications could modulate protein activity during this cellular transition. Furthermore, by mutating select phosphorylation sites located within proteins representative of key biological processes, we established a functional connection between phosphorylation and the progression of spore revival. CONCLUSIONS: Herein, we provide, for the first time, a phosphoproteomic view of a germinating bacterial spore. We further show that the spore phosphoproteome is dynamic and present evidence that phosphorylation events play an integral role in facilitating spore revival.
PXD004011	26387727	Proteomics of the organohalide-respiring Epsilonproteobacterium Sulfurospirillum multivorans adapted to tetrachloroethene and other energy substrates. 	LC-MS/MS data of Sulfurospirillum multivorans	Epsilonproteobacterium, Organohalide respiration, tetrachloroethene	Organohalide respiration is an environmentally important but poorly characterized type of anaerobic respiration. We compared the global proteome of the versatile organohalide-respiring Epsilonproteobacterium Sulfurospirillum multivorans grown with different electron acceptors (fumarate, nitrate, or tetrachloroethene [PCE]). The most significant differences in protein abundance were found for gene products of the organohalide respiration region. This genomic region encodes the corrinoid and FeS cluster containing PCE reductive dehalogenase PceA and other proteins putatively involved in PCE metabolism such as those involved in corrinoid biosynthesis. The latter gene products as well as PceA and a putative quinol dehydrogenase were almost exclusively detected in cells grown with PCE. This finding suggests an electron flow from the electron donor such as formate or pyruvate via the quinone pool and a quinol dehydrogenase to PceA and the terminal electron acceptor PCE. Two putative accessory proteins, an IscU-like protein and a peroxidase-like protein, were detected with PCE only and might be involved in PceA maturation. The proteome of cells grown with pyruvate instead of formate as electron donor indicates a route of electrons from reduced ferredoxin via an Epsilonproteobacterial complex I and the quinone pool to PCE.
PXD000901	26388441	Kinome-wide decoding of network-attacking mutations rewiring cancer signaling. 	Phospho-networks in Ovarian Cancer Cell Lines	Cancer, Ovarian, Phospho, SILAC, TiO2	Cancer cells acquire pathological phenotypes through accumulation of mutations that perturb signaling networks. However, global analysis of these events is currently limited. Here, we identify six types of network-attacking mutations (NAMs), including changes in kinase and SH2 modulation, network rewiring, and the genesis and extinction of phosphorylation sites. We developed a computational platform (ReKINect) to identify NAMs and systematically interpreted the exomes and quantitative (phospho-)proteomes of five ovarian cancer cell lines and the global cancer genome repository. We identified and experimentally validated several NAMs, including PKCgamma M501I and PKD1 D665N, which encode specificity switches analogous to the appearance of kinases de novo within the kinome. We discover mutant molecular logic gates, a drift toward phospho-threonine signaling, weakening of phosphorylation motifs, and kinase-inactivating hotspots in cancer. Our method pinpoints functional NAMs, scales with the complexity of cancer genomes and cell signaling, and may enhance our capability to therapeutically target tumor-specific networks.
PXD000963	26388710	Proteins from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded prostate cancer sections that predict the risk of metastatic disease. 	Proteins from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded prostate cancer sections that predict the risk of metastatic disease	FFPE / Prognostic biomarkers / Prostate cancer / Proteomics	BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in men and the third leading cause of cancer related deaths among men living in developed countries. Biomarkers that predict disease outcome at the time of initial diagnosis would substantially aid disease management. RESULTS: Proteins extracted from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue were identified using nanoflow liquid chromatography-MALDI MS/MS or after separation by one- or two-dimensional electrophoresis. The proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000963. A list of potential biomarker candidates, based on proposed associations with prostate cancer, was derived from the 320 identified proteins. Candidate biomarkers were then examined by multiplexed Western blotting of archival specimens from men with premetastatic disease and subsequent disease outcome data. Annexin A2 provided the best prediction of risk of metastatic disease (log-rank Chi squared p = 0. 025). A tumor/control tissue >2-fold relative abundance increase predicted early biochemical failure, while <2-fold change predicted late or no biochemical failure. CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms the potential for use of archival FFPE specimens in the search for prognostic biomarkers for prostate cancer and suggests that annexin A2 abundance in diagnostic biopsies is predictive for metastatic potential. Protein profiling each cancer may lead to an overall reduction in mortality from metastatic prostate cancer as well as reduced treatment associated morbidity.
PXD001554	26391970	Chronic exposure to chewing tobacco selects for overexpression of stearoyl-CoA desaturase in normal oral keratinocytes. 	Chronic exposure to chewing tobacco induces growth in normal oral cells via overexpression of Stearoyl-CoA desaturase	Chewing tobacco, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, quantitative proteomics	Chewing tobacco is a common practice in certain socio-economic sections of southern Asia, particularly in the Indian subcontinent and has been well associated with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. The molecular mechanisms of chewing tobacco which leads to malignancy remains unclear. In large majority of studies, short-term exposure to tobacco has been evaluated. From a biological perspective, however, long-term (chronic) exposure to tobacco mimics the pathogenesis of oral cancer more closely. We developed a cell line model to investigate the chronic effects of chewing tobacco. Chronic exposure to tobacco resulted in higher cellular proliferation and invasive ability of the normal oral keratinocytes (OKF6/TERT1). We carried out quantitative proteomic analysis of OKF6/TERT1 cells chronically treated with chewing tobacco compared to the untreated cells. We identified a total of 3,636 proteins among which expression of 408 proteins were found to be significantly altered. Among the overexpressed proteins, stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) was found to be 2.6-fold overexpressed in the tobacco treated cells. Silencing/inhibition of SCD using its specific siRNA or inhibitor led to a decrease in cellular proliferation, invasion and colony forming ability of not only the tobacco treated cells but also in a panel of head and neck cancer cell lines. These findings suggest that chronic exposure to chewing tobacco induced carcinogenesis in non-malignant oral epithelial cells and SCD plays an essential role in this process. The current study provides evidence that SCD can act as a potential therapeutic target in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, especially in patients who are users of tobacco.
PXD002867	26399495	Peptidomics of Circular Cysteine-Rich Plant Peptides: Analysis of the Diversity of Cyclotides from Viola tricolor by Transcriptome and Proteome Mining. 	Peptidomics of circular cysteine-rich plant peptides - Analysis of the diversity of cyclotides from Viola tricolor by transcriptome- and proteome-mining	1kp, Violaceae, circular peptides, cystine-knot, peptidomics, ribosomally synthesized and post-translationally modified peptides natural products, transcriptome	Cyclotides are plant-derived mini proteins. They are genetically encoded as precursor proteins that become post-translationally modified to yield circular cystine-knotted molecules. Because of this structural topology cyclotides resist enzymatic degradation in biological fluids, and hence they are considered as promising lead molecules for pharmaceutical applications. Despite ongoing efforts to discover novel cyclotides and analyze their biodiversity, it is not clear how many individual peptides a single plant specimen can express. Therefore, we investigated the transcriptome and cyclotide peptidome of Viola tricolor. Transcriptome mining enabled the characterization of cyclotide precursor architecture and processing sites important for biosynthesis of mature peptides. The cyclotide peptidome was explored by mass spectrometry and bottom-up proteomics using the extracted peptide sequences as queries for database searching. In total 164 cyclotides were discovered by nucleic acid and peptide analysis in V. tricolor. Therefore, violaceous plants at a global scale may be the source to as many as 150 000 individual cyclotides. Encompassing the diversity of V. tricolor as a combinatorial library of bioactive peptides, this commercially available medicinal herb may be a suitable starting point for future bioactivity-guided screening studies.
PXD002442	26404905	Serum Glycoprotein Biomarker Discovery and Qualification Pipeline Reveals Novel Diagnostic Biomarker Candidates for Esophageal Adenocarcinoma. 	Serum glycoprotein biomarker discovery and qualification pipeline reveals novel diagnostic biomarkers for esophageal adenocarcinoma	Barretts esophagus (BE), Biomarker, Esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC), Glycoprotein, Lectin	We report an integrated pipeline for efficient serum glycoprotein biomarker candidate discovery and qualification that may be used to facilitate cancer diagnosis and management. The discovery phase used semi-automated lectin magnetic bead array (LeMBA)-coupled tandem mass spectrometry with a dedicated data-housing and analysis pipeline; GlycoSelector (http://glycoselector.di.uq.edu.au). The qualification phase used lectin magnetic bead array-multiple reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry incorporating an interactive web-interface, Shiny mixOmics (http://mixomics-projects.di.uq.edu.au/Shiny), for univariate and multivariate statistical analysis. Relative quantitation was performed by referencing to a spiked-in glycoprotein, chicken ovalbumin. We applied this workflow to identify diagnostic biomarkers for esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC), a life threatening malignancy with poor prognosis in the advanced setting. EAC develops from metaplastic condition Barrett's esophagus (BE). Currently diagnosis and monitoring of at-risk patients is through endoscopy and biopsy, which is expensive and requires hospital admission. Hence there is a clinical need for a noninvasive diagnostic biomarker of EAC. In total 89 patient samples from healthy controls, and patients with BE or EAC were screened in discovery and qualification stages. Of the 246 glycoforms measured in the qualification stage, 40 glycoforms (as measured by lectin affinity) qualified as candidate serum markers. The top candidate for distinguishing healthy from BE patients' group was Narcissus pseudonarcissus lectin (NPL)-reactive Apolipoprotein B-100 (p value = 0.0231; AUROC = 0.71); BE versus EAC, Aleuria aurantia lectin (AAL)-reactive complement component C9 (p value = 0.0001; AUROC = 0.85); healthy versus EAC, Erythroagglutinin Phaseolus vulgaris (EPHA)-reactive gelsolin (p value = 0.0014; AUROC = 0.80). A panel of 8 glycoforms showed an improved AUROC of 0.94 to discriminate EAC from BE. Two biomarker candidates were independently verified by lectin magnetic bead array-immunoblotting, confirming the validity of the relative quantitation approach. Thus, we have identified candidate biomarkers, which, following large-scale clinical evaluation, can be developed into diagnostic blood tests. A key feature of the pipeline is the potential for rapid translation of the candidate biomarkers to lectin-immunoassays.
PXD001767	26412298	A Degenerate Cohort of Yeast Membrane Trafficking DUBs Mediates Cell Polarity and Survival. 	Fission yeast DUB substrates	ubiquitin deubiquitinases fission yeast ubiquitination	Deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs), cysteine or metallo- proteases that cleave ubiquitin chains or protein conjugates, are present in nearly every cellular compartment, with overlapping protein domain structure, localization, and functions. We discovered a cohort of DUBs that are involved in membrane trafficking (ubp4, ubp5, ubp9, ubp15, and sst2) and found that loss of all five of these DUBs but not loss of any combination of four, significantly impacted cell viability in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe (1). Here, we delineate the collective and individual functions and activities of these five conserved DUBs using comparative proteomics, biochemistry, and microscopy. We find these five DUBs are degenerate rather than redundant at the levels of cell morphology, substrate selectivity, ubiquitin chain specificity, and cell viability under stress. These studies reveal the complexity of interplay among these enzymes, providing a foundation for understanding DUB biology and providing another example of how cells utilize degeneracy to improve survival.
PXD002488	26415707	Matrix metalloproteinase-9-dependent mechanisms of reduced contractility and increased stiffness in the aging heart. 	Age effects in the extracellular matrix (ECM) proteome of the mouse left ventricle	ECM proteome, aging HPLC-ESI-MS/MS, left ventricle	PURPOSE: Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) collectively degrade all extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Of the MMPs, MMP-9 has the strongest link to the development of cardiac dysfunction. Aging associates with increased MMP-9 expression in the left ventricle (LV) and reduced cardiac function. We investigated the effect of MMP-9 deletion on the cardiac ECM in aged animals. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We used male and female middle-aged (10- to16-month old) and old (20- to 24-month old) wild-type (WT) and MMP-9 null mice (n = 6/genotype/age). LVs were decellularized to remove highly abundant mitochondrial proteins that could mask identification of relative lower abundant components, analyzed by shotgun proteomics, and proteins of interest validated by immunoblot. RESULTS: Elastin microfibril interface-located protein 1 (EMILIN-1) decreased with age in WT (p < 0.05), but not in MMP-9 null. EMILIN-1 promotes integrin-dependent cell adhesion and EMILIN-1 deficiency has been associated with vascular stiffening. Talin-2, a cytoskeletal protein, was elevated with age in WT (p < 0.05), and MMP-9 deficiency blunted this increase. Talin-2 is highly expressed in adult cardiac myocytes, transduces mechanical force to the ECM, and is activated by increases in substrate stiffness. Our results suggest that MMP-9 deletion may reduce age-related myocardial stiffness, which may explain improved cardiac function in MMP-9 null animals. CONCLUSIONS: We identified age-related changes in the cardiac proteome that are MMP-9 dependent, suggesting MMP-9 as a possible therapeutic target for the aging patient.
PXD001992	26416202	Hepatitis C-like viruses are produced in cells from rabbit and hare DNA. 	Hepatitis C-like viruses are produced in cells from rabbit and hare DNA	DNA, HCV, HHCV, Hare, MALDI-TOF/TOF, RHCV, Rabbit	Hepatitis C virus (HCV), a major causative agent of acute and chronic liver disease, belongs to the Flaviviridae family and contains a single-strand positive-sense RNA genome, which upon virus entry and uncoating, functions as mRNAs and thus can be directly translated into proteins by host cell machinery. To date the HCV origin remains unclear and HCV life cycle and pathogenesis are not enlightened processes due to the absence of HCV efficient cell cultures systems or animals models. Here we show that rabbit and hare HCV-like viruses, RHCV and HHCV respectively, are formed after the inoculation of genomic DNA in Madin-Darby bovine kidney cell line cultures. RHCV is closely related to the HCV-1a/HCV-1b genotypes and HHCV is more closely related to the HCV-1b genotype. These findings could contribute to the understanding of HCV origin as well as clarify the virus life cycle, pathogenesis, evolution and diversity.
PXD002186	26419670	Discovery of a Unique Clp Component, ClpF, in Chloroplasts: A Proposed Binary ClpF-ClpS1 Adaptor Complex Functions in Substrate Recognition and Delivery. 	Function of clpF in the clp protease complex	Plant cell, chloroplast, clp complex, coIP, stroma	Clp proteases are found in prokaryotes, mitochondria, and plastids where they play crucial roles in maintaining protein homeostasis (proteostasis). The plant plastid Clp machinery comprises a hetero-oligomeric ClpPRT proteolytic core, ATP-dependent chaperones ClpC and ClpD, and an adaptor protein, ClpS1. ClpS1 selects substrates to the ClpPR protease-ClpC chaperone complex for degradation, but the underlying substrate recognition and delivery mechanisms are currently unclear. Here, we characterize a ClpS1-interacting protein in Arabidopsis thaliana, ClpF, which can interact with the Clp substrate glutamyl-tRNA reductase. ClpF and ClpS1 mutually stimulate their association with ClpC. ClpF, which is only found in photosynthetic eukaryotes, contains bacterial uvrB/C and YccV protein domains and a unique N-terminal domain. We propose a testable model in which ClpS1 and ClpF form a binary adaptor for selective substrate recognition and delivery to ClpC, reflecting an evolutionary adaptation of the Clp system to the plastid proteome.
PXD002724	26419955	Analysis of Proteins That Rapidly Change Upon Mechanistic/Mammalian Target of Rapamycin Complex 1 (mTORC1) Repression Identifies Parkinson Protein 7 (PARK7) as a Novel Protein Aberrantly Expressed in Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC). 	Analysis of proteins that rapidly change upon mTORC1 repression identifies Park7 as a novel protein aberrantly expressed in Tuberous Sclerosis Complex	LC-MS	Many biological processes involve the mechanistic/mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). Thus, the challenge of deciphering mTORC1-mediated functions during normal and pathological states in the central nervous system is challenging. Because mTORC1 is at the core of translation, we have investigated mTORC1 function in global and regional protein expression. Activation of mTORC1 has been generally regarded to promote translation. Few but recent works have shown that suppression of mTORC1 can also promote local protein synthesis. Moreover, excessive mTORC1 activation during diseased states represses basal and activity-induced protein synthesis. To determine the role of mTORC1 activation in protein expression, we have used an unbiased, large-scale proteomic approach. We provide evidence that a brief repression of mTORC1 activity in vivo by rapamycin has little effect globally, yet leads to a significant remodeling of synaptic proteins, in particular those proteins that reside in the postsynaptic density. We have also found that curtailing the activity of mTORC1 bidirectionally alters the expression of proteins associated with epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, and autism spectrum disorder-neurological disorders that exhibit elevated mTORC1 activity. Through a protein-protein interaction network analysis, we have identified common proteins shared among these mTORC1-related diseases. One such protein is Parkinson protein 7, which has been implicated in Parkinson's disease, yet not associated with epilepsy, Alzheimers disease, or autism spectrum disorder. To verify our finding, we provide evidence that the protein expression of Parkinson protein 7, including new protein synthesis, is sensitive to mTORC1 inhibition. Using a mouse model of tuberous sclerosis complex, a disease that displays both epilepsy and autism spectrum disorder phenotypes and has overactive mTORC1 signaling, we show that Parkinson protein 7 protein is elevated in the dendrites and colocalizes with the postsynaptic marker postsynaptic density-95. Our work offers a comprehensive view of mTORC1 and its role in regulating regional protein expression in normal and diseased states.
PXD002001	26421188	Hypoxia Strongly Affects Mitochondrial Ribosomal Proteins and Translocases, as Shown by Quantitative Proteomics of HeLa Cells. 	Human HeLa SILAC LC MS/MS -  Hypoxia Strongly Affects Mitochondrial Ribosomal Proteins and Translocases, as Shown by Quantitative Proteomics of HeLa Cells	HeLa SILAC, hypoxia	Hypoxia is an important and common characteristic of many human tumors. It is a challenge clinically due to the correlation with poor prognosis and resistance to radiation and chemotherapy. Understanding the biochemical response to hypoxia would facilitate the development of novel therapeutics for cancer treatment. Here, we investigate alterations in gene expression in response to hypoxia by quantitative proteome analysis using stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) in conjunction with LCMS/MS. Human HeLa cells were kept either in a hypoxic environment or under normoxic conditions. 125 proteins were found to be regulated, with maximum alteration of 18-fold. In particular, three clusters of differentially regulated proteins were identified, showing significant upregulation of glycolysis and downregulation of mitochondrial ribosomal proteins and translocases. This interaction is likely orchestrated by HIF-1. We also investigated the effect of hypoxia on the cell cycle, which shows accumulation in G1 and a prolonged S phase under these conditions. Implications. This work not only improves our understanding of the response to hypoxia, but also reveals proteins important for malignant progression, which may be targeted in future therapies.
PXD002535	26424599	Top-down and Middle-down Protein Analysis Reveals that Intact and Clipped Human Histones Differ in Post-translational Modification Patterns. 	Middle-down MS analysis of  intact and clipped histone H3 proteoforms	Hepg2/C3A, Histone post-translational modifications, Middle-down MS, liver	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) of histone proteins play a fundamental role in regulation of DNA-templated processes. There is also growing evidence that proteolytic cleavage of histone N-terminal tails, known as histone clipping, influences nucleosome dynamics and functional properties. Using top-down and middle-down protein analysis by mass spectrometry, we report histone H2B and H3 N-terminal tail clipping in human hepatocytes and demonstrate a relationship between clipping and co-existing PTMs of histone H3. Histones H2B and H3 undergo proteolytic processing in primary human hepatocytes and the hepatocellular carcinoma cell line HepG2/C3A when grown in spheroid (3D) culture, but not in a flat (2D) culture. Using tandem mass spectrometry we localized four different clipping sites in H3 and one clipping site in H2B. We show that in spheroid culture clipped H3 proteoforms are mainly represented by canonical histone H3, whereas in primary hepatocytes over 90% of clipped H3 correspond to the histone variant H3.3. Comprehensive analysis of histone H3 modifications revealed a series of PTMs, including K14me1, K27me2/K27me3, and K36me1/me2, which are differentially abundant in clipped and intact H3. Analysis of co-existing PTMs revealed negative crosstalk between H3K36 methylation and H3K23 acetylation in clipped H3. Our data provide the first evidence of histone clipping in human hepatocytes and demonstrate that clipped H3 carry distinct co-existing PTMs different from those in intact H3.
PXD001052	26425690	Discovery and Validation of Predictive Biomarkers of Survival for Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Patients Undergoing Radical Radiotherapy: Two Proteins With Predictive Value. 	Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer patients undergoing radical radiotherapy	Plasma LC-MS Lung Cancer iTRAQ	Lung cancer is the most frequent cause of cancer-related death world-wide. Radiotherapy alone or in conjunction with chemotherapy is the standard treatment for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Currently there is no predictive marker with clinical utility to guide treatment decisions in NSCLC patients undergoing radiotherapy. Identification of such markers would allow treatment options to be considered for more effective therapy. To enable the identification of appropriate protein biomarkers, plasma samples were collected from patients with non-small cell lung cancer before and during radiotherapy for longitudinal comparison following a protocol that carries sufficient power for effective discovery proteomics. Plasma samples from patients pre- and during radiotherapy who had survived > 18 mo were compared to the same time points from patients who survived < 14 mo using an 8 channel isobaric tagging tandem mass spectrometry discovery proteomics platform. Over 650 proteins were detected and relatively quantified. Proteins which showed a change during radiotherapy were selected for validation using an orthogonal antibody-based approach. Two of these proteins were verified in a separate patient cohort: values of CRP and LRG1 combined gave a highly significant indication of extended survival post one week of radiotherapy treatment.
PXD002674	26435392	Integrated Proteomic and Genomic Analysis of Gastric Cancer Patient Tissues. 	Integrated Proteomic and Genomic Analysis of Gastric Cancer Patient Tissues	gastric cancer, patient tissue	V-erb-b2 erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homologue 2, known as ERBB2, is an important oncogene in the development of certain cancers. It can form a heterodimer with other epidermal growth factor receptor family members and activate kinase-mediated downstream signaling pathways. ERBB2 gene is located on chromosome 17 and is amplified in a subset of cancers, such as breast, gastric, and colon cancer. Of particular interest to the Chromosome-Centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP) initiative is the amplification mechanism that typically results in overexpression of a set of genes adjacent to ERBB2, which provides evidence of a linkage between gene location and expression. In this report we studied patient samples from ERBB2-positive together with adjacent control nontumor tissues. In addition, non-ERBB2-expressing patient samples were selected as comparison to study the effect of expression of this oncogene. We detected 196 proteins in ERBB2-positive patient tumor samples that had minimal overlap (29 proteins) with the non-ERBB2 tumor samples. Interaction and pathway analysis identified extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) cascade and actin polymerization and actinmyosin assembly contraction as pathways of importance in ERBB2+ and ERBB2- gastric cancer samples, respectively. The raw data files are deposited at ProteomeXchange (identifier: PXD002674) as well as GPMDB.
PXD001297	26441354	The Nuclear Proteome of a Vertebrate. 	The Nuclear Proteome of a Vertebrate	MultiNotchMS3, Nucleus, TMTC, Xenopus	The composition of the nucleoplasm determines the behavior of key processes such as transcription, yet there is still no reliable and quantitative resource of nuclear proteins. Furthermore, it is still unclear how the distinct nuclear and cytoplasmic compositions are maintained. To describe the nuclear proteome quantitatively, we isolated the large nuclei of frog oocytes via microdissection and measured the nucleocytoplasmic partitioning of ~9,000 proteins by mass spectrometry. Most proteins localize entirely to either nucleus or cytoplasm; only ~17% partition equally. A protein's native size in a complex, but not polypeptide molecular weight, is predictive of localization: partitioned proteins exhibit native sizes larger than ~100 kDa, whereas natively smaller proteins are equidistributed. To evaluate the role of nuclear export in maintaining localization, we inhibited Exportin 1. This resulted in the expected re-localization of proteins toward the nucleus, but only 3% of the proteome was affected. Thus, complex assembly and passive retention, rather than continuous active transport, is the dominant mechanism for the maintenance of nuclear and cytoplasmic proteomes.
PXD002834	26444874	Characterization of an Equine alpha-S2-Casein Variant Due to a 1.3 kb Deletion Spanning Two Coding Exons. 	Characterization of an equine alpha-S2-casein variant	Casein, Equine, LC-MS, Milk	The production and consumption of mare's milk in Europe has gained importance, mainly based on positive health effects and a lower allergenic potential as compared to cows' milk. The allergenicity of milk is to a certain extent affected by different genetic variants. In classical dairy species, much research has been conducted into the genetic variability of milk proteins, but the knowledge in horses is scarce. Here, we characterize two major forms of equine alphaS2-casein arising from genomic 1.3 kb in-frame deletion involving two coding exons, one of which represents an equid specific duplication. Findings at the DNA-level have been verified by cDNA sequencing from horse milk of mares with different genotypes. At the protein-level, we were able to show by SDS-page and in-gel digestion with subsequent LC-MS analysis that both proteins are actually expressed. The comparison with published sequences of other equids revealed that the deletion has probably occurred before the ancestor of present-day asses and zebras diverged from the horse lineage.
PXD004097	26445383	Effect of adipose-derived stromal cells and BMP12 on intrasynovial tendon repair: A biomechanical, biochemical, and proteomics study. 	Canine Flexor Tendon Healing	BMP12, Canine, TOF LC-MS/MS, flexor tendon, stem cell	The outcomes of flexor tendon repair are highly variable. As recent efforts to improve healing have demonstrated promise for growth factor- and cell-based therapies, the objective of the current study was to enhance repair via application of autologous adipose derived stromal cells (ASCs) and the tenogenic growth factor bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) 12. Controlled delivery of cells and growth factor was achieved in a clinically relevant canine model using a nanofiber/fibrin-based scaffold. Control groups consisted of repair-only (no scaffold) and acellular scaffold. Repairs were evaluated after 28 days of healing using biomechanical, biochemical, and proteomics analyses. Range of motion was reduced in the groups that received scaffolds compared to normal. There was no effect of ASC + BMP12 treatment for range of motion or tensile properties outcomes versus repair-only. Biochemical assays demonstrated increased DNA, glycosaminoglycans, and crosslink concentration in all repair groups compared to normal, but no effect of ASC + BMP12. Total collagen was significantly decreased in the acellular scaffold group compared to normal and significantly increased in the ASC + BMP12 group compared to the acellular scaffold group. Proteomics analysis comparing healing tendons to uninjured tendons revealed significant increases in proteins associated with inflammation, stress response, and matrix degradation. Treatment with ASC + BMP12 amplified these unfavorable changes. In summary, the treatment approach used in this study induced a negative inflammatory reaction at the repair site leading to poor healing. Future approaches should consider cell and growth factor delivery methods that do not incite negative local reactions.
PXD002585	26455267	Impact of cathepsin B on the interstitial fluid proteome of murine breast cancers. 	Cathepsin B interstitial fluid proteome of murine breast cancers	Interstitial fluid, Q Exactive plus	Carcinomas establish a molecular cross talk between malignant tumor cells and the activated non-malignant cells of the tumor stroma. This cell-cell communication in tumor-stroma interaction includes soluble, secreted proteins that act in a paracrine or autocrine manner. Proteases are crucial factors in tumor-stroma interaction by degrading or truncating secreted bioactive proteins. The cysteine protease cathepsin B is frequently overexpressed in several cancer types, including breast cancer. Its abundance often correlates with poor prognosis. In the murine polyoma virus middle T oncogene (PyMT) breast cancer model, cathepsin B is equally pro-tumorigenic. In this study, we investigate how cathepsin B shapes the secreted proteome of PyMT breast cancers. We employed a novel strategy to harvest tumor interstitial fluid (IF) in combination with chemical stable isotope tagging for quantitative proteomic comparison of IF stemming from PyMT tumors from wild-type mice, mice lacking cathepsin B, and mice over-expressing human cathepsin B. In three biological replicates, we achieve good proteome coverage (~1700 proteins), with a large content (>70%) of secreted proteins. This characterizes IF as a robust source for the investigation of cancer secretomes. We also identified a large number of shed ectodomains, thus highlighting the importance of tumor-contextual cell surface proteolysis. Furthermore, IF contained >190 proteases and protease inhibitors, which span the entire range of absolute protein abundances; an observation testifying for an important role of proteolysis in tumor-stroma interaction. The cathepsin B genotype consistently affected proteins including alpha-1B-glycoprotein and major urinary proteins 11 and 8 (MUP8). Our study establishes tumor IF as a rich source for the investigation of secreted proteins in tumor biology and sheds light on complex proteolytic networks in the breast cancer secretome.
PXD002669	26463340	Pathology Tissue-quantitative Mass Spectrometry Analysis to Profile Histone Post-translational Modification Patterns in Patient Samples. 	Pathology tissue-quantitative mass spectrometry analysis to profile  histone post-translational modification patterns in patient samples	FFPE, biomarker, cancer, epigenetics, super-SILAC	Histone post-translational modifications (hPTMs) generate a complex combinatorial code that has been implicated with various pathologies, including cancer. Dissecting such a code in physiological and diseased states may be exploited for epigenetic biomarker discovery, but hPTM analysis in clinical samples has been hindered by technical limitations. Here, we developed a method (PAThology tissue analysis of Histones by Mass Spectrometry - PAT-H-MS) that allows to perform a comprehensive, unbiased and quantitative MS-analysis of hPTM patterns on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) samples. In pairwise comparisons, histone extracted from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues showed patterns similar to fresh frozen samples for 24 differentially modified peptides from histone H3. In addition, when coupled with a histone-focused version of the super-SILAC approach, this method allows the accurate quantification of modification changes among breast cancer patient samples. As an initial application of the PAThology tissue analysis of Histones by Mass Spectrometry method, we analyzed breast cancer samples, revealing significant changes in histone H3 methylation patterns among Luminal A-like and Triple Negative disease subtypes. These results pave the way for retrospective epigenetic studies that combine the power of MS-based hPTM analysis with the extensive clinical information associated with formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded archives.
PXD002557	26465754	Novel Endogenous, Insulin-Stimulated Akt2 Protein Interaction Partners in L6 Myoblasts. 	Akt2 partners L6 myoblasts -  Novel Endogenous, Insulin-Stimulated Akt2 Protein Interaction Partners in L6 Myoblasts	Akt2, HPLC-ESI-MS/MS, ROCK2	Insulin resistance and Type 2 diabetes are marked by an aberrant response in the insulin signaling network. The phosphoinositide-dependent serine/threonine kinase, Akt2, plays a key role in insulin signaling and glucose uptake, most notably within skeletal muscle. Protein-protein interaction regulates the functional consequence of Akt2 and in turn, Akt2's role in glucose uptake. However, only few insulin-responsive Akt2 interaction partners have been identified in skeletal muscle cells. In the present work, rat L6 myoblasts, a widely used insulin sensitive skeletal muscle cell line, were used to examine endogenous, insulin-stimulated Akt2 protein interaction partners. Akt2 co-immunoprecipitation was coupled with 1D-SDS-PAGE and fractions were analyzed by HPLC-ESI-MS/MS to reveal Akt2 protein-protein interactions. The pull-down assay displayed specificity for the Akt2 isoform; Akt1 and Akt3 unique peptides were not detected. A total of 49 were detected with a significantly increased (47) or decreased (2) association with Akt2 following insulin administration (n = 4; p<0.05). Multiple pathways were identified for the novel Akt2 interaction partners, such as the EIF2 and ubiquitination pathways. These data suggest that multiple new endogenous proteins may associate with Akt2 under basal as well as insulin-stimulated conditions, providing further insight into the insulin signaling network. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002557.
PXD001197	26468156	Cellular Signature of SIL1 Depletion: Disease Pathogenesis due to Alterations in Protein Composition Beyond the ER Machinery. 	SIL1-depleted HEK293 cells -  Cellular Signature of SIL1 Depletion: Disease Pathogenesis due to Alterations in Protein Composition Beyond the ER Machinery	HEK293, SIL1	SIL1 acts as nucleotide exchange factor for the endoplasmic reticulum chaperone BiP. Mutations of SIL1 cause Marinesco-Sjoegren syndrome (MSS), a neurodegenerative disorder. Moreover, a particular function of SIL1 for etiopathology of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was highlighted, thus declaring the functional SIL1-BiP complex as a modifier for neurodegenerative disorders. Thereby, depletion of SIL1 was associated with an earlier manifestation and in strengthened disease progression in ALS. Owing to the absence of appropriate in vitro models, the precise cellular pathophysiological mechanisms leading to neurodegeneration in MSS and triggering the same in further disorders like ALS are still elusive. We found that SIL1 depletion in human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells led to structural changes of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) including the nuclear envelope and mitochondrial degeneration that closely mimic pathological alterations in MSS and ALS. Functional studies revealed disturbed protein transport, cytotoxicity with reduced proliferation and viability, accompanied by activation of cellular defense mechanisms including the unfolded protein response, ER-associated degradation pathway, proteolysis, and expression of apoptotic and survival factors. Our data moreover indicated that proteins involved in cytoskeletal organization, vesicular transport, mitochondrial function, and neurological processes contribute to SIL1 pathophysiology. Altered protein expression upon SIL1 depletion in vitro could be confirmed in Sil1-deficient motoneurones for paradigmatic proteins belonging to different functional classes. Our results demonstrate that SIL1-depleted HEK293 cells are an appropriate model to identify proteins modulated by SIL1 expression level and contributing to neurodegeneration in MSS and further disorders like ALS. Thereby, our combined results point out that proteins beyond such involved ER-related protein processing are affected by SIL1 depletion.
PXD002127	26471730	Phosphoproteomic screening identifies Rab GTPases as novel downstream targets of PINK1. 	Phosphoproteome of PINK1 in HEK293 cells	HEK293, PINK1, parkinsons disease, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation	Mutations in the PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) are causative of autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease (PD). We have previously reported that PINK1 is activated by mitochondrial depolarisation and phosphorylates serine 65 (Ser(65)) of the ubiquitin ligase Parkin and ubiquitin to stimulate Parkin E3 ligase activity. Here, we have employed quantitative phosphoproteomics to search for novel PINK1-dependent phosphorylation targets in HEK (human embryonic kidney) 293 cells stimulated by mitochondrial depolarisation. This led to the identification of 14,213 phosphosites from 4,499 gene products. Whilst most phosphosites were unaffected, we strikingly observed three members of a sub-family of Rab GTPases namely Rab8A, 8B and 13 that are all phosphorylated at the highly conserved residue of serine 111 (Ser(111)) in response to PINK1 activation. Using phospho-specific antibodies raised against Ser(111) of each of the Rabs, we demonstrate that Rab Ser(111) phosphorylation occurs specifically in response to PINK1 activation and is abolished in HeLa PINK1 knockout cells and mutant PINK1 PD patient-derived fibroblasts stimulated by mitochondrial depolarisation. We provide evidence that Rab8A GTPase Ser(111) phosphorylation is not directly regulated by PINK1 in vitro and demonstrate in cells the time course of Ser(111) phosphorylation of Rab8A, 8B and 13 is markedly delayed compared to phosphorylation of Parkin at Ser(65). We further show mechanistically that phosphorylation at Ser(111) significantly impairs Rab8A activation by its cognate guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF), Rabin8 (by using the Ser111Glu phosphorylation mimic). These findings provide the first evidence that PINK1 is able to regulate the phosphorylation of Rab GTPases and indicate that monitoring phosphorylation of Rab8A/8B/13 at Ser(111) may represent novel biomarkers of PINK1 activity in vivo. Our findings also suggest that disruption of Rab GTPase-mediated signalling may represent a major mechanism in the neurodegenerative cascade of Parkinson's disease.
PXD004375	26471814	Plasma preparation to measure FDA-approved protein markers by selected reaction monitoring. 	Human 18 FDA approved plasma proteins	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	BACKGROUND: The development of commercially available panels for human blood plasma screening via selected reaction monitoring (SRM) offers reliable, cost-efficient and highly-standardized discovery and validation of protein biomarkers. However, protein detection by SRM can be hampered by interfering peptide fragment ions. To estimate the influence of interference on protein detection, we performed different types of sample preparation and implemented SRM measurements for well-characterized protein targets approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. METHODS: We used the PlasmaDeepDive(TM) SRM assay from BiognoSYS AG for absolute quantification of 18 proteins in 19 samples of human plasma using three different protocols for sample preparation. SRM measurements were performed using iRT standards for retention time normalization and isotopically-labeled reference peptides for absolute quantification. SpectroDive(TM) software was used for automated detection of reliable peak groups. RESULTS: Fourteen targeted proteins were quantitatively measured in more than half of the samples. Depletion of highly-abundant plasma proteins and peptide fraction clean-up on centrifuge plates resulted in detection of all 18 targeted proteins in femtomolar to picomolar concentrations. CONCLUSIONS: It was shown that commercially designed SRM kits are suitable for SRM detection of well-established plasma/serum biomarkers.
PXD002339	26474164	In-Depth, Label-Free Analysis of the Erythrocyte Cytoplasmic Proteome in Diamond Blackfan Anemia Identifies a Unique Inflammatory Signature. 	Cytoplasmic erythrocyte proteome in Diamond Blackfan Anemia	erythrocyte	Diamond Blackfan Anemia (DBA) is a rare, congenital erythrocyte aplasia that is usually caused by haploinsufficiency of ribosomal proteins due to diverse mutations in one of several ribosomal genes. A striking feature of this disease is that a range of different mutations in ribosomal proteins results in similar disease phenotypes primarily characterized by erythrocyte abnormalities and macrocytic anemia, while most other cell types in the body are minimally affected. Previously, we analyzed the erythrocyte membrane proteomes of several DBA patients and identified several proteins that are not typically associated with this cell type and that suggested inflammatory mechanisms contribute to the pathogenesis of DBA. In this study, we evaluated the erythrocyte cytosolic proteome of DBA patients through in-depth analysis of hemoglobin-depleted erythrocyte cytosols. Simple, reproducible, hemoglobin depletion using nickel columns enabled in-depth analysis of over 1000 cytosolic erythrocyte proteins with only moderate total analysis time per proteome. Label-free quantitation and statistical analysis identified 29 proteins with significantly altered abundance levels in DBA patients compared to matched healthy control donors. Proteins that were significantly increased in DBA erythrocyte cytoplasms included three proteasome subunit beta proteins that make up the immunoproteasome and proteins induced by interferon-gamma such as n-myc interactor and interferon-induced 35 kDa protein [NMI and IFI35 respectively]. Pathway analysis confirmed the presence of an inflammatory signature in erythrocytes of DBA patients and predicted key upstream regulators including mitogen activated kinase 1, interferon-gamma, tumor suppressor p53, and tumor necrosis factor. These results show that erythrocytes in DBA patients are intrinsically different from those in healthy controls which may be due to an inflammatory response resulting from the inherent molecular defect of ribosomal protein haploinsufficiency or changes in the bone marrow microenvironment that leads to red cell aplasia in DBA patients.
PXD001578	2647931	Myocardial tissue blood flow in allotransplanted rat heart with a special reference to acute rejection. 	Proteomic/phosphoproteomic analysis of isolated adhesion complexes	adhesion, integrin, phosphoproteomics, signalling	To evaluate the severity of acute rejection of the homologous heart, myocardial tissue blood flow was measured after a heterotopic heart transplantation in rats. The autograft group (Lewis to Lewis) and the allograft group (DA to Lewis) were compared by graft survival time, myocardial tissue blood flow, myocardial water content, and degrees of histologic alterations. Average graft survival times were longer than 100 days in the autograft group and 5.9 +/- 0.4 days in the allograft group. In the autograft group, myocardial tissue blood flows on postoperative days 1 and 5 were 206 +/- 12 and 189 +/- 18 ml/min/100 gm myocardial wet weight in the left ventricle and 205 +/- 11 and 188 +/- 12 ml/min/100 gm myocardial wet weight in the right ventricle, respectively. In the allograft group, myocardial tissue blood flows on postoperative days 1, 3, and 5 were 222 +/- 30, 164 +/- 22, and 141 +/- 49 ml/min/100 gm myocardial wet weight in the left ventricle and 202 +/- 17, 156 +/- 15, and 147 +/- 46 ml/min/100 gm myocardial wet weight in the right ventricle, respectively. Myocardial tissue blood flows in both ventricles showed significant decreases on days 3 and 5 as compared with those on day 1. Myocardial water content did not alter significantly by day 5 in the autograft group, registering 77.9% +/- 0.6% and 78.4% +/- 1.6%. Myocardial water contents in the allograft group increased significantly as rejection progressed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
PXD002743	26479789	The phosphatase DUSP2 controls the activity of the transcription activator STAT3 and regulates TH17 differentiation. 	DUSP2 dephosphorylates STAT3 at Y705 and S727 residues	DUSP2, STAT3, phosphorylation	Deregulation of the TH17 subset of helper T cells is closely linked with immunological disorders and inflammatory diseases. However, the mechanism by which TH17 cells are regulated remains elusive. Here we found that the phosphatase DUSP2 (PAC1) negatively regulated the development of TH17 cells. DUSP2 was directly associated with the signal transducer and transcription activator STAT3 and attenuated its activity through dephosphorylation of STAT3 at Tyr705 and Ser727. DUSP2-deficient mice exhibited severe susceptibility to experimental colitis, with enhanced differentiation of TH17 cells and secretion of proinflammatory cytokines. In clinical patients with ulcerative colitis, DUSP2 was downregulated by DNA methylation and was not induced during T cell activation. Our data demonstrate that DUSP2 is a true STAT3 phosphatase that modulates the development of TH17 cells in the autoimmune response and inflammation.
PXD002571	26480475	Tissue matrix arrays for high-throughput screening and systems analysis of cell function. 	Tissue and organ matrix arrays for high throughput screening and systems analysis of cell function	ECM, matrix, organ array, tissue array	Cell and protein arrays have demonstrated remarkable utility in the high-throughput evaluation of biological responses; however, they lack the complexity of native tissue and organs. Here we spotted tissue extracellular matrix (ECM) particles as two-dimensional (2D) arrays or incorporated them with cells to generate three-dimensional (3D) cell-matrix microtissue arrays. We then investigated the responses of human stem, cancer and immune cells to tissue ECM arrays originating from 11 different tissues. We validated the 2D and 3D arrays as representative of the in vivo microenvironment by means of quantitative analysis of tissue-specific cellular responses, including matrix production, adhesion and proliferation, and morphological changes after culture. The biological outputs correlated with tissue proteomics, and network analysis identified several proteins linked to cell function. Our methodology enables broad screening of ECMs to connect tissue-specific composition with biological activity, providing a new resource for biomaterials research and further understanding of regeneration and disease mechanisms.
PXD002633	26483418	Rosuvastatin Alters the Proteome of High Density Lipoproteins: Generation of alpha-1-antitrypsin Enriched Particles with Anti-inflammatory Properties. 	Effect of Rosuvastatin on the Lipoprotein Proteome	HDL, LDL, Rosuvastatin, lipoprotein, statin	Statins lower plasma cholesterol by as much as 50%, thus reducing future cardiovascular events. However, the physiological effects of statins are diverse and not all are related to low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering. We performed a small clinical pilot study to assess the impact of statins on lipoprotein-associated proteins in healthy individuals (n = 10) with normal LDL-C (<130 mg/dL), who were treated with rosuvastatin (20 mg/day) for 28 days. Proteomic analysis of size-exclusion chromatography isolated LDL, large high density lipoprotein (HDL-L), and small HDL (HDL-S) fractions and spectral counting was used to compare relative protein detection before and after statin therapy. Significant protein changes were found in each lipoprotein pool and included both increases and decreases in several proteins involved in lipoprotein metabolism, complement regulation and acute phase response. The most dramatic effect of the rosuvastatin treatment was an increase in alpha-1-antirypsin (A1AT) spectral counts associated with HDL-L particles. Quantitative measurement by ELISA confirmed an average 5.7-fold increase in HDL-L associated A1AT. Molecular modeling predictions indicated that the hydrophobic reactive center loop of A1AT, the functional domain responsible for its protease inhibitor activity, is likely involved in lipid binding and association with HDL was found to protect A1AT against oxidative inactivation. Cell culture experiments, using J774 macrophages, demonstrated that the association of A1AT with HDL enhances its antiprotease activity, preventing elastase induced production of tumor necrosis factor alpha. In conclusion, we show that statins can significantly alter the protein composition of both LDL and HDL and our studies reveal a novel functional relationship between A1AT and HDL. The up-regulation of A1AT on HDL enhances its anti-inflammatory functionality, which may contribute to the non-lipid lowering beneficial effects of statins.
PXD001834	26486419	Changes in Protein Expression and Lysine Acetylation Induced by Decreased Glutathione Levels in Astrocytes. 	Adaptative changes in protein expression and lysine acetylation induced by decreased glutathione levels in astrocytes	Acetyl, Astrocytes, SILAC	Astrocytes and neurons form a highly specialized functional unit, and the loss or gain of astrocytic functions can influence the initiation and progression of different neurodegenerative diseases. Neurons depend on the antioxidant protection provided by neighboring astrocytes. Glutathione (gamma-l-glutamyl-l-cysteinyl-glycine) is a major component of the antioxidant system that defends cells against the toxic effects of reactive oxygen/nitrogen species. A decline in glutathione levels has been observed in aging and neurodegenerative diseases, and it aggravates the pathology in an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-mouse model. Using a SILAC-based quantitative proteomic approach, we analyzed changes in global protein expression and lysine acetylation in primary astrocyte cultures obtained from wild-type mice or those deficient in the glutamate-cysteine ligase modifier subunit (GCLM). GCLM knockout astrocytes display an ~80% reduction in total glutathione levels. We identified potential molecular targets and novel sites of acetylation that are affected by the chronic decrease in glutathione levels and observed a response mediated by Nrf2 activation. In addition, sequence analysis of peptides displaying increased acetylation in GCLM knockout astrocytes revealed an enrichment of cysteine residues in the vicinity of the acetylation site, which suggests potential crosstalk between lysine-acetylation and cysteine modification. Regulation of several metabolic and antioxidant pathways was observed at the level of protein expression and lysine acetylation, revealing a coordinated response involving transcriptional and posttranslational regulation.
PXD003043	26487105	Comprehensive Analysis of in Vivo Phosphoproteome of Mouse Liver Microsomes. 	mouse liver microsomes phosphorylation with LC-MS/MS	TiO2, mouse liver microsome, phosphorylation	Protein phosphorylation at serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues are some of the most widespread reversible post-translational modifications. Microsomes are vesicle-like bodies, not ordinarily present within living cells, which form from pieces of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), plasma membrane, mitochondria, or Golgi apparatus of broken eukaryotic cells. Here we investigated the total phosphoproteome of mouse liver microsomes (MLMs) using TiO2 enrichment of phosphopeptides coupled to on-line 2D-LC-MS/MS. In total, 699 phosphorylation sites in 527 proteins were identified in MLMs. When compared with the current phosphoSitePlus database, 155 novel phosphoproteins were identified in MLM. The distributions of phosphosites were 89.4, 8.0, and 2.6% for phosphoserine, phosphotheronine, and phosphotyrosine, respectively. By Motif-X analysis, eight Ser motifs and one Thr motif were found, and five acidic, two basophilic-, and two proline-directed motifs were assigned. The potential functions of phosphoproteins in MLM were assigned by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis. In GO annotation, phosphorylated microsomal proteins were involved in mRNA processing, mRNA metabolic processes, and RNA splicing. In the KEGG pathway analysis, phosphorylated microsomal proteins were highly enriched in ribosome protein processing in ER and ribosomes and in RNA transport. Furthermore, we determined that 52 and 23 phosphoproteins were potential substrates of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A and casein kinase II, respectively, many of which are 40S/60S ribosomal proteins. Overall, our results provide an overview of features of protein phosphorylation in MLMs that should be a valuable resource for the future understanding of protein synthesis or translation involving phosphorylation.
PXD001903	26493364	Integrated multi-omics analyses reveal the pleiotropic nature of the control of gene expression by Puf3p. 	Proteomics analysis of the effect of deletion of PUF3 on yeast via LC-MSMS.	Label-free quantification	The PUF family of RNA-binding proteins regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally. Saccharomyces cerevisiae Puf3p is characterised as binding nuclear-encoded mRNAs specifying mitochondrial proteins. Extensive studies of its regulation of COX17 demonstrate its role in mRNA decay. Using integrated genome-wide approaches we define an expanded set of Puf3p target mRNAs and quantitatively assessed the global impact of loss of PUF3 on gene expression using mRNA and polysome profiling and quantitative proteomics. In agreement with prior studies, our sequencing of affinity-purified Puf3-TAP associated mRNAs (RIP-seq) identified mRNAs encoding mitochondrially-targeted proteins. Additionally, we also found 720 new mRNA targets that predominantly encode proteins that enter the nucleus. Comparing transcript levels in wild-type and puf3increment cells revealed that only a small fraction of mRNA levels alter, suggesting Puf3p determines mRNA stability for only a limited subset of its target mRNAs. Finally, proteomic and translatomic studies suggest that loss of Puf3p has widespread, but modest, impact on mRNA translation. Taken together our integrated multi-omics data point to multiple classes of Puf3p targets, which display coherent post-transcriptional regulatory properties and suggest Puf3p plays a broad, but nuanced, role in the fine-tuning of gene expression.
PXD003018	26498687	Myeloma cells can corrupt senescent mesenchymal stromal cells and impair their anti-tumor activity. 	Myeloma cancer cells can corrupt mesenchymal stromal senescent cells and impair their anti-tumor activity	Mesenchymal stem cells, apoptosis, cancer, secretome, senescence	Senescent cells secrete several molecules that help to prevent the progression of cancer. However, cancer cells can also misuse these secreted elements to survive and grow. Since the molecular and functional bases of these different elements remain poorly understood, we analyzed the effect of senescent mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) secretome on the biology of ARH-77 myeloma cells. In addition to differentiating in mesodermal derivatives, MSCs have sustained interest among researchers by supporting hematopoiesis, contributing to tissue homeostasis, and modulating inflammatory response, all activities accomplished primarily by the secretion of cytokines and growth factors. Moreover, senescence profoundly affects the composition of MSC secretome. In this study, we induced MSC senescence by oxidative stress, DNA damage, and replicative exhaustion. While the first two are considered to induce acute senescence, extensive proliferation triggers replicative (i.e., chronic) senescence. We cultivated cancer cells in the presence of acute and chronic senescent MSC-conditioned media and evaluated their proliferation, DNA damage, apoptosis, and senescence. Our findings revealed that senescent secretomes induced apoptosis or senescence, if not both, to different extents. This anti-tumor activity became heavily impaired when secretomes were collected from senescent cells previously in contact (i.e., primed) with cancer cells. Our analysis of senescent MSC secretomes with LC-MS/MS followed by Gene Ontology classification further indicated that priming with cancer profoundly affected secretome composition by abrogating the production of pro-senescent and apoptotic factors. We thus showed for the first time that compared with cancer-primed MSCs, naive senescent MSCs can exert different effects on tumor progression.
PXD002985	26499837	Proteomic Analysis Revealed the Important Role of Vimentin in Human Cervical Carcinoma HeLa Cells Treated With Gambogic Acid. 	ProteomicanalysisrevealedtheimportantroleofvimentininhumancervicalcarcinomaHeLacellstreatedwithgambogicacid	anti-cancer, gambogic acid, vimentin	Gambogic acid (GA) is an anticancer agent in phase IIb clinical trial in China. In HeLa cells, GA inhibited cell proliferation, induced cell cycle arrest at G2/M phase and apoptosis, as showed by results of MTT assay and flow cytometric analysis. Possible target-related proteins of GA were searched using comparative proteomic analysis (2-DE) and nine proteins at early (3 h) stage together with nine proteins at late (24 h) stage were found. Vimentin was the only target-related protein found at both early and late stage. Results of both 2-DE analysis and Western blotting assay suggested cleavage of vimentin induced by GA. MS/MS analysis of cleaved vimentin peptides indicated possible cleavage sites of vimentin at or near ser51 and glu425. Results of targeted proteomic analysis showed that GA induced change in phosphorylation state of the vimentin head domain (aa51-64). Caspase inhibitors could not abrogate GA-induced cleavage of vimentin. Over-expression of vimentin ameliorated cytotoxicity of GA in HeLa cells. The GA-activated signal transduction, from p38 MAPK, heat shock protein 27 (HSP27), vimentin, dysfunction of cytoskeleton, to cell death, was predicted and then confirmed. Results of animal study showed that GA treatment inhibited tumor growth in HeLa tumor-bearing mice and cleavage of vimentin could be observed in tumor xenografts of GA-treated animals. Results of immunohistochemical staining also showed down-regulated vimentin level in tumor xenografts of GA-treated animals. Furthermore, compared with cytotoxicity of GA in HeLa cells, cytotoxicity of GA in MCF-7 cells with low level of vimentin was weaker whereas cytotoxicity of GA in MG-63 cells with high level of vimentin was stronger. These results indicated the important role of vimentin in the cytotoxicity of GA. The effects of GA on vimentin and other epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers provided suggestion for better usage of GA in clinic.
PXD001483	26500610	Proteomics identifies Bacillus cereus EntD as a pivotal protein for the production of numerous virulence factors. 	Bacillus cereus proteomics (Intraproteome)	intraproteome, shotgun proteomics, toxin	Bacillus cereus is a Gram-positive pathogen that causes a wide variety of diseases in humans. It secretes into the extracellular milieu proteins that may contribute directly or indirectly to its virulence. EntD is a novel exoprotein identified by proteogenomics of B. cereus ATCC 14579. We constructed a DeltaentD mutant and analyzed the impact of entD disruption on the cellular proteome and exoproteome isolated from early, late, and stationary-phase cultures. We identified 308 and 79 proteins regulated by EntD in the cellular proteome and the exoproteome, respectively. The contribution of these proteins to important virulence-associated functions, including central metabolism, cell structure, antioxidative ability, cell motility, and toxin production, are presented. The proteomic data were correlated with the growth defect, cell morphology change, reduced motility, and reduced cytotoxicity of the DeltaentD mutant strain. We conclude that EntD is an important player in B. cereus virulence. The function of EntD and the putative EntD-dependent regulatory network are discussed. To our knowledge, this study is the first characterization of an Ent family protein in a species of the B. cereus group.
PXD000517	26501113	Host Protein Biomarkers Identify Active Tuberculosis in HIV Uninfected and Co-infected Individuals. 	Discovery of serum protein biomarkers of Active Tuberculosis in HIV- and HIV+ Individuals (US center)	Biomarker discovery, Cohorts, Latent tuberculosis, Plasma, Serum, Tuberculosis, US Center HIV	Biomarkers for active tuberculosis (TB) are urgently needed to improve rapid TB diagnosis. The objective of this study was to identify serum protein expression changes associated with TB but not latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection (LTBI), uninfected states, or respiratory diseases other than TB (ORD). Serum samples from 209 HIV uninfected (HIV(-)) and co-infected (HIV(+)) individuals were studied. In the discovery phase samples were analyzed via liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry, and in the verification phase biologically independent samples were analyzed via a multiplex multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (MRM-MS) assay. Compared to LTBI and ORD, host proteins were significantly differentially expressed in TB, and involved in the immune response, tissue repair, and lipid metabolism. Biomarker panels whose composition differed according to HIV status, and consisted of 8 host proteins in HIV(-) individuals (CD14, SEPP1, SELL, TNXB, LUM, PEPD, QSOX1, COMP, APOC1), or 10 host proteins in HIV(+) individuals (CD14, SEPP1, PGLYRP2, PFN1, VASN, CPN2, TAGLN2, IGFBP6), respectively, distinguished TB from ORD with excellent accuracy (AUC = 0.96 for HIV(-) TB, 0.95 for HIV(+) TB). These results warrant validation in larger studies but provide promise that host protein biomarkers could be the basis for a rapid, blood-based test for TB.
PXD002900	26507392	Sperm competition risk drives plasticity in seminal fluid composition. 	Mouse Seminal Vesicle Preparations C4PR_LIV	Seminal Vesicles, Sperm	BACKGROUND: Ejaculates contain a diverse mixture of sperm and seminal fluid proteins, the combination of which is crucial to male reproductive success under competitive conditions. Males should therefore tailor the production of different ejaculate components according to their social environment, with particular sensitivity to cues of sperm competition risk (i.e. how likely it is that females will mate promiscuously). Here we test this hypothesis using an established vertebrate model system, the house mouse (Mus musculus domesticus), combining experimental data with a quantitative proteomics analysis of seminal fluid composition. Our study tests for the first time how both sperm and seminal fluid components of the ejaculate are tailored to the social environment. RESULTS: Our quantitative proteomics analysis reveals that the relative production of different proteins found in seminal fluid--i.e. seminal fluid proteome composition--differs significantly according to cues of sperm competition risk. Using a conservative analytical approach to identify differential expression of individual seminal fluid components, at least seven of 31 secreted seminal fluid proteins examined showed consistent differences in relative abundance under high versus low sperm competition conditions. Notably three important proteins with potential roles in sperm competition--SVS 6, SVS 5 and CEACAM 10--were more abundant in the high competition treatment groups. Total investment in both sperm and seminal fluid production also increased with cues of heightened sperm competition risk in the social environment. By contrast, relative investment in different ejaculate components was unaffected by cues of mating opportunities. CONCLUSIONS: Our study reveals significant plasticity in different ejaculate components, with the production of both sperm and non-sperm fractions of the ejaculate strongly influenced by the social environment. Sperm competition risk is thus shown to be a key factor in male ejaculate production decisions, including driving plasticity in seminal fluid composition.
PXD002032	26527623	Translating Proteomic Into Functional Data: An High Mobility Group A1 (HMGA1) Proteomic Signature Has Prognostic Value in Breast Cancer. 	Proteomic analysis of HMGA1-silencing	Breast cancer, filter aided sample preparation, high mobility protein HMGA1, label free proteomics	Cancer is a very heterogeneous disease, and biological variability adds a further level of complexity, thus limiting the ability to identify new genes involved in cancer development. Oncogenes whose expression levels control cell aggressiveness are very useful for developing cellular models that permit differential expression screenings in isogenic contexts. HMGA1 protein has this unique property because it is a master regulator in breast cancer cells that control the transition from a nontumorigenic epithelial-like phenotype toward a highly aggressive mesenchymal-like one. The proteins extracted from HMGA1-silenced and control MDA-MB-231 cells were analyzed using label-free shotgun mass spectrometry. The differentially expressed proteins were cross-referenced with DNA microarray data obtained using the same cellular model and the overlapping genes were filtered for factors linked to poor prognosis in breast cancer gene expression meta-data sets, resulting in an HMGA1 protein signature composed of 21 members (HRS, HMGA1 reduced signature). This signature had a prognostic value (overall survival, relapse-free survival, and distant metastasis-free survival) in breast cancer. qRT-PCR, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry analyses validated the link of three members of this signature (KIFC1, LRRC59, and TRIP13) with HMGA1 expression levels both in vitro and in vivo and wound healing assays demonstrated that these three proteins are involved in modulating tumor cell motility. Combining proteomic and genomic data with the aid of bioinformatic tools, our results highlight the potential involvement in neoplastic transformation of a restricted list of factors with an as-yet-unexplored role in cancer. These factors are druggable targets that could be exploited for the development of new, targeted therapeutic approaches in triple-negative breast cancer.
PXD001566	26530123	Macrophage migration inhibitory factor - a therapeutic target in gallbladder cancer. 	Macrophage migration inhibitory factor - a therapeutic target in gallbladder cancer	Bottom-up proteomics, Gastrointestinal cancer, Quantitative proteomics, RNA interference, Suicide substrate, Targeted therapy	BACKGROUND: Poor prognosis in gallbladder cancer is due to late presentation of the disease, lack of reliable biomarkers for early diagnosis and limited targeted therapies. Early diagnostic markers and novel therapeutic targets can significantly improve clinical management of gallbladder cancer. METHODS: Proteomic analysis of four gallbladder cancer cell lines based on the invasive property (non-invasive to highly invasive) was carried out using the isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation labeling-based quantitative proteomic approach. The expression of macrophage migration inhibitory factor was analysed in gallbladder adenocarcinoma tissues using immunohistochemistry. In vitro cellular assays were carried out in a panel of gallbladder cancer cell lines using MIF inhibitors, ISO-1 and 4-IPP or its specific siRNA. RESULTS: The quantitative proteomic experiment led to the identification of 3,653 proteins, among which 654 were found to be overexpressed and 387 were downregulated in the invasive cell lines (OCUG-1, NOZ and GB-d1) compared to the non-invasive cell line, TGBC24TKB. Among these, macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) was observed to be highly overexpressed in two of the invasive cell lines. MIF is a pleiotropic proinflammatory cytokine that plays a causative role in multiple diseases, including cancer. MIF has been reported to play a central role in tumor cell proliferation and invasion in several cancers. Immunohistochemical labeling of tumor tissue microarrays for MIF expression revealed that it was overexpressed in 21 of 29 gallbladder adenocarcinoma cases. Silencing/inhibition of MIF using siRNA and/or MIF antagonists resulted in a significant decrease in cell viability, colony forming ability and invasive property of the gallbladder cancer cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support the role of MIF in tumor aggressiveness and suggest its potential application as a therapeutic target for gallbladder cancer.
PXD002972	26537787	Targeting of SUMO substrates to a Cdc48-Ufd1-Npl4 segregase and STUbL pathway in fission yeast. 	Targeting of SUMO substrates to a Cdc48-Ufd1-Npl4 segregase and STUbL pathway in fission yeast	Cdc48-Ufd1-Npl4, S. pombe, STUbL, SUMO modification sites	In eukaryotes, the conjugation of proteins to the small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) regulates numerous cellular functions. A proportion of SUMO conjugates are targeted for degradation by SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligases (STUbLs) and it has been proposed that the ubiquitin-selective chaperone Cdc48/p97-Ufd1-Npl4 facilitates this process. However, the extent to which the two pathways overlap, and how substrates are selected, remains unknown. Here we address these questions in fission yeast through proteome-wide analyses of SUMO modification sites. We identify over a thousand sumoylated lysines in a total of 468 proteins and quantify changes occurring in the SUMO modification status when the STUbL or Ufd1 pathways are compromised by mutations. The data suggest the coordinated processing of several classes of SUMO conjugates, many dynamically associated with centromeres or telomeres. They provide new insights into subnuclear organization and chromosome biology, and, altogether, constitute an extensive resource for the molecular characterization of SUMO function and dynamics.
PXD002073	26538417	Myc coordinates transcription and translation to enhance transformation and suppress invasiveness. 	Proteome profiling upon Myc activation	GRO-seq, Myc activation HpH-RP fractionation, Orbitrap Fusion, RNA-seq, Ribo-seq, homo sapiens	c-Myc is one of the major human proto-oncogenes and is often associated with tumor aggression and poor clinical outcome. Paradoxically, Myc was also reported as a suppressor of cell motility, invasiveness, and metastasis. Among the direct targets of Myc are many components of the protein synthesis machinery whose induction results in an overall increase in protein synthesis that empowers tumor cell growth. At present, it is largely unknown whether beyond the global enhancement of protein synthesis, Myc activation results in translation modulation of specific genes. Here, we measured Myc-induced global changes in gene expression at the transcription, translation, and protein levels and uncovered extensive transcript-specific regulation of protein translation. Particularly, we detected a broad coordination between regulation of transcription and translation upon modulation of Myc activity and showed the connection of these responses to mTOR signaling to enhance oncogenic transformation and to the TGFbeta pathway to modulate cell migration and invasiveness. Our results elucidate novel facets of Myc-induced cellular responses and provide a more comprehensive view of the consequences of its activation in cancer cells.
PXD002622	26539827	A Pilot Proteogenomic Study with Data Integration Identifies MCT1 and GLUT1 as Prognostic Markers in Lung Adenocarcinoma. 	A Pilot Proteogenomic Study With Data Integration Identifies MCT1 and GLUT1 as Prognostic Markers in Lung Adenocarcinoma	GLUT1, MCT1, NSCLC, SLC16A1, SLC2A1, TMT, lung adenocarcinoma, lung squamous cell carcinoma, non-small cell lung cancer, proteogenomics	We performed a pilot proteogenomic study to compare lung adenocarcinoma to lung squamous cell carcinoma using quantitative proteomics (6-plex TMT) combined with a customized Affymetrix GeneChip. Using MaxQuant software, we identified 51,001 unique peptides that mapped to 7,241 unique proteins and from these identified 6,373 genes with matching protein expression for further analysis. We found a minor correlation between gene expression and protein expression; both datasets were able to independently recapitulate known differences between the adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma subtypes. We found 565 proteins and 629 genes to be differentially expressed between adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, with 113 of these consistently differentially expressed at both the gene and protein levels. We then compared our results to published adenocarcinoma versus squamous cell carcinoma proteomic data that we also processed with MaxQuant. We selected two proteins consistently overexpressed in squamous cell carcinoma in all studies, MCT1 (SLC16A1) and GLUT1 (SLC2A1), for further investigation. We found differential expression of these same proteins at the gene level in our study as well as in other public gene expression datasets. These findings combined with survival analysis of public datasets suggest that MCT1 and GLUT1 may be potential prognostic markers in adenocarcinoma and druggable targets in squamous cell carcinoma. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002622.
PXD002606	26545401	Identification of Evening Complex Associated Proteins in Arabidopsis by Affinity Purification and Mass Spectrometry. 	Evening Complex associated proteins in Arabidopsis by AP-MS	ELF3, ELF4, circadian clock	Many species possess an endogenous circadian clock to synchronize internal physiology with an oscillating external environment. In plants, the circadian clock coordinates growth, metabolism and development over daily and seasonal time scales. Many proteins in the circadian network form oscillating complexes that temporally regulate myriad processes, including signal transduction, transcription, protein degradation and post-translational modification. In Arabidopsis thaliana, a tripartite complex composed of EARLY FLOWERING 4 (ELF4), EARLY FLOWERING 3 (ELF3), and LUX ARRHYTHMO (LUX), named the evening complex, modulates daily rhythms in gene expression and growth through transcriptional regulation. However, little is known about the physical interactions that connect the circadian system to other pathways. We used affinity purification and mass spectrometry (AP-MS) methods to identify proteins that associate with the evening complex in A. thaliana. New connections within the circadian network as well as to light signaling pathways were identified, including linkages between the evening complex, TIMING OF CAB EXPRESSION1 (TOC1), TIME FOR COFFEE (TIC), all phytochromes and TANDEM ZINC KNUCKLE/PLUS3 (TZP). Coupling genetic mutation with affinity purifications tested the roles of phytochrome B (phyB), EARLY FLOWERING 4, and EARLY FLOWERING 3 as nodes connecting the evening complex to clock and light signaling pathways. These experiments establish a hierarchical association between pathways and indicate direct and indirect interactions. Specifically, the results suggested that EARLY FLOWERING 3 and phytochrome B act as hubs connecting the clock and red light signaling pathways. Finally, we characterized a clade of associated nuclear kinases that regulate circadian rhythms, growth, and flowering in A. thaliana. Coupling mass spectrometry and genetics is a powerful method to rapidly and directly identify novel components and connections within and between complex signaling pathways.
PXD002536	26546672	A novel phosphorylation site at Ser130 adjacent to the pseudosubstrate domain contributes to the activation of protein kinase C-delta. 	A novel phosphorylation site at Ser130 adjacent to the pseudosubstrate domain regulates protein kinase C-delta activity	PKC, Phosphorylation, Protein kinase C	Protein kinase C-delta (PKCdelta) is a signalling kinase that regulates many cellular responses. Although most studies focus on allosteric mechanisms that activate PKCdelta at membranes, PKCdelta also is controlled via multi-site phosphorylation [Gong et al. (2015) Mol. Cell. Biol. 35: , 1727-1740]. The present study uses MS-based methods to identify PKCdelta phosphorylation at Thr(50) and Ser(645) (in resting and PMA-treated cardiomyocytes) as well as Thr(37), Thr(38), Ser(130), Thr(164), Thr(211), Thr(215), Ser(218), Thr(295), Ser(299) and Thr(656) (as sites that increase with PMA). We focused on the consequences of phosphorylation at Ser(130) and Thr(141) (sites just N-terminal to the pseudosubstrate domain). We show that S130D and T141E substitutions co-operate to increase PKCdelta's basal lipid-independent activity and that Ser(130)/Thr(141) di-phosphorylation influences PKCdelta's substrate specificity. We recently reported that PKCdelta preferentially phosphorylates substrates with a phosphoacceptor serine residue and that this is due to constitutive phosphorylation at Ser(357), an ATP-positioning G-loop site that limits PKCdelta's threonine kinase activity [Gong et al. (2015) Mol. Cell. Biol. 35: , 1727-1740]. The present study shows that S130D and T141E substitutions increase PKCdelta's threonine kinase activity indirectly by decreasing G loop phosphorylation at Ser(357). A S130F substitution [that mimics a S130F single-nt polymorphism (SNP) identified in some human populations] also increases PKCdelta's maximal lipid-dependent catalytic activity and confers threonine kinase activity. Finally, we show that Ser(130)/Thr(141) phosphorylations relieve auto-inhibitory constraints that limit PKCdelta's activity and substrate specificity in a cell-based context. Since phosphorylation sites map to similar positions relative to the pseudosubstrate domains of other PKCs, our results suggest that phosphorylation in this region of the enzyme may constitute a general mechanism to control PKC isoform activity.
PXD002943	26549460	Global Reprogramming of Host SUMOylation during Influenza Virus Infection. 	Quantitative analysis of SUMO1 and SUMO2 proteomes in human lung A549 cells during influenza A virus infection or heat-shock	SUMO, heat-shock, infection, influenza, stress, ubiquitin, virus	Dynamic nuclear SUMO modifications play essential roles in orchestrating cellular responses to proteotoxic stress, DNA damage, and DNA virus infection. Here, we describe a non-canonical host SUMOylation response to the nuclear-replicating RNA pathogen, influenza virus, and identify viral RNA polymerase activity as a major contributor to SUMO proteome remodeling. Using quantitative proteomics to compare stress-induced SUMOylation responses, we reveal that influenza virus infection triggers unique re-targeting of SUMO to 63 host proteins involved in transcription, mRNA processing, RNA quality control, and DNA damage repair. This is paralleled by widespread host deSUMOylation. Depletion screening identified ten virus-induced SUMO targets as potential antiviral factors, including C18orf25 and the SMC5/6 and PAF1 complexes. Mechanistic studies further uncovered a role for SUMOylation of the PAF1 complex component, parafibromin (CDC73), in potentiating antiviral gene expression. Our global characterization of influenza virus-triggered SUMO redistribution provides a proteomic resource to understand host nuclear SUMOylation responses to infection.
PXD001934	26553928	Cdc42-dependent actin dynamics controls maturation and secretory activity of dendritic cells. 	Cdc42 controls DC-maturation -  Cdc42-dependent actin dynamics controls maturation and secretory activity of dendritic cells	Cdc42, LC-MS, dendritic cells, label-free	Cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42) is a member of the Rho guanosine triphosphatase family and has pivotal functions in actin organization, cell migration, and proliferation. To further study the molecular mechanisms of dendritic cell (DC) regulation by Cdc42, we used Cdc42-deficient DCs. Cdc42 deficiency renders DCs phenotypically mature as they up-regulate the co-stimulatory molecule CD86 from intracellular storages to the cell surface. Cdc42 knockout DCs also accumulate high amounts of invariant chain-major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II complexes at the cell surface, which cannot efficiently present peptide antigens (Ag's) for priming of Ag-specific CD4 T cells. Proteome analyses showed a significant reduction in lysosomal MHC class II-processing proteins, such as cathepsins, which are lost from DCs by enhanced secretion. As these effects on DCs can be mimicked by chemical actin disruption, our results propose that Cdc42 control of actin dynamics keeps DCs in an immature state, and cessation of Cdc42 activity during DC maturation facilitates secretion as well as rapid up-regulation of intracellular molecules to the cell surface.
PXD004904	26554430	Rapid High-pH Reverse Phase StageTip for Sensitive Small-Scale Membrane Proteomic Profiling. 	Rapid High-pH Reverse Phase StageTip for Sensitive Small-Scale Membrane Proteomic Profiling	Membrane Proteomic, Rapid High-pH Reverse Phase StageTip	Membrane proteins are crucial targets for cancer biomarker discovery and drug development. However, in addition to the inherent challenges of hydrophobicity and low abundance, complete membrane proteome coverage of clinical specimen is usually hindered by the requirement of large amount of starting materials. Toward comprehensive membrane proteomic profiling for small amounts of samples (10 mug), we developed high-pH reverse phase (Hp-RP) combined with stop-and-go extraction tip (StageTip) technique, as a fast (~15 min.), sensitive, reproducible, high-resolution and multiplexed fractionation method suitable for accurate quantification of the membrane proteome. This approach provided almost 2-fold enhanced detection of peptides encompassing transmembrane helix (TMH) domain, as compared with strong anion exchange (SAX) and strong cation exchange (SCX) StageTip techniques. Almost 5000 proteins (~60% membrane proteins) can be identified in only 10 mug of membrane protein digests, showing the superior sensitivity of the Hp-RP StageTip approach. The method allowed up to 9- and 6-fold increase in the identification of unique hydrophobic and hydrophilic peptides, respectively. The Hp-RP StageTip method enabled in-depth membrane proteome profiling of 11 lung cancer cell lines harboring different EGFR mutation status, which resulted in the identification of 3983 annotated membrane proteins. This provides the largest collection of reference peptide spectral data for lung cancer membrane subproteome. Finally, relative quantification of membrane proteins between Gefitinib-resistant and -sensitive lung cancer cell lines revealed several up-regulated membrane proteins with key roles in lung cancer progression.
PXD002649	26555054	Global Analysis of mRNA, Translation, and Protein Localization: Local Translation Is a Key Regulator of Cell Protrusions. 	Protrusion vs Cell-body pulsed-SILAC proteomics	Local translation, Pulsed-SILAC, protrusion	Polarization of cells into a protrusive front and a retracting cell body is the hallmark of mesenchymal-like cell migration. Many mRNAs are localized to protrusions, but it is unclear to what degree mRNA localization contributes toward protrusion formation. We performed global quantitative analysis of the distributions of mRNAs, proteins, and translation rates between protrusions and the cell body by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and quantitative proteomics. Our results reveal local translation as a key determinant of protein localization to protrusions. Accordingly, inhibition of local translation destabilizes protrusions and inhibits mesenchymal-like morphology. Interestingly, many mRNAs localized to protrusions are translationally repressed. Specific cis-regulatory elements within mRNA UTRs define whether mRNAs are locally translated or repressed. Finally, RNAi screening of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) enriched in protrusions revealed trans-regulators of localized translation that are functionally important for protrusions. We propose that by deciphering the localized mRNA UTR code, these proteins regulate protrusion stability and mesenchymal-like morphology.
PXD002810	26555894	miR-17-92 fine-tunes MYC expression and function to ensure optimal B cell lymphoma growth. 	miR-17-92 sustains lymphoma growth by fine-tuning MYC	Chek2, MYC, lymphoma, miR-17-92, microRNA	The synergism between c-MYC and miR-17-19b, a truncated version of the miR-17-92 cluster, is well-documented during tumor initiation. However, little is known about miR-17-19b function in established cancers. Here we investigate the role of miR-17-19b in c-MYC-driven lymphomas by integrating SILAC-based quantitative proteomics, transcriptomics and 3' untranslated region (UTR) analysis upon miR-17-19b overexpression. We identify over one hundred miR-17-19b targets, of which 40% are co-regulated by c-MYC. Downregulation of a new miR-17/20 target, checkpoint kinase 2 (Chek2), increases the recruitment of HuR to c-MYC transcripts, resulting in the inhibition of c-MYC translation and thus interfering with in vivo tumor growth. Hence, in established lymphomas, miR-17-19b fine-tunes c-MYC activity through a tight control of its function and expression, ultimately ensuring cancer cell homeostasis. Our data highlight the plasticity of miRNA function, reflecting changes in the mRNA landscape and 3' UTR shortening at different stages of tumorigenesis.
PXD004381	26560143	Absolute Quantification of Endogenous Ras Isoform Abundance. 	SRM analysis of endogenous Ras isoform abundance in isogenic SW48 cell lines	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Ras proteins are important signalling hubs situated near the top of networks controlling cell proliferation, differentiation and survival. Three almost identical isoforms, HRAS, KRAS and NRAS, are ubiquitously expressed yet have differing biological and oncogenic properties. In order to help understand the relative biological contributions of each isoform we have optimised a quantitative proteomics method for accurately measuring Ras isoform protein copy number per cell. The use of isotopic protein standards together with selected reaction monitoring for diagnostic peptides is sensitive, robust and suitable for application to sub-milligram quantities of lysates. We find that in a panel of isogenic SW48 colorectal cancer cells, endogenous Ras proteins are highly abundant with >=260,000 total Ras protein copies per cell and the rank order of isoform abundance is KRAS>NRAS>=HRAS. A subset of oncogenic KRAS mutants exhibit increased total cellular Ras abundance and altered the ratio of mutant versus wild type KRAS protein. These data and methodology are significant because Ras protein copy number is required to parameterise models of signalling networks and informs interpretation of isoform-specific Ras functional data.
PXD002279	26561651	Alternative splice variant of the thiazide-sensitive NaCl cotransporter: a novel player in renal salt handling. 	SLC12A3 isoforms in human urine exosomes	exosomes, isoforms, label-free, urine	The thiazide-sensitive NaCl cotransporter (NCC) is an important pharmacological target in the treatment of hypertension. The human SLC12A3 gene, encoding NCC, gives rise to three isoforms. Only the third isoform has been extensively investigated. The aim of the present study was, therefore, to establish the abundance and localization of the almost identical isoforms 1 and 2 (NCC1/2) in the human kidney and to determine their functional properties and regulation in physiological conditions. Immunohistochemical analysis of NCC1/2 in the human kidney revealed that NCC1/2 localizes to the apical plasma membrane of the distal convoluted tubule. Importantly, NCC1/2 mRNA constitutes ~ 44% of all NCC isoforms in the human kidney. Functional analysis performed in the Xenopus laevis oocyte revealed that thiazide-sensitive (22)Na(+) transport of NCC1 was significantly increased compared with NCC3. Mimicking a constitutively active phosphorylation site at residue 811 (S811D) in NCC1 further augmented Na(+) transport, while a nonphosphorylatable variant (S811A) of NCC1 prevented this enhanced response. Analysis of human urinary exosomes demonstrated that water loading in human subjects significantly reduces the abundance of NCC1/2 in urinary exosomes. The present study highlights that previously underrepresented NCC1/2 is a fully functional thiazide-sensitive NaCl-transporting protein. Being significantly expressed in the kidney, it may constitute a unique route of renal NaCl reabsorption and could, therefore, play an important role in blood pressure regulation.
PXD002770	26566661	Deconstruction of O-glycosylation--GalNAc-T isoforms direct distinct subsets of the O-glycoproteome. 	Deconstruction of protein O-glycosylation	GALNT/ Dimethylation/ Apolipoproteins/ Mass Spectrometry	GalNAc-type O-glycosylation is found on most proteins trafficking through the secretory pathway in metazoan cells. The O-glycoproteome is regulated by up to 20 polypeptide GalNAc-Ts and the contributions and biological functions of individual GalNAc-Ts are poorly understood. Here, we used a zinc-finger nuclease (ZFN)-directed knockout strategy to probe the contributions of the major GalNAc-Ts (GalNAc-T1 and GalNAc-T2) in liver cells and explore how the GalNAc-T repertoire quantitatively affects the O-glycoproteome. We demonstrate that the majority of the O-glycoproteome is covered by redundancy, whereas distinct subsets of substrates are modified by non-redundant functions of GalNAc-T1 and GalNAc-T2. The non-redundant O-glycoproteome subsets and specific transcriptional responses for each isoform are related to different cellular processes; for the GalNAc-T2 isoform, these support a role in lipid metabolism. The results demonstrate that GalNAc-Ts have different non-redundant glycosylation functions, which may affect distinct cellular processes. The data serves as a comprehensive resource for unique GalNAc-T substrates. Our study provides a new view of the differential regulation of the O-glycoproteome, suggesting that the plurality of GalNAc-Ts arose to regulate distinct protein functions and cellular processes.
PXD001571	26571101	Comprehensive analysis of protein glycosylation by solid-phase extraction of N-linked glycans and glycosite-containing peptides. 	Solid-phase extraction of N-linked glycans and glycosite-containing peptides (NGAG) for comprehensive characterization of glycoproteins	Deglycopeptide, ProteomeXchange project tag: CPTAC Consortium, SPEG, SPEGAG, glycosites, glycosylation	Comprehensive characterization of protein glycosylation is critical for understanding the structure and function of glycoproteins. However, due to the complexity and heterogeneity of glycoprotein conformations, current glycoprotein analyses focus mainly on either the de-glycosylated glycosylation site (glycosite)-containing peptides or the released glycans. Here, we describe a chemoenzymatic method called solid phase extraction of N-linked glycans and glycosite-containing peptides (NGAG) for the comprehensive characterization of glycoproteins that is able to determine glycan heterogeneity for individual glycosites in addition to providing information about the total N-linked glycan, glycosite-containing peptide and glycoprotein content of complex samples. The NGAG method can also be applied to quantitatively detect glycoprotein alterations in total and site-specific glycan occupancies.
PXD002370	26572953	Calibration plot for proteomics: A graphical tool to visually check the assumptions underlying FDR control in quantitative experiments. 	UPS1-yeast standard analysis -  Technical Brief Calibration Plot for Proteomics (CP4P): A graphical tool to visually check the assumptions underlying FDR control in quantitative experiments	label-free, nanoLC-MS/MS, proteomic standard	In MS-based quantitative proteomics, the FDR control (i.e. the limitation of the number of proteins that are wrongly claimed as differentially abundant between several conditions) is a major postanalysis step. It is classically achieved thanks to a specific statistical procedure that computes the adjusted p-values of the putative differentially abundant proteins. Unfortunately, such adjustment is conservative only if the p-values are well-calibrated; the false discovery control being spuriously underestimated otherwise. However, well-calibration is a property that can be violated in some practical cases. To overcome this limitation, we propose a graphical method to straightforwardly and visually assess the p-value well-calibration, as well as the R codes to embed it in any pipeline. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002370 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD002370).
PXD001393	26578544	CD36 Is a Matrix Metalloproteinase-9 Substrate That Stimulates Neutrophil Apoptosis and Removal During Cardiac Remodeling. 	MMP-9 dependent extracellular protein changes in the left ventriclar infarcts at day 7 post myocardial infarction	LV, MMP-9, glycopeptides, myocardial infarction	BACKGROUND: After myocardial infarction, the left ventricle undergoes a wound healing response that includes the robust infiltration of neutrophils and macrophages to facilitate removal of dead myocytes as well as turnover of the extracellular matrix. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 is a key enzyme that regulates post-myocardial infarction left ventricular remodeling. METHODS AND RESULTS: Infarct regions from wild-type and MMP-9 null mice (n=8 per group) analyzed by glycoproteomics showed that of 541 N-glycosylated proteins quantified, 45 proteins were at least 2-fold upregulated or downregulated with MMP-9 deletion (all P<0.05). Cartilage intermediate layer protein and platelet glycoprotein 4 (CD36) were identified as having the highest fold increase in MMP-9 null mice. By immunoblotting, CD36 but not cartilage intermediate layer protein decreased steadily during the time course post-myocardial infarction, which identified CD36 as a candidate MMP-9 substrate. MMP-9 was confirmed in vitro and in vivo to proteolytically degrade CD36. In vitro stimulation of day 7 post-myocardial infarction macrophages with MMP-9 or a CD36-blocking peptide reduced phagocytic capacity. Dual immunofluorescence revealed concomitant accumulation of apoptotic neutrophils in the MMP-9 null group compared with wild-type group. In vitro stimulation of isolated neutrophils with MMP-9 decreased neutrophil apoptosis, indicated by reduced caspase-9 expression. CONCLUSIONS: Our data reveal a new cell-signaling role for MMP-9 through CD36 degradation to regulate macrophage phagocytosis and neutrophil apoptosis.
PXD003097	26580079	Metabolic Interplay between the Asian Citrus Psyllid and Its Profftella Symbiont: An Achilles' Heel of the Citrus Greening Insect Vector. 	Asian citrus psyllid Percoll gradient fraction proteome analysis Cilia lab	Asian citrus psyllid, Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus, Diaphorina citri, citrus greening, endosymbiont, insect vector	'Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus' (CLas), the bacterial pathogen associated with citrus greening disease, is transmitted by Diaphorina citri, the Asian citrus psyllid. Interactions among D. citri and its microbial endosymbionts, including 'Candidatus Profftella armatura', are likely to impact transmission of CLas. We used quantitative mass spectrometry to compare the proteomes of CLas(+) and CLas(-) populations of D. citri, and found that proteins involved in polyketide biosynthesis by the endosymbiont Profftella were up-regulated in CLas(+) insects. Mass spectrometry analysis of the Profftella polyketide diaphorin in D. citri metabolite extracts revealed the presence of a novel diaphorin-related polyketide and the ratio of these two polyketides was changed in CLas(+) insects. Insect proteins differentially expressed between CLas(+) and CLas(-) D. citri included defense and immunity proteins, proteins involved in energy storage and utilization, and proteins involved in endocytosis, cellular adhesion, and cytoskeletal remodeling which are associated with microbial invasion of host cells. Insight into the metabolic interdependence between the insect vector, its endosymbionts, and the citrus greening pathogen reveals novel opportunities for control of this disease, which is currently having a devastating impact on citrus production worldwide.
PXD002530	26582801	Effects of Cigarette Smoke, Cessation, and Switching to Two Heat-Not-Burn Tobacco Products on Lung Lipid Metabolism in C57BL/6 and Apoe-/- Mice-An Integrative Systems Toxicology Analysis. 	Use of Apoe/ Mice in an 8-Month Systems Toxicology Inhalation/Cessation Study to Investigate Cardiovascular and Respiratory Exposure Effects of a Candidate Modified Risk Tobacco Product, THS 2.2, Compared with Conventional Cigarettes	cigarette smoke, lung, modified risk tobacco product	The impact of cigarette smoke (CS), a major cause of lung diseases, on the composition and metabolism of lung lipids is incompletely understood. Here, we integrated quantitative lipidomics and proteomics to investigate exposure effects on lung lipid metabolism in a C57BL/6 and an Apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe(-/-)) mouse study. In these studies, mice were exposed to high concentrations of 3R4F reference CS, aerosol from potential modified risk tobacco products (MRTPs) or filtered air (Sham) for up to 8 months. The 2 assessed MRTPs, the prototypical MRTP for C57BL/6 mice and the Tobacco Heating System 2.2 for Apoe(-/-) mice, utilize "heat-not-burn" technologies and were each matched in nicotine concentrations to the 3R4F CS. After 2 months of CS exposure, some groups were either switched to the MRTP or underwent cessation. In both mouse strains, CS strongly affected several categories of lung lipids and lipid-related proteins. Candidate surfactant lipids, surfactant proteins, and surfactant metabolizing proteins were increased. Inflammatory eicosanoids, their metabolic enzymes, and several ceramide classes were elevated. Overall, CS induced a coordinated lipid response controlled by transcription regulators such as SREBP proteins and supported by other metabolic adaptations. In contrast, most of these changes were absent in the mice exposed to the potential MRTPs, in the cessation group, and the switching group. Our findings demonstrate the complex biological response of the lungs to CS exposure and support the benefits of cessation or switching to a heat-not-burn product using a design such as those employed in this study.
PXD003010	26583031	The effector repertoire of Fusarium oxysporum determines the tomato xylem proteome composition following infection. 	Tomato xylem proteome composition following infection by Fusarium oxysporum	Fungus, Fusarium oxysporum, LTQ-Orbitrap XL, Tomato, Xylem sap proteome	Plant pathogens secrete small proteins, of which some are effectors that promote infection. During colonization of the tomato xylem vessels the fungus Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici (Fol) secretes small proteins that are referred to as SIX (Secreted In Xylem) proteins. Of these, Six1 (Avr3), Six3 (Avr2), Six5, and Six6 are required for full virulence, denoting them as effectors. To investigate their activities in the plant, the xylem sap proteome of plants inoculated with Fol wild-type or either AVR2, AVR3, SIX2, SIX5, or SIX6 knockout strains was analyzed with nano-Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (nLC-MSMS). Compared to mock-inoculated sap 12 additional plant proteins appeared while 45 proteins were no longer detectable in the xylem sap of Fol-infected plants. Of the 285 proteins found in both uninfected and infected plants the abundance of 258 proteins changed significantly following infection. The xylem sap proteome of plants infected with four Fol effector knockout strains differed significantly from plants infected with wild-type Fol, while that of the SIX2-knockout inoculated plants remained unchanged. Besides an altered abundance of a core set of 24 differentially accumulated proteins (DAPs), each of the four effector knockout strains affected specifically the abundance of a subset of DAPs. Hence, Fol effectors have both unique and shared effects on the composition of the tomato xylem sap proteome.
PXD002426	26584780	Quantitative Lipoproteomics in Clostridium difficile Reveals a Role for Lipoproteins in Sporulation. 	Quantitative lipoproteomics in Clostridium difficile reveals a role for lipoproteins in sporulation	630, Clostridium difficile, Peptoclostridium difficile, R20291, YnMyr, lipoproteome	Bacterial lipoproteins are surface exposed, anchored to the membrane by S-diacylglyceryl modification of the N-terminal cysteine thiol. They play important roles in many essential cellular processes and in bacterial pathogenesis. For example, Clostridium difficile is a Gram-positive anaerobe that causes severe gastrointestinal disease; however, its lipoproteome remains poorly characterized. Here we describe the application of metabolic tagging with alkyne-tagged lipid analogs, in combination with quantitative proteomics, to profile protein lipidation across diverse C. difficile strains and on inactivation of specific components of the lipoprotein biogenesis pathway. These studies provide the first comprehensive map of the C. difficile lipoproteome, demonstrate the existence of two active lipoprotein signal peptidases, and provide insights into lipoprotein function, implicating the lipoproteome in transmission of this pathogen.
PXD002455	26585961	Calsequestrins in skeletal and cardiac muscle from adult Danio rerio. 	Calsequestrins in skeletal and cardiac muscle from adult Danio rerio.	Calsequestrins, cardiac, muscle, skeletal	Calsequestrin (Casq) is a high capacity, low affinity Ca(2+)-binding protein, critical for Ca(2+)-buffering in cardiac and skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum. All vertebrates have multiple genes encoding for different Casq isoforms. Increasing interest has been focused on mammalian and human Casq genes since mutations of both cardiac (Casq2) and skeletal muscle (Casq1) isoforms cause different, and sometime severe, human pathologies. Danio rerio (zebrafish) is a powerful model for studying function and mutations of human proteins. In this work, expression, biochemical properties cellular and sub-cellular localization of D. rerio native Casq isoforms are investigated. By quantitative PCR, three mRNAs were detected in skeletal muscle and heart with different abundances. Three zebrafish Casqs: Casq1a, Casq1b and Casq2 were identified by mass spectrometry (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002455). Skeletal and cardiac zebrafish calsequestrins share properties with mammalian Casq1 and Casq2. Skeletal Casqs were found primarily, but not exclusively, at the sarcomere Z-line level where terminal cisternae of sarcoplasmic reticulum are located.
PXD001344	26586425	Acetylation of an NB-LRR Plant Immune-Effector Complex Suppresses Immunity. 	Inactivation of a NB-LRR plant immune-effector complex by post-translational modification	Acetylation, Pseudomonas syringae, Q-Exactive	Modifications of plant immune complexes by secreted pathogen effectors can trigger strong immune responses mediated by the action of nucleotide binding-leucine-rich repeat immune receptors. Although some strains of the pathogen Pseudomonas syringae harbor effectors that individually can trigger immunity, the plant's response may be suppressed by other virulence factors. This work reveals a robust strategy for immune suppression mediated by HopZ3, an effector in the YopJ family of acetyltransferases. The suppressing HopZ3 effector binds to and can acetylate multiple members of the RPM1 immune complex, as well as two P. syringae effectors that together activate the RPM1 complex. These acetylations modify serine, threonine, lysine, and/or histidine residues in the targets. Through HopZ3-mediated acetylation, it is possible that the whole effector-immune complex is inactivated, leading to increased growth of the pathogen.
PXD003120	26588988	Down-regulation of LATS kinases alters p53 to promote cell migration. 	Downregulation of LATS kinases alters p53 to promote cell migration	Cox-2, NFKB2, TP53, cancer, cell-migration, homeostasis	p53 is a pivotal tumor suppressor and a major barrier against cancer. We now report that silencing of the Hippo pathway tumor suppressors LATS1 and LATS2 in nontransformed mammary epithelial cells reduces p53 phosphorylation and increases its association with the p52 NF-kappaB subunit. Moreover, it partly shifts p53's conformation and transcriptional output toward a state resembling cancer-associated p53 mutants and endows p53 with the ability to promote cell migration. Notably, LATS1 and LATS2 are frequently down-regulated in breast cancer; we propose that such down-regulation might benefit cancer by converting p53 from a tumor suppressor into a tumor facilitator.
PXD001892	26593974	Control of developmentally primed erythroid genes by combinatorial co-repressor actions. 	Control of developmentally poised erythroid genes by combinatorial corepressor actions	LC-MS, co-IP	How transcription factors (TFs) cooperate within large protein complexes to allow rapid modulation of gene expression during development is still largely unknown. Here we show that the key haematopoietic LIM-domain-binding protein-1 (LDB1) TF complex contains several activator and repressor components that together maintain an erythroid-specific gene expression programme primed for rapid activation until differentiation is induced. A combination of proteomics, functional genomics and in vivo studies presented here identifies known and novel co-repressors, most notably the ETO2 and IRF2BP2 proteins, involved in maintaining this primed state. The ETO2-IRF2BP2 axis, interacting with the NCOR1/SMRT co-repressor complex, suppresses the expression of the vast majority of archetypical erythroid genes and pathways until its decommissioning at the onset of terminal erythroid differentiation. Our experiments demonstrate that multimeric regulatory complexes feature a dynamic interplay between activating and repressing components that determines lineage-specific gene expression and cellular differentiation.
PXD002293	26595419	Conserved mRNA-binding proteomes in eukaryotic organisms. 	Saccharomyces cerevisiae mRBPome	RBP, Saccharomyces cervevisiae	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are essential for post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. Recent high-throughput screens have dramatically increased the number of experimentally identified RBPs; however, comprehensive identification of RBPs within living organisms is elusive. Here we describe the repertoire of 765 and 594 proteins that reproducibly interact with polyadenylated mRNAs in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Caenorhabditis elegans, respectively. Furthermore, we report the differential association of mRNA-binding proteins (mRPBs) upon induction of apoptosis in C. elegans L4-stage larvae. Strikingly, most proteins composing mRBPomes, including components of early metabolic pathways and the proteasome, are evolutionarily conserved between yeast and C. elegans. We speculate, on the basis of our evidence that glycolytic enzymes bind distinct glycolytic mRNAs, that enzyme-mRNA interactions relate to an ancient mechanism for post-transcriptional coordination of metabolic pathways that perhaps was established during the transition from the early 'RNA world' to the 'protein world'.
PXD002498	26598647	Osteoblast-released Matrix Vesicles, Regulation of Activity and Composition by Sulfated and Non-sulfated Glycosaminoglycans. 	Quantitative proteomics in osteoblasts-released matrix vesicles	SILAC, exosome, glycosaminoglycans, matrix vesicles, osteoblasts	Our aging population has to deal with the increasing threat of age-related diseases that impair bone healing. One promising therapeutic approach involves the coating of implants with modified glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) that mimic the native bone environment and actively facilitate skeletogenesis. In previous studies, we reported that coatings containing GAGs, such as hyaluronic acid (HA) and its synthetically sulfated derivative (sHA1) as well as the naturally low-sulfated GAG chondroitin sulfate (CS1), reduce the activity of bone-resorbing osteoclasts, but they also induce functions of the bone-forming cells, the osteoblasts. However, it remained open whether GAGs influence the osteoblasts alone or whether they also directly affect the formation, composition, activity, and distribution of osteoblast-released matrix vesicles (MV), which are supposed to be the active machinery for bone formation. Here, we studied the molecular effects of sHA1, HA, and CS1 on MV activity and on the distribution of marker proteins. Furthermore, we used comparative proteomic methods to study the relative protein compositions of isolated MVs and MV-releasing osteoblasts. The MV proteome is much more strongly regulated by GAGs than the cellular proteome. GAGs, especially sHA1, were found to severely impact vesicle-extracellular matrix interaction and matrix vesicle activity, leading to stronger extracellular matrix formation and mineralization. This study shows that the regulation of MV activity is one important mode of action of GAGs and provides information on underlying molecular mechanisms.
PXD002858	26603189	Fetuin B Is a Secreted Hepatocyte Factor Linking Steatosis to Impaired Glucose Metabolism. 	Mouse purified hepatocyte secretome iTRAQ LC/MS	high-fat diet, liver, secreted	Liver steatosis is associated with the development of insulin resistance and the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. We tested the hypothesis that protein signals originating from steatotic hepatocytes communicate with other cells to modulate metabolic phenotypes. We show that the secreted factors from steatotic hepatocytes induce pro-inflammatory signaling and insulin resistance in cultured cells. Next, we identified 168 hepatokines, of which 32 were differentially secreted in steatotic versus non-steatotic hepatocytes. Targeted analysis showed that fetuin B was increased in humans with liver steatosis and patients with type 2 diabetes. Fetuin B impaired insulin action in myotubes and hepatocytes and caused glucose intolerance in mice. Silencing of fetuin B in obese mice improved glucose tolerance. We conclude that the protein secretory profile of hepatocytes is altered with steatosis and is linked to inflammation and insulin resistance. Therefore, preventing steatosis may limit the development of dysregulated glucose metabolism in settings of overnutrition.
PXD013103	26610024	Complete nitrification by Nitrospira bacteria. 	Comammox -  Complete nitrification by Nitrospira bacteria	LC-MS, culture, microbes, nitrification, nitrogen	Nitrification, the oxidation of ammonia via nitrite to nitrate, has always been considered to be a two-step process catalysed by chemolithoautotrophic microorganisms oxidizing either ammonia or nitrite. No known nitrifier carries out both steps, although complete nitrification should be energetically advantageous. This functional separation has puzzled microbiologists for a century. Here we report on the discovery and cultivation of a completely nitrifying bacterium from the genus Nitrospira, a globally distributed group of nitrite oxidizers. The genome of this chemolithoautotrophic organism encodes the pathways both for ammonia and nitrite oxidation, which are concomitantly activated during growth by ammonia oxidation to nitrate. Genes affiliated with the phylogenetically distinct ammonia monooxygenase and hydroxylamine dehydrogenase genes of Nitrospira are present in many environments and were retrieved on Nitrospira-contigs in new metagenomes from engineered systems. These findings fundamentally change our picture of nitrification and point to completely nitrifying Nitrospira as key components of nitrogen-cycling microbial communities.
PXD001826	26616950	Peptidomic analysis reveals proteolytic activity of kefir microorganisms on bovine milk proteins. 	Kefir peptide profiling	kefir, milk, peptide, peptidomic, protein	SCOPE: The microorganisms that make up kefir grains are well known for lactose fermentation, but the extent to which they hydrolyze and consume milk proteins remains poorly understood. Peptidomics technologies were used to examine the proteolytic activity of kefir grains on bovine milk proteins. METHODS AND RESULTS: Gel electrophoresis revealed substantial digestion of milk proteins by kefir grains, with mass spectrometric analysis showing the release of 609 protein fragments and alteration of the abundance of >1500 peptides that derived from 27 milk proteins. Kefir contained 25 peptides identified from the literature as having biological activity, including those with antihypertensive, antimicrobial, immunomodulatory, opioid and anti-oxidative functions. 16S rRNA and shotgun metagenomic sequencing identified the principle taxa in the culture as Lactobacillus species. CONCLUSION: The model kefir sample contained thousands of protein fragments released in part by kefir microorganisms and in part by native milk proteases.
PXD002500	26621385	The spider hemolymph clot proteome reveals high concentrations of hemocyanin and von Willebrand factor-like proteins. 	The spider clot proteome -  The spider hemolymph clot proteome reveals high concentrations of hemocyanin and von Willebrand factor-like proteins	arthropods, chelicerates, coagulation, innate immunity, spiders, transcriptomics	Arthropods include chelicerates, crustaceans, and insects that all have open circulation systems and thus require different properties of their coagulation system than vertebrates. Although the clotting reaction in the chelicerate horseshoe crab (Family: Limulidae) has been described in details, the overall protein composition of the resulting clot has not been analyzed for any of the chelicerates. The largest class among the chelicerates is the arachnids, which includes spiders, ticks, mites, and scorpions. Here, we use a mass spectrometry-based approach to characterize the spider hemolymph clot proteome from the Brazilian whiteknee tarantula, Acanthoscurria geniculata. We focused on the insoluble part of the clot and demonstrated high concentrations of proteins homologous to the hemostasis-related and multimerization-prone von Willebrand factor. These proteins, which include hemolectins and vitellogenin homologous, were previously identified as essential components of the hemolymph clot in crustaceans and insects. Their presence in the spider hemolymph clot suggests that the origin of these proteins' function in coagulation predates the split between chelicerates and mandibulata. The clot proteome reveals that the major proteinaceous component is the oxygen-transporting and phenoloxidase-displaying abundant hemolymph protein hemocyanin, suggesting that this protein also plays a role in clot biology. Furthermore, quantification of the peptidome after coagulation revealed the simultaneous activation of both the innate immune system and the coagulation system. In general, many of the identified clot-proteins are related to the innate immune system, and our results support the previously suggested crosstalk between immunity and coagulation in arthropods.
PXD002171	26626371	Quantitative Tissue Proteomics Analysis Reveals Versican as Potential Biomarker for Early-Stage Hepatocellular Carcinoma. 	Quantitative proteome analysis of hepatocellular carcinoma tissue	Bimarkers, Hepatocellular carcinoma, MRM, SRM, Versican., early diagnosis biomarker, label-free proteomics, multiple reaction monitoring, selected reaction monitoring, targeted proteomics, tissue	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most aggressive tumors, and the treatment outcome of this disease is improved when the cancer is diagnosed at an early stage. This requires biomarkers allowing an accurate and early tumor diagnosis. To identify potential markers for such applications, we analyzed a patient cohort consisting of 50 patients (50 HCC and 50 adjacent nontumorous tissue samples as controls) using two independent proteomics approaches. We performed label-free discovery analysis on 19 HCC and corresponding tissue samples. The data were analyzed considering events known to take place in early events of HCC development, such as abnormal regulation of Wnt/b-catenin and activation of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs). 31 proteins were selected for verification experiments. For this analysis, the second set of the patient cohort (31 HCC and corresponding tissue samples) was analyzed using selected (multiple) reaction monitoring (SRM/MRM). We present the overexpression of ATP-dependent RNA helicase (DDX39), Fibulin-5 (FBLN5), myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS), and Serpin H1 (SERPINH1) in HCC for the first time. We demonstrate Versican core protein (VCAN) to be significantly associated with well differentiated and low-stage HCC. We revealed for the first time the evidence of VCAN as a potential biomarker for early-HCC diagnosis.
PXD002706	26631510	Quantitative Profiling of Protein Tyrosine Kinases in Human Cancer Cell Lines by Multiplexed Parallel Reaction Monitoring Assays. 	Protein tyrosine kinases analysis by multiplexed parallel reaction monitoring assays	receptor tyrosine kinase	Protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) play key roles in cellular signal transduction, cell cycle regulation, cell division, and cell differentiation. Dysregulation of PTK-activated pathways, often by receptor overexpression, gene amplification, or genetic mutation, is a causal factor underlying numerous cancers. In this study, we have developed a parallel reaction monitoring-based assay for quantitative profiling of 83 PTKs. The assay detects 308 proteotypic peptides from 54 receptor tyrosine kinases and 29 nonreceptor tyrosine kinases in a single run. Quantitative comparisons were based on the labeled reference peptide method. We implemented the assay in four cell models: 1) a comparison of proliferating versus epidermal growth factor-stimulated A431 cells, 2) a comparison of SW480Null (mutant APC) and SW480APC (APC restored) colon tumor cell lines, and 3) a comparison of 10 colorectal cancer cell lines with different genomic abnormalities, and 4) lung cancer cell lines with either susceptibility (11-18) or acquired resistance (11-18R) to the epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor erlotinib. We observed distinct PTK expression changes that were induced by stimuli, genomic features or drug resistance, which were consistent with previous reports. However, most of the measured expression differences were novel observations. For example, acquired resistance to erlotinib in the 11-18 cell model was associated not only with previously reported up-regulation of MET, but also with up-regulation of FLK2 and down-regulation of LYN and PTK7. Immunoblot analyses and shotgun proteomics data were highly consistent with parallel reaction monitoring data. Multiplexed parallel reaction monitoring assays provide a targeted, systems-level profiling approach to evaluate cancer-related proteotypes and adaptations. Data are available through Proteome eXchange Accession PXD002706.
PXD002786	26635820	Extracellular peptidases of the cereal pathogen Fusarium graminearum. 	Fusarium graminearum in vitro secretome	Fusarium graminearum, in vitro., peptidase, protease, secretome	The plant pathogenic fungus Fusarium graminearum (Fgr) creates economic and health risks in cereals agriculture. Fgr causes head blight (or scab) of wheat and stalk rot of corn, reducing yield, degrading grain quality, and polluting downstream food products with mycotoxins. Fungal plant pathogens must secrete proteases to access nutrition and to breakdown the structural protein component of the plant cell wall. Research into the proteolytic activity of Fgr is hindered by the complex nature of the suite of proteases secreted. We used a systems biology approach comprising genome analysis, transcriptomics and label-free quantitative proteomics to characterize the peptidases deployed by Fgr during growth. A combined analysis of published microarray transcriptome datasets revealed seven transcriptional groupings of peptidases based on in vitro growth, in planta growth, and sporulation behaviors. A high resolution mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis defined the extracellular proteases secreted by F. graminearum. A meta-classification based on sequence characters and transcriptional/translational activity in planta and in vitro provides a platform to develop control strategies that target Fgr peptidases.
PXD001843	26641092	The Activation-Induced Assembly of an RNA/Protein Interactome Centered on the Splicing Factor U2AF2 Regulates Gene Expression in Human CD4 T Cells. 	Protein Interactome of U2AF2 during T cell activation	CD4 T cells, RIP mass spectrometry, RNA-binding proteins, U2AF	Activation of CD4 T cells is a reaction to challenges such as microbial pathogens, cancer and toxins that defines adaptive immune responses. The roles of T cell receptor crosslinking, intracellular signaling, and transcription factor activation are well described, but the importance of post-transcriptional regulation by RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) has not been considered in depth. We describe a new model expanding and activating primary human CD4 T cells and applied this to characterizing activation-induced assembly of splicing factors centered on U2AF2. We immunoprecipitated U2AF2 to identify what mRNA transcripts were bound as a function of activation by TCR crosslinking and costimulation. In parallel, mass spectrometry revealed the proteins incorporated into the U2AF2-centered RNA/protein interactome. Molecules that retained interaction with the U2AF2 complex after RNAse treatment were designated as "central" interactome members (CIMs). Mass spectrometry also identified a second class of activation-induced proteins, "peripheral" interactome members (PIMs), that bound to the same transcripts but were not in physical association with U2AF2 or its partners. siRNA knockdown of two CIMs and two PIMs caused changes in activation marker expression, cytokine secretion, and gene expression that were unique to each protein and mapped to pathways associated with key aspects of T cell activation. While knocking down the PIM, SYNCRIP, impacts a limited but immunologically important set of U2AF2-bound transcripts, knockdown of U2AF1 significantly impairs assembly of the majority of protein and mRNA components in the activation-induced interactome. These results demonstrated that CIMs and PIMs, either directly or indirectly through RNA, assembled into activation-induced U2AF2 complexes and play roles in post-transcriptional regulation of genes related to cytokine secretion. These data suggest an additional layer of regulation mediated by the activation-induced assembly of RNA splicing interactomes that is important for understanding T cell activation.
PXD002804	26641313	Repairing oxidized proteins in the bacterial envelope using respiratory chain electrons. 	Repairing oxidatively damaged proteins using electrons from the respiratory chain	E. Coli, ROS, methione, repair	The reactive species of oxygen and chlorine damage cellular components, potentially leading to cell death. In proteins, the sulfur-containing amino acid methionine is converted to methionine sulfoxide, which can cause a loss of biological activity. To rescue proteins with methionine sulfoxide residues, living cells express methionine sulfoxide reductases (Msrs) in most subcellular compartments, including the cytosol, mitochondria and chloroplasts. Here we report the identification of an enzymatic system, MsrPQ, repairing proteins containing methionine sulfoxide in the bacterial cell envelope, a compartment particularly exposed to the reactive species of oxygen and chlorine generated by the host defence mechanisms. MsrP, a molybdo-enzyme, and MsrQ, a haem-binding membrane protein, are widely conserved throughout Gram-negative bacteria, including major human pathogens. MsrPQ synthesis is induced by hypochlorous acid, a powerful antimicrobial released by neutrophils. Consistently, MsrPQ is essential for the maintenance of envelope integrity under bleach stress, rescuing a wide series of structurally unrelated periplasmic proteins from methionine oxidation, including the primary periplasmic chaperone SurA. For this activity, MsrPQ uses electrons from the respiratory chain, which represents a novel mechanism to import reducing equivalents into the bacterial cell envelope. A remarkable feature of MsrPQ is its capacity to reduce both rectus (R-) and sinister (S-) diastereoisomers of methionine sulfoxide, making this oxidoreductase complex functionally different from previously identified Msrs. The discovery that a large class of bacteria contain a single, non-stereospecific enzymatic complex fully protecting methionine residues from oxidation should prompt a search for similar systems in eukaryotic subcellular oxidizing compartments, including the endoplasmic reticulum.
PXD002479	26642319	Overexpression of Catalase Diminishes Oxidative Cysteine Modifications of Cardiac Proteins. 	Overexpression of catalase delays age-related cardiac disease by preventing oxidative cysteine modifications	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Reversible cysteine thiol oxidation, TMT, metabolism, post-translational p	Reactive protein cysteine thiolates are instrumental in redox regulation. Oxidants, such as hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), react with thiolates to form oxidative post-translational modifications, enabling physiological redox signaling. Cardiac disease and aging are associated with oxidative stress which can impair redox signaling by altering essential cysteine thiolates. We previously found that cardiac-specific overexpression of catalase (Cat), an enzyme that detoxifies excess H2O2, protected from oxidative stress and delayed cardiac aging in mice. Using redox proteomics and systems biology, we sought to identify the cysteines that could play a key role in cardiac disease and aging. With a 'Tandem Mass Tag' (TMT) labeling strategy and mass spectrometry, we investigated differential reversible cysteine oxidation in the cardiac proteome of wild type and Cat transgenic (Tg) mice. Reversible cysteine oxidation was measured as thiol occupancy, the ratio of total available versus reversibly oxidized cysteine thiols. Catalase overexpression globally decreased thiol occupancy by >=1.3 fold in 82 proteins, including numerous mitochondrial and contractile proteins. Systems biology analysis assigned the majority of proteins with differentially modified thiols in Cat Tg mice to pathways of aging and cardiac disease, including cellular stress response, proteostasis, and apoptosis. In addition, Cat Tg mice exhibited diminished protein glutathione adducts and decreased H2O2 production from mitochondrial complex I and II, suggesting improved function of cardiac mitochondria. In conclusion, our data suggest that catalase may alleviate cardiac disease and aging by moderating global protein cysteine thiol oxidation.
PXD002924	26644575	Discovery of a nucleocytoplasmic O-mannose glycoproteome in yeast. 	Nucleocytoplasmic O-Man glycoproteome	O-glycoproteomics, Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Dynamic cycling of N-Acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) on serine and threonine residues (O-GlcNAcylation) is an essential process in all eukaryotic cells except yeast, including Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe. O-GlcNAcylation modulates signaling and cellular processes in an intricate interplay with protein phosphorylation and serves as a key sensor of nutrients by linking the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway to cellular signaling. A longstanding conundrum has been how yeast survives without O-GlcNAcylation in light of its similar phosphorylation signaling system. We previously developed a sensitive lectin enrichment and mass spectrometry workflow for identification of the human O-linked mannose (O-Man) glycoproteome and used this to identify a pleothora of O-Man glycoproteins in human cell lines including the large family of cadherins and protocadherins. Here, we applied the workflow to yeast with the aim to characterize the yeast O-Man glycoproteome, and in doing so, we discovered hitherto unknown O-Man glycosites on nuclear, cytoplasmic, and mitochondrial proteins in S. cerevisiae and S. pombe. Such O-Man glycoproteins were not found in our analysis of human cell lines. However, the type of yeast O-Man nucleocytoplasmic proteins and the localization of identified O-Man residues mirror that of the O-GlcNAc glycoproteome found in other eukaryotic cells, indicating that the two different types of O-glycosylations serve the same important biological functions. The discovery opens for exploration of the enzymatic machinery that is predicted to regulate the nucleocytoplasmic O-Man glycosylations. It is likely that manipulation of this type of O-Man glycosylation will have wide applications for yeast bioprocessing.
PXD000397	26649326	Dataset for the proteomic inventory and quantitative analysis of the breast cancer hypoxic secretome associated with osteotropism. 	MDA-MB-231 Breast Cancer Bone Tropic vs Parental Hypoxic Secretome Analysis	Bone, Breast Cancer, Hypoxia, Lysyl Oxidase, Pre-metastatic Niche, Secretome	The cancer secretome includes all of the macromolecules secreted by cells into their microenvironment. Cancer cell secretomes are significantly different to that of normal cells reflecting the changes that normal cells have undergone during their transition to malignancy. More importantly, cancer secretomes are known to be active mediators of both local and distant host cells and play an important role in the progression and dissemination of cancer. Here we have quantitatively profiled both the composition of breast cancer secretomes associated with osteotropism, and their modulation under normoxic and hypoxic conditions. We detect and quantify 162 secretome proteins across all conditions which show differential hypoxic induction and association with osteotropism. Mass Spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the dataset identifier PXD000397 and the complete proteomic, bioinformatic and biological analyses are reported in Cox et al. (2015) [1].
PXD003615	26651926	The Proteome of Primary Prostate Cancer. 	The proteome of localized prostate cancer, part 5	FASP, FFPE, Prostate cancer, Q-exactive, SAX, Super-SILAC	BACKGROUND: Clinical management of the prostate needs improved prognostic tests and treatment strategies. Because proteins are the ultimate effectors of most cellular reactions, are targets for drug actions and constitute potential biomarkers; a quantitative systemic overview of the proteome changes occurring during prostate cancer (PCa) initiation and progression can result in clinically relevant discoveries. OBJECTIVES: To study cellular processes altered in PCa using system-wide quantitative analysis of changes in protein expression in clinical samples and to identify prognostic biomarkers for disease aggressiveness. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Mass spectrometry was used for genome-scale quantitative proteomic profiling of 28 prostate tumors (Gleason score 6-9) and neighboring nonmalignant tissue in eight cases, obtained from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded prostatectomy samples. Two independent cohorts of PCa patients (summing 752 cases) managed by expectancy were used for immunohistochemical evaluation of proneuropeptide-Y (pro-NPY) as a prognostic biomarker. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Over 9000 proteins were identified as expressed in the human prostate. Tumor tissue exhibited elevated expression of proteins involved in multiple anabolic processes including fatty acid and protein synthesis, ribosomal biogenesis and protein secretion but no overt evidence of increased proliferation was observed. Tumors also showed increased levels of mitochondrial proteins, which was associated with elevated oxidative phosphorylation capacity measured in situ. Molecular analysis indicated that some of the proteins overexpressed in tumors, such as carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2 (CPT2, fatty acid transporter), coatomer protein complex, subunit alpha (COPA, vesicle secretion), and mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase 1 and 2 (MSK1/2, protein kinase) regulate the proliferation of PCa cells. Additionally, pro-NPY was found overexpressed in PCa (5-fold, p<0.05), but largely absent in other solid tumor types. Pro-NPY expression, alone or in combination with the ERG status of the tumor, was associated with an increased risk of PCa specific mortality, especially in patients with Gleason score <= 7 tumors. CONCLUSIONS: This study represents the first system-wide quantitative analysis of proteome changes associated to localized prostate cancer and as such constitutes a valuable resource for understanding the complex metabolic changes occurring in this disease. We also demonstrated that pro-NPY, a protein that showed differential expression between high and low risk tumors in our proteomic analysis, is also a PCa specific prognostic biomarker associated with increased risk for disease specific death in patients carrying low risk tumors. PATIENT SUMMARY: The identification of proteins whose expression change in prostate cancer provides novel mechanistic information related to the disease etiology. We hope that future studies will prove the value of this proteome dataset for development of novel therapies and biomarkers.
PXD003133	26653327	Proteomics Quality Control: Quality Control Software for MaxQuant Results. 	HEK293 Quality Control example dataset	HEK293, PTXQC	Mass spectrometry-based proteomics coupled to liquid chromatography has matured into an automatized, high-throughput technology, producing data on the scale of multiple gigabytes per instrument per day. Consequently, an automated quality control (QC) and quality analysis (QA) capable of detecting measurement bias, verifying consistency, and avoiding propagation of error is paramount for instrument operators and scientists in charge of downstream analysis. We have developed an R-based QC pipeline called Proteomics Quality Control (PTXQC) for bottom-up LC-MS data generated by the MaxQuant software pipeline. PTXQC creates a QC report containing a comprehensive and powerful set of QC metrics, augmented with automated scoring functions. The automated scores are collated to create an overview heatmap at the beginning of the report, giving valuable guidance also to nonspecialists. Our software supports a wide range of experimental designs, including stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC), tandem mass tags (TMT), and label-free data. Furthermore, we introduce new metrics to score MaxQuant's Match-between-runs (MBR) functionality by which peptide identifications can be transferred across Raw files based on accurate retention time and m/z. Last but not least, PTXQC is easy to install and use and represents the first QC software capable of processing MaxQuant result tables. PTXQC is freely available at https://github.com/cbielow/PTXQC .
PXD002432	26656270	Reproductive Aging Drives Protein Accumulation in the Uterus and Limits Lifespan in C. elegans. 	Reproductive aging drives protein accumulation in the uterus and limits lifespan in C. elegans	C. elegans, aging	Aging in Caenorhabditis elegans is characterized by widespread physiological and molecular changes, but the mechanisms that determine the rate at which these changes occur are not well understood. In this study, we identify a novel link between reproductive aging and somatic aging in C. elegans. By measuring global age-related changes in the proteome, we identify a previously uncharacterized group of secreted proteins in the adult uterus that dramatically increase in abundance with age. This accumulation is blunted in animals with an extended reproductive period and accelerated in sterile animals lacking a germline. Uterine proteins are not removed in old post-reproductive animals or in young vulvaless worms, indicating that egg-laying is necessary for their rapid removal in wild-type young animals. Together, these results suggest that age-induced infertility contributes to extracellular protein accumulation in the uterus with age. Finally, we show that knocking down multiple age-increased proteins simultaneously extends lifespan. These results provide a mechanistic example of how the cessation of reproduction contributes to detrimental changes in the soma, and demonstrate how the timing of reproductive decline can influence the rate of aging.
PXD003115	26657352	Integrated analysis of global proteome, phosphoproteome, and glycoproteome enables complementary interpretation of disease-related protein networks. 	PGRC Cancer Proteome Study of Gastric Tissue	Early Onset Gastric Cancer, Multi-dimenstional proteome analysis	Multi-dimensional proteomic analyses provide different layers of protein information, including protein abundance and post-translational modifications. Here, we report an integrated analysis of protein expression, phosphorylation, and N-glycosylation by serial enrichments of phosphorylation and N-glycosylation (SEPG) from the same tissue samples. On average, the SEPG identified 142,106 unmodified peptides of 8,625 protein groups, 18,846 phosphopeptides (15,647 phosphosites), and 4,019 N-glycopeptides (2,634 N-glycosites) in tumor and adjacent normal tissues from three gastric cancer patients. The combined analysis of these data showed that the integrated analysis additively improved the coverages of gastric cancer-related protein networks; phosphoproteome and N-glycoproteome captured predominantly low abundant signal proteins, and membranous or secreted proteins, respectively, while global proteome provided abundances for general population of the proteome. Therefore, our results demonstrate that the SEPG can serve as an effective approach for multi-dimensional proteome analyses, and the holistic profiles of protein expression and PTMs enabled improved interpretation of disease-related networks by providing complementary information.
PXD002860	26658462	Chronic acidosis in the tumour microenvironment selects for overexpression of LAMP2 in the plasma membrane. 	MCF7 SILAC Comparison of Protein Expression for Acidosis Biomarkers	Acidosis, Breast Cancer, MCF7 Cells, SILAC	Early cancers are avascular and hence, profoundly acidic. Pre-malignant cells must adapt to acidosis to thrive in this hostile microenvironment. Here, we investigate MCF-7 cells that are adapted to grow in acidic conditions using SILAC proteomics and we reveal a significant upregulation of lysosomal proteins. Prominent among these is LAMP2 that functions to protect lysosomal membranes from acid proteolysis. LAMP2 upregulation by acidosis is confirmed both in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, we show that the depletion of LAMP2 is sufficient to increase acidosis-mediated toxicity. In breast cancer patient samples, there is a high correlation of LAMP2 mRNA and protein expression with progression. We also observe that LAMP2 is located at the plasma membrane in clinical samples and this redistribution is acid-induced in vitro. Our findings suggest a potential adaptive mechanism, wherein cells chronically exposed to an acidic environment translocate lysosomal proteins to their surface, thus protecting the plasmalemma from acid-induced hydrolysis.
PXD002586	26659305	Quantitative analysis of changes in the phosphoproteome of maize induced by the plant hormone salicylic acid. 	Quantitative analysis of changes in the phosphoproteome of maize induced by the plant hormone salicylic acid	Cellular processes, Maize, Phosphoproteomic, Salicylic acid (SA), iTRAQ	Phytohormone salicylic acid (SA) plays an important role in regulating various physiological and biochemical processes. Our previous study identified several protein kinases responsive to SA, suggesting that phosphorylation events play an important role in the plant response to SA. In this study, we characterized the phosphoproteome of maize in response to SA using isotope tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) technology and TiO2 enrichment method. Based on LC-MS/MS analysis, we found a total of 858 phosphoproteins among 1495 phosphopeptides. Among them, 291 phosphopeptides corresponding to 244 phosphoproteins were found to be significantly changed after SA treatment. The phosphoproteins identified are involved in a wide range of biological processes, which indicate that the response to SA encompasses a reformatting of major cellular processes. Furthermore, some of the phosphoproteins which were not previously known to be involved with SA were found to have significantly changed phosphorylation levels. Many of these changes are phosphorylation decreases, indicating that other currently unknown SA signaling pathways that result in decreased phosphorylation of downstream targets must be involved. Our study represents the first attempt at global phosphoproteome profiling in response to SA, and provides a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms regulated by SA.
PXD002614	26670566	Integrative Network Analysis Combined with Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Reveals Transforming Growth Factor-beta Receptor type-2 (TGFBR2) as a Novel Regulator of Glioblastoma Stem Cell Properties. 	Quantitative phosphoproteome analysis of glioblastoma stem cells	Glioblastoma stem cells, Quantitative phosphoproteomics, SILAC, nanoLC-MS/MS	Glioblastoma is one of the most malignant brain tumors with poor prognosis and their development and progression are known to be driven by glioblastoma stem cells. Although glioblastoma stem cells lose their cancer stem cell properties during cultivation in serum-containing medium, little is known about the molecular mechanisms regulating signaling alteration in relation to reduction of stem cell-like characteristics. To elucidate the global phosphorylation-related signaling events, we performed a SILAC-based quantitative phosphoproteome analysis of serum-induced dynamics in glioblastoma stem cells established from the tumor tissues of the patient. Among a total of 2876 phosphorylation sites on 1584 proteins identified in our analysis, 732 phosphorylation sites on 419 proteins were regulated through the alteration of stem cell-like characteristics. The integrative computational analyses based on the quantified phosphoproteome data revealed the relevant changes of phosphorylation levels regarding the proteins associated with cytoskeleton reorganization such as Rho family GTPase and Intermediate filament signaling, in addition to transforming growth factor-beta receptor type-2 (TGFBR2) as a prominent upstream regulator involved in the serum-induced phosphoproteome regulation. The functional association of transforming growth factor-beta receptor type-2 with stem cell-like properties was experimentally validated through signaling perturbation using the corresponding inhibitors, which indicated that transforming growth factor-beta receptor type-2 could play an important role as a novel cell fate determinant in glioblastoma stem cell regulation.
PXD002899	26673895	A deep proteomics perspective on CRM1-mediated nuclear export and nucleocytoplasmic partitioning. 	CRM1 Exportome and nucleocytoplasmic partition	S.cerevisiae, Xenopus	CRM1 is a highly conserved, RanGTPase-driven exportin that carries proteins and RNPs from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. We now explored the cargo-spectrum of CRM1 in depth and identified surprisingly large numbers, namely >700 export substrates from the yeast S. cerevisiae, =~1000 from Xenopus oocytes and >1050 from human cells. In addition, we quantified the partitioning of =~5000 unique proteins between nucleus and cytoplasm of Xenopus oocytes. The data suggest new CRM1 functions in spatial control of vesicle coat-assembly, centrosomes, autophagy, peroxisome biogenesis, cytoskeleton, ribosome maturation, translation, mRNA degradation, and more generally in precluding a potentially detrimental action of cytoplasmic pathways within the nuclear interior. There are also numerous new instances where CRM1 appears to act in regulatory circuits. Altogether, our dataset allows unprecedented insights into the nucleocytoplasmic organisation of eukaryotic cells, into the contributions of an exceedingly promiscuous exportin and it provides a new basis for NES prediction.
PXD003135	26675719	Germline variant FGFR4  p.G388R exposes a membrane-proximal STAT3 binding site. 	rs351855 knock-in Mouse Embryonic Fibroblasts	FGFR4 p.G388R variant, MEFs, rs351855	Variant rs351855-G/A is a commonly occurring single-nucleotide polymorphism of coding regions in exon 9 of the fibroblast growth factor receptor FGFR4 (CD334) gene (c.1162G>A). It results in an amino-acid change at codon 388 from glycine to arginine (p.Gly388Arg) in the transmembrane domain of the receptor. Despite compelling genetic evidence for the association of this common variant with cancers of the bone, breast, colon, prostate, skin, lung, head and neck, as well as soft-tissue sarcomas and non-Hodgkin lymphoma, the underlying biological mechanism has remained elusive. Here we show that substitution of the conserved glycine 388 residue to a charged arginine residue alters the transmembrane spanning segment and exposes a membrane-proximal cytoplasmic signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) binding site Y(390)-(P)XXQ(393). We demonstrate that such membrane-proximal STAT3 binding motifs in the germline of type I membrane receptors enhance STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation by recruiting STAT3 proteins to the inner cell membrane. Remarkably, such germline variants frequently co-localize with somatic mutations in the Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancer (COSMIC) database. Using Fgfr4 single nucleotide polymorphism knock-in mice and transgenic mouse models for breast and lung cancers, we validate the enhanced STAT3 signalling induced by the FGFR4 Arg388-variant in vivo. Thus, our findings elucidate the molecular mechanism behind the genetic association of rs351855 with accelerated cancer progression and suggest that germline variants of cell-surface molecules that recruit STAT3 to the inner cell membrane are a significant risk for cancer prognosis and disease progression.
PXD003264	26679294	Identification of potential mitochondrial CLPXP protease interactors and substrates suggests its central role in energy metabolism. 	Identification of potential mitochondrial CLPXP protease interactors and substrates	Aging, CLPXP protease, Mitochondria	Maintenance of mitochondria is achieved by several mechanisms, including the regulation of mitochondrial proteostasis. The matrix protease CLPXP, involved in protein quality control, has been implicated in ageing and disease. However, particularly due to the lack of knowledge of CLPXP's substrate spectrum, only little is known about the pathways and mechanisms controlled by this protease. Here we report the first comprehensive identification of potential mitochondrial CLPXP in vivo interaction partners and substrates using a combination of tandem affinity purification and differential proteomics. This analysis reveals that CLPXP in the fungal ageing model Podospora anserina is mainly associated with metabolic pathways in mitochondria, e.g. components of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and the tricarboxylic acid cycle as well as subunits of electron transport chain complex I. These data suggest a possible function of mitochondrial CLPXP in the control and/or maintenance of energy metabolism. Since bioenergetic alterations are a common feature of neurodegenerative diseases, cancer, and ageing, our data comprise an important resource for specific studies addressing the role of CLPXP in these adverse processes.
PXD001583	26682798	The spliceosome-associated protein Nrl1 suppresses homologous recombination-dependent R-loop formation in fission yeast. 	CoIP of Nrl1 from normal and irradiated fission yeast cells	DNA repair, fission yeast, splicesosome	The formation of RNA-DNA hybrids, referred to as R-loops, can promote genome instability and cancer development. Yet the mechanisms by which R-loops compromise genome instability are poorly understood. Here, we establish roles for the evolutionarily conserved Nrl1 protein in pre-mRNA splicing regulation, R-loop suppression and in maintaining genome stability. nrl1Delta mutants exhibit endogenous DNA damage, are sensitive to exogenous DNA damage, and have defects in homologous recombination (HR) repair. Concomitantly, nrl1Delta cells display significant changes in gene expression, similar to those induced by DNA damage in wild-type cells. Further, we find that nrl1Delta cells accumulate high levels of R-loops, which co-localize with HR repair factors and require Rad51 and Rad52 for their formation. Together, our findings support a model in which R-loop accumulation and subsequent DNA damage sequesters HR factors, thereby compromising HR repair at endogenously or exogenously induced DNA damage sites, leading to genome instability.
PXD002848	26684831	Genomic and Proteomic Studies on the Mode of Action of Oxaboroles against the African Trypanosome. 	Genomic and Proteomic Studies on the Mode of Action of Oxaboroles against the African Trypanosome	Trypanosoma brucei	SCYX-7158, an oxaborole, is currently in Phase I clinical trials for the treatment of human African trypanosomiasis. Here we investigate possible modes of action against Trypanosoma brucei using orthogonal chemo-proteomic and genomic approaches. SILAC-based proteomic studies using an oxaborole analogue immobilised onto a resin was used either in competition with a soluble oxaborole or an immobilised inactive control to identify thirteen proteins common to both strategies. Cell-cycle analysis of cells incubated with sub-lethal concentrations of an oxaborole identified a subtle but significant accumulation of G2 and >G2 cells. Given the possibility of compromised DNA fidelity, we investigated long-term exposure of T. brucei to oxaboroles by generating resistant cell lines in vitro. Resistance proved more difficult to generate than for drugs currently used in the field, and in one of our three cell lines was unstable. Whole-genome sequencing of the resistant cell lines revealed single nucleotide polymorphisms in 66 genes and several large-scale genomic aberrations. The absence of a simple consistent mechanism among resistant cell lines and the diverse list of binding partners from the proteomic studies suggest a degree of polypharmacology that should reduce the risk of resistance to this compound class emerging in the field. The combined genetic and chemical biology approaches have provided lists of candidates to be investigated for more detailed information on the mode of action of this promising new drug class.
PXD002977	26688386	Proteome profiles of HDL particles of patients with chronic heart failure are associated with immune response and also include bacteria proteins. 	Human HDL 2D-LC-MS/MS -  Proteome profiles of HDL particles of patients with chronic heart failure are associated with immune response and also include bacteria proteins	HDL functionality LC-MS/MS, HDL variability, Human HDL	Besides modulation of reverse cholesterol transport, high density lipoprotein (HDL) is able to modulate vascular function by stimulating endothelial nitric oxide synthase. Recently, it could be documented that this function of HDL was significantly impaired in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF). We investigated alterations in the HDL proteome in CHF patients. Therefore, HDL was isolated from 5 controls (HDLhealthy) and 5 CHF patients of NYHA-class IIIb (HDLCHF). Proteome analysis of HDL particles was performed by two-dimensional liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (SCX/RP LC-MS/MS). In total, we identified 494 distinct proteins, of which 107 proteins were commonly found in both groups (HDLCHF and HDLhealthy) indicating a high inter-subject variability across HDL particles. Several important proteins (e.g. ITGA2, APBA1 or A2M) varied in level. Functional analysis revealed regulated pathways. A minor proportion of bacteria-derived proteins were also identified in the HDL-particles. The extension of the list of HDL-associated proteins allows besides their mere description new insights into alterations in HDL function in diseases. In addition, the detection of bacterial proteins bound to HDL will broaden our view of HDL not only as a cholesterol carrier but also as a carrier of proteins.
PXD003254	26697039	Proteomic Analysis of a Fraction with Intact Eyespots of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Assignment of Protein Methylation. 	Chlamydomonas Eyespot	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, eyespot, methylation	Flagellate green algae possess a visual system, the eyespot. In Chlamydomonas reinhardtii it is situated at the edge of the chloroplast and consists of two carotenoid rich lipid globule layers subtended by thylakoid membranes (TM) that are attached to both chloroplast envelope membranes and a specialized area of the plasma membrane (PM). A former analysis of an eyespot fraction identified 203 proteins. To increase the understanding of eyespot related processes, knowledge of the protein composition of the membranes in its close vicinity is desirable. Here, we present a purification procedure that allows isolation of intact eyespots. This gain in intactness goes, however, hand in hand with an increase of contaminants from other organelles. Proteomic analysis identified 742 proteins. Novel candidates include proteins for eyespot development, retina-related proteins, ion pumps, and membrane-associated proteins, calcium sensing proteins as well as kinases, phosphatases and 14-3-3 proteins. Methylation of proteins at Arg or Lys is known as an important posttranslational modification involved in, e.g., signal transduction. Here, we identify several proteins from eyespot fractions that are methylated at Arg and/or Lys. Among them is the eyespot specific SOUL3 protein that influences the size and position of the eyespot and EYE2, a protein important for its development.
PXD002872	26698226	Optimized procedure of extraction, purification and proteomic analysis of nuclear proteins from mouse brain. 	Shotgun analysis of nuclear proteins from mouse brain	mouse brain, nuclear proteins, nucleus	BACKGROUND: The cell nucleus is a highly dynamic subcellular compartment performing crucial processes for functioning and administration of the cell. Proteomic analysis of isolated nuclear fraction enables in-depth insight into these processes leading to better understanding of physiological and pathological state of the brain. There is no universal method for nuclear proteome investigation and each biological material needs individual optimization. An additional difficulty is the large amount of nucleic acids, which impairs isoelectrofocusing of proteins and shotgun mass spectrometry analysis of complex peptide samples. NEW METHOD: We performed the first comprehensive optimization of intact nuclei isolation from mouse brain in combination with nuclear protein purification prior to two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) and gel-free proteomic analysis. RESULTS: Application of sonication, digestion with nuclease and protein precipitation with acetone allowed to obtain high quality 2DE gels. Shotgun mass spectrometry analysis of isolated proteins proved an enrichment in nuclear proteins. The 66.4% of 265 identified proteins had assigned nucleus localization in UniProt database. Gene Ontology analysis using DAVID platform revealed the highest fold enrichment in spliceosome (24.5), nuclear periphery (12.4) and nuclear matrix (11.3). COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHODS: The proposed procedure is tailored to mouse brain tissue nuclear subproteome investigation. The quality of isolated nuclei, the effectiveness of the protein purification, efficiency of protein recovery after precipitation and overall method reproducibility was taken into detailed consideration. CONCLUSIONS: The elaborated procedure could be further applied for in-depth proteomic analysis of molecular processes occurring in the mouse brain nucleus.
PXD002857	26699799	Large Scale Mass Spectrometry-based Identifications of Enzyme-mediated Protein Methylation Are Subject to High False Discovery Rates. 	A systematic analysis of methylpeptide false discovery rates	arginine methylation, false discovery rates, heavy-methyl SILAC, lysine methylation, target-decoy approach	All large scale LC-MS/MS post-translational methylation site discovery experiments require methylpeptide spectrum matches (methyl-PSMs) to be identified at acceptably low false discovery rates (FDRs). To meet estimated methyl-PSM FDRs, methyl-PSM filtering criteria are often determined using the target-decoy approach. The efficacy of this methyl-PSM filtering approach has, however, yet to be thoroughly evaluated. Here, we conduct a systematic analysis of methyl-PSM FDRs across a range of sample preparation workflows (each differing in their exposure to the alcohols methanol and isopropyl alcohol) and mass spectrometric instrument platforms (each employing a different mode of MS/MS dissociation). Through (13)CD3-methionine labeling (heavy-methyl SILAC) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells and in-depth manual data inspection, accurate lists of true positive methyl-PSMs were determined, allowing methyl-PSM FDRs to be compared with target-decoy approach-derived methyl-PSM FDR estimates. These results show that global FDR estimates produce extremely unreliable methyl-PSM filtering criteria; we demonstrate that this is an unavoidable consequence of the high number of amino acid combinations capable of producing peptide sequences that are isobaric to methylated peptides of a different sequence. Separate methyl-PSM FDR estimates were also found to be unreliable due to prevalent sources of false positive methyl-PSMs that produce high peptide identity score distributions. Incorrect methylation site localizations, peptides containing cysteinyl-S-beta-propionamide, and methylated glutamic or aspartic acid residues can partially, but not wholly, account for these false positive methyl-PSMs. Together, these results indicate that the target-decoy approach is an unreliable means of estimating methyl-PSM FDRs and methyl-PSM filtering criteria. We suggest that orthogonal methylpeptide validation (e.g. heavy-methyl SILAC or its offshoots) should be considered a prerequisite for obtaining high confidence methyl-PSMs in large scale LC-MS/MS methylation site discovery experiments and make recommendations on how to reduce methyl-PSM FDRs in samples not amenable to heavy isotope labeling. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the data identifier PXD002857.
PXD002850	26699800	Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS)-Activated ATM-Dependent Phosphorylation of Cytoplasmic Substrates Identified by Large-Scale Phosphoproteomics Screen. 	ROS-activated ATM-dependent phospho-signaling	ATM, fibroblast, phosphoproteomics, reactive oxygen species	Ataxia-telangiectasia, mutated (ATM) protein plays a central role in phosphorylating a network of proteins in response to DNA damage. These proteins function in signaling pathways designed to maintain the stability of the genome and minimize the risk of disease by controlling cell cycle checkpoints, initiating DNA repair, and regulating gene expression. ATM kinase can be activated by a variety of stimuli, including oxidative stress. Here, we confirmed activation of cytoplasmic ATM by autophosphorylation at multiple sites. Then we employed a global quantitative phosphoproteomics approach to identify cytoplasmic proteins altered in their phosphorylation state in control and ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) cells in response to oxidative damage. We demonstrated that ATM was activated by oxidative damage in the cytoplasm as well as in the nucleus and identified a total of 9,833 phosphorylation sites, including 6,686 high-confidence sites mapping to 2,536 unique proteins. A total of 62 differentially phosphorylated peptides were identified; of these, 43 were phosphorylated in control but not in A-T cells, and 19 varied in their level of phosphorylation. Motif enrichment analysis of phosphopeptides revealed that consensus ATM serine glutamine sites were overrepresented. When considering phosphorylation events, only observed in control cells (not observed in A-T cells), with predicted ATM sites phosphoSerine/phosphoThreonine glutamine, we narrowed this list to 11 candidate ATM-dependent cytoplasmic proteins. Two of these 11 were previously described as ATM substrates (HMGA1 and UIMCI/RAP80), another five were identified in a whole cell extract phosphoproteomic screens, and the remaining four proteins had not been identified previously in DNA damage response screens. We validated the phosphorylation of three of these proteins (oxidative stress responsive 1 (OSR1), HDGF, and ccdc82) as ATM dependent after H2O2 exposure, and another protein (S100A11) demonstrated ATM-dependence for translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. These data provide new insights into the activation of ATM by oxidative stress through identification of novel substrates for ATM in the cytoplasm.
PXD002141	26699813	A Surface Biotinylation Strategy for Reproducible Plasma Membrane Protein Purification and Tracking of Genetic and Drug-Induced Alterations. 	A surface biotinylation strategy for reproducible plasma membrane protein purification and tracking of genetic and drug-induced alterations	KBM7, MCP, cell surface proteomics, technical paper	Plasma membrane (PM) proteins contribute to the identity of a cell, mediate contact and communication, and account for more than two-thirds of known drug targets.1-8 In the past years, several protocols for the proteomic profiling of PM proteins have been described. Nevertheless, comparative analyses have mainly focused on different variations of one approach.9-11 We compared sulfo-NHS-SS-biotinylation, aminooxy-biotinylation, and surface coating with silica beads to isolate PM proteins for subsequent analysis by one-dimensional gel-free liquid chromatography mass spectrometry. Absolute and relative numbers of PM proteins and reproducibility parameters on a qualitative and quantitative level were assessed. Sulfo-NHS-SS-biotinylation outperformed aminooxy-biotinylation and surface coating using silica beads for most of the monitored criteria. We further simplified this procedure by a competitive biotin elution strategy achieving an average PM annotated protein fraction of 54% (347 proteins). Computational analysis using additional databases and prediction tools revealed that in total over 90% of the purified proteins were associated with the PM, mostly as interactors. The modified sulfo-NHS-SS-biotinylation protocol was validated by tracking changes in the plasma membrane proteome composition induced by genetic alteration and drug treatment. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins were depleted in PM purifications from cells deficient in the GPI transamidase component PIGS, and treatment of cells with tunicamycin significantly reduced the abundance of N-glycoproteins in surface purifications.
PXD003356	26700264	Quantitative Profiling of Protein S-Glutathionylation Reveals Redox-Dependent Regulation of Macrophage Function during Nanoparticle-Induced Oxidative Stress. 	Quantitative Profiling of Protein S-Glutathionylation during Nanoparticle-Induced Oxidative Stress	SSG, glutathionylation, macrophage, nanoparticle, redox	Engineered nanoparticles (ENPs) are increasingly utilized for commercial and medical applications; thus, understanding their potential adverse effects is an important societal issue. Herein, we investigated protein S-glutathionylation (SSG) as an underlying regulatory mechanism by which ENPs may alter macrophage innate immune functions, using a quantitative redox proteomics approach for site-specific measurement of SSG modifications. Three high-volume production ENPs (SiO2, Fe3O4, and CoO) were selected as representatives which induce low, moderate, and high propensity, respectively, to stimulate cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and disrupt macrophage function. The SSG modifications identified highlighted a broad set of redox sensitive proteins and specific Cys residues which correlated well with the overall level of cellular redox stress and impairment of macrophage phagocytic function (CoO > Fe3O4 >> SiO2). Moreover, our data revealed pathway-specific differences in susceptibility to SSG between ENPs which induce moderate versus high levels of ROS. Pathways regulating protein translation and protein stability indicative of ER stress responses and proteins involved in phagocytosis were among the most sensitive to SSG in response to ENPs that induce subcytoxic levels of redox stress. At higher levels of redox stress, the pattern of SSG modifications displayed reduced specificity and a broader set pathways involving classical stress responses and mitochondrial energetics (e.g., glycolysis) associated with apoptotic mechanisms. An important role for SSG in regulation of macrophage innate immune function was also confirmed by RNA silencing of glutaredoxin, a major enzyme which reverses SSG modifications. Our results provide unique insights into the protein signatures and pathways that serve as ROS sensors and may facilitate cellular adaption to ENPs, versus intracellular targets of ENP-induced oxidative stress that are linked to irreversible cell outcomes.
PXD003124	26701646	Dog Tear Film Proteome In-Depth Analysis. 	Dog tear film proteome in-depth analysis	MALDI, SDS-Page, dog, tear fluid	In this study, mass spectrometry was used to explore the canine tear proteome. Tear samples were obtained from six healthy dogs, and one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (1D SDS-PAGE) was used as a first step to separate intact proteins into 17 bands. Each fraction was then trypsin digested and analysed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS/MS) to characterize the protein components in each fraction. In total, 125 tear proteins were identified, with MCA (Major Canine Allergen), Serum albumin, UPF0557 protein C10orf119 homolog, Collagen alpha-2(I) chain, Tyrosine -protein kinase Fer, Keratine type II cytoskeletal, Beta-crystallin B2, Interleukin-6 and Desmin occurring as the most confident ones with the highest scores. The results showed that the proteomic strategy used in this study was successful in the analysis of the dog tear proteome. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to report the comprehensive proteome profile of tears from healthy dogs by 1D SDS PAGE and MALDI-TOF. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003124.
PXD003182	26701651	SerpinB1 Promotes Pancreatic beta Cell Proliferation. 	Serpinb1 as a novel beta cell growth factor	Serpinb1, pancreatic beta cells, proliferation	Although compensatory islet hyperplasia in response to insulin resistance is a recognized feature in diabetes, the factor(s) that promote beta cell proliferation have been elusive. We previously reported that the liver is a source for such factors in the liver insulin receptor knockout (LIRKO) mouse, an insulin resistance model that manifests islet hyperplasia. Using proteomics we show that serpinB1, a protease inhibitor, which is abundant in the hepatocyte secretome and sera derived from LIRKO mice, is the liver-derived secretory protein that regulates beta cell proliferation in humans, mice, and zebrafish. Small-molecule compounds, that partially mimic serpinB1 effects of inhibiting elastase activity, enhanced proliferation of beta cells, and mice lacking serpinB1 exhibit attenuated beta cell compensation in response to insulin resistance. Finally, SerpinB1 treatment of islets modulated proteins in growth/survival pathways. Together, these data implicate serpinB1 as an endogenous protein that can potentially be harnessed to enhance functional beta cell mass in patients with diabetes.
PXD000988	26702051	Phosphoproteomics Identified an NS5A Phosphorylation Site Involved in Hepatitis C Virus Replication. 	Phosphoproteome of Hepatitis C Virus infected Huh7.5.1 cells	Hepatitis C virus, Phosphoproteome	The non-structural protein 5A (NS5A) is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) protein indispensable for the viral life cycle. Many prior papers have pinpointed several serine residues in the low complexity sequence I region of NS5A responsible for NS5A phosphorylation; however, the functions of specific phosphorylation sites remained obscure. Using phosphoproteomics, we identified three phosphorylation sites (serines 222, 235, and 238) in the NS5A low complexity sequence I region. Reporter virus and replicon assays using phosphorylation-ablated alanine mutants of these sites showed that Ser-235 dominated over Ser-222 and Ser-238 in HCV replication. Immunoblotting using an Ser-235 phosphorylation-specific antibody showed a time-dependent increase in Ser-235 phosphorylation that correlated with the viral replication activity. Ser-235 phosphorylated NS5A co-localized with double-stranded RNA, consistent with its role in HCV replication. Mechanistically, Ser-235 phosphorylation probably promotes the replication complex formation via increasing NS5A interaction with the human homologue of the 33-kDa vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein. Casein kinase Ialpha (CKIalpha) directly phosphorylated Ser-235 in vitro. Inhibition of CKIalpha reduced Ser-235 phosphorylation and the HCV RNA levels in the infected cells. We concluded that NS5A Ser-235 phosphorylated by CKIalpha probably promotes HCV replication via increasing NS5A interaction with the 33-kDa vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein.
PXD002282	26703087	Reader interactome of epigenetic histone marks in birds. 	Reader interactome of epigenetic histone marks in birds	birds, histone, interactome	Lysine methylation is part of the posttranscriptional histone code employed to recruit modification specific readers to chromatin. Unbiased, quantitative mass spectrometry approaches combined with peptide pull-downs have been used to study histone methylation-dependent binders in mammalian cells. Here, we extend the study to birds by investigating the interaction partners for H3K4me3, H3K9me3, H3K27me3 and H3K36me3 in chicken (Gallus gallus) and zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) using label-free quantitative proteomics. In general, we find very strong overlap in interaction partners for the trimethyl marks in birds compared to mammals, underscoring the known conserved function of these modifications. In agreement with their epigenetic role, we find binding of PHF2 and members of the TFIID, SAGA, SET1 and NURF complex to the activation mark H3K4me3. Our data furthermore supports the existence of a LID complex in vertebrates recruited to the H3K4me3 mark. The repressive marks are bound by the HP1 proteins and the EED subunit of the PRC2 complex as well as by WIZ. Like reported in the previous mammalian screens, we found ZNF462, ZNF828 and POGZ enriched at H3K9me3. However, we noted some unexpected differences. N-PAC (also known as GLYR1), an H3K36me3 interactor in mammals, is reproducible not enriched at this modification in our screen in birds. This initial finding suggests that despite strong conservation of the histone tail sequence, a few species-specific differences in epigenetic readers may have evolved between birds and mammals. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002282 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD002282).
PXD002234	26711008	Influenza Polymerase Can Adopt an Alternative Configuration Involving a Radical Repacking of PB2 Domains. 	Influenza Polymerase Can Adopt an Alternative Configuration Involving a Radical Repacking of PB2 Domains	Influenza, XL-MS, polymerase	Influenza virus polymerase transcribes or replicates the segmented RNA genome (vRNA) into respectively viral mRNA or full-length copies and initiates RNA synthesis by binding the conserved 3' and 5' vRNA ends (the promoter). In recent structures of promoter-bound polymerase, the cap-binding and endonuclease domains are configured for cap snatching, which generates capped transcription primers. Here, we present a FluB polymerase structure with a bound complementary cRNA 5' end that exhibits a major rearrangement of the subdomains within the C-terminal two-thirds of PB2 (PB2-C). Notably, the PB2 nuclear localization signal (NLS)-containing domain translocates ~90 Aa to bind to the endonuclease domain. FluA PB2-C alone and RNA-free FluC polymerase are similarly arranged. Biophysical and cap-dependent endonuclease assays show that in solution the polymerase explores different conformational distributions depending on which RNA is bound. The inherent flexibility of the polymerase allows it to adopt alternative conformations that are likely important during polymerase maturation into active progeny RNPs.
PXD002411	26714015	Phosphoproteomic Profiling Reveals Epstein-Barr Virus Protein Kinase Integration of DNA Damage Response and Mitotic Signaling. 	Phosphoproteomic Profiling Reveals Epstein-Barr Virus Protein Kinase Integration of DNA Damage Response and Mitotic Signaling	Epstein-Barr Virus, Phosphoproteome, Protein Kinase, Signaling	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is etiologically linked to infectious mononucleosis and several human cancers. EBV encodes a conserved protein kinase BGLF4 that plays a key role in the viral life cycle. To provide new insight into the host proteins regulated by BGLF4, we utilized stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based quantitative proteomics to compare site-specific phosphorylation in BGLF4-expressing Akata B cells. Our analysis revealed BGLF4-mediated hyperphosphorylation of 3,046 unique sites corresponding to 1,328 proteins. Frequency analysis of these phosphosites revealed a proline-rich motif signature downstream of BGLF4, indicating a broader substrate recognition for BGLF4 than its cellular ortholog cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1). Further, motif analysis of the hyperphosphorylated sites revealed enrichment in ATM, ATR and Aurora kinase substrates while functional analyses revealed significant enrichment of pathways related to the DNA damage response (DDR), mitosis and cell cycle. Phosphorylation of proteins associated with the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) indicated checkpoint activation, an event that inactivates the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome, APC/C. Furthermore, we demonstrated that BGLF4 binds to and directly phosphorylates the key cellular proteins PP1, MPS1 and CDC20 that lie upstream of SAC activation and APC/C inhibition. Consistent with APC/C inactivation, we found that BGLF4 stabilizes the expression of many known APC/C substrates. We also noted hyperphosphorylation of 22 proteins associated the nuclear pore complex, which may contribute to nuclear pore disassembly and SAC activation. A drug that inhibits mitotic checkpoint activation also suppressed the accumulation of extracellular EBV virus. Taken together, our data reveal that, in addition to the DDR, manipulation of mitotic kinase signaling and SAC activation are mechanisms associated with lytic EBV replication. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002411 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD002411).
PXD002452	26714524	Characterization of Two Distinct Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase (NuRD) Complex Assemblies in Embryonic Stem Cells. 	Characterisation of two distinct Nucleosome Remodelling and Deacetylase Complex (NuRD) assemblies in embryonic stem cells.	Affinty Purification, Blue Native, Deacetylase Complex, Embryonic Stem Cells, NURD, Nucleosome Remodelling, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, machine learning	Pluripotency and self-renewal, the defining properties of embryonic stem cells, are brought about by transcriptional programs involving an intricate network of transcription factors and chromatin remodeling complexes. The Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase (NuRD) complex plays a crucial and dynamic role in the regulation of stemness and differentiation. Several NuRD-associated factors have been reported but how they are organized has not been investigated in detail. Here, we have combined affinity purification and blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by protein identification by mass spectrometry and protein correlation profiling to characterize the topology of the NuRD complex. Our data show that in mouse embryonic stem cells the NuRD complex is present as two distinct assemblies of differing topology with different binding partners. Cell cycle regulator Cdk2ap1 and transcription factor Sall4 associate only with the higher mass NuRD assembly. We further establish that only isoform Sall4a, and not Sall4b, associates with NuRD. By contrast, Suz12, a component of the PRC2 Polycomb repressor complex, associates with the lower mass entity. In addition, we identify and validate a novel NuRD-associated protein, Wdr5, a regulatory subunit of the MLL histone methyltransferase complex, which associates with both NuRD entities. Bioinformatic analyses of published target gene sets of these chromatin binding proteins are in agreement with these structural observations. In summary, this study provides an interesting insight into mechanistic aspects of NuRD function in stem cell biology. The relevance of our work has broader implications because of the ubiquitous nature of the NuRD complex. The strategy described here can be more broadly applicable to investigate the topology of the multiple complexes an individual protein can participate in.
PXD003129	26718462	Protein markers of Bursaphelenchus xylophilus Steiner & Buhrer, 1934 (Nickle, 1970) populations using quantitative proteomics and character compatibility. 	Protein markers of Bursaphelenchus xylophilus Steiner & Buhrer, 1934 (Nickle, 1970) populations using quantitative proteomics and character compatibility	Bursaphelenchus xylophilus, Character Compatibility, Proteins population biomarkers, Quantitative Proteomics, iTRAQ	The Pine Wood Nematode (PWN) Bursaphelenchus xylophilus is a severe forest pathogen in countries where it has been introduced and is considered a worldwide quarantine organism. In this study, protein markers for differentiating populations of this nematode were identified by studying differences among four selected Iberian and one American population. These populations were compared by quantitative proteomics (iTRAQ). From a total of 2860 proteins identified using the public database from the B. xylophilus genome project, 216 were unambiguous and significantly differentially regulated in the studied populations. Comparisons of their pairwise ratio were statistically treated and supported in order to convert them into discrete character states, suggesting that 141 proteins were not informative as population specific markers. Application of the Character Compatibility methodology on the remaining 75 proteins (belonging to families with different biological functions) excludes 27 which are incompatible among them. Considering only the compatible proteins, the method selects a subset of 30 specific unique protein markers which allowed the compared classification of the Iberian isolates. This approach makes it easier search for diagnostic tools and phylogenetic inference within species and populations of a pathogen exhibiting a high level of genetic diversity.
PXD002292	26718731	Characterization of secretomes from a human blood brain barrier endothelial cells in-vitro model after ischemia by stable isotope labeling with aminoacids in cell culture (SILAC). 	Characterization of secretomes from brain microvascular endothelial cells after ischemia	SILAC, endothelial cells, hCMEC/D3, oxygen and glucose deprivation, secretome	The human immortalized brain endothelial cell line hCMEC/D3 is considered a simple in-vitro model of the blood-brain-barrier. Our aim was to characterize changes in the secretome of hCMEC/D3 subjected to oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) to identify new proteins altered after ischemia and that might trigger blood-brain-barrier disruption and test their potential as blood biomarkers for ischemic stroke. Using a quantitative proteomic approach based on SILAC, 19 proteins were found differentially secreted between OGD and normoxia/normoglycemia conditions. Among the OGD-secreted proteins, protein folding was the main molecular function identified and for the main canonical pathways there was an enrichment in epithelial adherens junctions and aldosterone signaling. Western blot was used to verify the MS results in a set of 9 differentially secreted proteins and 5 of these were analyzed in serum samples of 38 ischemic stroke patients, 18 stroke-mimicking conditions and 18 healthy controls. SIGNIFICANCE: "We characterized changes in the secretome of hCMEC/D3 cells after an ischemic insult by SILAC and identified proteins associated with ischemia that might be involved in the disruption of the blood-brain barrier. Besides we analyzed the putative potential of the candidate proteins to become biomarkers for the diagnosis of ischemic stroke.
PXD001999	26722374	Glycoproteomic Approach Identifies KRAS as a Positive Regulator of CREG1 in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Cells. 	Triple SILAC glycoproteomic analysis of NSCLC cell lines	Glycoproteomics, Lung cancer, SILAC, SPEG	Protein glycosylation plays a fundamental role in a multitude of biological processes, and the associated aberrant expression of glycoproteins in cancer has made them attractive biomarkers and therapeutic targets. In this study, we examined differentially expressed glycoproteins in cell lines derived from three different states of lung tumorigenesis: an immortalized bronchial epithelial cell (HBE) line, a non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell line harboring a Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS) activation mutation and a NSCLC cell line harboring an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) activation deletion. Using a Triple SILAC proteomic quantification strategy paired with hydrazide chemistry N-linked glycopeptide enrichment, we quantified 118 glycopeptides in the three cell lines derived from 82 glycoproteins. Proteomic profiling revealed 27 glycopeptides overexpressed in both NSCLC cell lines, 6 glycopeptides overexpressed only in the EGFR mutant cells and 19 glycopeptides overexpressed only in the KRAS mutant cells. Further investigation of a panel of NSCLC cell lines found that Cellular repressor of E1A-stimulated genes (CREG1) overexpression was closely correlated with KRAS mutation status in NSCLC cells and could be down-regulated by inhibition of KRAS expression. Our results indicate that CREG1 is a down-stream effector of KRAS in a sub-type of NSCLC cells and a novel candidate biomarker or therapeutic target for KRAS mutant NSCLC.
PXD008441	26724764	Mining the human plasma proteome with three-dimensional strategies by high-resolution Quadrupole Orbitrap Mass Spectrometry. 	Human Plasma Proteome with Three-dimensional Strategies by Highresolution Quadrupole Orbitrap Mass Spectrometry	Biomarker, IgY14 immunodepletion, Plasma, Proteome profiling, Strategy A, Strategy B, Strategy C, Strategy D, Strategy E	Human plasma is a readily available clinical sample that reflects the status of the body in normal physiological and disease states. Although the wide dynamic range and immense complexity of plasma proteins are obstacles, comprehensive proteomic analysis of human plasma is necessary for biomarker discovery and further verification. Various methods such as immunodepletion, protein equalization and hyper fractionation have been applied to reduce the influence of high-abundance proteins (HAPs) and to reduce the high level of complexity. However, the depth at which the human plasma proteome has been explored in a relatively short time frame has been limited, which impedes the transfer of proteomic techniques to clinical research. Development of an optimal strategy is expected to improve the efficiency of human plasma proteome profiling. Here, five three-dimensional strategies combining HAP depletion (the 1st dimension) and protein fractionation (the 2nd dimension), followed by LC-MS/MS analysis (the 3rd dimension) were developed and compared for human plasma proteome profiling. Pros and cons of the five strategies are discussed for two issues: HAP depletion and complexity reduction. Strategies A and B used proteome equalization and tandem Seppro IgY14 immunodepletion, respectively, as the first dimension. Proteome equalization (strategy A) was biased toward the enrichment of basic and low-molecular weight proteins and had limited ability to enrich low-abundance proteins. By tandem removal of HAPs (strategy B), the efficiency of HAP depletion was significantly increased, whereas more off-target proteins were subtracted simultaneously. In the comparison of complexity reduction, strategy D involved a deglycosylation step before high-pH RPLC separation. However, the increase in sequence coverage did not increase the protein number as expected. Strategy E introduced SDS-PAGE separation of proteins, and the results showed oversampling of HAPs and identification of fewer proteins. Strategy C combined single Seppro IgY14 immunodepletion, high-pH RPLC fractionation and LC-MS/MS analysis. It generated the largest dataset, containing 1544 plasma protein groups and 258 newly identified proteins in a 30-h-machine-time analysis, making it the optimum three-dimensional strategy in our study. Further analysis of the integrated data from the five strategies showed identical distribution patterns in terms of sequence features and GO functional analysis with the 1929-plasma-protein dataset, further supporting the reliability of our plasma protein identifications. The characterization of 20 cytokines in the concentration range from sub-nanograms/milliliter to micrograms/milliliter demonstrated the sensitivity of the current strategies.
PXD002628	26725202	Kinetoplastid Phylogenomics Reveals the Evolutionary Innovations Associated with the Origins of Parasitism. 	Bodo saltans proteomics	Bodo saltans	The evolution of parasitism is a recurrent event in the history of life and a core problem in evolutionary biology. Trypanosomatids are important parasites and include the human pathogens Trypanosoma brucei, Trypanosoma cruzi, and Leishmania spp., which in humans cause African trypanosomiasis, Chagas disease, and leishmaniasis, respectively. Genome comparison between trypanosomatids reveals that these parasites have evolved specialized cell-surface protein families, overlaid on a well-conserved cell template. Understanding how these features evolved and which ones are specifically associated with parasitism requires comparison with related non-parasites. We have produced genome sequences for Bodo saltans, the closest known non-parasitic relative of trypanosomatids, and a second bodonid, Trypanoplasma borreli. Here we show how genomic reduction and innovation contributed to the character of trypanosomatid genomes. We show that gene loss has "streamlined" trypanosomatid genomes, particularly with respect to macromolecular degradation and ion transport, but consistent with a widespread loss of functional redundancy, while adaptive radiations of gene families involved in membrane function provide the principal innovations in trypanosomatid evolution. Gene gain and loss continued during trypanosomatid diversification, resulting in the asymmetric assortment of ancestral characters such as peptidases between Trypanosoma and Leishmania, genomic differences that were subsequently amplified by lineage-specific innovations after divergence. Finally, we show how species-specific, cell-surface gene families (DGF-1 and PSA) with no apparent structural similarity are independent derivations of a common ancestral form, which we call "bodonin." This new evidence defines the parasitic innovations of trypanosomatid genomes, revealing how a free-living phagotroph became adapted to exploiting hostile host environments.
PXD001898	26728094	Global proteogenomic analysis of human MHC class I-associated peptides derived from non-canonical reading frames. 	Global proteogenomic analysis of human MHC I peptides derived from noncanonical reading frames	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP), proteogenomic cryptic MHC lc-msms MAPS	In view of recent reports documenting pervasive translation outside of canonical protein-coding sequences, we wished to determine the proportion of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-associated peptides (MAPs) derived from non-canonical reading frames. Here we perform proteogenomic analyses of MAPs eluted from human B cells using high-throughput mass spectrometry to probe the six-frame translation of the B-cell transcriptome. We report that ~ 10% of MAPs originate from allegedly noncoding genomic sequences or exonic out-of-frame translation. The biogenesis and properties of these 'cryptic MAPs' differ from those of conventional MAPs. Cryptic MAPs come from very short proteins with atypical C termini, and are coded by transcripts bearing long 3'UTRs enriched in destabilizing elements. Relative to conventional MAPs, cryptic MAPs display different MHC class I-binding preferences and harbour more genomic polymorphisms, some of which are immunogenic. Cryptic MAPs increase the complexity of the MAP repertoire and enhance the scope of CD8 T-cell immunosurveillance.
PXD003180	26728942	DCAF1 controls T-cell function via p53-dependent and -independent mechanisms. 	IP-MS of DCAF1/VprBP interacting proteins in mouse CD4 T cells	DCAF1, HIV-1, T cell, VprBP	On activation, naive T cells grow in size and enter cell cycle to mount immune response. How the fundamental processes of T-cell growth and cell cycle entry are regulated is poorly understood. Here we report that DCAF1 (Ddb1-cullin4-associated-factor 1) is essential for these processes. The deletion of DCAF1 in T cells impairs their peripheral homeostasis. DCAF1 is upregulated on T-cell receptor activation and critical for activation-induced T-cell growth, cell cycle entry and proliferation. In addition, DCAF1 is required for T-cell expansion and function during anti-viral and autoimmune responses in vivo. DCAF1 deletion leads to a drastic stabilization of p53 protein, which can be attributed to a requirement of DCAF1 for MDM2-mediated p53 poly-ubiquitination. Importantly, p53 deletion rescues the cell cycle entry defect but not the growth defect of DCAF1-deficient cells. Therefore, DCAF1 is vital for T-cell function through p53-dependent and -independent mechanisms.
PXD003029	26729804	Association of CD147 and Calcium Exporter PMCA4 Uncouples IL-2 Expression from Early TCR Signaling. 	CD147 mutants affinity purification mass spectrometry from human T cells	CD147, Jurkat, affinity purification, primary T cells	The Ig superfamily member CD147 is upregulated following T cell activation and was shown to serve as a negative regulator of T cell proliferation. Thus, Abs targeting CD147 are being tested as new treatment strategies for cancer and autoimmune diseases. How CD147 mediates immunosuppression and whether association with other coreceptor complexes is needed have remained unknown. In the current study, we show that silencing of CD147 in human T cells increases IL-2 production without affecting the TCR proximal signaling components. We mapped the immunosuppressive moieties of CD147 to its transmembrane domain and Ig-like domain II. Using affinity purification combined with mass spectrometry, we determined the domain specificity of CD147 interaction partners and identified the calcium exporter plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 4 (PMCA4) as the interaction partner of the immunosuppressive moieties of CD147. CD147 does not control the proper membrane localization of PMCA4, but PMCA4 is essential for the CD147-dependent inhibition of IL-2 expression via a calcium-independent mechanism. In summary, our data show that CD147 interacts via its immunomodulatory domains with PMCA4 to bypass TCR proximal signaling and inhibit IL-2 expression.
PXD001369	26731301	Comprehensive systems biology analysis of a 7-month cigarette smoke inhalation study in C57BL/6 mice. 	Comprehensive systems biology analysis of a seven-month cigarette smoke inhalation study in C57BL/6 mice.	Systems toxicology, Tobacco-heating, iTRAQ	Smoking of combustible cigarettes has a major impact on human health. Using a systems toxicology approach in a model of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (C57BL/6 mice), we assessed the health consequences in mice of an aerosol derived from a prototype modified risk tobacco product (pMRTP) as compared to conventional cigarettes. We investigated physiological and histological endpoints in parallel with transcriptomics, lipidomics, and proteomics profiles in mice exposed to a reference cigarette (3R4F) smoke or a pMRTP aerosol for up to 7 months. We also included a cessation group and a switching-to-pMRTP group (after 2 months of 3R4F exposure) in addition to the control (fresh air-exposed) group, to understand the potential risk reduction of switching to pMRTP compared with continuous 3R4F exposure and cessation. The present manuscript describes the study design, setup, and implementation, as well as the generation, processing, and quality control analysis of the toxicology and 'omics' datasets that are accessible in public repositories for further analyses.
PXD002691	26739245	Autophosphorylation at Thr279 of Entamoeba histolytica atypical kinase EhAK1 is required for activity and regulation of erythrophagocytosis. 	Autophosphorylation of Entamoeba histolytica atypical kinase EhAK1	entamoeba, kinase, phagocytosis	Phagocytosis plays a key role in survival and pathogenicity of Entamoeba histolytica. We have recently demonstrated that an atypical kinase EhAK1 is involved in phagocytosis in this parasite. It is recruited to the phagocytic cups through interaction with EhCaBP1. EhAK1 manipulates actin dynamics by multiple mechanisms including phosphorylation of G-actin. Biochemical analysis showed that EhAK1 is a serine/threonine kinase with broad ion specificity and undergoes multiple trans-autophosphorylation. Three autophosphorylation sites were identified by mass spectrometry. Out of these Thr279 appears to be involved in both autophosphorylation as well as substrate phosphorylation. Over expression of the mutant Thr279A inhibited erythrophagocytosis showing dominant negative phenotype. Multiple alignments of different kinases including alpha kinases displayed conserved binding sites that are thought to be important for function of the protein. Mutation studies demonstrated the importance of some of these binding sites in kinase activity. Binding studies with fluorescent-ATP analogs supported our prediction regarding ATP binding site based on sequence alignment. In conclusion, EhAK1 has multiple regulatory features and enrichment of EhAK1 at the site of phagocytosis stimulates trans-autophosphorylation reaction that increases kinase activity resulting in enhanced actin dynamics and phagocytosis. Some of the properties of EhAK1 are similar to that seen in alpha kinases.
PXD003001	26739763	Triple SILAC quantitative proteomic analysis reveals differential abundance of cell signaling proteins between normal and lung cancer-derived exosomes. 	Triple SILAC exosomal quantitative proteomic analysis	Exosomes, SILAC, non-small cell lung cancer, quantitative proteomics	Exosomes are 30-100 nm sized membrane vesicles released by cells into the extracellular space that mediate intercellular communication via transfer of proteins and other biological molecules. To better understand the role of these microvesicles in lung carcinogenesis, we employed a Triple SILAC quantitative proteomic strategy to examine the differential protein abundance between exosomes derived from an immortalized normal bronchial epithelial cell line and two non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines harboring distinct activating mutations in the cell signaling molecules: Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS) or epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). In total, we were able to quantify 721 exosomal proteins derived from the three cell lines. Proteins associated with signal transduction, including EGFR, GRB2 and SRC, were enriched in NSCLC exosomes, and could actively regulate cell proliferation in recipient cells. This study's investigation of the NSCLC exosomal proteome has identified enriched protein cargo that can contribute to lung cancer progression, which may have potential clinical implications in biomarker development for patients with NSCLC. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The high mortality associated with lung cancer is a result of late-stage diagnosis of the disease. Current screening techniques used for early detection of lung cancer lack the specificity for accurate diagnosis. Exosomes are nano-sized extracellular vesicles, and the increased abundance of select protein cargo in exosomes derived from cancer cells may be used for diagnostic purposes. In this paper, we applied quantitative proteomic analysis to elucidate abundance differences in exosomal protein cargo between two NSCLC cell lines with distinctive oncogene mutations and an immortalized normal bronchial epithelial cell line. This study revealed proteins associated with cell adhesion, the extracellular matrix, and a variety of signaling molecules were enriched in NSCLC exosomes. The present data reveals a protein profile associated with NSCLC exosomes that suggests a role these vesicles have in the progression of lung carcinogenesis, as well as identifies several promising candidates that could be utilized as a multi-marker protein panel in a diagnostic platform for NSCLC.
PXD002354	26740262	Determination of the substrate repertoire of ADAMTS2, 3, and 14 significantly broadens their functions and identifies extracellular matrix organization and TGF-beta signaling as primary targets. 	pNPs N-terminomics	ADAMTS14, ADAMTS2, ADAMTS3	A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin type I motif (ADAMTS)2, 3, and 14 are collectively named procollagen N-proteinases (pNPs) because of their specific ability to cleave the aminopropeptide of fibrillar procollagens. Several reports also indicate that they could be involved in other biological processes, such as blood coagulation, development, and male fertility, but the potential substrates associated with these activities remain unknown. Using the recently described N-terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrate approach, we analyzed the secretomes of human fibroblasts and identified 8, 17, and 22 candidate substrates for ADAMTS2, 3, and 14, respectively. Among these newly identified substrates, many are components of the extracellular matrix and/or proteins related to cell signaling such as latent TGF-beta binding protein 1, TGF-beta RIII, and dickkopf-related protein 3. Candidate substrates for the 3 ADAMTS have been biochemically validated in different contexts, and the implication of ADAMTS2 in the control of TGF-beta activity has been further demonstrated in human fibroblasts. Finally, the cleavage site specificity was assessed showing a clear and unique preference for nonpolar or slightly hydrophobic amino acids. This work shows that the activities of the pNPs extend far beyond the classically reported processing of the aminopropeptide of fibrillar collagens and that they should now be considered as multilevel regulators of matrix deposition and remodeling.-Bekhouche, M., Leduc, C., Dupont, L., Janssen, L., Delolme, F., Vadon-Le Goff, S., Smargiasso, N., Baiwir, D., Mazzucchelli, G., Zanella-Cleon, I., Dubail, J., De Pauw, E., Nusgens, B., Hulmes, D. J. S., Moali, C., Colige, A. Determination of the substrate repertoire of ADAMTS2, 3, and 14 significantly broadens their functions and identifies extracellular matrix organization and TGF-beta signaling as primary targets.
PXD001582	26742548	Photodynamic treatment with hexyl-aminolevulinate mediates reversible thiol oxidation in core oxidative stress signaling proteins. 	Study of reversible oxidation of thiol proteins after hexyl aminolevulinate mediated photodynamic therapy	apoptosis, photodynamic therapy, reactive oxygen species, redox signalling, reversible protein oxidation	Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a highly selective two-step cancer treatment involving a photosensitizer and illumination with visible light in the presence of molecular oxygen. PDT is clinically approved worldwide for treating several premalignant conditions and cancer forms, especially endoscopically accessible tumors and dermatological malignancies. PDT-mediated cytotoxicity takes place via autophagy, apoptosis and necrosis, but the exact trigger mechanisms for various death-pathways are still unknown. PDT induces reactive oxygen species (ROS) through photochemical reactions. ROS can react with different macromolecules resulting in cellular damage, including oxidation of proteins. One of the known protein modifications is reversible oxidation of cysteine thiols (-SH), which in many cases constitute a redox switch to modulate protein activity and cellular signaling. Here we have examined the role of reversible oxidation of protein thiols as a potential mediator of cytotoxicity after hexylaminolevulinate-mediated photodynamic treatment (HAL-PDT) in the human epidermoid carcinoma cell line A431. Nearly 2300 proteins were found to be reversibly oxidized after HAL-PDT, of which 374 high-confidence proteins were further allocated to cellular compartments and functional networks. 115 of the high confidence proteins were associated with apoptosis and 257 have previously not been reported to be reversibly oxidized on cysteines. We find an enrichment of DNA damage checkpoint and oxidative stress response proteins. Many of these constitute potential signaling hubs in apoptosis, including ATM, p63, RSK1 p38, APE1/Ref-1 and three 14-3-3 family members. Our study represents the first comprehensive mapping of reversibly oxidized proteins subsequent to HAL-PDT. Several of the proteins constitute potentially novel redox-regulated apoptotic triggers as well as potential targets for adjuvants that may improve the efficacy of HAL-PDT and PDT using other photosensitizers.
PXD005075	26743025	New insights into functional regulation in MS-based drug profiling. 	LC-MS data sets of five sub cellular fractions of a Hodgkin lymphoma cell line (KMH2) before and after challenged with glucosamine for 24 hours	KMH2, LC-MS, Lymphoma cell line	We present a novel data analysis strategy which combined with subcellular fractionation and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) based proteomics provides a simple and effective workflow for global drug profiling. Five subcellular fractions were obtained by differential centrifugation followed by high resolution LC-MS and complete functional regulation analysis. The methodology combines functional regulation and enrichment analysis into a single visual summary. The workflow enables improved insight into perturbations caused by drugs. We provide a statistical argument to demonstrate that even crude subcellular fractions leads to improved functional characterization. We demonstrate this data analysis strategy on data obtained in a MS-based global drug profiling study. However, this strategy can also be performed on other types of large scale biological data.
PXD003317	26743026	Application of de Novo Sequencing to Large-Scale Complex Proteomics Data Sets. 	Application of de novo sequencing to large-scale complex proteomics datasets	MS/MS, bos, de novo peptide sequencing, large-scale computational analysis	Dependent on concise, predefined protein sequence databases, traditional search algorithms perform poorly when analyzing mass spectra derived from wholly uncharacterized protein products. Conversely, de novo peptide sequencing algorithms can interpret mass spectra without relying on reference databases. However, such algorithms have been difficult to apply to complex protein mixtures, in part due to a lack of methods for automatically validating de novo sequencing results. Here, we present novel metrics for benchmarking de novo sequencing algorithm performance on large-scale proteomics data sets and present a method for accurately calibrating false discovery rates on de novo results. We also present a novel algorithm (LADS) that leverages experimentally disambiguated fragmentation spectra to boost sequencing accuracy and sensitivity. LADS improves sequencing accuracy on longer peptides relative to that of other algorithms and improves discriminability of correct and incorrect sequences. Using these advancements, we demonstrate accurate de novo identification of peptide sequences not identifiable using database search-based approaches.
PXD003054	26743206	Hexose-derived glycation sites in processed bovine milk. 	Bovine protein glycation sites in different milk products	Boronate affinity chromatography (BAC), Electron transfer dissociation (ETD), Infant formula, Lactose-free milk, Maillard reaction, Non-enzymatic glycosylation, nRPC-ESI-MS/MS	Milk products are consumed by many people on a daily basis, which demands sophisticated technical processes to guarantee the microbiological safety and to retain the nutritional value. The heating during pasteurization and ultra high temperature (UHT) treatment triggers diverse chemical reactions, such as the reaction of sugars and amino groups of proteins typically termed protein glycation. The glycation by lactose as dominant sugar in milk has been recently investigated, whereas the contribution of hexoses remains open. We identified first hexose-derived glycation sites in raw milk, colostrum, three brands of pasteurized milk, three brands of UHT milk, five brands of infant formula, and one brand of lactose-free pasteurized and UHT milk using tandem mass spectrometry and electron transfer dissociation. In total, we could identify 124 hexosylated tryptic peptides in a bottom-up proteomics approach after enriching glycated peptides by boronate affinity chromatography, which corresponded to 86 glycation sites in 17 bovine milk proteins. In quantitative terms glycation increased from raw milk to pasteurized milk to UHT milk and infant formula. Lactose-free milk contained significantly higher hexosylation degrees than the corresponding regular milk product. Interestingly, the glycation degrees varied considerably among different brands with lactose-free UHT milk and infant formula showing the highest levels. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The established proteomics strategy enables the identification and relative quantification of different protein glycation types in diverse milk products ranging from raw milk to milk powders. This will allow detailed in vitro studies to judge positive or negative aspects when consuming differently processed milk products including lactose-free milk that is obligatory for people with lactose intolerance but is increasingly consumed by the general population assuming health benefits. The established analytics will also permit studying the influence of each technical processing step on the glycation degrees and thus offers the possibility to reduce glycation early during production, as obvious from the variation among different brands. Special attention should be given to the high hexose- and lactose-derived glycation levels found in infant formula, although it is still controversially discussed if protein glycation has a negative biological impact.
PXD002297	26744219	It's Time for Some "Site"-Seeing: Novel Tools to Monitor the Ubiquitin Landscape in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Large scale site-specific mapping of the Arabidopsis ubiquitinome	Arabidopsis ubiquitin site	Ubiquitination, the covalent binding of the small protein modifier ubiquitin to a target protein, is an important and frequently studied posttranslational protein modification. Multiple reports provide useful insights into the plant ubiquitinome, but mostly at the protein level without comprehensive site identification. Here, we implemented ubiquitin combined fractional diagonal chromatography (COFRADIC) for proteome-wide ubiquitination site mapping on Arabidopsis thaliana cell cultures. We identified 3009 sites on 1607 proteins, thereby greatly increasing the number of known ubiquitination sites in this model plant. Finally, The Ubiquitination Site tool (http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/webtools/ubiquitin_viewer/) gives access to the obtained ubiquitination sites, not only to consult the ubiquitination status of a given protein, but also to conduct intricate experiments aiming to study the roles of specific ubiquitination events. Together with the antibodies recognizing the ubiquitin remnant motif, ubiquitin COFRADIC represents a powerful tool to resolve the ubiquitination maps of numerous cellular processes in plants.
PXD009565	26744403	The 5300-year-old Helicobacter pylori genome of the Iceman. 	Iceman stomach content -  The 5300-year-old Helicobacter pylori genome of the Iceman	CID, HCD, OGE, Oetzi, diet, iceman, mummy, proteins, shotgun, stomach content	The stomach bacterium Helicobacter pylori is one of the most prevalent human pathogens. It has dispersed globally with its human host, resulting in a distinct phylogeographic pattern that can be used to reconstruct both recent and ancient human migrations. The extant European population of H. pylori is known to be a hybrid between Asian and African bacteria, but there exist different hypotheses about when and where the hybridization took place, reflecting the complex demographic history of Europeans. Here, we present a 5300-year-old H. pylori genome from a European Copper Age glacier mummy. The "Iceman" H. pylori is a nearly pure representative of the bacterial population of Asian origin that existed in Europe before hybridization, suggesting that the African population arrived in Europe within the past few thousand years.
PXD002665	26745281	Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Analysis of ERBB3/ERBB4 Signaling. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis of ERBB3/ERBB4 signaling	ERBB3, ERBB4, phosphoproteomics	The four members of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR/ERBB) family form homo- and heterodimers which mediate ligand-specific regulation of many key cellular processes in normal and cancer tissues. While signaling through the EGFR has been extensively studied on the molecular level, signal transduction through ERBB3/ERBB4 heterodimers is less well understood. Here, we generated isogenic mouse Ba/F3 cells that express full-length and functional membrane-integrated ERBB3 and ERBB4 or ERBB4 alone, to serve as a defined cellular model for biological and phosphoproteomics analysis of ERBB3/ERBB4 signaling. ERBB3 co-expression significantly enhanced Ba/F3 cell proliferation upon neuregulin-1 (NRG1) treatment. For comprehensive signaling studies we performed quantitative mass spectrometry (MS) experiments to compare the basal ERBB3/ERBB4 cell phosphoproteome to NRG1 treatment of ERBB3/ERBB4 and ERBB4 cells. We employed a workflow comprising differential isotope labeling with mTRAQ reagents followed by chromatographic peptide separation and final phosphopeptide enrichment prior to MS analysis. Overall, we identified 9686 phosphorylation sites which could be confidently localized to specific residues. Statistical analysis of three replicate experiments revealed 492 phosphorylation sites which were significantly changed in NRG1-treated ERBB3/ERBB4 cells. Bioinformatics data analysis recapitulated regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase and Akt pathways, but also indicated signaling links to cytoskeletal functions and nuclear biology. Comparative assessment of NRG1-stimulated ERBB4 Ba/F3 cells revealed that ERBB3 did not trigger defined signaling pathways but more broadly enhanced phosphoproteome regulation in cells expressing both receptors. In conclusion, our data provide the first global picture of ERBB3/ERBB4 signaling and provide numerous potential starting points for further mechanistic studies.
PXD002517	26746581	Quantitative proteomic analysis of Shigella flexneri and Shigella sonnei Generalized Modules for Membrane Antigens (GMMA) reveals highly pure preparations. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of Shigella flexneri and Shigella sonnei Generalized Modules for Membrane Antigens (GMMA) reveals highly pure preparations.	Shigella Sonnei. LC-MS/MS, Shigella flexneri, label-free quantification	Outer membrane blebs are naturally shed by Gram-negative bacteria and are candidates of interest for vaccines development. Genetic modification of bacteria to induce hyperblebbing greatly increases the yield of blebs, called Generalized Modules for Membrane Antigens (GMMA). The composition of the GMMA from hyperblebbing mutants of Shigella flexneri 2a and Shigella sonnei were quantitatively analyzed using high-sensitivity mass spectrometry with the label-free iBAQ procedure and compared to the composition of the solubilized cells of the GMMA-producing strains. There were 2306 proteins identified, 659 in GMMA and 2239 in bacteria, of which 290 (GMMA) and 1696 (bacteria) were common to both S. flexneri 2a and S. sonnei. Predicted outer membrane and periplasmic proteins constituted 95.7% and 98.7% of the protein mass of S. flexneri 2a and S. sonnei GMMA, respectively. Among the remaining proteins, small quantities of ribosomal proteins collectively accounted for more than half of the predicted cytoplasmic protein impurities in the GMMA. In GMMA, the outer membrane and periplasmic proteins were enriched 13.3-fold (S. flexneri 2a) and 8.3-fold (S. sonnei) compared to their abundance in the parent bacteria. Both periplasmic and outer membrane proteins were enriched similarly, suggesting that GMMA have a similar surface to volume ratio as the surface to periplasmic volume ratio in these mutant bacteria. Results in S. flexneri 2a and S. sonnei showed high reproducibility indicating a robust GMMA-producing process and the low contamination by cytoplasmic proteins support the use of GMMA for vaccines. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002517.
PXD001639	26748257	Quantitative proteomics reveals protein kinases and phosphatases in the individual phases of contextual fear conditioning in the C57BL/6J mouse. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of mouse hippocampus in the context of fear memory	Hippocampus, contextual fear conditioning, fear memory, quantitative proteomic analysis	A series of protein kinases and phosphatases (PKPs) have been linked to contextual fear conditioning (cFC) but information is mainly derived from immunochemical studies. It was therefore decided to use an explorative label-free quantitative proteomics approach to concomitantly determine PKPs in hippocampi of mice in the individual phases of cFC. C57BL/6J mice were divided into four groups: three training groups representing the acquisition, consolidation and retrieval phases of cFC and a foot shock control group. Using this approach we identified 32 protein kinases or phosphatases/phosphatase subunits with significantly changed protein levels in one or more training groups as compared to foot shock control. These include members of PKP signalling modules of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP3K10, RAF1, KSR2), Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMKIIalpha, DAPK1), protein kinase C (PRKCD) and protein phosphatases 1, 2A, 2B(3) previously implicated in various learning paradigms. In addition, our analysis showed protein kinases WNK1, LYN, VRK1, ABL1, CDK4, CDKL3, SgK223 and ADCK1, and protein phosphatases PTPRF, ACP1, DNAJC6, SSH2 and UBASH3B that have not been directly linked to fear memory processes so far. Determination of PKPs in the individual cFC phases represents a valuable resource for interpretation of previous and design of future studies on PKPs in memory mechanisms.
PXD002405	26750096	Quantitative Profiling of the Activity of Protein Lysine Methyltransferase SMYD2 Using SILAC-Based Proteomics. 	Quantitative profiling of the enzymatic activity of the protein lysine mono-methyltransferase SMYD2 using SILAC-based proteomics	SILAC, SMYD2, immunoaffinity enrichment, lysine methyltransferase, methylation	The significance of non-histone lysine methylation in cell biology and human disease is an emerging area of research exploration. The development of small molecule inhibitors that selectively and potently target enzymes that catalyze the addition of methyl-groups to lysine residues, such as the protein lysine mono-methyltransferase SMYD2, is an active area of drug discovery. Critical to the accurate assessment of biological function is the ability to identify target enzyme substrates and to define enzyme substrate specificity within the context of the cell. Here, using stable isotopic labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) coupled with immunoaffinity enrichment of mono-methyl-lysine (Kme1) peptides and mass spectrometry, we report a comprehensive, large-scale proteomic study of lysine mono-methylation, comprising a total of 1032 Kme1 sites in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) cells and 1861 Kme1 sites in ESCC cells overexpressing SMYD2. Among these Kme1 sites is a subset of 35 found to be potently down-regulated by both shRNA-mediated knockdown of SMYD2 and LLY-507, a selective small molecule inhibitor of SMYD2. In addition, we report specific protein sequence motifs enriched in Kme1 sites that are directly regulated by endogenous SMYD2 activity, revealing that SMYD2 substrate specificity is more diverse than expected. We further show direct activity of SMYD2 toward BTF3-K2, PDAP1-K126 as well as numerous sites within the repetitive units of two unique and exceptionally large proteins, AHNAK and AHNAK2. Collectively, our findings provide quantitative insights into the cellular activity and substrate recognition of SMYD2 as well as the global landscape and regulation of protein mono-methylation.
PXD003262	26751641	Assembly of methylated KDM1A and CHD1 drives androgen receptor-dependent transcription and translocation. 	LSD1 complexes -  Assembly of methylated KDM1A and CHD1 drives androgen receptor-dependent transcription and translocation	LNCaP cells, PCP-SILAC, prostate adenocarcinoma	Prostate cancer evolution is driven by a combination of epigenetic and genetic alterations such as coordinated chromosomal rearrangements, termed chromoplexy. TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusions found in human prostate tumors are a hallmark of chromoplexy. TMPRSS2-ERG fusions have been linked to androgen signaling and depend on androgen receptor (AR)-coupled gene transcription. Here, we show that dimethylation of KDM1A at K114 (to form K114me2) by the histone methyltransferase EHMT2 is a key event controlling androgen-dependent gene transcription and TMPRSS2-ERG fusion. We identified CHD1 as a KDM1A K114me2 reader and characterized the KDM1A K114me2-CHD1 recognition mode by solving the cocrystal structure. Genome-wide analyses revealed chromatin colocalization of KDM1A K114me2, CHD1 and AR in prostate tumor cells. Together, our data link the assembly of methylated KDM1A and CHD1 with AR-dependent transcription and genomic translocations, thereby providing mechanistic insight into the formation of TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusions during prostate-tumor evolution.
PXD002103	26752685	FIH Regulates Cellular Metabolism through Hydroxylation of the Deubiquitinase OTUB1. 	FIH regulates cellular metabolism through hydroxylation of the deubiquitinase OTUB1.	Hydroxylase, deubiquitinating enzyme., hypoxia, metabolism, ubiquitin	The asparagine hydroxylase, factor inhibiting HIF (FIH), confers oxygen-dependence upon the hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF), a master regulator of the cellular adaptive response to hypoxia. Studies investigating whether asparagine hydroxylation is a general regulatory oxygen-dependent modification have identified multiple non-HIF targets for FIH. However, the functional consequences of this outside of the HIF pathway remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that the deubiquitinase ovarian tumor domain containing ubiquitin aldehyde binding protein 1 (OTUB1) is a substrate for hydroxylation by FIH on N22. Mutation of N22 leads to a profound change in the interaction of OTUB1 with proteins important in cellular metabolism. Furthermore, in cultured cells, overexpression of N22A mutant OTUB1 impairs cellular metabolic processes when compared to wild type. Based on these data, we hypothesize that OTUB1 is a target for functional hydroxylation by FIH. Additionally, we propose that our results provide new insight into the regulation of cellular energy metabolism during hypoxic stress and the potential for targeting hydroxylases for therapeutic benefit.
PXD003148	26753982	Identification of a novel mitochondrial interacting protein of C1QBP using subcellular fractionation coupled with CoIP-MS. 	C1QBP mitochondrial interactome	AP-MS, C1QBP, mitochondria, protein-protein interaction	The study of protein-protein interactions is an essential process to understand the biological functions of proteins and the underlying mechanisms. Co-immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry (CoIP-MS) is one of the most extensively used high-throughput techniques to discover novel protein-protein interactions. However, the traditional CoIP process uses whole cell lysate, disrupts cellular organization, and leads to potential false positives by inducing artificial protein-protein interactions. Here, we have developed a strategy by combining subcellular fractionation with CoIP-MS to study the interacting proteins of the complement component 1, q subcomponent binding protein (C1QBP) in the mitochondria. Using this method, a novel C1QBP interacting protein, dihydrolipoyllysine-residue acetyltransferase component of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, mitochondrial (DLAT) was identified and validated. Furthermore, the activity of the pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) was found to be affected by the expression level of C1QBP. These results provide novel insights regarding the mitochondrial function of C1QBP in the regulation of cellular energy metabolism. This method could also be used to analyze the subcellular protein-protein interactions for other proteins of interest.
PXD003573	26755725	The Rab-binding Profiles of Bacterial Virulence Factors during Infection. 	The Rab-binding profiles of Legionella effectors	Legionella, Rab GTPase, effector	Legionella pneumophila, the causative agent of Legionnaire's disease, uses its type IV secretion system to translocate over 300 effector proteins into host cells. These effectors subvert host cell signaling pathways to ensure bacterial proliferation. Despite their importance for pathogenesis, the roles of most of the effectors are yet to be characterized. Key to understanding the function of effectors is the identification of host proteins they bind during infection. We previously developed a novel tandem-affinity purification (TAP) approach using hexahistidine and BirA-specific biotinylation tags for isolating translocated effector complexes from infected cells whose composition were subsequently deciphered by mass spectrometry. Here we further advanced the workflow for the TAP approach and determined the infection-dependent interactomes of the effectors SidM and LidA, which were previously reported to promiscuously bind multiple Rab GTPases in vitro. In this study we defined a stringent subset of Rab GTPases targeted by SidM and LidA during infection, comprising of Rab1A, 1B, 6, and 10; in addition, LidA targets Rab14 and 18. Taken together, this study illustrates the power of this approach to profile the intracellular interactomes of bacterial effectors during infection.
PXD006574	26755744	An Evaluation of the Crystal Structure of C-terminal Truncated Apolipoprotein A-I in Solution Reveals Structural Dynamics Related to Lipid Binding. 	An Evaluation of the Crystal Structure of C-terminal Truncated Apolipoprotein A-I in Solution Reveals Structural Dynamics Related to Lipid Binding	apolipoprotein, mass spectrometry (MS), oligomerization, small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS), structural biology, structural model	Apolipoprotein (apo) A-I mediates many of the anti-atherogenic functions attributed to high density lipoprotein. Unfortunately, efforts toward a high resolution structure of full-length apoA-I have not been fruitful, although there have been successes with deletion mutants. Recently, a C-terminal truncation (apoA-I(Delta185-243)) was crystallized as a dimer. The structure showed two helical bundles connected by a long, curved pair of swapped helical domains. To compare this structure to that existing under solution conditions, we applied small angle x-ray scattering and isotope-assisted chemical cross-linking to apoA-I(Delta185-243) in its dimeric and monomeric forms. For the dimer, we found evidence for the shared domains and aspects of the N-terminal bundles, but not the molecular curvature seen in the crystal. We also found that the N-terminal bundles equilibrate between open and closed states. Interestingly, this movement is one of the transitions proposed during lipid binding. The monomer was consistent with a model in which the long shared helix doubles back onto the helical bundle. Combined with the crystal structure, these data offer an important starting point to understand the molecular details of high density lipoprotein biogenesis.
PXD002727	26758180	Analysis of the Protein Kinase A-Regulated Proteome of Cryptococcus neoformans Identifies a Role for the Ubiquitin-Proteasome Pathway in Capsule Formation. 	Proteomic profiling of Cryptococcus neoformans	cAMP/PKA pathway, fungal pathogenesis, virulence	The opportunistic fungal pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans causes life-threatening meningitis in immunocompromised individuals. The expression of virulence factors, including capsule and melanin, is in part regulated by the cyclic-AMP/protein kinase A (cAMP/PKA) signal transduction pathway. In this study, we investigated the influence of PKA on the composition of the intracellular proteome to obtain a comprehensive understanding of the regulation that underpins virulence. Through quantitative proteomics, enrichment and bioinformatic analyses, and an interactome study, we uncovered a pattern of PKA regulation for proteins associated with translation, the proteasome, metabolism, amino acid biosynthesis, and virulence-related functions. PKA regulation of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway in C. neoformans showed a striking parallel with connections between PKA and protein degradation in chronic neurodegenerative disorders and other human diseases. Further investigation of proteasome function with the inhibitor bortezomib revealed an impact on capsule production as well as hypersusceptibility for strains with altered expression or activity of PKA. Parallel studies with tunicamycin also linked endoplasmic reticulum stress with capsule production and PKA. Taken together, the data suggest a model whereby expression of PKA regulatory and catalytic subunits and the activation of PKA influence proteostasis and the function of the endoplasmic reticulum to control the elaboration of the polysaccharide capsule. Overall, this study revealed both broad and conserved influences of the cAMP/PKA pathway on the proteome and identified proteostasis as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of cryptococcosis. IMPORTANCE: Fungi cause life-threatening diseases, but very few drugs are available to effectively treat fungal infections. The pathogenic fungus Cryptococcus neoformans causes a substantial global burden of life-threatening meningitis in patients suffering from HIV/AIDS. An understanding of the mechanisms by which fungi deploy virulence factors to cause disease is critical for developing new therapeutic approaches. We employed a quantitative proteomic approach to define the changes in the protein complement that occur upon modulating the cAMP signaling pathway that regulates virulence in C. neoformans. This approach identified a conserved role for cAMP signaling in the regulation of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and revealed a link between this pathway and elaboration of a major virulence determinant, the polysaccharide capsule. Targeting the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway opens new therapeutic options for the treatment of cryptococcosis.
PXD003109	26760441	Implementation of Ultraviolet Photodissociation on a Benchtop Q Exactive Mass Spectrometer and Its Application to Phosphoproteomics. 	UVPD applied to phosphoproteomics	Phosphoproteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, UVPD	Proteomics applications performed on the popular benchtop Q Exactive Orbitrap mass spectrometer have so far relied exclusively on higher collision-energy dissociation (HCD) fragmentation for peptide sequencing. While this fragmentation technique is applicable to a wide range of biological questions, it also has limitations, and all questions cannot be addressed equally well. Here, we demonstrate that the fragmentation capabilities of the Q Exactive mass spectrometer can be extended with ultraviolet photodissociation (UVPD) fragmentation, complete with synchronization triggering to make it compatible with liquid chromatography (LC)/tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) workflows. We show that UVPD not only is directly compatible with LC/MS workflows but also, when combined with these workflows, can result in higher database scores and increased identification rates for complex samples as compared to HCD methods. UVPD as a fragmentation technique offers prompt, high-energy fragmentation, which can potentially lead to improved analyses of labile post-translational modifications. Techniques like HCD result in substantial amounts of modification losses, competing with fragmentation pathways that provide information-rich ion fragments. We investigate here the utility of UVPD for identification of phosphorylated peptides and find that UVPD fragmentation reduces the extent of labile modification loss by up to ~60%. Collectively, when integrated into a complete workflow on the Q Exactive Orbitrap, UVPD provides distinct advantages to the analysis of post-translational modifications and is a powerful and complementary addition to the proteomic toolbox.
PXD000895	26760575	High-throughput analyses of hnRNP H1 dissects its multi-functional aspect. 	Human hnRNP H1 knockdown proteomics	HNRNPH1	hnRNPs are polyvalent RNA binding proteins that have been implicated in a range of regulatory roles including splicing, mRNA decay, translation, and miRNA metabolism. A variety of genome wide studies have taken advantage of methods like CLIP and RIP to identify the targets and binding sites of RNA binding proteins. However, due to the complex nature of RNA-binding proteins, these studies are incomplete without assays that characterize the impact of RBP binding on mRNA target expression. Here we used a suite of high-throughput approaches (RIP-Seq, iCLIP, RNA-Seq and shotgun proteomics) to provide a comprehensive view of hnRNP H1s ensemble of targets and its role in splicing, mRNA decay, and translation. The combination of RIP-Seq and iCLIP allowed us to identify a set of 1,086 high confidence target transcripts. Binding site motif analysis of these targets suggests the TGGG tetramer as a prevalent component of hnRNP H1 binding motif, with particular enrichment around intronic hnRNP H1 sites. Our analysis of the target transcripts and binding sites indicates that hnRNP H1s involvement in splicing is 2-fold: it directly affects a substantial number of splicing events, but also regulates the expression of major components of the splicing machinery and other RBPs with known roles in splicing regulation. The identified mRNA targets displayed function enrichment in MAPK signaling and ubiquitin mediated proteolysis, which might be main routes by which hnRNP H1 promotes tumorigenesis.
PXD002449	26764010	Proteomic Analysis of Epithelial to Mesenchymal Transition (EMT) Reveals Cross-talk between SNAIL and HDAC1 Proteins in Breast Cancer Cells. 	EMT induction in MCF7 cells by overexpression of SNAIL transcription factor	Breast Cancer, EMT, MCF7, SNAIL	Epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT)(1) occurs naturally during embryogenesis, tissue repair, cancer progression, and metastasis. EMT induces cellular and microenvironmental changes resulting in loss of epithelial and acquisition of mesenchymal phenotypes, which promotes cellular invasive and migratory capabilities. EMT can be triggered by extracellular factors, including TGF-beta, HGF, and EGF. Overexpression of transcription factors, such as SNAIL, SLUG, ZEB1/2, and TWIST1, also induces EMT and is correlated to cancer aggressiveness. Here, the breast adenocarcinoma cell line MCF7 was transduced with SNAIL to identify specific mechanisms controlled by this transcription factor during EMT. Overexpression of SNAIL led to EMT, which was thoroughly validated by molecular, morphological, and functional experiments. Subcellular proteome enrichment followed by GEL-LC-MS/MS was performed to provide extensive protein fractionation and in-depth proteomic analysis. Quantitative analysis relied on a SILAC strategy, using the invasive breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231 as a reference for quantitation. Subsets of proteins enriched in each subcellular compartment led to a complementary list of 4289 proteins identified with high confidence. A subset of differentially expressed proteins was validated by Western blot, including regulation in specific cellular compartments, potentially caused by protein translocation. Protein network analysis highlighted complexes involved in cell cycle control and epigenetic regulation. Flow cytometry analysis indicated that SNAIL overexpression led to cell cycle arrest in G0/G1 phases. Furthermore, down-regulation of HDAC1 was observed, supporting the involvement of epigenetic processes in SNAIL-induced EMT. When HDAC1 activity was inhibited, MCF7 not only apparently initiated EMT but also up-regulated SNAIL, indicating the cross-talk between these two proteins. Both HDAC1 inhibition and SNAIL overexpression activated the AKT pathway. These molecular mechanisms appear to be essential to EMT and therefore for cancer metastasis. Specific control of such epigenetic processes might then represent effective approaches for clinical management of metastatic cancer.
PXD003238	26764011	Mapping the O-Mannose Glycoproteome in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Mapping the O-mannose glycoproteome in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	O-mannose, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, glycoproteome	O-Mannosylation is a vital protein modification conserved from fungi to humans. Yeast is a perfect model to study this post-translational modification, because in contrast to mammalsO-mannosylation is the only type ofO-glycosylation. In an essential step toward the full understanding of proteinO-mannosylation we mapped theO-mannose glycoproteome in baker's yeast. Taking advantage of anO-glycan elongation deficient yeast strain to simplify sample complexity, we identified over 500O-glycoproteins from all subcellular compartments for which over 2300O-mannosylation sites were mapped by electron-transfer dissociation (ETD)-based MS/MS. In this study, we focus on the 293O-glycoproteins (over 1900 glycosylation sites identified by ETD-MS/MS) that enter the secretory pathway and are targets of ER-localized proteinO-mannosyltransferases. We find thatO-mannosylation is not only a prominent modification of cell wall and plasma membrane proteins, but also of a large number of proteins from the secretory pathway with crucial functions in protein glycosylation, folding, quality control, and trafficking. The analysis of glycosylation sites revealed thatO-mannosylation is favored in unstructured regions and beta-strands. Furthermore,O-mannosylation is impeded in the proximity ofN-glycosylation sites suggesting the interplay of these types of post-translational modifications. The detailed knowledge of the target proteins and theirO-mannosylation sites opens for discovery of new roles of this essential modification in eukaryotes, and for a first glance on the evolution of different types ofO-glycosylation from yeast to mammals.
PXD002951	26764012	Sampling From the Proteome to the Human Leukocyte Antigen-DR (HLA-DR) Ligandome Proceeds Via High Specificity. 	Sampling from proteome to HLA-DR ligandome	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), ETD, EThcD, HCD, HLA class II, Human Proteome Project, MHC class II, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP), ligandome	Comprehensive analysis of the complex nature of the Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) class II ligandome is of utmost importance to understand the basis for CD4(+)T cell mediated immunity and tolerance. Here, we implemented important improvements in the analysis of the repertoire of HLA-DR-presented peptides, using hybrid mass spectrometry-based peptide fragmentation techniques on a ligandome sample isolated from matured human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DC). The reported data set constitutes nearly 14 thousand unique high-confident peptides,i.e.the largest single inventory of human DC derived HLA-DR ligands to date. From a technical viewpoint the most prominent finding is that no single peptide fragmentation technique could elucidate the majority of HLA-DR ligands, because of the wide range of physical chemical properties displayed by the HLA-DR ligandome. Our in-depth profiling allowed us to reveal a strikingly poor correlation between the source proteins identified in the HLA class II ligandome and the DC cellular proteome. Important selective sieving from the sampled proteome to the ligandome was evidenced by specificity in the sequences of the core regions both at their N- and C- termini, hence not only reflecting binding motifs but also dominant protease activity associated to the endolysosomal compartments. Moreover, we demonstrate that the HLA-DR ligandome reflects a surface representation of cell-compartments specific for biological events linked to the maturation of monocytes into antigen presenting cells. Our results present new perspectives into the complex nature of the HLA class II system and will aid future immunological studies in characterizing the full breadth of potential CD4(+)T cell epitopes relevant in health and disease.
PXD002521	26765561	Rho-associated kinase (ROCK) function is essential for cell cycle progression, senescence and tumorigenesis. 	Analysis of total proteome changes upon long-term treatment with Rho kinase inhibitor H1152.	H1152, Mouse Embryonic Fibroblasts, ROCK1/2, SILAC, cell cycle	Rho-associated kinases 1 and 2 (ROCK1/2) are Rho-GTPase effectors that control key aspects of the actin cytoskeleton, but their role in proliferation and cancer initiation or progression is not known. Here, we provide evidence that ROCK1 and ROCK2 act redundantly to maintain actomyosin contractility and cell proliferation and that their loss leads to cell-cycle arrest and cellular senescence. This phenotype arises from down-regulation of the essential cell-cycle proteins CyclinA, CKS1 and CDK1. Accordingly, while the loss of either Rock1 or Rock2 had no negative impact on tumorigenesis in mouse models of non-small cell lung cancer and melanoma, loss of both blocked tumor formation, as no tumors arise in which both Rock1 and Rock2 have been genetically deleted. Our results reveal an indispensable role for ROCK, yet redundant role for isoforms 1 and 2, in cell cycle progression and tumorigenesis, possibly through the maintenance of cellular contractility.
PXD002739	26767346	Global Proteome Analyses of Lysine Acetylation and Succinylation Reveal the Widespread Involvement of both Modification in Metabolism in the Embryo of Germinating Rice Seed. 	Acetylome  analyses in the germinating rice seed	Lysine Acetylation, rice, seed germination	Regulation of rice seed germination has been shown to mainly occur at post-transcriptional levels, of which the changes on proteome status is a major one. Lysine acetylation and succinylation are two prevalent protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) involved in multiple biological processes, especially for metabolism regulation. To investigate the potential mechanism controlling metabolism regulation in rice seed germination, we performed the lysine acetylation and succinylation analyses simultaneously. Using high-accuracy nano-LC-MS/MS in combination with the enrichment of lysine acetylated or succinylated peptides from digested embryonic proteins of 24 h after imbibition (HAI) rice seed, a total of 699 acetylated sites from 389 proteins and 665 succinylated sites from 261 proteins were identified. Among these modified lysine sites, 133 sites on 78 proteins were commonly modified by two PTMs. The overlapped PTM sites were more likely to be in polar acidic/basic amino acid regions and exposed on the protein surface. Both of the acetylated and succinylated proteins cover nearly all aspects of cellular functions. Ribosome complex and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis-related proteins were significantly enriched in both acetylated and succinylated protein profiles through KEGG enrichment and protein-protein interaction network analyses. The acetyl-CoA and succinyl-CoA metabolism-related enzymes were found to be extensively modified by both modifications, implying the functional interaction between the two PTMs. This study provides a rich resource to examine the modulation of the two PTMs on the metabolism pathway and other biological processes in germinating rice seed.
PXD003095	26767403	Identification of a Novel Function of Adipocyte Plasma Membrane-Associated Protein (APMAP) in Gestational Diabetes Mellitus by Proteomic Analysis of Omental Adipose Tissue. 	Identification of the novel function of adipocyte plasma membrane associated protein (APMAP) in gestational diabetes mellitus by proteomic analysis of omental adipose tissues	gestational diabetes mellitus, label-free proteomics, omental adipose tissues	Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is considered as an early stage of type 2 diabetes mellitus. In this study, we compared demographic and clinical data between six GDM subjects and six normal glucose tolerance (NGT; healthy controls) subjects and found that homeostasis model of assessment for insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR) increased in GDM. Many previous studies demonstrated that omental adipose tissue dysfunction could induce insulin resistance. Thus, to investigate the cause of insulin resistance in GDM, we used label-free proteomics to identify differentially expressed proteins in omental adipose tissues from GDM and NGT subjects (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003095). A total of 3528 proteins were identified, including 66 significantly changed proteins. Adipocyte plasma membrane-associated protein (APMAP, a.k.a. C20orf3), one of the differentially expressed proteins, was down-regulated in GDM omental adipose tissues. Furthermore, mature 3T3-L1 adipocytes were used to simulate omental adipocytes. The inhibition of APMAP expression by RNAi impaired insulin signaling and activated NFkappaB signaling in these adipocytes. Our study revealed that the down-regulation of APMAP in omental adipose tissue may play an important role in insulin resistance in the pathophysiology of GDM.
PXD003164	26768581	Cross-species proteomics in analysis of mammalian sperm proteins. 	Cross-species proteomics in analysis of mammalian sperm proteins C4PR_LIV	Cross-species, LC-MS, Proteins, Rodents, Sperm, Ungulates	Many proteomics studies are conducted in model organisms for which fully annotated, detailed, high quality proteomes are available. By contrast, many studies in ecology and evolution are conducted in species which lack high quality proteome data, limiting the perceived value of a proteomic approach for protein discovery and quantification. This is particularly true of rapidly evolving proteins in the reproductive system, such as those that have an immune function or are under sexual selection, and can compromise the potential for cross-species proteomics to yield confident identification. In this investigation we analysed the sperm proteome, from a range of ungulates and rodents, and explored the potential of routine proteomic workflows to yield characterisation and quantification in non-model organisms. We report that database searching is robust to cross-species matching for a mammalian core sperm proteome, comprising 623 proteins that were common to most of the 19 species studied here, suggesting that these proteins are likely to be present and identifiable across many mammalian sperm. Further, label-free quantification reveals a consistent pattern of expression level. Functional analysis of this core proteome suggests consistency with previous studies limited to model organisms and has value as a quantitative reference for analysis of species-specific protein characterisation. SIGNIFICANCE: From analysis of the sperm proteome for diverse species (rodents and ungulates) using LC-MS/MS workflows and standard data processing, we show that it is feasible to obtain cross-species matches for a large number of proteins that can be filtered stringently to yield a highly expressed mammalian sperm core proteome, for which label-free quantitative data are also used to inform protein function and abundance.
PXD003189	26769563	Attenuation of pattern recognition receptor signaling is mediated by a MAP kinase kinase kinase. 	Identification of FLS2 interacting proteins by co-immunoprecipitation and shot gun proteomics	FLS2, co-immunoprecipitation, immunity, pattern recognition receptor, plasma membrane, protein-protein interaction, signaling	Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) play a key role in plant and animal innate immunity. PRR binding of their cognate ligand triggers a signaling network and activates an immune response. Activation of PRR signaling must be controlled prior to ligand binding to prevent spurious signaling and immune activation. Flagellin perception in Arabidopsis through FLAGELLIN-SENSITIVE 2 (FLS2) induces the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and immunity. However, the precise molecular mechanism that connects activated FLS2 to downstream MAPK cascades remains unknown. Here, we report the identification of a differentially phosphorylated MAP kinase kinase kinase that also interacts with FLS2. Using targeted proteomics and functional analysis, we show that MKKK7 negatively regulates flagellin-triggered signaling and basal immunity and this requires phosphorylation of MKKK7 on specific serine residues. MKKK7 attenuates MPK6 activity and defense gene expression. Moreover, MKKK7 suppresses the reactive oxygen species burst downstream of FLS2, suggesting that MKKK7-mediated attenuation of FLS2 signaling occurs through direct modulation of the FLS2 complex.
PXD002030	26771494	Extracellular Vesicles from Trypanosoma brucei Mediate Virulence Factor Transfer and Cause Host Anemia. 	Trypanosoma brucei extracellular vesicles	Afriacan sleep sickness, Trypanosoma brucei, extracellular vesicles	Intercellular communication between parasites and with host cells provides mechanisms for parasite development, immune evasion, and disease pathology. Bloodstream African trypanosomes produce membranous nanotubes that originate from the flagellar membrane and disassociate into free extracellular vesicles (EVs). Trypanosome EVs contain several flagellar proteins that contribute to virulence, and Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense EVs contain the serum resistance-associated protein (SRA) necessary for human infectivity. T. b. rhodesiense EVs transfer SRA to non-human infectious trypanosomes, allowing evasion of human innate immunity. Trypanosome EVs can also fuse with mammalian erythrocytes, resulting in rapid erythrocyte clearance and anemia. These data indicate that trypanosome EVs are organelles mediating non-hereditary virulence factor transfer and causing host erythrocyte remodeling, inducing anemia.
PXD003434	26778141	Homogenization of tissues via picosecond-infrared laser (PIRL) ablation: Giving a closer view on the in-vivo composition of protein species as compared to mechanical homogenization. 	Homogenization of tissues via picosecond-infrared laser (PIRL) ablation: Giving a closer view on the in-vivo composition of protein species as compared to mechanical homogenization	PIRL, PIRL-DIVE, protein species, proteolysis, sample preparation, tissue homogenization	Posttranslational modifications and proteolytic processing regulate almost all physiological processes. Dysregulation can potentially result in pathologic protein species causing diseases. Thus, tissue species proteomes of diseased individuals provide diagnostic information. Since the composition of tissue proteomes can rapidly change during tissue homogenization by the action of enzymes released from their compartments, disease specific protein species patterns can vanish. Recently, we described a novel, ultrafast and soft method for cold vaporization of tissue via desorption by impulsive vibrational excitation (DIVE) using a picosecond-infrared-laser (PIRL). Given that DIVE extraction may provide improved access to the original composition of protein species in tissues, we compared the proteome composition of tissue protein homogenates after DIVE homogenization with conventional homogenizations. A higher number of intact protein species was observed in DIVE homogenates. Due to the ultrafast transfer of proteins from tissues via gas phase into frozen condensates of the aerosols, intact protein species were exposed to a lesser extent to enzymatic degradation reactions compared with conventional protein extraction. In addition, total yield of the number of proteins is higher in DIVE homogenates, because they are very homogenous and contain almost no insoluble particles, allowing direct analysis with subsequent analytical methods without the necessity of centrifugation. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Enzymatic protein modifications during tissue homogenization are responsible for changes of the in-vivo protein species composition. Cold vaporization of tissues by PIRL-DIVE is comparable with taking a snapshot at the time of the laser irradiation of the dynamic changes that occur continuously under in-vivo conditions. At that time point all biomolecules are transferred into an aerosol, which is immediately frozen.
PXD002671	26778144	Tandem affinity purification of histones, coupled to mass spectrometry, identifies associated proteins and new sites of post-translational modification in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Tandem affinity purification of histones, coupled to mass spectrometry, identifies new sites of post-translational modification and associated proteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Chromatin, Histones, Tandem affinity purification	Histones and their post-translational modifications contribute to regulating fundamental biological processes in all eukaryotic cells. We have applied a conventional tandem affinity purification strategy to histones H3 and H4 of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Mass spectrometry analysis of the co-purified proteins revealed multiple associated proteins, including core histones, which indicates that tagged histones may be incorporated to the nucleosome particle. Among the many other co-isolated proteins there are histone chaperones, elements of chromatin remodeling, of nucleosome assembly/disassembly, and of histone modification complexes. The histone chaperone Rtt106p, two members of chromatin assembly FACT complex and Psh1p, an ubiquitin ligase, were the most abundant proteins obtained with both H3-TAP and H4-TAP, regardless of the cell extraction medium stringency. Our mass spectrometry analyses have also revealed numerous novel post-translational modifications, including 30 new chemical modifications in histones, mainly by ubiquitination. We have discovered not only new sites of ubiquitination but that, besides lysine, also serine and threonine residues are targets of ubiquitination on yeast histones. Our results show the standard tandem affinity purification procedure is suitable for application to yeast histones, in order to isolate and characterize histone-binding proteins and post-translational modifications, avoiding the bias caused by histone purification from a chromatin-enriched fraction.
PXD003311	26779156	CodY Regulates the Activity of the Virulence Quorum Sensor PlcR by Controlling the Import of the Signaling Peptide PapR in Bacillus thuringiensis. 	CodY regulates the activity of the virulence quorum sensor PlcR	Bacillus, Cody, OPP, PlcR, Shot gun, quorum-sensing, regulation, signaling peptide, virulence regulon	In Gram-positive bacteria, cell-cell communication mainly relies on cytoplasmic sensors of the RNPP family. Activity of these regulators depends on their binding to secreted signaling peptides that are imported into the cell. These quorum sensing regulators control important biological functions in bacteria of the Bacillus cereus group, such as virulence and necrotrophism. The RNPP quorum sensor PlcR, in complex with its cognate signaling peptide PapR, is the main regulator of virulence in B. cereus and Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt). Recent reports have shown that the global stationary phase regulator CodY, involved in adaptation to nutritional limitation, is required for the expression of virulence genes belonging to the PlcR regulon. However, the mechanism underlying this regulation was not described. Using genetics and proteomics approaches, we showed that CodY regulates the expression of the virulence genes through the import of PapR. We report that CodY positively controls the production of the proteins that compose the oligopeptide permease OppABCDF, and of several other Opp-like proteins. It was previously shown that the pore components of this oligopeptide permease, OppBCDF, were required for the import of PapR. However, the role of OppA, the substrate-binding protein (SBP), was not investigated. Here, we demonstrated that OppA is not the only SBP involved in the recognition of PapR, and that several other OppA-like proteins can allow the import of this peptide. Altogether, these data complete our model of quorum sensing during the lifecycle of Bt and indicate that RNPPs integrate environmental conditions, as well as cell density, to coordinate the behavior of the bacteria throughout growth.
PXD003318	26781291	Life span extension by targeting a link between metabolism and histone acetylation in Drosophila. 	Protein acetylation in young versus midlife Drosophila male heads	Ageing, Drosophila, Protein acetylation	Old age is associated with a progressive decline of mitochondrial function and changes in nuclear chromatin. However, little is known about how metabolic activity and epigenetic modifications change as organisms reach their midlife. Here, we assessed how cellular metabolism and protein acetylation change during early aging in Drosophila melanogaster. Contrary to common assumptions, we find that flies increase oxygen consumption and become less sensitive to histone deacetylase inhibitors as they reach midlife. Further, midlife flies show changes in the metabolome, elevated acetyl-CoA levels, alterations in protein-notably histone-acetylation, as well as associated transcriptome changes. Based on these observations, we decreased the activity of the acetyl-CoA-synthesizing enzyme ATP citrate lyase (ATPCL) or the levels of the histone H4 K12-specific acetyltransferase Chameau. We find that these targeted interventions both alleviate the observed aging-associated changes and promote longevity. Our findings reveal a pathway that couples changes of intermediate metabolism during aging with the chromatin-mediated regulation of transcription and changes in the activity of associated enzymes that modulate organismal life span.
PXD001974	26781476	Proteome Profiling and Ultrastructural Characterization of the Human RCMH Cell Line: Myoblastic Properties and Suitability for Myopathological Studies. 	Proteome profiling of human myoblastic RCMH cell line	RCMH, human cell line, myoblasts, proteome profiling	Studying (neuro)muscular disorders is a major topic in biomedicine with a demand for suitable model systems. Continuous cell culture (in vitro) systems have several technical advantages over in vivo systems and became widely used tools for discovering physiological/pathophysiological mechanisms in muscle. In particular, myoblast cell lines are suitable model systems to study complex biochemical adaptations occurring in skeletal muscle and cellular responses to altered genetic/environmental conditions. Whereas most in vitro studies use extensively characterized murine C2C12 cells, a comprehensive description of an equivalent human cell line, not genetically manipulated for immortalization, is lacking. Therefore, we characterized human immortal myoblastic RCMH cells using scanning (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and proteomics. Among more than 6200 identified proteins we confirm the known expression of proteins important for muscle function. Comparing the RCMH proteome with two well-defined nonskeletal muscle cells lines (HeLa, U2OS) revealed a considerable enrichment of proteins important for muscle function. SEM/TEM confirmed the presence of agglomerates of cytoskeletal components/intermediate filaments and a prominent rough ER. In conclusion, our results indicate RMCH as a suitable in vitro model for investigating muscle function-related processes such as mechanical stress burden and mechanotransduction, EC coupling, cytoskeleton, muscle cell metabolism and development, and (ER-associated) myopathic disorders.
PXD025584	26782178	Comprehensive Proteomic Analysis of Mesenchymal Stem Cell Exosomes Reveals Modulation of Angiogenesis via Nuclear Factor-KappaB Signaling. 	Proteome characterization of mesenchymal stem cells and exosomes	MSC, exosome	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are known to facilitate healing of ischemic tissue related diseases through proangiogenic secretory proteins. Recent studies further show that MSC derived exosomes function as paracrine effectors of angiogenesis, however, the identity of which components of the exosome proteome responsible for this effect remains elusive. To address this we used high-resolution isoelectric focusing coupled liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry, an unbiased high throughput proteomics approach to comprehensively characterize the proteinaceous contents of MSCs and MSC derived exosomes. We probed the proteome of MSCs and MSC derived exosomes from cells cultured under expansion conditions and under ischemic tissue simulated conditions to elucidate key angiogenic paracrine effectors present and potentially differentially expressed in these conditions. In total, 6,342 proteins were identified in MSCs and 1,927 proteins in MSC derived exosomes, representing to our knowledge the first time these proteomes have been probed comprehensively. Multilayered analyses identified several putative paracrine effectors of angiogenesis present in MSC exosomes and increased in expression in MSCs exposed to ischemic tissue-simulated conditions; these include platelet derived growth factor, epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, and most notably nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkB) signaling pathway proteins. NFkB signaling was identified as a key mediator of MSC exosome induced angiogenesis in endothelial cells by functional in vitro validation using a specific inhibitor. Collectively, the results of our proteomic analysis show that MSC derived exosomes contain a robust profile of angiogenic paracrine effectors, which have potential for the treatment of ischemic tissue-related diseases.
PXD002735	26783066	Quantitative phosphoproteomics reveals genistein as a modulator of cell cycle and DNA damage response pathways in triple-negative breast cancer cells. 	Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Reveals Genistein as a Modulator of Cell Cycle and DNA Damage Response Pathways	ATR, CKD1, Genistein, MDA-MB-231, Phosphorylation, Triple Negative Breast Cancer	Around one sixth of breast cancer cases are classified as triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), named after the absence of the expression of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2); however, patients with TNBC suffer from poor clinical outcome and shortage of targeted therapy. Genistein, an estrogenic soy isoflavone, shows anticancer effects in TNBC cells such as inducing G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. However, the underlying mechanism of its anticancer effects is poorly understood and its elucidation can help the development of novel therapeutic strategies for TNBC. In this study, by combining isobaric tag-based TMT labeling with titanium dioxide-based phosphopeptide enrichment, we quantitated 5,445 phosphorylation sites on 2,008 phosphoproteins in the TNBC cell line MDA-MB-231, upon genistein treatment. Our analysis revealed 332 genistein-regulated phosphorylation sites on 226 proteins. Our data show that genistein can regulate several biological processes during the cell cycle, including DNA replication, cohesin complex cleavage, and kinetochore formation. Furthermore, genistein can also activate DNA damage response, including activation of ATR and BRCA1 complex. Overall, our study presents evidence at a phosphoproteomic level that genistein is able to inhibit TNBC cell growth by regulating the cell cycle and DNA damage response in a more complex manner. Our findings help elucidate the mechanisms through which genistein exerts its anticancer effects in TNBC cells.
PXD003107	26789629	Combining Untargeted and Targeted Proteomic Strategies for Discrimination and Quantification of Cashmere Fibers. 	Combining Untargeted and Targeted Proteomic Strategies for Discrimination and Quantification of Cashmere Fibers	Fiber, LC-MS, biomarker, keratin, keratin-associated protein	Cashmere is regarded as a specialty and luxury fiber due to its scarcity and high economic value. For fiber quality assessment, it is technically very challenging to distinguish and quantify the cashmere fiber from yak or wool fibers because of their highly similar physical appearance and substantial protein sequence homology. To address this issue, we propose a workflow combining untargeted and targeted proteomics strategies for selecting, verifying and quantifying biomarkers for cashmere textile authentication. Untargeted proteomic surveys were first applied to identify 174, 157, and 156 proteins from cashmere, wool and yak fibers, respectively. After marker selection at different levels, peptides turned out to afford much higher selectivity than proteins for fiber species discrimination. Subsequently, parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) methods were developed for ten selected peptide markers. The PRM-based targeted analysis of peptide markers enabled accurate determination of fiber species and cashmere percentages in different fiber mixtures. Furthermore, collective use of these peptide makers allowed us to discriminate and quantify cashmere fibers in commercial finished fabrics that have undergone heavy chemical treatments. Cashmere proportion measurement in fabric samples using our proteomic approach was in good agreement with results from traditional light microscopy, yet our method can be more readily standardized to become an objective and robust assay for assessing authenticity of fibers and textiles. We anticipate that the proteomic strategies presented in our study could be further implicated in discovery of quality trait markers for other products containing highly homologous proteomes.
PXD015044	26789759	Phosphorylation Increases Persistence Length and End-to-End Distance of a Segment of Tau Protein. 	Insight into the structure of the "unstructured" tau protein	CL-DMD, IDP, cross-linking, discrete molecular dynamics, intrinsically disordered proteins, tau	Intrinsically disordered regions of proteins, which lack unique tertiary structure under physiological conditions, are enriched in phosphorylation sites and in significant local bias toward the polyproline II conformation. The overrepresented coincidence of this posttranslational regulatory signal and local conformational bias within unstructured regions raises a question: can phosphorylation serve to manipulate the conformational preferences of a disordered protein? In this study, we use time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer and a, to our knowledge, novel data analysis method to directly measure the end-to-end distance distribution of a phosphorylatable peptide derived from the human microtubule associated protein tau. Our results show that phosphorylation at threonine or serine extends the end-to-end distance and increases the effective persistence length of the tested model peptides. Unexpectedly, the extension is independent of salt concentration, suggestive of a nonelectrostatic origin. The phosphorylation extension and stiffening effect provides a peptide-scale physical interpretation for the posttranslational regulation of the highly abundant protein-protein interactions found in disordered proteins, as well as a potential insight into the regulatory mechanism of the tau protein's microtubule binding activity.
PXD003002	26791624	Morpheus Spectral Counter: A computational tool for label-free quantitative mass spectrometry using the Morpheus search engine. 	Morpheus Spectral Counter -  Morpheus spectral counter: a computational tool for label-free quantitative mass spectrometry using the morpheus search engine	Label-free quantification, Morpheus, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, bioinformatics, machine learning, software, spectral count	Label-free quantitative MS based on the Normalized Spectral Abundance Factor (NSAF) has emerged as a straightforward and robust method to determine the relative abundance of individual proteins within complex mixtures. Here, we present Morpheus Spectral Counter (MSpC) as the first computational tool that directly calculates NSAF values from output obtained from Morpheus, a fast, open-source, peptide-MS/MS matching engine compatible with high-resolution accurate-mass instruments. NSAF has distinct advantages over other MS-based quantification methods, including a greater dynamic range as compared to isobaric tags, no requirement to align and re-extract MS1 peaks, and increased speed. MSpC features an easy-to-use graphic user interface that additionally calculates both distributed and unique NSAF values to permit analyses of both protein families and isoforms/proteoforms. MSpC determinations of protein concentration were linear over several orders of magnitude based on the analysis of several high-mass accuracy datasets either obtained from PRIDE or generated with total cell extracts spiked with purified Arabidopsis 20S proteasomes. The MSpC software was developed in C# and is open sourced under a permissive license with the code made available at http://dcgemperline.github.io/Morpheus_SpC/.
PXD003042	26792808	Phosphoproteomics Profiling of Tobacco Mature Pollen and Pollen Activated in vitro. 	Phosphoproteomics profiling of tobacco mature pollen and pollen activated in vitro	Tabacco, phosphoproteomics, pollen	Tobacco mature pollen has extremely desiccated cytoplasm, and is metabolically quiescent. Upon re-hydration it becomes metabolically active and that results in later emergence of rapidly growing pollen tube. These changes in cytoplasm hydration and metabolic activity are accompanied by protein phosphorylation. In this study, we subjected mature pollen, 5-min-activated pollen, and 30-min-activated pollen to TCA/acetone protein extraction, trypsin digestion and phosphopeptide enrichment by titanium dioxide. The enriched fraction was subjected to nLC-MS/MS. We identified 471 phosphopeptides that carried 432 phosphorylation sites, position of which was exactly matched by mass spectrometry. These 471 phosphopeptides were assigned to 301 phosphoproteins, because some proteins carried more phosphorylation sites. Of the 13 functional groups, the majority of proteins were put into these categories: transcription, protein synthesis, protein destination and storage, and signal transduction. Many proteins were of unknown function, reflecting the fact that male gametophyte contains many specific proteins that have not been fully functionally annotated. The quantitative data highlighted the dynamics of protein phosphorylation during pollen activation; the identified phosphopeptides were divided into seven groups based on the regulatory trends. The major group comprised mature pollen-specific phosphopeptides that were dephosphorylated during pollen activation. Several phosphopeptides representing the same phosphoprotein had different regulation, which pinpointed the complexity of protein phosphorylation and its clear functional context. Collectively, we showed the first phosphoproteomics data on activated pollen where the position of phosphorylation sites was clearly demonstrated and regulatory kinetics was resolved.
PXD002529	26793233	Milk Bottom-Up Proteomics: Method Optimization. 	Milk bottom-up proteomics: method optimisation.	Jersey and Holstein cow milk, nLC-ESI-MS, replicates., trypsin digestion	Milk is a complex fluid whose proteome displays a diverse set of proteins of high abundance such as caseins and medium to low abundance whey proteins such as beta-lactoglobulin, lactoferrin, immunoglobulins, glycoproteins, peptide hormones, and enzymes. A sample preparation method that enables high reproducibility and throughput is key in reliably identifying proteins present or proteins responding to conditions such as a diet, health or genetics. Using skim milk samples from Jersey and Holstein-Friesian cows, we compared three extraction procedures which have not previously been applied to samples of cows' milk. Method A (urea) involved a simple dilution of the milk in a urea-based buffer, method B (TCA/acetone) involved a trichloroacetic acid (TCA)/acetone precipitation, and method C (methanol/chloroform) involved a tri-phasic partition method in chloroform/methanol solution. Protein assays, SDS-PAGE profiling, and trypsin digestion followed by nanoHPLC-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (nLC-ESI-MS/MS) analyses were performed to assess their efficiency. Replicates were used at each analytical step (extraction, digestion, injection) to assess reproducibility. Mass spectrometry (MS) data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002529. Overall 186 unique accessions, major and minor proteins, were identified with a combination of methods. Method C (methanol/chloroform) yielded the best resolved SDS-patterns and highest protein recovery rates, method A (urea) yielded the greatest number of accessions, and, of the three procedures, method B (TCA/acetone) was the least compatible of all with a wide range of downstream analytical procedures. Our results also highlighted breed differences between the proteins in milk of Jersey and Holstein-Friesian cows.
PXD002532	26796116	Predictions of Cleavability of Calpain Proteolysis by Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship Analysis Using Newly Determined Cleavage Sites and Catalytic Efficiencies of an Oligopeptide Array. 	Proteomic QSAR analysis of calpain substrate specificity	PLS, QSAR, calpain, substrate specificity	Calpains are intracellular Ca(2+)-regulated cysteine proteases that are essential for various cellular functions. Mammalian conventional calpains (calpain-1 and calpain-2) modulate the structure and function of their substrates by limited proteolysis. Thus, it is critically important to determine the site(s) in proteins at which calpains cleave. However, the calpains' substrate specificity remains unclear, because the amino acid (aa) sequences around their cleavage sites are very diverse. To clarify calpains' substrate specificities, 84 20-mer oligopeptides, corresponding to P10-P10' of reported cleavage site sequences, were proteolyzed by calpains, and the catalytic efficiencies (kcat/Km) were globally determined by LC/MS. This analysis revealed 483 cleavage site sequences, including 360 novel ones. Thekcat/Kms for 119 sites ranged from 12.5-1,710 M(-1)s(-1) Although most sites were cleaved by both calpain-1 and -2 with a similarkcat/Km, sequence comparisons revealed distinct aa preferences at P9-P7/P2/P5'. The aa compositions of the novel sites were not statistically different from those of previously reported sites as a whole, suggesting calpains have a strict implicit rule for sequence specificity, and that the limited proteolysis of intact substrates is because of substrates' higher-order structures. Cleavage position frequencies indicated that longer sequences N-terminal to the cleavage site (P-sites) were preferred for proteolysis over C-terminal (P'-sites). Quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analyses using partial least-squares regression and >1,300 aa descriptors achievedkcat/Kmprediction withr= 0.834, and binary-QSAR modeling attained an 87.5% positive prediction value for 132 reported calpain cleavage sites independent of our model construction. These results outperformed previous calpain cleavage predictors, and revealed the importance of the P2, P3', and P4' sites, and P1-P2 cooperativity. Furthermore, using our binary-QSAR model, novel cleavage sites in myoglobin were identified, verifying our predictor. This study increases our understanding of calpain substrate specificities, and opens calpains to "next-generation,"i.e.activity-related quantitative and cooperativity-dependent analyses.
PXD002494	26797124	The Pluripotency Factor NANOG Binds to GLI Proteins and Represses Hedgehog-mediated Transcription. 	Identification of GLI-associated proteins by mass spectrometry	Embryonic Stem Cells, GLI, Hedgehog signaling, NANOG	The Hedgehog (HH) signaling pathway is essential for the maintenance and response of several types of stem cells. To study the transcriptional response of stem cells to HH signaling, we searched for proteins binding to GLI proteins, the transcriptional effectors of the HH pathway in mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. We found that both GLI3 and GLI1 bind to the pluripotency factor NANOG. The ectopic expression of NANOG inhibits GLI1-mediated transcriptional responses in a dose-dependent fashion. In differentiating ES cells, the presence of NANOG reduces the transcriptional response of cells to HH. Finally, we found thatGli1andNanogare co-expressed in ES cells at high levels. We propose that NANOG acts as a negative feedback component that provides stem cell-specific regulation of the HH pathway.
PXD003159	26799765	Heptad-Specific Phosphorylation of RNA Polymerase II CTD. 	Heptad-specific phosphorylation of RNA polymerase II CTD	CTD heptads, CTD phosphosites, Pol II CTD	The carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) consists of heptad repeats with the consensus motif Y1-S2-P3-T4-S5-P6-S7. Dynamic phosphorylation of the CTD coordinates Pol II progression through the transcription cycle. Here, we use genetic and mass spectrometric approaches to directly detect and map phosphosites along the entire CTD. We confirm phosphorylation of CTD residues Y1, S2, T4, S5, and S7 in mammalian and yeast cells. Although specific phosphorylation signatures dominate, adjacent CTD repeats can be differently phosphorylated, leading to a high variation of coexisting phosphosites in mono- and di-heptad CTD repeats. Inhibition of CDK9 kinase specifically reduces S2 phosphorylation levels within the CTD.
PXD001429	26801057	Analysis of dynamic protein carbonylation in rice embryo during germination through AP-SWATH. 	Carbonylation proteome of rice embryo	SWATH, carbonylation, germination, rice	Seed germination is an important aspect of the plant life cycle, during which, reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulate. The accumulation of ROS results in an increase in protein oxidation of which carbonylation is the most canonical one. However, there is insufficient information concerning protein oxidation, especially carbonylation and its contribution to seed germination. In this study, biotin hydrazide labeled chromatography combined with sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra (SWATH) method was used to analyze the dynamic pattern of protein carbonylation in rice embryos during germination. A total of 1872 unique proteins were quantified, among which 288 carbonylated peptides corresponding to 144 proteins were determined based on the filtering through mass shifts of modified amino acids. In addition, 66 carbonylated proteins were further analyzed based on their carbonylation intensity in four stages of germination. These identified carbonylated proteins were mainly involved in maintaining the levels of ROS, abscisic acid and seed reserves. Remarkably, a peroxiredoxin was found with 23 unique carbonylated peptides, and the expression of which was consistent with its increased activity. This study describes the dynamic pattern of carbonylated proteins during seed germination, and may help to further understand the biochemical mechanisms on this process.
PXD002787	26801685	Developmental alcohol exposure leads to a persistent change on astrocyte secretome. 	Developmental alcohol exposure leads to a persistent change on astrocyte secretome	Astrocytes, Ethanol, FASD, Secretome	Fetal alcohol spectrum disorder is the most common cause of mental disabilities in the western world. It has been quite established that acute alcohol exposure can dramatically affect astrocyte function. Because the effects of early alcohol exposure on cell physiology can persist into adulthood, we tested the hypothesis that ethanol exposure in ferrets during a period equivalent to the last months of human gestation leads to persistent changes in astrocyte secretome in vitro. Animals were treated with ethanol (3.5 g/kg) or saline between postnatal day (P)10-30. At P31, astrocyte cultures were made and cells were submitted to stable isotope labeling by amino acids. Twenty-four hour conditioned media of cells obtained from ethanol- or saline-treated animals (ET-CM or SAL-CM) were collected and analyzed by quantitative mass spectrometry in tandem with liquid chromatography. Here, we show that 65 out of 280 quantifiable proteins displayed significant differences comparing ET-CM to SAL-CM. Among the 59 proteins that were found to be reduced in ET-CM we observed components of the extracellular matrix such as laminin subunits alpha2, alpha4, beta1, beta2, and gamma1 and the proteoglycans biglycan, heparan sulfate proteoglycan 2, and lumican. Proteins with trophic function such as insulin-like growth factor binding protein 4, pigment epithelium-derived factor, and clusterin as well as proteins involved on modulation of proteolysis such as metalloproteinase inhibitor 1 and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 were also reduced. In contrast, pro-synaptogeneic proteins like thrombospondin-1, hevin as well as the modulator of extracelular matrix expression, angiotensinogen, were found increased in ET-CM. The analysis of interactome maps through ingenuity pathway analysis demonstrated that the amyloid beta A4 protein precursor, which was found reduced in ET-CM, was previously shown to interact with ten other proteins that exhibited significant changes in the ET-CM. Taken together our results strongly suggest that early exposure to teratogens such as alcohol may lead to an enduring change in astrocyte secretome. Despite efforts in prevention, fetal alcohol spectrum disorders are a major cause of mental disabilities. Here, we show that developmental exposure to alcohol lead to a persistent change in the pattern of proteins secreted (secretome) by astrocytes. This study is also the first mass spectrometry-based assessment of the astrocyte secretome in a gyrencephalic animal. Cover Image for this issue: doi: 10.1111/jnc.13320.
PXD001476	26801919	Exosomes Secreted by Apoptosis-Resistant Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) Blasts Harbor Regulatory Network Proteins Potentially Involved in Antagonism of Apoptosis. 	Human AML secretome and correlation with Anti-Apoptotic Index, part 1	AML, secretome	Expression of apoptosis-regulating proteins (B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2 - BCL-2, Myeloid Cell Leukemia 1 - MCL-1, BCL-2 like 1 - BCL-X and BCL-2-associated X protein - BAX) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) blasts at diagnosis is associated with disease-free survival. We previously found that the initially high apoptosis-resistance of AML cells decreased after therapy, while regaining high levels at relapse. Herein, we further explored this aspect of dynamic apoptosis regulation in AML. First, we showed that the intraindividualex vivoapoptosis-related profiles of normal lymphocytes and AML blasts within the bone marrow of AML patients were highly correlated. The expression values of apoptosis-regulating proteins were far beyond healthy control lymphocytes, which implicates the influence of microenvironmental factors. Second, we demonstrated that apoptosis-resistant primary AML blasts, as opposed to apoptosis-sensitive cells, were able to up-regulate BCL-2 expression in sensitive AML blasts in contact cultures (p= 0.0067 andp= 1.0, respectively). Using secretome proteomics, we identified novel proteins possibly engaged in apoptosis regulation. Intriguingly, this analysis revealed that major functional protein clusters engaged in global gene regulation, including mRNA splicing, protein translation, and chromatin remodeling, were more abundant (p= 4.01E-06) in secretomes of apoptosis-resistant AML. These findings were confirmed by subsequent extracellular vesicle proteomics. Finally, confocal-microscopy-based colocalization studies show that splicing factors-containing vesicles secreted by high AAI cells are taken up by low AAI cells. The current results constitute the first comprehensive analysis of proteins released by apoptosis-resistant and sensitive primary AML cells. Together, the data point to vesicle-mediated release of global gene regulatory protein clusters as a plausible novel mechanism of induction of apoptosis resistance. Deciphering the modes of communication between apoptosis-resistant blasts may in perspective lead to the discovery of prognostic tools and development of novel therapeutic interventions, aimed at limiting or overcoming therapy resistance.
PXD003426	26802628	Systematic substrate identification indicates a central role for the metalloprotease ADAM10 in axon targeting and synapse function. 	Systematic substrate identification reveals a central role for the metalloprotease ADAM10 in axon targeting and synapse function	ADAM10 substrates, bioorthogonal chemistry, neurons, protease	Metzincin metalloproteases have major roles in intercellular communication by modulating the function of membrane proteins. One of the proteases is the a-disintegrin-and-metalloprotease 10 (ADAM10) which acts as alpha-secretase of the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein. ADAM10 is also required for neuronal network functions in murine brain, but neuronal ADAM10 substrates are only partly known. With a proteomic analysis of Adam10-deficient neurons we identified 91, mostly novel ADAM10 substrate candidates, making ADAM10 a major protease for membrane proteins in the nervous system. Several novel substrates, including the neuronal cell adhesion protein NrCAM, are involved in brain development. Indeed, we detected mistargeted axons in the olfactory bulb of conditional ADAM10-/- mice, which correlate with reduced cleavage of NrCAM, NCAM and other ADAM10 substrates. In summary, the novel ADAM10 substrates provide a molecular basis for neuronal network dysfunctions in conditional ADAM10-/- mice and demonstrate a fundamental function of ADAM10 in the brain.
PXD001969	26804907	Mps1 Mediated Phosphorylation of Hsp90 Confers Renal Cell Carcinoma Sensitivity and Selectivity to Hsp90 Inhibitors. 	Mps1 Phosphorylation of  the Molecular Chaperone Hsp90  Regulates Mitotic Checkpoint	Cdc14, Heat Shock Protein 90, Kinase, Mitotic checkpoint, Molecular Chaperones, Mps1, Phosphatase, Phosphorylation	The molecular chaperone Hsp90 protects deregulated signaling proteins that are vital for tumor growth and survival. Tumors generally display sensitivity and selectivity toward Hsp90 inhibitors; however, the molecular mechanism underlying this phenotype remains undefined. We report that the mitotic checkpoint kinase Mps1 phosphorylates a conserved threonine residue in the amino-domain of Hsp90. This, in turn, regulates chaperone function by reducing Hsp90 ATPase activity while fostering Hsp90 association with kinase clients, including Mps1. Phosphorylation of Hsp90 is also essential for the mitotic checkpoint because it confers Mps1 stability and activity. We identified Cdc14 as the phosphatase that dephosphorylates Hsp90 and disrupts its interaction with Mps1. This causes Mps1 degradation, thus providing a mechanism for its inactivation. Finally, Hsp90 phosphorylation sensitizes cells to its inhibitors, and elevated Mps1 levels confer renal cell carcinoma selectivity to Hsp90 drugs. Mps1 expression level can potentially serve as a predictive indicator of tumor response to Hsp90 inhibitors.
PXD003249	26806181	A novel mechanism for the biogenesis of outer membrane vesicles in Gram-negative bacteria. 	Outer membrane vesicle and outer membrane of Haemophilus influenzae Rd KW20, Rd yrbE and Rd vacJ	Haemophilus influenzae, Mla Pathway, OM, OMV, Retrograde lipid trafficking system	Bacterial outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) have important biological roles in pathogenesis and intercellular interactions, but a general mechanism of OMV formation is lacking. Here we show that the VacJ/Yrb ABC (ATP-binding cassette) transport system, a proposed phospholipid transporter, is involved in OMV formation. Deletion or repression of VacJ/Yrb increases OMV production in two distantly related Gram-negative bacteria, Haemophilus influenzae and Vibrio cholerae. Lipidome analyses demonstrate that OMVs from VacJ/Yrb-defective mutants in H. influenzae are enriched in phospholipids and certain fatty acids. Furthermore, we demonstrate that OMV production and regulation of the VacJ/Yrb ABC transport system respond to iron starvation. Our results suggest a new general mechanism of OMV biogenesis based on phospholipid accumulation in the outer leaflet of the outer membrane. This mechanism is highly conserved among Gram-negative bacteria, provides a means for regulation, can account for OMV formation under all growth conditions, and might have important pathophysiological roles in vivo.
PXD003101	26810586	An NGS-Independent Strategy for Proteome-Wide Identification of Single Amino Acid Polymorphisms by Mass Spectrometry. 	Proteome-wide identification of SAPs in an industrial yeast strain	SAP, industrial yeast strain, proteogenomics	Detection of proteins containing single amino acid polymorphisms (SAPs) encoded by nonsynonymous SNPs (nsSNPs) can aid researchers in studying the functional significance of protein variants. Most proteogenomic approaches for large-scale SAPs mapping require construction of a sample-specific database containing protein variants predicted from the next-generation sequencing (NGS) data. Searching shotgun proteomic data sets against these NGS-derived databases allowed for identification of SAP peptides, thus validating the proteome-level sequence variation. Contrary to the conventional approaches, our study presents a novel strategy for proteome-wide SAP detection without relying on sample-specific NGS data. By searching a deep-coverage proteomic data set from an industrial thermotolerant yeast strain using our strategy, we identified 337 putative SAPs compared to the reference genome. Among the SAP peptides identified with stringent criteria, 85.2% of SAP sites were validated using whole-genome sequencing data obtained for this organism, which indicates high accuracy of SAP identification with our strategy. More interestingly, for certain SAP peptides that cannot be predicted by genomic sequencing, we used synthetic peptide standards to verify expression of peptide variants in the proteome. Our study has provided a unique tool for proteogenomics to enable proteome-wide direct SAP identification and capture nongenetic protein variants not linked to nsSNPs.
PXD004964	26811146	Comparative Analysis of the Endogenous Peptidomes Displayed by HLA-B*27 and Mamu-B*08: Two MHC Class I Alleles Associated with Elite Control of HIV/SIV Infection. 	MHC Peptidomics: HLA-B*27 vs Mamu-B*08	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), HLA, Human Proteome Project, MHC, Peptides, Peptidomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP)	Indian rhesus macaques are arguably the most reliable animal models in AIDS research. In this species the MHC class I allele Mamu-B*08, among others, is associated with elite control of SIV replication. A similar scenario is observed in humans where the expression of HLA-B*27 or HLA-B*57 has been linked to slow or no progression to AIDS after HIV infection. Despite having large differences in their primary structure, it has been reported that HLA-B*27 and Mamu-B*08 display peptides with sequence similarity. To fine-map the Mamu-B*08 binding motif and assess its similarities with that of HLA-B*27, we affinity purified the peptidomes bound to these MHC class I molecules and analyzed them by LC-MS, identifying several thousands of endogenous ligands. Sequence analysis of both sets of peptides revealed a degree of similarity in their binding motifs, especially at peptide position 2 (P2), where arginine was present in the vast majority of ligands of both allotypes. In addition, several differences emerged from this analysis: (i) ligands displayed by Mamu-B*08 tended to be shorter and to have lower molecular weight, (ii) Mamu-B*08 showed a higher preference for glutamine at P2 as a suboptimal binding motif, and (iii) the second major anchor position, found at POmega, was much more restrictive in Mamu-B*08. In this regard, HLA-B*27 bound efficiently peptides with aliphatic, aromatic (including tyrosine), and basic C-terminal residues while Mamu-B*08 preferred peptides with leucine and phenylalanine in this position. Finally, in silico estimations of binding efficiency and competitive binding assays to Mamu-B*08 of several selected peptides revealed a good correlation between the characterized anchor motif and binding affinity. These results deepen our understanding of the molecular basis of the presentation of peptides by Mamu-B*08 and can contribute to the detection of novel SIV epitopes restricted by this allotype.
PXD002537	26811354	A Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of In Vitro Assembled Chromatin. 	A quantitative proteomic analysis of in vitro assembled chromatin	Acetylation, Affinity proteomics, Chromatin function or biology, Label-free quantification, Macromolecular Assemblages	The structure of chromatin is critical for many aspects of cellular physiology and is considered to be the primary medium to store epigenetic information. It is defined by the histone molecules that constitute the nucleosome, the positioning of the nucleosomes along the DNA and the non-histone proteins that associate with it. These factors help to establish and maintain a largely DNA sequence-independent but surprisingly stable structure. Chromatin is extensively disassembled and reassembled during DNA replication, repair, recombination or transcription in order to allow the necessary factors to gain access to their substrate. Despite such constant interference with chromatin structure, the epigenetic information is generally well maintained. Surprisingly, the mechanisms that coordinate chromatin assembly and ensure proper assembly are not particularly well understood. Here, we use label free quantitative mass spectrometry to describe the kinetics of in vitro assembled chromatin supported by an embryo extract prepared from preblastoderm Drosophila melanogaster embryos. The use of a data independent acquisition method for proteome wide quantitation allows a time resolved comparison of in vitro chromatin assembly. A comparison of our in vitro data with proteomic studies of replicative chromatin assembly in vivo reveals an extensive overlap showing that the in vitro system can be used for investigating the kinetics of chromatin assembly in a proteome-wide manner.
PXD002162	26812498	Evidence for a rhizobia-induced drought stress response strategy in Medicago truncatula. 	M. truncatula drought response is affected by nodulation	drought stress, induced tolerance, leaf senescence, priming, stay-green, symbiosis	Drought stress hampers plant energy and biomass production; however it is still unknown how internal C:N balance and rhizobial symbiosis impact on plant response to water limitation. Here, the effect of differential optimal nitrogen nutrition and root nodule symbiosis on drought stress and rehydration responses of Medicago truncatula was assessed. Two groups of plants were nodulated with Sinorhizobium medicae or Sinorhizobium meliloti--differing in the performance of N fixation; the third group grew in a rhizobia-free medium and received mineral nitrogen fertilizer. In addition to growth analyses, physiological and molecular responses of the two systems were studied using ionomic, metabolomic and proteomic techniques. We found a significant delay in drought-induced leaf senescence in nodulated relative to non-nodulated plants, independent of rhizobial strain and uncoupled from initial leaf N content. The major mechanisms involved are increased concentrations of potassium and shifts in the carbon partitioning between starch and sugars under well-watered conditions, as well as the enhanced allocation of reserves to osmolytes during drought. Consequently, nodulated plants recovered more effectively from drought, relative to non-nodulated M. truncatula. Proteomic data suggest that phytohormone interactions and enhanced translational regulation play a role in increased leaf maintenance in nodulated plants during drought.
PXD002101	26814187	Simultaneous Metabolite, Protein, Lipid Extraction (SIMPLEX): A Combinatorial Multimolecular Omics Approach for Systems Biology. 	SIMPLEX a multimolecular omics approach for systems biology	PPARG signaling, lipidomics, metabolites	Interconnected molecular networks are at the heart of signaling pathways that mediate adaptive plasticity of eukaryotic cells. To gain deeper insights into the underlying molecular mechanisms, a comprehensive and representative analysis demands a deep and parallel coverage of a broad spectrum of molecular species. Therefore, we introduce a simultaneous metabolite, protein, lipid extraction (SIMPLEX) procedure, a novel strategy for the quantitative investigation of lipids, metabolites, and proteins. Compared with unimolecular workflows, SIMPLEX offers a fundamental turn in study design since multiple molecular classes can be accessed in parallel from one sample with equal efficiency and reproducibility. Application of this method in mass-spectrometry-based workflows allowed the simultaneous quantification of 360 lipids, 75 metabolites, and 3327 proteins from 10(6)cells. The versatility of this method is shown in a model system for adipogenesis- peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARG) signaling in mesenchymal stem cells-where we utilized SIMPLEX to explore cross-talk within and between all three molecular classes and identified novel potential molecular entry points for interventions, indicating that SIMPLEX provides a superior strategy compared with conventional workflows.
PXD003076	26814232	Identification of Fic-1 as an enzyme that inhibits bacterial DNA replication by AMPylating GyrB, promoting filament formation. 	Identification of Pseudomanas fluorescens Fic auto-AMPylation site	AMPylation, Adenylylation, Fic, bacteria, post-translational modification	The morphology of bacterial cells is important for virulence, evasion of the host immune system, and coping with environmental stresses. The widely distributed Fic proteins (filamentation induced by cAMP) are annotated as proteins involved in cell division because of the presence of the HPFx[D/E]GN[G/K]R motif. We showed that the presence of Fic-1 from Pseudomonas fluorescens significantly reduced the yield of plasmid DNA when expressed in Escherichia coli or P. fluorescens. Fic-1 interacted with GyrB, a subunit of DNA gyrase, which is essential for bacterial DNA replication. Fic-1 catalyzed the AMPylation of GyrB at Tyr(109), a residue critical for binding ATP, and exhibited auto-AMPylation activity. Mutation of the Fic-1 auto-AMPylated site greatly reduced AMPylation activity toward itself and toward GyrB. Fic-1-dependent AMPylation of GyrB triggered the SOS response, indicative of DNA replication stress or DNA damage. Fic-1 also promoted the formation of elongated cells when the SOS response was blocked. We identified an alpha-inhibitor protein that we named anti-Fic-1 (AntF), encoded by a gene immediately upstream of Fic-1. AntF interacted with Fic-1, inhibited the AMPylation activity of Fic-1 for GyrB in vitro, and blocked Fic-1-mediated inhibition of DNA replication in bacteria, suggesting that Fic-1 and AntF comprise a toxin-antitoxin module. Our work establishes Fic-1 as an AMPylating enzyme that targets GyrB to inhibit DNA replication and may target other proteins to regulate bacterial morphology.
PXD002123	26815358	Inactivation of Francisella tularensis Gene Encoding Putative ABC Transporter Has a Pleiotropic Effect upon Production of Various Glycoconjugates. 	Pleiotropic effect of Francisella ABC transporter gene inactivation on production of glycoconjugates	Francisella, Q-Exactive, glycosylation	Francisella tularensis, an intracellular pathogen causing the disease tularemia, utilizes surface glycoconjugates such as lipopolysaccharide, capsule, and capsule-like complex for its protection against inhospitable conditions of the environment. Francisella species also possess a functional glycosylation apparatus by which specific proteins are O-glycosidically modified. We here created a mutant with a nonfunctional FTS_1402 gene encoding for a putative glycan flippase and studied the consequences of its disruption. The mutant strain expressed diminished glycosylation similarly to, but to a lesser extent than, that of the oligosaccharyltransferase-deficient DeltapglA mutant. In contrast to DeltapglA, inactivation of FTS_1402 had a pleiotropic effect, leading to alteration in glycosylation and, importantly, to decrease in lipopolysaccharide, capsule, and/or capsule-like complex production, which were reflected by distinct phenotypes in host-pathogen associated properties and virulence potential of the two mutant strains. Disruption of FTS_1402 resulted in enhanced sensitivity to complement-mediated lysis and reduced virulence in mice that was independent of diminished glycosylation. Importantly, the mutant strain induced a protective immune response against systemic challenge with homologous wild-type FSC200 strain. Targeted disruption of genes shared by multiple metabolic pathways may be considered a novel strategy for constructing effective live, attenuated vaccines.
PXD002957	26819315	Methylthioadenosine (MTA) Regulates Liver Cells Proteome and Methylproteome: Implications in Liver Biology and Disease. 	Methyltioadenosine regulates liver cells proteome and methylproteome. Implications in liver biology and disease.	Human Proteome Project, MSMS, MTA, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), liver, methylation	Methylthioadenosine phosphorylase (MTAP), a key enzyme in the adenine and methionine salvage pathways, catalyzes the hydrolysis of methylthioadenosine (MTA), a compound suggested to affect pivotal cellular processes in part through the regulation of protein methylation. MTAP is expressed in a wide range of cell types and tissues, and its deletion is common to cancer cells and in liver injury. The aim of this study was to investigate the proteome and methyl proteome alterations triggered by MTAP deficiency in liver cells to define novel regulatory mechanisms that may explain the pathogenic processes of liver diseases. iTRAQ analysis resulted in the identification of 216 differential proteins (p < 0.05) that suggest deregulation of cellular pathways as those mediated by ERK or NFkappaB. R-methyl proteome analysis led to the identification of 74 differentially methylated proteins between SK-Hep1 and SK-Hep1+ cells, including 116 new methylation sites. Restoring normal MTA levels in SK-Hep1+ cells parallels the specific methylation of 56 proteins, including KRT8, TGF, and CTF8A, which provides a novel regulatory mechanism of their activity with potential implications in carcinogenesis. Inhibition of RNA-binding proteins methylation is especially relevant upon accumulation of MTA. As an example, methylation of quaking protein in Arg(242) and Arg(256) in SK-Hep1+ cells may play a pivotal role in the regulation of its activity as indicated by the up-regulation of its target protein p27(kip1) The phenotype associated with a MTAP deficiency was further verified in the liver of MTAP+/- mice. Our data support that MTAP deficiency leads to MTA accumulation and deregulation of central cellular pathways, increasing proliferation and decreasing the susceptibility to chemotherapeutic drugs, which involves differential protein methylation. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002957 (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/archive/projects/PXD002957).
PXD003339	26822828	Acetylome analysis reveals the involvement of lysine acetylation in biosynthesis of antibiotics in Bacillus amyloliquefaciens. 	Acetylome analysis of  Bacillus amyloliquefaciens	Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, LCMS/MS, Lysine acetylation, immune-affinity purification	Lysine acetylation is a major post-translational modification that plays an important regulatory role in almost every aspects in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, a Gram-positive bacterium, is very effective for the control of plant pathogens. However, very little is known about the function of lysine acetylation in this organism. Here, we conducted the first lysine acetylome in B. amyloliquefaciens through a combination of highly sensitive immune-affinity purification and high-resolution LC-MS/MS. Overall, we identified 3268 lysine acetylation sites in 1254 proteins, which account for 32.9% of the total proteins in this bacterium. Till date, this is the highest ratio of acetylated proteins that have been identified in bacteria. Acetylated proteins are associated with a variety of biological processes and a large fraction of these proteins are involved in metabolism. Interestingly, for the first time, we found that about 71.1% (27/38) and 78.6% (22/28) of all the proteins tightly related to the synthesis of three types of pepketides and five families of lipopeptides were acetylated, respectively. These findings suggest that lysine acetylation plays a critical role in the regulation of antibiotics biosynthesis. These data serves as an important resource for further elucidation of the physiological role of lysine acetylation in B. amyloliquefaciens.
PXD003071	26824392	Phosphoproteomics reveals that Parkinson's disease kinase LRRK2 regulates a subset of Rab GTPases. 	Phosphoproteomics reveals that Parkinson's disease kinase LRRK2 regulates a subset of Rab GTPases	LRRK2, Phosphoproteomics, Rab GTPases, substrates	Mutations in Park8, encoding for the multidomain Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) protein, comprise the predominant genetic cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). G2019S, the most common amino acid substitution activates the kinase two- to threefold. This has motivated the development of LRRK2 kinase inhibitors; however, poor consensus on physiological LRRK2 substrates has hampered clinical development of such therapeutics. We employ a combination of phosphoproteomics, genetics, and pharmacology to unambiguously identify a subset of Rab GTPases as key LRRK2 substrates. LRRK2 directly phosphorylates these both in vivo and in vitro on an evolutionary conserved residue in the switch II domain. Pathogenic LRRK2 variants mapping to different functional domains increase phosphorylation of Rabs and this strongly decreases their affinity to regulatory proteins including Rab GDP dissociation inhibitors (GDIs). Our findings uncover a key class of bona-fide LRRK2 substrates and a novel regulatory mechanism of Rabs that connects them to PD.
PXD002380	26828863	Proteome-Wide Identification of Lysine Succinylation in the Proteins of Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum). 	Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) lysine succinylation LC-MS/MS	Tomato, lysine succinylation	Post-translational modification of proteins through lysine succinylation plays important regulatory roles in living cells. Lysine succinylation was recently identified as a novel post-translational modification in Escherichia coli, yeast, Toxoplasma gondii, HeLa cells, and mouse liver. Interestingly, only a few sites of lysine succinylation have been detected in plants to date. In this study, we identified 347 sites of lysine succinylation in 202 proteins in tomato by using high-resolution mass spectrometry. Succinylated proteins are implicated in the regulation of diverse metabolic processes, including chloroplast and mitochondrial metabolism. Bioinformatic analysis showed that succinylated proteins are evolutionarily conserved and involved in various cellular functions such as metabolism and epigenetic regulation. Moreover, succinylated proteins exhibit diverse subcellular localizations. We also defined six types of definitively conserved succinylation motifs. These results provide the first in-depth analysis of the lysine succinylome and novel insights into the role of succinylation in tomato, thereby elucidating lysine succinylation in the context of cellular physiology and metabolite biosynthesis in plants.
PXD003152	26832403	Host-Microbiota Interactions in the Pathogenesis of Antibiotic-Associated Diseases. 	Host-microbiota interactions in the pathogenesis of antibiotic-associated diseases:Streptomycin plus Salmonella	Microbiome, antibiotic, gut, inflammation, pathogen	Improved understanding of the interplay between host and microbes stands to illuminate new avenues for disease diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. Here, we provide a high-resolution view of the dynamics between host and gut microbiota during antibiotic-induced intestinal microbiota depletion, opportunistic Salmonella typhimurium and Clostridium difficile pathogenesis, and recovery from these perturbed states in a mouse model. Host-centric proteome and microbial community profiles provide a nuanced longitudinal view, revealing the interdependence between host and microbiota in evolving dysbioses. Time- and condition-specific molecular and microbial signatures are evident and clearly distinguished from pathogen-independent inflammatory fingerprints. Our data reveal that mice recovering from antibiotic treatment or C. difficile infection retain lingering signatures of inflammation, despite compositional normalization of the microbiota, and host responses could be rapidly and durably relieved through fecal transplant. These experiments demonstrate insights that emerge from the combination of these orthogonal, untargeted approaches to the gastrointestinal ecosystem.
PXD001994	26832662	miR-126 Regulates Distinct Self-Renewal Outcomes in Normal and Malignant Hematopoietic Stem Cells. 	miR-126 Governs Human Leukemia Stem Cell Quiescence and Therapeutic Resistance	AML, SCX, global proteomics, mIR126, stem cells	To investigate miRNA function in human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) stem cells (LSC), we generated a prognostic LSC-associated miRNA signature derived from functionally validated subpopulations of AML samples. For one signature miRNA, miR-126, high bioactivity aggregated all in vivo patient sample LSC activity into a single sorted population, tightly coupling miR-126 expression to LSC function. Through functional studies, miR-126 was found to restrain cell cycle progression, prevent differentiation, and increase self-renewal of primary LSC in vivo. Compared with prior results showing miR-126 regulation of normal hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) cycling, these functional stem effects are opposite between LSC and HSC. Combined transcriptome and proteome analysis demonstrates that miR-126 targets the PI3K/AKT/MTOR signaling pathway, preserving LSC quiescence and promoting chemotherapy resistance.
PXD002720	26833789	Modulation of FAK and Src adhesion signaling occurs independently of adhesion complex composition. 	Proteomic analysis of integrin-associated adhesion complexes isolated from cells treated with DMSO or FAK inhibitor	Focal adhesion kinase (FAK), MS, adhesion, integrin	Integrin adhesion complexes (IACs) form mechanochemical connections between the extracellular matrix and actin cytoskeleton and mediate phenotypic responses via posttranslational modifications. Here, we investigate the modularity and robustness of the IAC network to pharmacological perturbation of the key IAC signaling components focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and Src. FAK inhibition using AZ13256675 blocked FAK(Y397) phosphorylation but did not alter IAC composition, as reported by mass spectrometry. IAC composition was also insensitive to Src inhibition using AZD0530 alone or in combination with FAK inhibition. In contrast, kinase inhibition substantially reduced phosphorylation within IACs, cell migration and proliferation. Furthermore using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching, we found that FAK inhibition increased the exchange rate of a phosphotyrosine (pY) reporter (dSH2) at IACs. These data demonstrate that kinase-dependent signal propagation through IACs is independent of gross changes in IAC composition. Together, these findings demonstrate a general separation between the composition of IACs and their ability to relay pY-dependent signals.
PXD002194	26834087	Defining the proteome of human iris, ciliary body, retinal pigment epithelium, and choroid. 	The proteome of normal human iris, ciliary body,  retinal pigment epithelium, and choroid	Choroid, Ciliary body, Eye, Human Proteome Project, Iris, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Retinal Pigment Epithelium	The iris is a fine structure that controls the amount of light that enters the eye. The ciliary body controls the shape of the lens and produces aqueous humor. The retinal pigment epithelium and choroid (RPE/choroid) are essential in supporting the retina and absorbing light energy that enters the eye. Proteins were extracted from iris, ciliary body, and RPE/choroid tissues of eyes from five individuals and fractionated using SDS-PAGE. After in-gel digestion, peptides were analyzed using LC-MS/MS on an Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer. In iris, ciliary body, and RPE/choroid, we identified 2959, 2867, and 2755 nonredundant proteins with peptide and protein false-positive rates of <0.1% and <1%, respectively. Forty-three unambiguous protein isoforms were identified in iris, ciliary body, and RPE/choroid. Four "missing proteins" were identified in ciliary body based on >=2 proteotypic peptides. The mass spectrometric proteome database of the human iris, ciliary body, and RPE/choroid may serve as a valuable resource for future investigations of the eye in health and disease. The MS proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifiers PXD001424 and PXD002194.
PXD002291	26836501	A comprehensive catalog of the lysine-acetylation targets in rice (Oryza sativa) based on proteomic analyses. 	Rice (Oryza sativa) lysine-acetylation LC-MS/MS	Oryza sativa, lysine acetyaltion	Lysine acetylation is a dynamic and reversible post-translational modification that plays an important role in the gene transcription regulation. Here, we report high quality proteome-scale data for lysine-acetylation (Kac) sites and Kac proteins in rice (Oryza sativa). A total of 1337 Kac sites in 716 Kac proteins with diverse biological functions and subcellular localizations were identified in rice seedlings. About 42% of the sites were predicted to be localized in the chloroplast. Seven putative acetylation motifs were detected. Phenylalanine, located in both the upstream and downstream of the Kac sites, is the most conserved amino acid surrounding the regions. In addition, protein interaction network analysis revealed that a variety of signaling pathways are modulated by protein acetylation. KEGG pathway category enrichment analysis indicated that glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism, carbon metabolism, and photosynthesis pathways are significantly enriched. Our results provide an in-depth understanding of the acetylome in rice seedlings, and the method described here will facilitate the systematic study of how Kac functions in growth, development, and abiotic and biotic stress responses in rice and other plants. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Rice is one of the most important crops consumption and is a model monocot for research. In this study, we combined a highly sensitive immune-affinity purification method (used pan anti-acetyl-lysine antibody conjugated agarose for immunoaffinity acetylated peptide enrichment) with high-resolution LC-MS/MS. In total, we identified 1337 Kac sites on 716 Kac proteins in rice cells. Bioinformatic analysis of the acetylome revealed that the acetylated proteins are involved in a variety of cellular functions and have diverse subcellular localizations. We also identified seven putative acetylation motifs in the acetylated proteins of rice. In addition, protein interaction network analysis revealed that a variety of signaling pathways were modulated by protein acetylation. KEGG pathway category enrichment analysis indicated that glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism, carbon metabolism, and photosynthesis pathways were significantly enriched. To our knowledge, the number of Kac sites we identified was 23-times greater and the number of Kac proteins was 16-times greater than in a previous report. Our results provide an in-depth understanding of the acetylome in rice seedlings, and the method described here will facilitate the systematic study of how Kac functions in growth, development and responses to abiotic and biotic stresses in rice or other plants.
PXD003387	26837383	Quantitative proteomics analysis reveals glutamine deprivation activates fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway in HepG2 cells. 	Proteomic analysis of glutamine deprivation in HepG2 cells	Glutamine, HepG2 cells	Glutamine, a multifunctional amino acid, functions in nutrient metabolism, energy balance, apoptosis, and cell proliferation. Lipid is an important nutrient and controls a broad range of physiological processes. Previous studies have demonstrated that glutamine can affect lipolysis and lipogenesis, but the effect of glutamine on the detailed lipid metabolism remains incompletely understood. Here, we applied the quantitative proteomics approach to estimate the relative abundance of proteins in HepG2 cells treated by glutamine deprivation. The results showed that there were 212 differentially abundant proteins in response to glutamine deprivation, including 150 significantly increased proteins and 62 significantly decreased proteins. Interestingly, functional classification showed that 43 differentially abundant proteins were related to lipid metabolism. Further bioinformatics analysis and western blotting validation revealed that lipid accumulation may be affected by beta-oxidation of fatty acid induced by glutamine deprivation in HepG2 cells. Together, our results may provide the potential for regulating lipid metabolism by glutamine in animal production and human nutrition. The MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with identifier PXD003387.
PXD002460	26838549	Context-specific flow through the MEK/ERK module produces cell- and ligand-specific patterns of ERK single and double phosphorylation. 	Context-dependent regulatory mechanisms control site-specific information processing within the MEK/ERK module	Cellular information processing, Phosphorylation, Signal transduction, Systems biology	The same pathway, such as the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, can produce different cellular responses, depending on stimulus or cell type. We examined the phosphorylation dynamics of the MAPK kinase MEK and its targets extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) in primary hepatocytes and the transformed keratinocyte cell line HaCaT A5 exposed to either hepatocyte growth factor or interleukin-6. By combining quantitative mass spectrometry with dynamic modeling, we elucidated network structures for the reversible threonine and tyrosine phosphorylation of ERK in both cell types. In addition to differences in the phosphorylation and dephosphorylation reactions, the HaCaT network model required two feedback mechanisms, which, as the experimental data suggested, involved the induction of the dual-specificity phosphatase DUSP6 and the scaffold paxillin. We assayed and modeled the accumulation of the double-phosphorylated and active form of ERK1/2, as well as the dynamics of the changes in the monophosphorylated forms of ERK1/2. Modeling the differences in the dynamics of the changes in the distributions of the phosphorylated forms of ERK1/2 suggested that different amounts of MEK activity triggered context-specific responses, with primary hepatocytes favoring the formation of double-phosphorylated ERK1/2 and HaCaT A5 cells that produce both the threonine-phosphorylated and the double-phosphorylated form. These differences in phosphorylation distributions explained the threshold, sensitivity, and saturation of the ERK response. We extended the findings of differential ERK phosphorylation profiles to five additional cultured cell systems and matched liver tumor and normal tissue, which revealed context-specific patterns of the various forms of phosphorylated ERK.
PXD003003	26839151	Proteomic characterization of macro-, micro- and nano-extracellular vesicles derived from the same first trimester placenta: relevance for feto-maternal communication. 	Proteomic characterisation of extracellular vesicles derived from first trimester placentae	macrovesicles, microvesicles, nanovesicles, pregnancy, syncytiotrophoblast	STUDY QUESTION: What proteins are carried by extracellular vesicles (EVs) released from normal first trimester placentae? SUMMARY ANSWER: One thousand five hundred and eighty-five, 1656 and 1476 proteins were characterized in macro-, micro- and nano-vesicles, respectively, from first trimester placentae, with all EV fractions being enriched for proteins involved in vesicle transport and inflammation. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Placental EVs are being increasingly recognized as important mediators of both healthy and pathological pregnancies. However, current research has focused on detecting changes in specific proteins in particular fractions of vesicles during disease. This is the first study to investigate the full proteome of different-sized fractions of EVs from the same first trimester placenta and highlights the differences/similarities between the vesicle fractions. STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: A well-established ex vivo placental explant culture model was used to generate macro-, micro- and nano-vesicles from 56 first trimester placentae. Vesicle fractions were collected by differential ultracentrifugation, quantified and characterized. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Placental macro-, micro- and nano-vesicles were characterized by microscopy, dynamic light scattering and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The proteome of each EV fraction was interrogated using liquid chromatography-coupled tandem mass spectrometry. Results were validated by semi-quantitative western blotting. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: A total of 1585, 1656 and 1476 proteins were identified in macro-, micro- and nano-vesicles, respectively. One thousand one hundred and twenty-five proteins were shared between all three fractions while up to 223 proteins were unique to each fraction. Gene Ontology pathway analysis showed an enrichment of proteins involved in vesicle transport and inflammation in all three fractions of EVs. The expression levels of proteins involved in internalization of vesicles (annexin V, calreticulin, CD31, CD47), the complement pathway [C3, decay-accelerating factor (DAF), membrane cofactor protein (MCP), protectin] and minor histocompatibility antigens [ATP-dependent RNA helicase (DDX3), ribosomal protein S4 (RPS4)] were different between different-sized EVs. LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: This study is largely hypothesis-generating in nature. It is important to validate these findings using EVs isolated from maternal plasma and the function of the different EV fractions would need further investigation. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: Our results support the concept that various EV factions can interact with different maternal cells and have unique effects to mediate feto-maternal communication during early pregnancy. This study also provides a list of candidate proteins, which may inform the identification of robust markers that can be used to isolate placental vesicles from the maternal blood in the future. STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTERESTS: M.T. is a recipient of the University of Auckland Health Research Doctoral Scholarship and the Freemasons Postgraduate Scholarship. This project was supported by a School of Medicine Performance-based research fund (PBRF) grant awarded to L.W.C. No authors have any conflicts of interest to disclose.
PXD002979	26842662	Anatomical heterogeneity of tendon: Fascicular and interfascicular tendon compartments have distinct proteomic composition. 	Equine tendon LC-MSMS, C4PR_LIV	Equine, FM, IFM, tendon	Tendon is a simple aligned fibre composite, consisting of collagen-rich fascicles surrounded by a softer interfascicular matrix (IFM). The composition and interactions between these material phases are fundamental in ensuring tissue mechanics meet functional requirements. However the IFM is poorly defined, therefore tendon structure-function relationships are incompletely understood. We hypothesised that the IFM has a more complex proteome, with faster turnover than the fascicular matrix (FM). Using laser-capture microdissection and mass spectrometry, we demonstrate that the IFM contains more proteins, and that many proteins show differential abundance between matrix phases. The IFM contained more protein fragments (neopeptides), indicating greater matrix degradation in this compartment, which may act to maintain healthy tendon structure. Protein abundance did not alter with ageing, but neopeptide numbers decreased in the aged IFM, indicating decreased turnover which may contribute to age-related tendon injury. These data provide important insights into how differences in tendon composition and turnover contribute to tendon structure-function relationships and the effects of ageing.
PXD001371	26845436	Adaptive Remodeling of the Bacterial Proteome by Specific Ribosomal Modification Regulates Pseudomonas Infection and Niche Colonisation. 	Global control of bacterial translation by a specific ribosomal modification	Pseudomonas, rhizosphere, ribosome, translational regulation	Post-transcriptional control of protein abundance is a highly important, underexplored regulatory process by which organisms respond to their environments. Here we describe an important and previously unidentified regulatory pathway involving the ribosomal modification protein RimK, its regulator proteins RimA and RimB, and the widespread bacterial second messenger cyclic-di-GMP (cdG). Disruption of rimK affects motility and surface attachment in pathogenic and commensal Pseudomonas species, with rimK deletion significantly compromising rhizosphere colonisation by the commensal soil bacterium P. fluorescens, and plant infection by the pathogens P. syringae and P. aeruginosa. RimK functions as an ATP-dependent glutamyl ligase, adding glutamate residues to the C-terminus of ribosomal protein RpsF and inducing specific effects on both ribosome protein complement and function. Deletion of rimK in P. fluorescens leads to markedly reduced levels of multiple ribosomal proteins, and also of the key translational regulator Hfq. In turn, reduced Hfq levels induce specific downstream proteomic changes, with significant increases in multiple ABC transporters, stress response proteins and non-ribosomal peptide synthetases seen for both DeltarimK and Deltahfq mutants. The activity of RimK is itself controlled by interactions with RimA, RimB and cdG. We propose that control of RimK activity represents a novel regulatory mechanism that dynamically influences interactions between bacteria and their hosts; translating environmental pressures into dynamic ribosomal changes, and consequently to an adaptive remodeling of the bacterial proteome.
PXD002771	26847502	Reassessing ecdysteroidogenic cells from the cell membrane receptors' perspective. 	Proteomic analysis of prothoracic glands of the silkworm Bombyx mori	Bombyx mori, Halloween genes, Insect, ecdysteroids, steroidogenic tissue	Ecdysteroids secreted by the prothoracic gland (PG) cells of insects control the developmental timing of their immature life stages. These cells have been historically considered as carrying out a single function in insects, namely the biochemical conversion of cholesterol to ecdysteroids and their secretion. A growing body of evidence shows that PG cells receive multiple cues during insect development so we tested the hypothesis that they carry out more than just one function in insects. We characterised the molecular nature and developmental profiles of cell membrane receptors in PG cells of Bombyx mori during the final larval stage and determined what receptors decode nutritional, developmental and physiological signals. Through iterative approaches we identified a complex repertoire of cell membrane receptors that are expressed in intricate patterns and activate previously unidentified signal transduction cascades in PG cells. The expression patterns of some of these receptors explain precisely the mechanisms that are known to control ecdysteroidogenesis. However, the presence of receptors for the notch, hedgehog and wingless signalling pathways and the expression of innate immunity-related receptors such as phagocytosis receptors, receptors for microbial ligands and Toll-like receptors call for a re-evaluation of the role these cells play in insects.
PXD003155	26850065	Ataxin-2 (Atxn2)-Knock-Out Mice Show Branched Chain Amino Acids and Fatty Acids Pathway Alterations. 	Atxn2-Knock-Out mice show branched chain amino acids and fatty acids pathway alterations	Spinocerebellar Ataxia type 2 (Atxn2), metabolome profiling, multiple reaction monitoring (MRM), pathway analysis., protein - protein interaction network (PPI) analysis, proteome profiling	Human Ataxin-2 (ATXN2) gene locus variants have been associated with obesity, diabetes mellitus type 1,and hypertension in genome-wide association studies, whereas mouse studies showed the knock-out of Atxn2 to lead to obesity, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia. Intriguingly, the deficiency of ATXN2 protein orthologs in yeast and flies rescues the neurodegeneration process triggered by TDP-43 and Ataxin-1 toxicity. To understand the molecular effects of ATXN2 deficiency by unbiased approaches, we quantified the global proteome and metabolome of Atxn2-knock-out mice with label-free mass spectrometry. In liver tissue, significant downregulations of the proteins ACADS, ALDH6A1, ALDH7A1, IVD, MCCC2, PCCA, OTC, together with bioinformatic enrichment of downregulated pathways for branched chain and other amino acid metabolism, fatty acids, and citric acid cycle were observed. Statistical trends in the cerebellar proteome and in the metabolomic profiles supported these findings. They are in good agreement with recent claims that PBP1, the yeast ortholog of ATXN2, sequestrates the nutrient sensor TORC1 in periods of cell stress. Overall, ATXN2 appears to modulate nutrition and metabolism, and its activity changes are determinants of growth excess or cell atrophy.
PXD002270	26852163	An Impaired Respiratory Electron Chain Triggers Down-regulation of the Energy Metabolism and De-ubiquitination of Solute Carrier Amino Acid Transporters. 	An impaired respiratory electron chain triggers retrograde response and de-ubiquitination of solute carrier amino acid transporters	OXPHOS deficiency, metabolome profiling, proteome profiling, retrograde response, ubiquitination, 0 cells	Hundreds of genes have been associated with respiratory chain disease (RCD), the most common inborn error of metabolism so far. Elimination of the respiratory electron chain by depleting the entire mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA, rho(0) cells) has therefore one of the most severe impacts on the energy metabolism in eukaryotic cells. In this study, proteomic data sets including the post-translational modifications (PTMs) phosphorylation and ubiquitination were integrated with metabolomic data sets and selected enzyme activities in the osteosarcoma cell line 143B.TK(-) A shotgun based SILAC LC-MS proteomics and a targeted metabolomics approach was applied to elucidate the consequences of the rho(0) state. Pathway and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses revealed a nonuniform down-regulation of the respiratory electron chain, the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, and the pyruvate metabolism in rho(0) cells. Metabolites of the TCA cycle were dysregulated, such as a reduction of citric acid and cis-aconitic acid (six and 2.5-fold), and an increase of lactic acid, oxalacetic acid (both twofold), and succinic acid (fivefold) in rho(0) cells. Signaling pathways such as GPCR, EGFR, G12/13 alpha, and Rho GTPases were up-regulated in rho(0) cells, which could be indicative for the mitochondrial retrograde response, a pathway of communication from mitochondria to the nucleus. This was supported by our phosphoproteome data, which revealed two main processes, GTPase-related signal transduction and cytoskeleton organization. Furthermore, a general de-ubiquitination in rho(0) cells was observed, for example, 80S ribosomal proteins were in average threefold and SLC amino acid transporters fivefold de-ubiquitinated. The latter might cause the observed significant increase of amino acid levels in rho(0) cells. We conclude that an elimination of the respiratory electron chain, e.g. mtDNA depletion, not only leads to an uneven down-regulation of mitochondrial energy pathways, but also triggers the retrograde response.
PXD001862	26853621	Dysregulation of splicing proteins in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. 	Dysregulation of splicing proteins in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma	Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, phosphoproteomics, splicing	Signaling plays an important role in regulating all cellular pathways. Altered signaling is one of the hallmarks of cancers. Phosphoproteomics enables interrogation of kinase mediated signaling pathways in biological systems. In cancers, this approach can be utilized to identify aberrantly activated pathways that potentially drive proliferation and tumorigenesis. To identify signaling alterations in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), we carried out proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of HNSCC cell lines using a combination of tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling approach and titanium dioxide-based enrichment. We identified 4,920 phosphosites corresponding to 2,212 proteins in six HNSCC cell lines compared to a normal oral cell line. Our data indicated significant enrichment of proteins associated with splicing. We observed hyperphosphorylation of SRSF protein kinase 2 (SRPK2) and its downstream substrates in HNSCC cell lines. SRPK2 is a splicing kinase, known to phosphorylate serine/arginine (SR) rich domain proteins and regulate splicing process in eukaryotes. Although genome-wide studies have reported the contribution of alternative splicing events of several genes in the progression of cancer, the involvement of splicing kinases in HNSCC is not known. In this study, we studied the role of SRPK2 in HNSCC. Inhibition of SRPK2 resulted in significant decrease in colony forming and invasive ability in a panel of HNSCC cell lines. Our results indicate that phosphorylation of SRPK2 plays a crucial role in the regulation of splicing process in HNSCC and that splicing kinases can be developed as a new class of therapeutic target in HNSCC.
PXD001952	26853623	Age-related changes in mesenchymal stem cells identified using a multi-omics approach. 	Multi-omics approach to identify age-related changes in mesenchymal stem cells	human mesenchymal stem cells, label-free quantification	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are capable of multipotent differentiation into connective tissues and as such are an attractive source for autologous cell-based treatments for many clinical diseases and injuries. Ageing is associated with various altered cellular phenotypes coupled with a variety of transcriptional, epigenetic and translational changes. Furthermore, the regeneration potential of MSCs is reduced with increasing age and is correlated with changes in cellular functions. This study used a systems biology approach to investigate the transcriptomic (RNASeq), epigenetic (miRNASeq and DNA methylation) and protein alterations in ageing MSCs in order to understand the age-related functional and biological variations, which may affect their applications to regenerative medicine. We identified no change in expression of the cellular senescence markers. Alterations were evident at both the transcriptional and post-transcriptional level in a number of transcription factors. There was enrichment in genes involved in developmental disorders at mRNA and differential methylated loci (DML) level. Alterations in energy metabolism were apparent at the DML and protein level. The microRNA miR-199b-5p, whose expression was reduced in old MSCs, had predicted gene targets involved in energy metabolism and cell survival. Additionally, enrichment of DML and proteins in cell survival was evident. Enrichment in metabolic processes was revealed at the protein level and in genes identified as undergoing alternate splicing. Overall, an altered phenotype in MSC ageing at a number of levels implicated roles for inflamm-ageing and mitochondrial ageing. Identified changes represent novel insights into the ageing process, with implications for stem cell therapies in older patients.
PXD003037	26854219	Systemic Reprogramming of Translation Efficiencies on Oxygen Stimulus. 	Systemic remodeling of translation efficiencies on oxygen stimulus.	Hypoxia, RNA sequencing, SILAC, cancer, eIF4E, eIF4E2, translation	Protein concentrations evolve under greater evolutionary constraint than mRNA levels. Translation efficiency of mRNA represents the chief determinant of basal protein concentrations. This raises a fundamental question of how mRNA and protein levels are coordinated in dynamic systems responding to physiological stimuli. This report examines the contributions of mRNA abundance and translation efficiency to protein output in cells responding to oxygen stimulus. We show that changes in translation efficiencies, and not mRNA levels, represent the major mechanism governing cellular responses to [O2] perturbations. Two distinct cap-dependent protein synthesis machineries select mRNAs for translation: the normoxic eIF4F and the hypoxic eIF4F(H). O2-dependent remodeling of translation efficiencies enables cells to produce adaptive translatomes from preexisting mRNA pools. Differences in mRNA expression observed under different [O2] are likely neutral, given that they occur during evolution. We propose that mRNAs contain translation efficiency determinants for their triage by the translation apparatus on [O2] stimulus.
PXD002634	26854600	Analysis of differentially expressed proteins in Yersinia enterocolitica-infected HeLa cells. 	Analysis of differentially expressed proteins in Yersinia enterocolitica-infected HeLa cells	Yersinia enterocolitica infection	Yersinia enterocolitica is a facultative intracellular pathogen and a causative agent of yersiniosis, which can be contracted by ingestion of contaminated food. Yersinia secretes virulence factors to subvert critical pathways in the host cell. In this study we utilized shotgun label-free proteomics to study differential protein expression in epithelial cells infected with Y.enterocolitica. We identified a total of 551 proteins, amongst which 42 were downregulated (including Prostaglandin E Synthase 3, POH-1 and Karyopherin alpha) and 22 were upregulated (including Rab1 and RhoA) in infected cells. We validated some of these results by western blot analysis of proteins extracted from Caco-2 and HeLa cells. The proteomic dataset was used to identify host canonical pathways and molecular functions modulated by this infection in the host cells. This study constitutes a proteome of Yersinia-infected cells and can support new discoveries in the area of host-pathogen interactions. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY: We describe a proteome of Yersinia enterocolitica-infected HeLa cells, including a description of specific proteins differentially expressed upon infection, molecular functions as well as pathways altered during infection. This proteomic study can lead to a better understanding of Y. enterocolitica pathogenesis in human epithelial cells.
PXD001856	26857143	Comprehensive transcriptomic and proteomic characterization of human mesenchymal stem cells reveals source specific cellular markers. 	Comprehensive transcriptomic and proteomic characterization of human mesenchymal stem cells reveals source specific cellular markers	RNA Sequencing, aptamer-based SOMSscan assay, bone marrow, human embryonic stem cells, human mesenchymal stem cells, quantitative proteomics	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are multipotent cells with great potential in therapy, reflected by more than 500 MSC-based clinical trials registered with the NIH. MSC are derived from multiple tissues but require invasive harvesting and imply donor-to-donor variability. Embryonic stem cell-derived MSC (ESC-MSC) may provide an alternative, but how similar they are to ex vivo MSC is unknown. Here we performed an in depth characterization of human ESC-MSC, comparing them to human bone marrow-derived MSC (BM-MSC) as well as human embryonic stem cells (hESC) by transcriptomics (RNA-seq) and quantitative proteomics (nanoLC-MS/MS using SILAC). Data integration highlighted and validated a central role of vesicle-mediated transport and exosomes in MSC biology and also demonstrated, through enrichment analysis, their versatility and broad application potential. Particular emphasis was placed on comparing profiles between ESC-MSC and BM-MSC and assessing their equivalency. Data presented here shows that differences between ESC-MSC and BM-MSC are similar in magnitude to those reported for MSC of different origin and the former may thus represent an alternative source for therapeutic applications. Finally, we report an unprecedented coverage of MSC CD markers, as well as membrane associated proteins which may benefit immunofluorescence-based applications and contribute to a refined molecular description of MSC.
PXD003257	26858453	Proteomic comparison defines novel markers to characterize heterogeneous populations of extracellular vesicle subtypes. 	Proteomic comparison defines novel markers to characterize heterogeneous populations of extracellular vesicle subtypes	dendritic cells, ectosomes, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, microvesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have become the focus of rising interest because of their numerous functions in physiology and pathology. Cells release heterogeneous vesicles of different sizes and intracellular origins, including small EVs formed inside endosomal compartments (i.e., exosomes) and EVs of various sizes budding from the plasma membrane. Specific markers for the analysis and isolation of different EV populations are missing, imposing important limitations to understanding EV functions. Here, EVs from human dendritic cells were first separated by their sedimentation speed, and then either by their behavior upon upward floatation into iodixanol gradients or by immuno-isolation. Extensive quantitative proteomic analysis allowing comparison of the isolated populations showed that several classically used exosome markers, like major histocompatibility complex, flotillin, and heat-shock 70-kDa proteins, are similarly present in all EVs. We identified proteins specifically enriched in small EVs, and define a set of five protein categories displaying different relative abundance in distinct EV populations. We demonstrate the presence of exosomal and nonexosomal subpopulations within small EVs, and propose their differential separation by immuno-isolation using either CD63, CD81, or CD9. Our work thus provides guidelines to define subtypes of EVs for future functional studies.
PXD003048	26861043	Phosphoproteomic analysis of interacting tumor and endothelial cells identifies regulatory mechanisms of transendothelial migration. 	Cell-specific analysis of tumour-endothelial contact-intiated signalling - PROTEOMICS	"contact-initiated signaling", EPHA2, HUVEC, MDA-MB-231-LM2	The exit of metastasizing tumor cells from the vasculature, extravasation, is regulated by their dynamic interactions with the endothelial cells that line the internal surface of vessels. To elucidate signals controlling tumor cell adhesion to the endothelium and subsequent transendothelial migration, we performed phosphoproteomic analysis to map cell-specific changes in protein phosphorylation that were triggered by contact between metastatic MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells and endothelial cells. From the 2669 unique phosphorylation sites identified, 77 and 43 were differentially phosphorylated in the tumor cells and endothelial cells, respectively. The receptor tyrosine kinase ephrin type A receptor 2 (EPHA2) exhibited decreased Tyr(772) phosphorylation in the cancer cells upon endothelial contact. Knockdown of EPHA2 increased adhesion of the breast cancer cells to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and their transendothelial migration in coculture cell assays, as well as early-stage lung colonization in vivo. EPHA2-mediated inhibition of transendothelial migration of breast cancer cells depended on interaction with the ligand ephrinA1 on HUVECs and phosphorylation of EPHA2-Tyr(772). When EPHA2 phosphorylation dynamics were compared between cell lines of different metastatic ability, EPHA2-Tyr(772) was rapidly dephosphorylated after ephrinA1 stimulation specifically in cells targeting the lung. Knockdown of the phosphatase LMW-PTP reduced adhesion and transendothelial migration of the breast cancer cells. Overall, cell-specific phosphoproteomic analysis provides a bidirectional map of contact-initiated signaling between tumor and endothelial cells that can be further investigated to identify mechanisms controlling the transendothelial cell migration of cancer cells.
PXD003509	26861875	The Endoplasmic Reticulum Chaperone Calnexin Is a NADPH Oxidase NOX4 Interacting Protein. 	Complexome profiling of membrane fraction from Nox4 overexpressing HEK293 cells	Blue native electrophoresis, Complexome profiling, macromolecular complexes	Within the family of NADPH oxidases, NOX4 is unique as it is predominantly localized in the endoplasmic reticulum, has constitutive activity, and generates hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). We hypothesize that these features are consequences of a so far unidentified NOX4-interacting protein. Two-dimensional blue native (BN) electrophorese combined with SDS-PAGE yielded NOX4 to reside in macromolecular complexes. Interacting proteins were screened by quantitative SILAC (stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture) co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) in HEK293 cells stably overexpressing NOX4. By this technique, several interacting proteins were identified with calnexin showing the most robust interaction. Calnexin also resided in NOX4-containing complexes as demonstrated by complexome profiling from BN-PAGE. The calnexin NOX4 interaction could be confirmed by reverse Co-IP and proximity ligation assay, whereas NOX1, NOX2, or NOX5 did not interact with calnexin. Calnexin deficiency as studied in mouse embryonic fibroblasts from calnexin(-/-)mice or in response to calnexin shRNA reduced cellular NOX4 protein expression and reactive oxygen species formation. Our results suggest that endogenous NOX4 forms macromolecular complexes with calnexin, which are needed for the proper maturation, processing, and function of NOX4 in the endoplasmic reticulum.
PXD003373	26863403	Chemical Proteomics Reveals Ferrochelatase as a Common Off-target of Kinase Inhibitors. 	Chemical Proteomics Reveals Ferrochelatase as a Common Off-target of Kinase Inhibitors	FECH, Ferrochelatase, Kinobeads, Vemurafenib, chemical proteomics, kinase inhibitor, photosensitivity	Many protein kinases are valid drug targets in oncology because they are key components of signal transduction pathways. The number of clinical kinase inhibitors is on the rise, but these molecules often exhibit polypharmacology, potentially eliciting desired and toxic effects. Therefore, a comprehensive assessment of a compound's target space is desirable for a better understanding of its biological effects. The enzyme ferrochelatase (FECH) catalyzes the conversion of protoporphyrin IX into heme and was recently found to be an off-target of the BRAF inhibitor Vemurafenib, likely explaining the phototoxicity associated with this drug in melanoma patients. This raises the question of whether FECH binding is a more general feature of kinase inhibitors. To address this, we applied a chemical proteomics approach using kinobeads to evaluate 226 clinical kinase inhibitors for their ability to bind FECH. Surprisingly, low or submicromolar FECH binding was detected for 29 of all compounds tested and isothermal dose response measurements confirmed target engagement in cells. We also show that Vemurafenib, Linsitinib, Neratinib, and MK-2461 reduce heme levels in K562 cells, verifying that drug binding leads to a loss of FECH activity. Further biochemical and docking experiments identified the protoporphyrin pocket in FECH as one major drug binding site. Since the genetic loss of FECH activity leads to photosensitivity in humans, our data strongly suggest that FECH inhibition by kinase inhibitors is the molecular mechanism triggering photosensitivity in patients. We therefore suggest that a FECH assay should generally be part of the preclinical molecular toxicology package for the development of kinase inhibitors.
PXD001997	26864644	LASIK surgery of granular corneal dystrophy type 2 patients leads to accumulation and differential proteolytic processing of transforming growth factor beta-induced protein (TGFBIp). 	Protein accumulation post-LASIK surgery in granular corneal dystrophy type II patients involves altered proteolytic processing of transforming growth factor beta-induced protein (TGFBIp)	2D-PAGE, Cornea, Granular Corneal Dystrophy, TripleTof 5600+, XIC quantification	More than 60 mutations in transforming growth factor beta-induced protein (TGFBIp) have been reported in humans causing a variety of phenotypic protein aggregates in the cornea, commonly termed corneal dystrophies. One mutation, generating an arginine to histidine amino acid substitution at position 124 in mature TGFBIp leads to granular corneal dystrophy type 2 (GCD2). Homozygous GCD2 cases develop massive protein accumulation early in life whereas heterozygous GCD2 cases become affected much later and generally with a much less severe outcome. However, if heterozygous GCD2 patients undergo laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) surgery protein accumulation is accelerated and they develop massive protein accumulations a few years after surgery. Here, we present the protein profile of aggregate-containing corneal tissue from GCD2 patients with a history of LASIK surgery using LC-MS/MS. Label-free quantification of corneal extracellular matrix proteins showed accumulation of TGFBIp. This was supported by 2DE and immunoblotting against TGFBIp that revealed the accumulation of full-length TGFBIp. In addition, a high molecular weight TGFBIp complex was more apparent in GCD2 patients after LASIK surgery, which may be important for the disease progression. Lastly, 2DE also revealed differential processing between GCD2 patients with a history of LASIK surgery when compared to healthy individuals.
PXD002741	26867521	Quantitative proteomics suggests metabolic reprogramming during ETHE1 deficiency. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Metabolic Reprogramming during ETHE1 Deficiency, Part 1	ETHE1, Liver, acetylation, iTRAQ, metabolism, persulfide dioxygenase, sulfide	Deficiency of mitochondrial sulfur dioxygenase (ETHE1) causes the severe metabolic disorder ethylmalonic encephalopathy, which is characterized by early-onset encephalopathy and defective cytochrome C oxidase because of hydrogen sulfide accumulation. Although the severe systemic consequences of the disorder are becoming clear, the molecular effects are not well defined. Therefore, for further elucidating the effects of ETHE1-deficiency, we performed a large scale quantitative proteomics study on liver tissue from ETHE1-deficient mice. Our results demonstrated a clear link between ETHE1-deficiency and redox active proteins, as reflected by downregulation of several proteins related to oxidation-reduction, such as different dehydrogenases and cytochrome P450 (CYP450) members. Furthermore, the protein data indicated impact of the ETHE1-deficiency on metabolic reprogramming through upregulation of glycolytic enzymes and by altering several heterogeneous ribonucleoproteins, indicating novel link between ETHE1 and gene expression regulation. We also found increase in total protein acetylation level, pointing out the link between ETHE1 and acetylation, which is likely controlled by both redox state and cellular metabolites. These findings are relevant for understanding the complexity of the disease and may shed light on important functions influenced by ETHE1 deficiency and by the concomitant increase in the gaseous mediator hydrogen sulfide. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with the dataset identifiers PXD002741 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD002741) and PXD002742 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD002741).
PXD002398	26867958	Induction of virulence factors in Giardia duodenalis independent of host attachment. 	Quantitative proteomics of host-parasite interactions in Giardia duodenalis	Giardia, Giardia duodenalis, TMT labelling, host-parasite interactions, parasitology, quantitative proteomics	Giardia duodenalis is responsible for the majority of parasitic gastroenteritis in humans worldwide. Host-parasite interaction models in vitro provide insights into disease and virulence and help us to understand pathogenesis. Using HT-29 intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) as a model we have demonstrated that initial sensitisation by host secretions reduces proclivity for trophozoite attachment, while inducing virulence factors. Host soluble factors triggered up-regulation of membrane and secreted proteins, including Tenascins, Cathepsin-B precursor, cystatin, and numerous Variant-specific Surface Proteins (VSPs). By comparison, host-cell attached trophozoites up-regulated intracellular pathways for ubiquitination, reactive oxygen species (ROS) detoxification and production of pyridoxal phosphate (PLP). We reason that these results demonstrate early pathogenesis in Giardia involves two independent host-parasite interactions. Motile trophozoites respond to soluble secreted signals, which deter attachment and induce expression of virulence factors. Trophozoites attached to host cells, in contrast, respond by up-regulating intracellular pathways involved in clearance of ROS, thus anticipating the host defence response.
PXD003313	26870030	Integrated Translatomics with Proteomics to Identify Novel Iron-Transporting Proteins in Streptococcus pneumoniae. 	Identify Novel Iron-Transporting Proteins in Streptococcus pneumoniae	Iron-Transporting Proteins, Streptococcus pneumoniae	Streptococcus pneumoniae (S.pneumoniae) is a major human pathogen causing morbidity and mortality worldwide. Efficiently acquiring iron from the environment is critical for S. pneumoniae to sustain growth and cause infection. There are only three known iron-uptake systems in Streptococcal species responsible for iron acquisition from the host, including ABC transporters PiaABC, PiuABC, and PitABC. Besides, no other iron-transporting system has been suggested. In this work, we employed our newly established translating mRNA analysis integrated with proteomics to evaluate the possible existence of novel iron transporters in the bacterium. We simultaneously deleted the iron-binding protein genes of the three iron-uptake systems to construct a piaA/piuA/pitA triple mutant (Tri-Mut) of S. pneumoniae D39, in which genes and proteins related to iron transport should be regulated in response to the deletion. With ribosome associated mRNA sequencing-based translatomics focusing on translating mRNA and iTRAQ quantitative proteomics based on the covalent labeling of peptides with tags of varying mass, we indeed observed a large number of genes and proteins representing various coordinated biological pathways with significantly altered expression levels in the Tri-Mut mutant. Highlighted in this observation is the identification of several new potential iron-uptake ABC transporters participating in iron metabolism of Streptococcus. In particular, putative protein SPD_1609 in operon 804 was verified to be a novel iron-binding protein with similar function to PitA in S. pneumoniae. These data derived from the integrative translatomics and proteomics analyses provided rich information and insightful clues for further investigations on iron-transporting mechanism in bacteria and the interplay between Streptococcal iron availability and the biological metabolic pathways.
PXD002327	26870755	Proteome-wide dataset supporting the study of ancient metazoan macromolecular complexes. 	Panorama of ancient metazoan macromolecular complexes: Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Metazoan, across species, biofractionation, conservation	Our analysis examines the conservation of multiprotein complexes among metazoa through use of high resolution biochemical fractionation and precision mass spectrometry applied to soluble cell extracts from 5 representative model organisms Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Mus musculus, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, and Homo sapiens. The interaction network obtained from the data was validated globally in 4 distant species (Xenopus laevis, Nematostella vectensis, Dictyostelium discoideum, Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and locally by targeted affinity-purification experiments. Here we provide details of our massive set of supporting biochemical fractionation data available via ProteomeXchange (PXD002319-PXD002328), PPIs via BioGRID (185267); and interaction network projections via (http://metazoa.med.utoronto.ca) made fully accessible to allow further exploration. The datasets here are related to the research article on metazoan macromolecular complexes in Nature [1].
PXD002561	26871441	Identification of Cell Cycle Dependent Interaction Partners of the Septins by Quantitative Mass Spectrometry. 	Identification of cell cycle dependent interaction partners of the septins by quantitative mass spectrometry	AP-MS, SILAC, SPLIFF, cell cycle, quantitative proteomics, septins	The septins are a conserved family of GTP-binding proteins that, in the baker's yeast, assemble into a highly ordered array of filaments at the mother bud neck. These filaments undergo significant structural rearrangements during the cell cycle. We aimed at identifying key components that are involved in or regulate the transitions of the septins. By combining cell synchronization and quantitative affinity-purification mass-spectrometry, we performed a screen for specific interaction partners of the septins at three distinct stages of the cell cycle. A total of 83 interaction partners of the septins were assigned. Surprisingly, we detected DNA-interacting/nuclear proteins and proteins involved in ribosome biogenesis and protein synthesis predominantly present in alpha-factor arrested that do not display an assembled septin structure. Furthermore, two distinct sets of regulatory proteins that are specific for cells at S-phase with a stable septin collar or at mitosis with split septin rings were identified. Complementary methods like SPLIFF and immunoprecipitation allowed us to more exactly define the spatial and temporal characteristics of selected hits of the AP-MS screen.
PXD003025	26871455	Quantitative Proteomics of the Infectious and Replicative Forms of Chlamydia trachomatis. 	Quantitative proteomics of the infectious and replicative forms of Chlamydia trachomatis L2	Chlamydia trachomatis, Elementary body, L2, Reticulate body	The obligate intracellular developmental cycle of Chlamydia trachomatis presents significant challenges in defining its proteome. In this study we have applied quantitative proteomics to both the intracellular reticulate body (RB) and the extracellular elementary body (EB) from C. trachomatis. We used C. trachomatis L2 as a model chlamydial isolate for our study since it has a high infectivity:particle ratio and there is an excellent quality genome sequence. EBs and RBs (>99% pure) were quantified by chromosomal and plasmid copy number using PCR, from which the concentrations of chlamydial proteins per bacterial cell/genome were determined. RBs harvested at 15h post infection (PI) were purified by three successive rounds of gradient centrifugation. This is the earliest possible time to obtain purified RBs, free from host cell components in quantity, within the constraints of the technology. EBs were purified at 48h PI. We then used two-dimensional reverse phase UPLC to fractionate RB or EB peptides before mass spectroscopic analysis, providing absolute amount estimates of chlamydial proteins. The ability to express the data as molecules per cell gave ranking in both abundance and energy requirements for synthesis, allowing meaningful identification of rate-limiting components. The study assigned 562 proteins with high confidence and provided absolute estimates of protein concentration for 489 proteins. Interestingly, the data showed an increase in TTS capacity at 15h PI. Most of the enzymes involved in peptidoglycan biosynthesis were detected along with high levels of muramidase (in EBs) suggesting breakdown of peptidoglycan occurs in the non-dividing form of the microorganism. All the genome-encoded enzymes for glycolysis, pentose phosphate pathway and tricarboxylic acid cycle were identified and quantified; these data supported the observation that the EB is metabolically active. The availability of detailed, accurate quantitative proteomic data will be invaluable for investigations into gene regulation and function.
PXD003806	26882497	Mps1Mph1 Kinase Phosphorylates Mad3 to Inhibit Cdc20Slp1-APC/C and Maintain Spindle Checkpoint Arrests. 	Mps1(Mph1) Kinase phosphorylates Mad3 to Inhibit Cdc20Slp1 -APC/C and maintain spindle checkpoint arrests	Kinase, Mad3, S.pombe, mitosis, phosphorylation, spindle	The spindle checkpoint is a mitotic surveillance system which ensures equal segregation of sister chromatids. It delays anaphase onset by inhibiting the action of the E3 ubiquitin ligase known as the anaphase promoting complex or cyclosome (APC/C). Mad3/BubR1 is a key component of the mitotic checkpoint complex (MCC) which binds and inhibits the APC/C early in mitosis. Mps1(Mph1) kinase is critical for checkpoint signalling and MCC-APC/C inhibition, yet few substrates have been identified. Here we identify Mad3 as a substrate of fission yeast Mps1(Mph1) kinase. We map and mutate phosphorylation sites in Mad3, producing mutants that are targeted to kinetochores and assembled into MCC, yet display reduced APC/C binding and are unable to maintain checkpoint arrests. We show biochemically that Mad3 phospho-mimics are potent APC/C inhibitors in vitro, demonstrating that Mad3p modification can directly influence Cdc20(Slp1)-APC/C activity. This genetic dissection of APC/C inhibition demonstrates that Mps1(Mph1) kinase-dependent modifications of Mad3 and Mad2 act in a concerted manner to maintain spindle checkpoint arrests.
PXD003495	26882986	Compensating the Fitness Costs of Synonymous Mutations. 	Compensating the fitness costs of synonymous mutations	Salmonella mutations, ribosomal protein S20, rpsT gene	Synonymous mutations do not change the sequence of the polypeptide but they may still influence fitness. We investigated in Salmonella enterica how four synonymous mutations in the rpsT gene (encoding ribosomal protein S20) reduce fitness (i.e., growth rate) and the mechanisms by which this cost can be genetically compensated. The reduced growth rates of the synonymous mutants were correlated with reduced levels of the rpsT transcript and S20 protein. In an adaptive evolution experiment, these fitness impairments could be compensated by mutations that either caused up-regulation of S20 through increased gene dosage (due to duplications), increased transcription of the rpsT gene (due to an rpoD mutation or mutations in rpsT), or increased translation from the rpsT transcript (due to rpsT mutations). We suggest that the reduced levels of S20 in the synonymous mutants result in production of a defective subpopulation of 30S subunits lacking S20 that reduce protein synthesis and bacterial growth and that the compensatory mutations restore S20 levels and the number of functional ribosomes. Our results demonstrate how specific synonymous mutations can cause substantial fitness reductions and that many different types of intra- and extragenic compensatory mutations can efficiently restore fitness. Furthermore, this study highlights that also synonymous sites can be under strong selection, which may have implications for the use of dN/dS ratios as signature for selection.
PXD002057	26883193	Identification of novel pathways linking epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition with resistance to HER2-targeted therapy. 	Proteomic analysis identifies novel pathways linking epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition with resistance to HER2-targeted therapy	EMT, HER2, acquired resistance, breast cancer	Resistance to human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-targeted therapies in the treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer is a major clinical problem. To identify pathways linked to resistance, we generated HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines which are resistant to either lapatinib or AZD8931, two pan-HER family kinase inhibitors. Resistance was HER2 independent and was associated with epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), resulting in increased proliferation and migration of the resistant cells. Using a global proteomics approach, we identified a novel set of EMT-associated proteins linked to HER2-independent resistance. We demonstrate that a subset of these EMT-associated genes is predictive of prognosis within the ERBB2 subtype of human breast cancers. Furthermore, targeting the EMT-associated kinases Src and Axl potently inhibited proliferation of the resistant cells, and inhibitors to these kinases may provide additional options for the treatment of HER2-independent resistance in tumors.
PXD003586	26883595	The RNA-Binding Chaperone Hfq Is an Important Global Regulator of Gene Expression in Pasteurella multocida and Plays a Crucial Role in Production of a Number of Virulence Factors, Including Hyaluronic Acid Capsule. 	Pasteurella multocida Hfq mutant	Dimethylation, Hfq, Pasteurella multocida	The Gram-negative bacterium Pasteurella multocida is the causative agent of a number of economically important animal diseases, including avian fowl cholera. Numerous P. multocida virulence factors have been identified, including capsule, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and filamentous hemagglutinin, but little is known about how the expression of these virulence factors is regulated. Hfq is an RNA-binding protein that facilitates riboregulation via interaction with small noncoding RNA (sRNA) molecules and their mRNA targets. Here, we show that a P. multocida hfq mutant produces significantly less hyaluronic acid capsule during all growth phases and displays reduced in vivo fitness. Transcriptional and proteomic analyses of the hfq mutant during mid-exponential-phase growth revealed altered transcript levels for 128 genes and altered protein levels for 78 proteins. Further proteomic analyses of the hfq mutant during the early exponential growth phase identified 106 proteins that were produced at altered levels. Both the transcript and protein levels for genes/proteins involved in capsule biosynthesis were reduced in the hfq mutant, as were the levels of the filamentous hemagglutinin protein PfhB2 and its secretion partner LspB2. In contrast, there were increased expression levels of three LPS biosynthesis genes, encoding proteins involved in phosphocholine and phosphoethanolamine addition to LPS, suggesting that these genes are negatively regulated by Hfq-dependent mechanisms. Taken together, these data provide the first evidence that Hfq plays a crucial role in regulating the global expression of P. multocida genes, including the regulation of key P. multocida virulence factors, capsule, LPS, and filamentous hemagglutinin.
PXD000938	26884177	Illuminating structural proteins in viral "dark matter" with metaproteomics. 	TARA Oceans Viral Proteins	Metaproteomics, Proteins, TARA, Viral, Viral Proteomics, Virus	Viruses are ecologically important, yet environmental virology is limited by dominance of unannotated genomic sequences representing taxonomic and functional "viral dark matter." Although recent analytical advances are rapidly improving taxonomic annotations, identifying functional dark matter remains problematic. Here, we apply paired metaproteomics and dsDNA-targeted metagenomics to identify 1,875 virion-associated proteins from the ocean. Over one-half of these proteins were newly functionally annotated and represent abundant and widespread viral metagenome-derived protein clusters (PCs). One primarily unannotated PC dominated the dataset, but structural modeling and genomic context identified this PC as a previously unidentified capsid protein from multiple uncultivated tailed virus families. Furthermore, four of the five most abundant PCs in the metaproteome represent capsid proteins containing the HK97-like protein fold previously found in many viruses that infect all three domains of life. The dominance of these proteins within our dataset, as well as their global distribution throughout the world's oceans and seas, supports prior hypotheses that this HK97-like protein fold is the most abundant biological structure on Earth. Together, these culture-independent analyses improve virion-associated protein annotations, facilitate the investigation of proteins within natural viral communities, and offer a high-throughput means of illuminating functional viral dark matter.
PXD002645	26884507	Deubiquitylation of Protein Cargo Is Not an Essential Step in Exosome Formation. 	Proteomic profiling of ubiquitylated proteins in urinary exosomes	Exosomes, Ubiquitylated proteins, Urine	Exosomes, derived from multivesicular bodies (MVBs), contain proteins and genetic materials from their cell of origin and are secreted from various cells types, including kidney epithelial cells. In general, it is thought that protein cargo is ubiquitylated but that ubiquitin is cleaved by specific deubiquitylases during the process of cargo incorporation into MVBs. Here, we provide direct evidence that, in vivo, deubiquitylation is not essential. Ubiquitin was detected within human MVBs and urinary exosomes by electron microscopy. Of the >6000 proteins identified in human urinary exosomes was mass spectrometry, 15% were ubiquitylated with various topologies (Lys63>Lys48> Lys11>Lys6>Lys29>Lys33>Lys27). A significant preference for basic amino acids upstream of ubiquitylation sites suggests specific ubiquitylation motifs. The current studies demonstrate that, in vivo, deubiquitylation of proteins is not necessary for their incorporation into MVBs and highlight that urinary exosomes are an enriched source for studying ubiquitin modifications in physiological or disease states.
PXD001023	26884511	Global Protein Oxidation Profiling Suggests Efficient Mitochondrial Proteome Homeostasis During Aging. 	Global protein oxidation profiling suggests efficient mitochondrial proteome homeostasis during ageing	Podospora anserina, iTRAQ, mitochondrial ageing, oxidative PTMs, quantitative mass spectrometry	The free radical theory of aging is based on the idea that reactive oxygen species (ROS) may lead to the accumulation of age-related protein oxidation. Because themajority of cellular ROS is generated at the respiratory electron transport chain, this study focuses on the mitochondrial proteome of the aging model Podospora anserina as target for ROS-induced damage. To ensure the detection of even low abundant modified peptides, separation by long gradient nLC-ESI-MS/MS and an appropriate statistical workflow for iTRAQ quantification was developed. Artificial protein oxidation was minimized by establishing gel-free sample preparation in the presence of reducing and iron-chelating agents. This first large scale, oxidative modification-centric study for P. anserina allowed the comprehensive quantification of 22 different oxidative amino acid modifications, and notably the quantitative comparison of oxidized and nonoxidized protein species. In total 2341 proteins were quantified. For 746 both protein species (unmodified and oxidatively modified) were detected and the modification sites determined. The data revealed that methionine residues are preferably oxidized. Further prominent identified modifications in decreasing order of occurrence were carbonylation as well as formation of N-formylkynurenine and pyrrolidinone. Interestingly, for the majority of proteins a positive correlation of changes in protein amount and oxidative damage were noticed, and a general decrease in protein amounts at late age. However, it was discovered that few proteins changed in oxidative damage in accordance with former reports. Our data suggest that P. anserina is efficiently capable to counteract ROS-induced protein damage during aging as long as protein de novo synthesis is functioning, ultimately leading to an overall constant relationship between damaged and undamaged protein species. These findings contradict a massive increase in protein oxidation during aging and rather suggest a protein damage homeostasis mechanism even at late age.
PXD002548	26889046	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis Reveals the Min System of Escherichia coli Modulates Reversible Protein Association with the Inner Membrane. 	Inner membrane proteome of E. coli Min mutant	E. coli, cell division, iTRAQ, membrane, the Min system	The Min system of Escherichia coli mediates placement of the division septum at the midcell. It oscillates from pole to pole to establish a concentration gradient of the division inhibition that is high at the poles but low at the midcell; the cell middle thereby becomes the most favorable site for division. Although Min oscillation is well studied from molecular and biophysical perspectives, it is still an enigma as to whether such a continuous, energy-consuming, and organized movement of the Min proteins would affect cellular processes other than the division site selection. To tackle this question, we compared the inner membrane proteome of the wild-type and Deltamin strains using a quantitative approach. Forty proteins that showed differential abundance on the inner membrane of the mutant cells were identified and defined as proteins of interest (POIs). More than half of the POIs were peripheral membrane proteins, suggesting that the Min system affects mainly reversible protein association with the inner membrane. In addition, 6 out of 10 selected POIs directly interacted with at least one of the Min proteins, confirming the correlation between POIs and the Min system.Further analysis revealed a functional relationship between metabolism and the Min system. Metabolic enzymes accounted for 45% of the POIs, and there was a change of metabolites in the related reactions. We hypothesize that the Min system could alter the membrane location of proteins to modulate their enzymatic activity. Thus, the metabolic modulation in the Deltamin mutant is likely an adaptive phenotype in cells of abnormal size and chromosome number due to an imbalanced abundance of proteins on the inner membrane. Taken together, the current work reports novel interactions of the Min system and reveals a global physiological impact of the Min system in addition to the division site placement.
PXD001849	26889980	Similar protein expression profiles of ovarian and endometrial high-grade serous carcinomas. 	Proteomic analysis of gynecologic cancer tissue	endometrioid, gynecology, high-grade serous, ovary, uterus	BACKGROUND: Ovarian and endometrial high-grade serous carcinomas (HGSCs) have similar clinical and pathological characteristics; however, exhaustive protein expression profiling of these cancers has yet to be reported. METHODS: We performed protein expression profiling on 14 cases of HGSCs (7 ovarian and 7 endometrial) and 18 endometrioid carcinomas (9 ovarian and 9 endometrial) using iTRAQ-based exhaustive and quantitative protein analysis. RESULTS: We identified 828 tumour-expressed proteins and evaluated the statistical similarity of protein expression profiles between ovarian and endometrial HGSCs using unsupervised hierarchical cluster analysis (P<0.01). Using 45 statistically highly expressed proteins in HGSCs, protein ontology analysis detected two enriched terms and proteins composing each term: IMP2 and MCM2. Immunohistochemical analyses confirmed the higher expression of IMP2 and MCM2 in ovarian and endometrial HGSCs as well as in tubal and peritoneal HGSCs than in endometrioid carcinomas (P<0.01). The knockdown of either IMP2 or MCM2 by siRNA interference significantly decreased the proliferation rate of ovarian HGSC cell line (P<0.01). CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated the statistical similarity of the protein expression profiles of ovarian and endometrial HGSC beyond the organs. We suggest that increased IMP2 and MCM2 expression may underlie some of the rapid HGSC growth observed clinically.
PXD002369	26892159	Selective labelling and eradication of antibiotic-tolerant bacterial populations in Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms. 	Selective labeling and eradication of antibiotic tolerant bacterial populations in pathogenic biofilms	Biofilm	Drug resistance and tolerance greatly diminish the therapeutic potential of antibiotics against pathogens. Antibiotic tolerance by bacterial biofilms often leads to persistent infections, but its mechanisms are unclear. Here we use a proteomics approach, pulsed stable isotope labelling with amino acids (pulsed-SILAC), to quantify newly expressed proteins in colistin-tolerant subpopulations of Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms (colistin is a 'last-resort' antibiotic against multidrug-resistant Gram-negative pathogens). Migration is essential for the formation of colistin-tolerant biofilm subpopulations, with colistin-tolerant cells using type IV pili to migrate onto the top of the colistin-killed biofilm. The colistin-tolerant cells employ quorum sensing (QS) to initiate the formation of new colistin-tolerant subpopulations, highlighting multicellular behaviour in antibiotic tolerance development. The macrolide erythromycin, which has been previously shown to inhibit the motility and QS of P. aeruginosa, boosts biofilm eradication by colistin. Our work provides insights on the mechanisms underlying the formation of antibiotic-tolerant populations in bacterial biofilms and indicates research avenues for designing more efficient treatments against biofilm-associated infections.
PXD002516	26892330	Dementia-linked amyloidosis is associated with brain protein deamidation as revealed by proteomic profiling of human brain tissues. 	Human Brain LC-MS/MS -  Dementia-linked amyloidosis is associated with brain protein deamidation as revealed by proteomic profiling of human brain tissues	Amyloids, Brain Proteome, Deamidation, Neurodegenerative disease	BACKGROUND: Aggregation of malformed proteins is a key feature of many neurodegenerative diseases, but the mechanisms that drive proteinopathy in the brain are poorly understood. We aimed to characterize aggregated proteins in human brain tissues affected by dementia. RESULTS: To characterize amyloidal plaque purified from post-mortem brain tissue of dementia patient, we applied ultracentrifugation-electrostatic repulsion hydrophilic interaction chromatography (UC-ERLIC) coupled mass spectrometry-based proteomics technologies. Proteomics profiling of both soluble and aggregated amyloidal plaque demonstrated significant enrichment and deamidation of S100A9, ferritin, hemoglobin subunits, creatine kinase and collagen protein among the aggregated brain proteins. Amyloidal plaques were enriched in the deamidated variant of protein S100A9, and structural analysis indicated that both the low- and high-affinity calcium binding motifs of S100A9 were deamidated exclusively in the aggregated fraction, suggesting altered charge state and function of this protein in brain tissues affected by dementia. The multiple deamidated residues of S100A9 predicts introduction of negative charge that alter Ca(++) binding, suggesting increased capacity to form pathological aggregates in the brain. CONCLUSION: UC-coupled proteomics revealed that brain amyloidal plaques are enriched in deamidated proteins, and suggested that altered charge state and calcium-binding capacity of S100A9 may enhance protein aggregation and promote neurodegeneration in the human brain.
PXD002091	26893308	Positional proteomics reveals differences in N-terminal proteoform stability. 	Positional proteomics reveals differences in N-terminal proteoform stability.	N-terminal COFRADIC, N-terminal proteoform, Nt-acetylation, alternative translation initiation, initiator methionine processing, protein stability, protein turnover	To understand the impact of alternative translation initiation on a proteome, we performed a proteome-wide study on protein turnover using positional proteomics and ribosome profiling to distinguish between N-terminal proteoforms of individual genes. By combining pulsed SILAC with N-terminal COFRADIC, we monitored the stability of 1,941 human N-terminal proteoforms, including 147 N-terminal proteoform pairs that originate from alternative translation initiation, alternative splicing or incomplete processing of the initiator methionine. N-terminally truncated proteoforms were less abundant than canonical proteoforms and often displayed altered stabilities, likely attributed to individual protein characteristics, including intrinsic disorder, but independent of N-terminal amino acid identity or truncation length. We discovered that the removal of initiator methionine by methionine aminopeptidases reduced the stability of processed proteoforms, while susceptibility for N-terminal acetylation did not seem to influence protein turnover rates. Taken together, our findings reveal differences in protein stability between N-terminal proteoforms and point to a role for alternative translation initiation and co-translational initiator methionine removal, next to alternative splicing, in the overall regulation of proteome homeostasis.
PXD002648	26896796	Proteomic Analysis Reveals Branch-specific Regulation of the Unfolded Protein Response by Nonsense-mediated mRNA Decay. 	De-novo synthesized targets of NMD and ER stress	AHA, DTT, NMD, UPF1, UPR, click chemistry, pulsed SILAC	Nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) has originally been described as a surveillance mechanism to inhibit the expression of mRNAs with truncated open reading frames (ORFs) and to contribute to the fidelity of gene expression. It is now recognized that NMD also controls the expression of physiological genes with "intact" mRNA. Stress can decrease NMD efficiency and thus increase the mRNA levels of physiological NMD targets. As stress can also inhibit translation, the net outcome for shaping the proteome is difficult to predict. We have thus analyzed de novo protein synthesis in response to NMD inhibition or the induction of mild endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress by treatment of cells with the reducing agent dithiotreitol (DTT). For this purpose, we combined pulsed azidohomoalanine (AHA) and stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC). Labeled proteins were purified by click chemistry-based covalent coupling to agarose beads, trypsinized, fractionated, and analyzed by mass spectrometry (MS). We find that mild ER stress up-regulates the de novo synthesis of components of all three branches of the unfolded protein response (PERK, IRE1 and ATF6) without increasing eIF2alpha phosphorylation or impairing of protein translation. In contrast, inhibition of NMD induces de novo protein synthesis of downstream targets of the PERK and IRE1 pathways, whereas we could not detect regulation of ATF6-responsive genes. These data thus support a model that implicates a positive feedback loop of ER stress inhibiting NMD efficiency which further promotes the ER stress response in a branch-specific manner.
PXD001930	26900021	Copper stress-induced changes in leaf soluble proteome of Cu-sensitive and tolerant Agrostis capillaris L. populations. 	Copper stress-induced changes in leaf soluble proteome of Cu-sensitive and tolerant Agrostis capillaris L. populations	Agrostis capillaris, Cu-tolerance, Heat-shock protein, Photosynthesis, Plant proteomics	Changes in leaf soluble proteome were explored in 3-month-old plants of metallicolous (M) and nonmetallicolous (NM) Agrostis capillaris L. populations exposed to increasing Cu concentrations (1-50 muM) to investigate molecular mechanisms underlying plant responses to Cu excess and tolerance of M plants. Plants were cultivated on perlite (CuSO4 spiked-nutrient solution). Soluble proteins, extracted by the trichloroacetic acid/acetone procedure, were separated with 2-DE (linear 4-7 pH gradient). Analysis of CCB-stained gels (PDQuest) reproducibly detected 214 spots, and 64 proteins differentially expressed were identified using LC-MS/MS. In both populations, Cu excess impacted both light-dependent (OEE, cytochrome b6-f complex, and chlorophyll a-b binding protein), and -independent (RuBisCO) photosynthesis reactions, more intensively in NM leaves (ferredoxin-NADP reductase and metalloprotease FTSH2). In both populations, upregulation of isocitrate dehydrogenase and cysteine/methionine synthases respectively suggested increased isocitrate oxidation and enhanced need for S-containing amino-acids, likely for chelation and detoxification. In NM leaves, an increasing need for energetic compounds was indicated by the stimulation of ATPases, glycolysis, pentose phosphate pathway, and Calvin cycle enzymes; impacts on protein metabolism and oxidative stress increase were respectively suggested by the rise of chaperones and redox enzymes. Overexpression of a HSP70 may be pivotal for M Cu tolerance by protecting protein metabolism. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with the dataset identifier PXD001930 (http//proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD001930).
PXD003113	26900162	Determination of the Stoichiometry of the Complete Bacterial Type III Secretion Needle Complex Using a Combined Quantitative Proteomic Approach. 	Stoichiometry of the bacterial type III secretion export apparatus	Salmonella, stoichiometry, type III secretion	Precisely knowing the stoichiometry of their components is critical for investigating structure, assembly, and function of macromolecular machines. This has remained a technical challenge in particular for large, hydrophobic membrane-spanning protein complexes. Here, we determined the stoichiometry of a type III secretion system of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium using two complementary protocols of gentle complex purification combined with peptide concatenated standard and synthetic stable isotope-labeled peptide-based mass spectrometry. Bacterial type III secretion systems are cell envelope-spanning effector protein-delivery machines essential for colonization and survival of many Gram-negative pathogens and symbionts. The membrane-embedded core unit of these secretion systems, termed the needle complex, is composed of a base that anchors the machinery to the inner and outer membranes, a hollow filament formed by inner rod and needle subunits that serves as conduit for substrate proteins, and a membrane-embedded export apparatus facilitating substrate translocation. Structural analyses have revealed the stoichiometry of the components of the base, but the stoichiometry of the essential hydrophobic export apparatus components and of the inner rod protein remain unknown. Here, we provide evidence that the export apparatus of type III secretion systems contains five SpaP, one SpaQ, one SpaR, and one SpaS. We confirmed that the previously suggested stoichiometry of nine InvA is valid for assembled needle complexes and describe a loose association of InvA with other needle complex components that may reflect its function. Furthermore, we present evidence that not more than six PrgJ form the inner rod of the needle complex. Providing this structural information will facilitate efforts to obtain an atomic view of type III secretion systems and foster our understanding of the function of these and related flagellar machines. Given that other virulence-associated bacterial secretion systems are similar in their overall buildup and complexity, the presented approach may also enable their stoichiometry elucidation.
PXD003130	26900400	Sexual crossing of thermophilic fungus Myceliophthora heterothallica improved enzymatic degradation of sugar beet pulp. 	Sexual crossing of thermophilic fungus Myceliophthora heterothallica improved enzymatic degradation of sugar beet pulp	CAZy enzymes, Myceliophthora heterothallica, plant biomass, progeny, saccharification, sugar beep pulp	BACKGROUND: Enzymatic degradation of plant biomass requires a complex mixture of many different enzymes. Like most fungi, thermophilic Myceliophthora species therefore have a large set of enzymes targeting different linkages in plant polysaccharides. The majority of these enzymes have not been functionally characterized, and their role in plant biomass degradation is unknown. The biotechnological challenge is to select the right set of enzymes to efficiently degrade a particular biomass. This study describes a strategy using sexual crossing and screening with the thermophilic fungus Myceliophthora heterothallica to identify specific enzymes associated with improved sugar beet pulp saccharification. RESULTS: Two genetically diverse M. heterothallica strains CBS 203.75 and CBS 663.74 were used to generate progenies with improved growth on sugar beet pulp. One progeny, named SBP.F1.2.11, had a different genetic pattern from the parental strains and had improved saccharification activity after the growth on 3 % sugar beet pulp. The improved SBP saccharification was not explained by altered activities of the major (hemi-)cellulases. Exo-proteome analysis of progeny and parental strains after 7-day growth on sugar beet pulp showed that only 17 of the 133 secreted CAZy enzymes were more abundant in progeny SBP.F1.2.11. Particularly one enzyme belonging to the carbohydrate esterase family 5 (CE5) was more abundant in SBP.F1.2.11. This CE5-CBM1 enzyme, named as Axe1, was phylogenetically related to acetyl xylan esterases. Biochemical characterization of Axe1 confirmed de-acetylation activity with optimal activities at 75-85 degreesC and pH 5.5-6.0. Supplementing Axe1 to CBS 203.75 enzyme set improved release of xylose and glucose from sugar beet pulp. CONCLUSIONS: This study identified beneficial enzymes for sugar beet pulp saccharification by selecting progeny with improved growth on this particular substrate. Saccharification of sugar beet pulp was improved by supplementing enzyme mixtures with a previously uncharacterized CE5-CBM1 acetyl xylan esterase. This shows that sexual crossing and selection of M. heterothallica are the successful strategy to improve the composition of enzyme mixtures for efficient plant biomass degradation.
PXD003000	26900865	Chemoproteomic profiling of host and pathogen enzymes active in cholera. 	Chemoproteomic profiling of host and pathogen enzymes active in cholera	Vibrio cholerae, rabbit	Activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) is a chemoproteomic tool for detecting active enzymes in complex biological systems. We used ABPP to identify secreted bacterial and host serine hydrolases that are active in animals infected with the cholera pathogen Vibrio cholerae. Four V. cholerae proteases were consistently active in infected rabbits, and one, VC0157 (renamed IvaP), was also active in human choleric stool. Inactivation of IvaP influenced the activity of other secreted V. cholerae and rabbit enzymes in vivo, and genetic disruption of all four proteases increased the abundance of intelectin, an intestinal lectin, and its binding to V. cholerae in infected rabbits. Intelectin also bound to other enteric bacterial pathogens, suggesting that it may constitute a previously unrecognized mechanism of bacterial surveillance in the intestine that is inhibited by pathogen-secreted proteases. Our work demonstrates the power of activity-based proteomics to reveal host-pathogen enzymatic dialog in an animal model of infection.
PXD003442	26900923	Integrated genomics and proteomics define huntingtin CAG length-dependent networks in mice. 	Integrated genomics and proteomics to define huntingtin CAG length-dependent molecular networks in HD mouse brains	Huntington disease, label-free, mouse brain, striatum	To gain insight into how mutant huntingtin (mHtt) CAG repeat length modifies Huntington's disease (HD) pathogenesis, we profiled mRNA in over 600 brain and peripheral tissue samples from HD knock-in mice with increasing CAG repeat lengths. We found repeat length-dependent transcriptional signatures to be prominent in the striatum, less so in cortex, and minimal in the liver. Coexpression network analyses revealed 13 striatal and 5 cortical modules that correlated highly with CAG length and age, and that were preserved in HD models and sometimes in patients. Top striatal modules implicated mHtt CAG length and age in graded impairment in the expression of identity genes for striatal medium spiny neurons and in dysregulation of cyclic AMP signaling, cell death and protocadherin genes. We used proteomics to confirm 790 genes and 5 striatal modules with CAG length-dependent dysregulation at the protein level, and validated 22 striatal module genes as modifiers of mHtt toxicities in vivo.
PXD003139	26903415	Two Unrelated 8-Vinyl Reductases Ensure Production of Mature Chlorophylls in Acaryochloris marina. 	Two unrelated 8-vinyl reductases ensure production of mature chlorophylls in Acaryochloris marina	Acaryochloris marina, chlorophyll d biosynthesis, photosynthesis	The major photopigment of the cyanobacterium Acaryochloris marina is chlorophyll d, while its direct biosynthetic precursor, chlorophyll a, is also present in the cell. These pigments, along with the majority of chlorophylls utilized by oxygenic phototrophs, carry an ethyl group at the C-8 position of the molecule, having undergone reduction of a vinyl group during biosynthesis. Two unrelated classes of 8-vinyl reductase involved in the biosynthesis of chlorophylls are known to exist, BciA and BciB. The genome of Acaryochloris marina contains open reading frames (ORFs) encoding proteins displaying high sequence similarity to BciA or BciB, although they are annotated as genes involved in transcriptional control (nmrA) and methanogenesis (frhB), respectively. These genes were introduced into an 8-vinyl chlorophyll a-producing DeltabciB strain of Synechocystis sp. strain PCC 6803, and both were shown to restore synthesis of the pigment with an ethyl group at C-8, demonstrating their activities as 8-vinyl reductases. We propose that nmrA and frhB be reassigned as bciA and bciB, respectively; transcript and proteomic analysis of Acaryochloris marina reveal that both bciA and bciB are expressed and their encoded proteins are present in the cell, possibly in order to ensure that all synthesized chlorophyll pigment carries an ethyl group at C-8. Potential reasons for the presence of two 8-vinyl reductases in this strain, which is unique for cyanobacteria, are discussed. IMPORTANCE: The cyanobacterium Acaryochloris marina is the best-studied phototrophic organism that uses chlorophyll d for photosynthesis. Unique among cyanobacteria sequenced to date, its genome contains ORFs encoding two unrelated enzymes that catalyze the reduction of the C-8 vinyl group of a precursor molecule to an ethyl group. Carrying a reduced C-8 group may be of particular importance to organisms containing chlorophyll d Plant genomes also contain orthologs of both of these genes; thus, the bacterial progenitor of the chloroplast may also have contained both bciA and bciB.
PXD003358	26904073	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Cultured Suspension Cells of the Halophyte Halogeton glomeratus by iTRAQ Provides Insights into Response Mechanisms to Salt Stress. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of cultured suspension cells of the halophyte Halogetonglomeratus by iTRAQ provides insights into response mechanisms to salt stress	halophyte Halogetonglomeratus, iTRAQ	Soil salinity severely threatens land use capability and crop yields worldwide. An analysis of the molecular mechanisms of salt tolerance in halophytes will contribute to the development of salt-tolerant crops. In this study, a combination of physiological characteristics and iTRAQ-based proteomic approaches was conducted to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying the salt response of suspension cell cultures of halophytic Halogeton glomeratus. These cells showed halophytic growth responses comparable to those of the whole plant. In total, 97 up-regulated proteins and 192 down-regulated proteins were identified as common to both 200 and 400 mM NaCl concentration treatments. Such salinity responsive proteins were mainly involved in energy, carbohydrate metabolism, stress defense, protein metabolism, signal transduction, cell growth, and cytoskeleton metabolism. Effective regulatory protein expression related to energy, stress defense, and carbohydrate metabolism play important roles in the salt-tolerance of H. glomeratus suspension cell cultures. However, known proteins regulating Na(+) efflux from the cytoplasm and its compartmentalization into the vacuole did not change significantly under salinity stress suggesting our existing knowledge concerning Na(+) extrusion and compartmentalization in halophytes needs to be evaluated further. Such data are discussed in the context of our current understandings of the mechanisms involved in the salinity response of the halophyte, H. glomeratus.
PXD002624	26912668	In Vivo Interaction Proteomics in Caenorhabditis elegans Embryos Provides New Insights into P Granule Dynamics. 	In vivo protein-protein interaction in C. elegans early embryos	C. elegans	Studying protein interactions in whole organisms is fundamental to understanding development. Here, we combine in vivo expressed GFP-tagged proteins with quantitative proteomics to identify protein-protein interactions of selected key proteins involved in early C. elegans embryogenesis. Co-affinity purification of interaction partners for eight bait proteins resulted in a pilot in vivo interaction map of proteins with a focus on early development. Our network reflects known biology and is highly enriched in functionally relevant interactions. To demonstrate the utility of the map, we looked for new regulators of P granule dynamics and found that GEI-12, a novel binding partner of the DYRK family kinase MBK-2, is a key regulator of P granule formation and germline maintenance. Our data corroborate a recently proposed model in which the phosphorylation state of GEI-12 controls P granule dynamics. In addition, we find that GEI-12 also induces granule formation in mammalian cells, suggesting a common regulatory mechanism in worms and humans. Our results show that in vivo interaction proteomics provides unique insights into animal development.
PXD003499	26917472	Discovery of potential protein biomarkers of lung adenocarcinoma in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid by SWATH MS data-independent acquisition and targeted data extraction. 	BALF Biomarkers in lung cancer	BALF, SWATH, adenocarcinoma, data-independent acquisition, lung cancer	Lung cancer currently ranks as the neoplasia with the highest global mortality rate. Although some improvements have been introduced in recent years, new advances in diagnosis are required in order to increase survival rates. New mildly invasive endoscopy-based diagnostic techniques include the collection of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), which is discarded after using a portion of the fluid for standard pathological procedures. BALF proteomic analysis can contribute to clinical practice with more sensitive biomarkers, and can complement cytohistological studies by aiding in the diagnosis, prognosis, and subtyping of lung cancer, as well as the monitoring of treatment response. The range of quantitative proteomics methodologies used for biomarker discovery is currently being broadened with the introduction of data-independent acquisition (DIA) analysis-related approaches that address the massive quantitation of the components of a proteome. Here we report for the first time a DIA-based quantitative proteomics study using BALF as the source for the discovery of potential lung cancer biomarkers. The results have been encouraging in terms of the number of identified and quantified proteins. A panel of candidate protein biomarkers for adenocarcinoma in BALF is reported; this points to the activation of the complement network as being strongly over-represented and suggests this pathway as a potential target for lung cancer research. In addition, the results reported for haptoglobin, complement C4-A, and glutathione S-transferase pi are consistent with previous studies, which indicates that these proteins deserve further consideration as potential lung cancer biomarkers in BALF. Our study demonstrates that the analysis of BALF proteins by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), combining a simple sample pre-treatment and SWATH DIA MS, is a useful method for the discovery of potential lung cancer biomarkers. SIGNIFICANCE: Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) analysis can contribute to clinical practice with more sensitive biomarkers, thus complementing cytohistological studies in order to aid in the diagnosis, prognosis, and subtyping of lung cancer, as well as the monitoring of treatment response. Here we report a panel of candidate protein biomarkers for adenocarcinoma in BALF. Forty-four proteins showed a fold-change higher than 3.75 among adenocarcinoma patients compared with controls. This report is the first DIA-based quantitative proteomics study to use bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) as a matrix for discovering potential biomarkers. The results are encouraging in terms of the number of identified and quantified proteins, demonstrating that the analysis of BALF proteins by a SWATH approach is a useful method for the discovery of potential biomarkers of pulmonary diseases.
PXD003132	26923761	Extracellular citrullination inhibits the function of matrix associated TGF-beta. 	Citrullination of latency-associated peptide of TGF beta1	TGFB1	In inflammatory arthritis peptidyl arginine deiminase (PAD) enzymes can citrullinate arginine residues in extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, such as collagens and fibronectin. This may lead to the generation of anti-citrullinated protein antibodies, important diagnostic markers in rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, the citrullination may directly affect protein function. Based on structural analysis, we found that most ECM-associated growth factors (GFs) have arginine residues in their receptor recognition sites. Thus, they are potential functional targets of extracellular citrullination. To examine this further, we focused on the citrullination of transforming growth factor-betas (TGF-beta), well-known ECM-associated GFs. PAD-treatment of CHO-LTBP1 cell derived matrix, rich with TGF-beta, decreased the level of TGF-beta activity as detected by HaCaT and MLEC-PAI-1/Lu reporter cells. Additional experiments indicated that PAD-treatment inhibits the integrin-mediated TGF-beta activation since PAD-treatment decreased the binding of integrin alphaVbeta6 ectodomain as well as integrin-mediated spreading of MG-63 and HaCaT cells to beta1-latency associated peptide (TGF-beta1 LAP). The citrullination of the RGD site, an important integrin recognition motif, was confirmed by mass spectrometry. Furthermore, the citrullination of active TGF-beta1 inhibited its binding to recombinant TGF-beta receptor II, and prevented its ability to activate TGF-beta signaling. Thus, extracellular PAD activity can affect the function of ECM-associated growth factors by different mechanisms. Importantly, the citrullination of both latent and active TGF-beta has the potency to regulate the inflammatory process.
PXD003122	26926440	Deciphering the molecular mechanisms underlying sea urchin reversible adhesion: A quantitative proteomics approach. 	A molecular model of sea urchin reversible adhesion based on quantitative proteomics	Echinoderm, Paracentrotus lividus, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, quantitative proteomics, reversible adhesion, sea urchin, tube foot adhesive protein	Marine bioadhesives have unmatched performances in wet environments, being an inspiration for biomedical applications. In sea urchins specialized adhesive organs, tube feet, mediate reversible adhesion, being composed by a disc, producing adhesive and de-adhesive secretions, and a motile stem. After tube foot detachment, the secreted adhesive remains bound to the substratum as a footprint. Sea urchin adhesive is composed by proteins and sugars, but so far only one protein, Nectin, was shown to be over-expressed as a transcript in tube feet discs, suggesting its involvement in sea urchin adhesion. Here we use high-resolution quantitative mass-spectrometry to perform the first study combining the analysis of the differential proteome of an adhesive organ, with the proteome of its secreted adhesive. This strategy allowed us to identify 163 highly over-expressed disc proteins, specifically involved in sea urchin reversible adhesion; to find that 70% of the secreted adhesive components fall within five protein groups, involved in exocytosis and microbial protection; and to provide evidences that Nectin is not only highly expressed in tube feet discs but is an actual component of the adhesive. These results give an unprecedented insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying sea urchin adhesion, and opening new doors to develop wet-reliable, reversible, and ecological biomimetic adhesives. SIGNIFICANCE: Sea urchins attach strongly but in a reversible manner to substratum, being a valuable source of inspiration for industrial and biomedical applications. Yet, the molecular mechanisms governing reversible adhesion are still poorly studied delaying the engineering of biomimetic adhesives. We used the latest mass spectrometry techniques to analyze the differential proteome of an adhesive organ and the proteome of its secreted adhesive, allowing us to uncover the key players in sea urchin reversible adhesion. We demonstrate, that Nectin, a protein previously pointed out as potentially involved in sea urchin adhesion, is not only highly expressed in tube feet discs, but is a genuine component of the secreted adhesive.
PXD001164	26928226	Active DNA demethylation at enhancers during the vertebrate phylotypic period. 	Active DNA demethylation during the vertebrate phylotypic period	DNA interactors, DNA methylation, Development, Zebrafish	The vertebrate body plan and organs are shaped during a conserved embryonic phase called the phylotypic stage. However, the mechanisms that guide the epigenome through this transition and their evolutionary conservation remain elusive. Here we report widespread DNA demethylation of enhancers during the phylotypic period in zebrafish, Xenopus tropicalis and mouse. These enhancers are linked to developmental genes that display coordinated transcriptional and epigenomic changes in the diverse vertebrates during embryogenesis. Binding of Tet proteins to (hydroxy)methylated DNA and enrichment of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine in these regions implicated active DNA demethylation in this process. Furthermore, loss of function of Tet1, Tet2 and Tet3 in zebrafish reduced chromatin accessibility and increased methylation levels specifically at these enhancers, indicative of DNA methylation being an upstream regulator of phylotypic enhancer function. Overall, our study highlights a regulatory module associated with the most conserved phase of vertebrate embryogenesis and suggests an ancient developmental role for Tet dioxygenases.
PXD002986	26929115	Comparing isogenic strains of Beijing genotype Mycobacterium tuberculosis after acquisition of Isoniazid resistance: A proteomics approach. 	Proteomics of Mycobacterium tuberculosis Beijing genotype after acquisition of Isoniazid resistance	Beijing, LTQ, Mycobacterium, isoniazid, resistance, tuberculosis	We determined differences in the protein abundance among two isogenic strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) with different Isoniazid (INH) susceptibility profiles. The strains were isolated from a pulmonary tuberculosis patient before and after drug treatment. LC-MS/MS analysis identified 46 Mtb proteins with altered abundance after INH resistance acquisition. Protein abundance comparisons were done evaluating the different bacterial cellular fractions (membrane, cytosol, cell wall and secreted proteins). MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002986.
PXD001925	26929135	Spatially-resolved protein surface microsampling from tissue sections using liquid extraction surface analysis. 	Intact Protein extraction using Liquid extraction surface analysis (LESA)	LESA, intact proteins extraction	Tissue microenvironment characterization presents a challenge for a better understanding of the full complexity of a pathology. Unfortunately, making a precise "picture" of the disease needs an efficient microsampling method coupled to an accurate localization for performing region-dependent proteomics. Here, we present a method that enables rapid and reproducible extraction of proteins from a tissue section to analyze a specific region at a millimeter scale. The method used a liquid-microjunction extraction with conventional detergent solution for proteomics analysis. We successfully performed immunoblotting experiments and showed the possibility to retrieve and identify more than 1400 proteins from a 1-mm diameter spot size on tissue sections with a high degree of reproducibility both qualitatively and quantitatively. Moreover, the small size of the extracted region achieved by this sampling method allows the possibility to perform multiple extractions on different tissue section points. Ten points on a sagittal rat brain tissue section were analyzed and the measured proteins clearly distinguished the different parts of the brain, thus permitting precise functional mapping. We thus demonstrate that with this technology, it is possible to map the tissue microenvironment and gain an understanding of the molecular mechanisms at millimeter resolution.
PXD003660	26929352	Early signaling dynamics of the epidermal growth factor receptor. 	Early Signaling Dynamics of EGFR	EGFR, systems biology, tyrosine phosphorylation	Despite extensive study of the EGF receptor (EGFR) signaling network, the immediate posttranslational changes that occur in response to growth factor stimulation remain poorly characterized; as a result, the biological mechanisms underlying signaling initiation remain obscured. To address this deficiency, we have used a mass spectrometry-based approach to measure system-wide phosphorylation changes throughout the network with 10-s resolution in the 80 s after stimulation in response to a range of eight growth factor concentrations. Significant changes were observed on proteins far downstream in the network as early as 10 s after stimulation, indicating a system capable of transmitting information quickly. Meanwhile, canonical members of the EGFR signaling network fall into clusters with distinct activation patterns. Src homology 2 domain containing transforming protein (Shc) and phosphoinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) phosphorylation levels increase rapidly, but equilibrate within 20 s, whereas proteins such as Grb2-associated binder-1 (Gab1) and SH2-containing tyrosine phosphatase (SHP2) show slower, sustained increases. Proximity ligation assays reveal that Shc and Gab1 phosphorylation patterns are representative of separate timescales for physical association with the receptor. Inhibition of phosphatases with vanadate reveals site-specific regulatory mechanisms and also uncovers primed activating components in the network, including Src family kinases, whose inhibition affects only a subset of proteins within the network. The results presented highlight the complexity of signaling initiation and provide a window into exploring mechanistic hypotheses about receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) biology.
PXD003534	26933193	Adjuvant-induced Human Monocyte Secretome Profiles Reveal Adjuvant- and Age-specific Protein Signatures. 	Adjuvant Secretomes	Adjuvants, LC-MS, Secretome	Adjuvants boost vaccine responses, enhancing protective immunity against infections that are most common among the very young. Many adjuvants activate innate immunity, some via Toll-Like Receptors (TLRs), whose activities varies with age. Accordingly, characterization of age-specific adjuvant-induced immune responses may inform rational adjuvant design targeting vulnerable populations. In this study, we employed proteomics to characterize the adjuvant-induced changes of secretomes from human newborn and adult monocytes in response to Alum, the most commonly used adjuvant in licensed vaccines; Monophosphoryl Lipid A (MPLA), a TLR4-activating adjuvant component of a licensed Human Papilloma Virus vaccine; and R848 an imidazoquinoline TLR7/8 agonist that is a candidate adjuvant for early life vaccines. Monocytes were incubated in vitro for 24 h with vehicle, Alum, MPLA, or R848 and supernatants collected for proteomic analysis employing liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) (data available via ProteomeXchange, ID PXD003534). 1894 non-redundant proteins were identified, of which ~30 - 40% were common to all treatment conditions and ~5% were treatment-specific. Adjuvant-stimulated secretome profiles, as identified by cluster analyses of over-represented proteins, varied with age and adjuvant type. Adjuvants, especially Alum, activated multiple innate immune pathways as assessed by functional enrichment analyses. Release of lactoferrin, pentraxin 3, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 was confirmed in newborn and adult whole blood and blood monocytes stimulated with adjuvants alone or adjuvanted licensed vaccines with distinct clinical reactogenicity profiles. MPLA-induced adult monocyte secretome profiles correlated in silico with transcriptome profiles induced in adults immunized with the MPLA-adjuvanted RTS,S malaria vaccine (Mosquirix(TM)). Overall, adjuvants such as Alum, MPLA and R848 give rise to distinct and age-specific monocyte secretome profiles, paralleling responses to adjuvant-containing vaccines in vivo Age-specific in vitro modeling coupled with proteomics may provide fresh insight into the ontogeny of adjuvant action thereby informing targeted adjuvanted vaccine development for distinct age groups.
PXD001981	26935289	Macrophage activation and polarization modify P2X7 receptor secretome influencing the inflammatory process. 	Secretome of P2X7 receptor -  Macrophage activation and polarization modify P2X7 receptor secretome influencing the inflammatory process	BMDM, P2X7R	The activation of P2X7 receptor (P2X7R) on M1 polarized macrophages induces the assembly of the NLRP3 inflammasome leading to the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the establishment of the inflammatory response. However, P2X7R signaling to the NLRP3 inflammasome is uncoupled on M2 macrophages without changes on receptor activation. In this study, we analyzed P2X7R secretome in wild-type and P2X7R-deficient macrophages polarized either to M1 or M2 and proved that proteins released after P2X7R stimulation goes beyond caspase-1 secretome. The characterization of P2X7R-secretome reveals a new function of this receptor through a fine-tuning of protein release. We found that P2X7R stimulation in macrophages is able to release potent anti-inflammatory proteins, such as Annexin A1, independently of their polarization state suggesting for first time a potential role for P2X7R during resolution of the inflammation and not linked to the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. These results are of prime importance for the development of therapeutics targeting P2X7R.
PXD003371	26937469	Proteome identification of the silkworm middle silk gland. 	Proteome identification of the silkworm middle silk gland	middle silk gland, shotgun LC-MS/MS, silkworm	To investigate the functional differentiation among the anterior (A), middle (M), and posterior (P) regions of silkworm middle silk gland (MSG), their proteomes were characterized by shotgun LC-MS/MS analysis with a LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometer. To get better proteome identification and quantification, triplicate replicates of mass spectrometry analysis were performed for each sample. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium (Vizcaino et al., 2014) [1] via the PRIDE partner repository (Vizcaino, 2013) [2] with the dataset identifier PXD003371. The peptide identifications that were further processed by PeptideProphet program in Trans-Proteomic Pipeline (TPP) after database search with Mascot software were also available in .XML format files. Data presented here are related to a research article published in Journal of Proteomics by Li et al. (2015) [3].
PXD002029	26937473	Proteome stability analysis of snap frozen, RNAlater preserved, and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded human colon mucosal biopsies. 	Comparative proteome stability analysis of snap frozen, RNAlater preserved, and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded human colon mucosal biopsies	FFPE, LC-MS, RNAlater, colon, mucosa, snap-frozen, stability	Large repositories of well characterized RNAlater preserved samples and formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded samples have been generated worldwide. However, the impact on the proteome of the preservation methods remain poorly described. Therefore, we analyzed the impact on the proteome of preserving samples in RNAlater, and by formalin-fixation, paraffin-embedding on human soft tissue, using directly frozen samples as a control ("Comparing the proteome of snap frozen, RNAlater preserved, and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded human tissue samples" [1]). We here report the data from the analysis. The comparative analysis was performed on 24 colon mucosa biopsies, extracted from the sigmoideum of two gastroenterologically healthy participants for the purpose of this study. A set of biopsies were additionally stored for 30 min at room temperature prior to formalin-fixation. The samples were analyzed by high throughput gel free quantitative proteomics. The MS proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PRIDE: PXD002029.
PXD003767	26938041	UVnovo: A de Novo Sequencing Algorithm Using Single Series of Fragment Ions via Chromophore Tagging and 351 nm Ultraviolet Photodissociation Mass Spectrometry. 	AMCA chromophore tagging and 351 nm ultraviolet photodissociation enables de novo sequencing of E. coli proteome	351 nm UVPD, AMCA, de novo, ultraviolet photodissociation	De novo peptide sequencing by mass spectrometry represents an important strategy for characterizing novel peptides and proteins, in which a peptide's amino acid sequence is inferred directly from the precursor peptide mass and tandem mass spectrum (MS/MS or MS(3)) fragment ions, without comparison to a reference proteome. This method is ideal for organisms or samples lacking a complete or well-annotated reference sequence set. One of the major barriers to de novo spectral interpretation arises from confusion of N- and C-terminal ion series due to the symmetry between b and y ion pairs created by collisional activation methods (or c, z ions for electron-based activation methods). This is known as the "antisymmetric path problem" and leads to inverted amino acid subsequences within a de novo reconstruction. Here, we combine several key strategies for de novo peptide sequencing into a single high-throughput pipeline: high-efficiency carbamylation blocks lysine side chains, and subsequent tryptic digestion and N-terminal peptide derivatization with the ultraviolet chromophore AMCA yield peptides susceptible to 351 nm ultraviolet photodissociation (UVPD). UVPD-MS/MS of the AMCA-modified peptides then predominantly produces y ions in the MS/MS spectra, specifically addressing the antisymmetric path problem. Finally, the program UVnovo applies a random forest algorithm to automatically learn from and then interpret UVPD mass spectra, passing results to a hidden Markov model for de novo sequence prediction and scoring. We show this combined strategy provides high-performance de novo peptide sequencing, enabling the de novo sequencing of thousands of peptides from an Escherichia coli lysate at high confidence.
PXD002726	26938934	Cleaning out the Litterbox of Proteomic Scientists' Favorite Pet: Optimized Data Analysis Avoiding Trypsin Artifacts. 	Optimized data analysis avoiding trypsin artefacts	autolysis protected trypsin, data base search	Chemically modified trypsin is a standard reagent in proteomics experiments but is usually not considered in database searches. Modification of trypsin is supposed to protect the protease against autolysis and the resulting loss of activity. Here, we show that modified trypsin is still subject to self-digestion, and, as a result, modified trypsin-derived peptides are present in standard digests. We depict that these peptides commonly lead to false-positive assignments even if native trypsin is considered in the database. Moreover, we present an easily implementable method to include modified trypsin in the database search with a minimal increase in search time and search space while efficiently avoiding these false-positive hits.
PXD003342	26939532	C-Terminal Charge-Reversal Derivatization and Parallel Use of Multiple Proteases Facilitates Identification of Protein C-Termini by C-Terminomics. 	C-terminomics E. coli -  C-terminal charge-reversal derivatization and parallel use of multiple proteases facilitates identification of protein C-termini by C-terminomics	C-terminus, CID, Derivatization, ETD, HCD	The identification of protein C-termini in complex proteomes is challenging due to the poor ionization efficiency of the carboxyl group. Amidating the negatively charged C-termini with ethanolamine (EA) has been suggested to improve the detection of C-terminal peptides and allows for a directed depletion of internal peptides after proteolysis using carboxyl reactive polymers. In the present study, the derivatization with N,N-dimethylethylenediamine (DMEDA) and (4-aminobutyl)guanidine (AG) leading to a positively charged C-terminus was investigated. C-terminal charge-reversed peptides showed improved coverage of b- and y-ion series in the MS/MS spectra compared to their noncharged counterparts. DMEDA-derivatized peptides resulted in many peptides with charge states of 3+, which benefited from ETD fragmentation. This makes the charge-reversal strategy particularly useful for the analysis of protein C-termini, which may also be post-translationally modified. The labeling strategy and the indirect enrichment of C-termini worked with similar efficiency for both DMEDA and EA, and their applicability was demonstrated on an E. coli proteome. Utilizing two proteases and different MS/MS activation mechanisms allowed for the identification of >400 C-termini, encompassing both canonical and truncated C-termini.
PXD003298	26940098	Proteomics of Urinary Vesicles Links Plakins and Complement to Polycystic Kidney Disease. 	Proteomic Analysis of Urinary Extracellular Vesicles	AD, ADPKD, dimethyl quantitation, kidney, urinary exosomes	Novel therapies in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) signal the need for markers of disease progression or response to therapy. This study aimed to identify disease-associated proteins in urinary extracellular vesicles (uEVs), which include exosomes, in patients with ADPKD. We performed quantitative proteomics on uEVs from healthy controls and patients with ADPKD using a labeled approach and then used a label-free approach with uEVs of different subjects (healthy controls versus patients with ADPKD versus patients with non-ADPKD CKD). In both experiments, 30 proteins were consistently more abundant (by two-fold or greater) in ADPKD-uEVs than in healthy- and CKD-uEVs. Of these proteins, we selected periplakin, envoplakin, villin-1, and complement C3 and C9 for confirmation because they were also significantly overrepresented in pathway analysis and were previously implicated in ADPKD pathogenesis. Immunoblotting confirmed higher abundances of the selected proteins in uEVs from three independent groups of patients with ADPKD. Whereas uEVs of young patients with ADPKD and preserved kidney function already had higher levels of complement, only uEVs of patients with advanced stages of ADPKD had increased levels of villin-1, periplakin, and envoplakin. Furthermore, all five proteins correlated positively with total kidney volume. Analysis in kidney tissue from mice with kidney-specific, tamoxifen-inducible Pkd1 deletion demonstrated higher expression in more severe stages of the disease and correlation with kidney weight for each protein of interest. In summary, proteomic analysis of uEVs identified plakins and complement as disease-associated proteins in ADPKD. These proteins are new candidates for evaluation as biomarkers or targets for therapy in ADPKD.
PXD003559	26947064	Global Analysis of Cellular Protein Flux Quantifies the Selectivity of Basal Autophagy. 	Isotopomer analysis of quiescent primary human fibroblasts	15N labeling, isotopomer analysis	In eukaryotic cells, macroautophagy is a catabolic pathway implicated in the degradation of long-lived proteins and damaged organelles. Although it has been demonstrated that macroautophagy can selectively degrade specific targets, its contribution to the basal turnover of cellular proteins has not been quantified on proteome-wide scales. In this study, we created autophagy-deficient primary human fibroblasts and quantified the resulting changes in basal degradative flux by dynamic proteomics. Our results provide a global comparison of protein half-lives between wild-type and autophagy-deficient cells. The data indicate that in quiescent fibroblasts, macroautophagy contributes to the basal turnover of a substantial fraction of the proteome at varying levels. As contrasting examples, we demonstrate that the proteasome and CCT/TRiC chaperonin are robust substrates of basal autophagy, whereas the ribosome is largely protected under basal conditions. This selectivity may establish a proteostatic feedback mechanism that stabilizes the proteasome and CCT/TRiC when autophagy is inhibited.
PXD002391	26947931	Proteomics study reveals that the dysregulation of focal adhesion and ribosome contribute to early pregnancy loss. 	Proteomics Study of Molecular Mechanisms Involved in Early Pregnancy Loss	bioinformatics analysis, early pregnancy loss, placental villi, proteomics analysis	PURPOSE: Early pregnancy loss (EPL) affects 50-70% pregnant women in first trimester. The precise molecular mechanisms underlying EPL are far from being fully understood. Therefore, we aim to identify the molecular signaling pathways relating to EPL. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We performed proteomics and bioinformatics analysis of the placental villi in women who have undergone EPL and in normal pregnant women. The proteomics data were validated by Western blot analysis. RESULTS: We identified a total of 5952 proteins in placental villi, of which 588 proteins were differentially expressed in the EPL women. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that these differentially expressed proteins participated in a variety of signaling pathways, including the focal adhesion pathway and ribosome pathway. Moreover, results of the Western blot confirmed that Desmin, Lamin A/C, MMP-9, and histone H4 were upregulated in EPL and the Lamin C/ Lamin A ratio decreased obviously in EPL. These proteins could be associated with the pathophysiology of EPL. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002391. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Our study demonstrated that the focal adhesion pathway and ribosome pathway are involved in EPL, and these findings might contribute to unveil the pathophysiology of EPL.
PXD003224	26948146	Proteomic profiling of eccrine sweat reveals its potential as a diagnostic biofluid for active tuberculosis. 	Proteomic analysis of sweat samples from tuberculosis patients	Eccrine, Sweat, TB, Tuberculosis	PURPOSE: Excessive sweating is a common symptom of the disease and an unexplored biofluid for TB diagnosis; we conducted a proof-of-concept study to identify potential diagnostic biomarkers of active TB in eccrine sweat. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We performed a global proteomic profile of eccrine sweat sampled from patients with active pulmonary TB, other lung diseases (non-TB disease), and healthy controls. A comparison of proteomics between Active-TB, Non-TB, and Healthy Controls was done in search for potential biomarkers of active TB. RESULTS: Sweat specimens were pooled from 32 active TB patients, 27 patients with non-TB diseases, and 24 apparently healthy controls, all were negative for HIV. Over 100 unique proteins were identified in the eccrine sweat of all three groups. Twenty-six proteins were exclusively detected in the sweat of patients with active TB while the remaining detected proteins overlapped between three groups. Gene ontology evaluation indicated that the proteins detected uniquely in sweat of active TB patients were involved in immune response and auxiliary protein transport. Gene products for cellular components (e.g. ribosomes) were detected only in active TB patients. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003224. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Proteomics of sweat from active TB patients is a viable approach for biomarker identification, which could be used to develop a nonsputum-based test for detection of active TB.
PXD003075	26948580	A single dose of the gamma-secretase inhibitor semagacestat alters the cerebrospinal fluid peptidome in humans. 	Human CSF peptidomics of gamma secretase inhibition	cerebrospinal fluid, gamma secretase, peptidomics	BACKGROUND: In Alzheimer's disease, beta-amyloid peptides in the brain aggregate into toxic oligomers and plaques, a process which is associated with neuronal degeneration, memory loss, and cognitive decline. One therapeutic strategy is to decrease the production of potentially toxic beta-amyloid species by the use of inhibitors or modulators of the enzymes that produce beta-amyloid from amyloid precursor protein (APP). The failures of several such drug candidates by lack of effect or undesired side-effects underscore the importance to monitor the drug effects in the brain on a molecular level. Here we evaluate if peptidomic analysis in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can be used for this purpose. METHODS: Fifteen human healthy volunteers, divided into three groups, received a single dose of placebo or either 140 mg or 280 mg of the gamma-secretase inhibitor semagacestat (LY450139). Endogenous peptides in CSF, sampled prior to administration of the drug and at six subsequent time points, were analyzed by liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry, using isobaric labeling based on the tandem mass tag approach for relative quantification. RESULTS: Out of 302 reproducibly detected peptides, 11 were affected by the treatment. Among these, one was derived from APP and one from amyloid precursor-like protein 1. Nine peptides were derived from proteins that may not be gamma-secretase substrates per se, but that are regulated in a gamma-secretase-dependent manner. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that a CSF peptidomic approach may be a valuable tool both to verify target engagement and to identify other pharmacodynamic effects of the drug. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003075. TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT00765115 , registered 30/09/2008.
PXD003551	26949251	The cell proliferation antigen Ki-67 organises heterochromatin. 	Ki-67 organises heterochromatin during cell proliferation	MKI67, antigen ki-67, cell proliferation, heterochromatin, ki-67 interactome	Antigen Ki-67 is a nuclear protein expressed in proliferating mammalian cells. It is widely used in cancer histopathology but its functions remain unclear. Here, we show that Ki-67 controls heterochromatin organisation. Altering Ki-67 expression levels did not significantly affect cell proliferation in vivo. Ki-67 mutant mice developed normally and cells lacking Ki-67 proliferated efficiently. Conversely, upregulation of Ki-67 expression in differentiated tissues did not prevent cell cycle arrest. Ki-67 interactors included proteins involved in nucleolar processes and chromatin regulators. Ki-67 depletion disrupted nucleologenesis but did not inhibit pre-rRNA processing. In contrast, it altered gene expression. Ki-67 silencing also had wide-ranging effects on chromatin organisation, disrupting heterochromatin compaction and long-range genomic interactions. Trimethylation of histone H3K9 and H4K20 was relocalised within the nucleus. Finally, overexpression of human or Xenopus Ki-67 induced ectopic heterochromatin formation. Altogether, our results suggest that Ki-67 expression in proliferating cells spatially organises heterochromatin, thereby controlling gene expression.
PXD002657	26951071	Characterization of various cell lines from different ampullary cancer subtypes and cancer associated fibroblast-mediated responses. 	Characterization of various cell lines from different ampullary cancer subtypes and cancer associated fibroblast-mediated responses	Ampullary adenocarcinoma, cell invasion, cell proliferation, differentiation, dysplastic, fibroblast, intestinal, pancreatobiliary	BACKGROUND: Ampullary cancer is a relatively rare form of cancer and usually treated by pancreatoduodenectomy, followed by adjuvant therapy. The intestinal subtype is associated with markedly improved prognosis after resection. At present, only few cell lines are available for in vitro studies of ampullary cancer and they have not been collectively characterized. METHODS: We characterize five ampullary cancer cell lines by subtype maker expression, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) features, growth and invasion, drug sensitivity and response to cancer-associated fibroblast conditioned medium (CAF-CM). RESULTS: On the basis of EMT features, subtype marker expression, growth, invasion and drug sensitivity three types of cell lines could be distinguished: mesenchymal-like, pancreatobiliary-like and intestinal-like. Heterogeneous effects from the cell lines in response to CAF-CM, such as different growth rates, induction of EMT markers as well as suppression of intestinal differentiation markers were observed. In addition, proteomic analysis showed a clear difference in intestinal-like cell line from other cell lines. CONCLUSION: Most of the available AMPAC cell lines seem to reflect a poorly differentiated pancreatobiliary or mesenchymal-like phenotype, which is consistent to their origin. We suggest that the most appropriate cell line model for intestinal-like AMPAC is the SNU869, while others seem to reflect aggressive AMPAC subtypes.
PXD003391	26951766	Quantitative proteomics study of the neuroprotective effects of B12 on hydrogen peroxide-induced apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of B12 treated SH-SY5Y cells	Cell, SH-SY5Y	B12 belongs to the coumarin class of compounds that have been shown to have various physiological and pharmacological activities including anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, and antioxidant. In the present study, we characterised the neuroprotective effects of B12 against H2O2-induced neuronal cell damage in SH-SY5Y cells. Protein expression profiling in combination with pathway analysis was deployed to investigate the molecular events associated with the neuroprotective effects in human neuronal cells using a label-free quantitative proteomics approach. A total of 22 proteins were significantly differentially expressed in H2O2-damaged cells with or without B12 treatment. Bioinformatics analysis using the Cytoscape platform indicated that poly pyrimidine tract binding protein 1 (PTBP1) was highly associated with the protective effect, and western blotting verified that PTBP1 was up-regulated in H2O2 + B12 treatment group, compared with the H2O2 treated group. PTBP RNAi experiments knocked down PTBP expression, which cancelled out the protective effect of B12 on cell viability. Thus, we infer that B12 neuroprotective activity involves up-regulation of PTBP1 and its associated signalling networks following H2O2-induced apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells. B12 or related compounds may prove to be useful therapeutic agents for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's.
PXD003577	26957043	Open-gate mutants of the mammalian proteasome show enhanced ubiquitin-conjugate degradation. 	Open-Gate Mutants of the Mammalian Proteasome Show Enhanced Ubiquitin-Conjugate Degradation	aggregation, gate, oxidative stress, proteasome, tau	When in the closed form, the substrate translocation channel of the proteasome core particle (CP) is blocked by the convergent N termini of alpha-subunits. To probe the role of channel gating in mammalian proteasomes, we deleted the N-terminal tail of alpha3; the resulting alpha3DeltaN proteasomes are intact but hyperactive in the hydrolysis of fluorogenic peptide substrates and the degradation of polyubiquitinated proteins. Cells expressing the hyperactive proteasomes show markedly elevated degradation of many established proteasome substrates and resistance to oxidative stress. Multiplexed quantitative proteomics revealed ~ 200 proteins with reduced levels in the mutant cells. Potentially toxic proteins such as tau exhibit reduced accumulation and aggregate formation. These data demonstrate that the CP gate is a key negative regulator of proteasome function in mammals, and that opening the CP gate may be an effective strategy to increase proteasome activity and reduce levels of toxic proteins in cells.
PXD002625	26957113	Two overlapping two-component systems in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae contribute to full fitness in rice by regulating virulence factors expression. 	StoS and SreKRS iTRAQ profiling	Xanthomonas iTRAQ TCS	Two-component signal transduction systems (TCSs) are widely used by bacteria to adapt to the environment. In the present study, StoS (stress tolerance-related oxygen sensor) and SreKRS (salt response kinase, regulator, and sensor) were found to positively regulate extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) production and swarming in the rice pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). Surprisingly, the absence of stoS or sreKRS did not attenuate virulence. To better understand the intrinsic functions of StoS and SreKRS, quantitative proteomics isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) was employed. Consistent with stoS and sreK mutants exhibiting a similar phenotype, the signalling circuits of StoS and SreKRS overlapped. Carbohydrate metabolism proteins and chemotaxis proteins, which could be responsible for EPS and swarming regulation, respectively, were reprogrammed in stoS and sreK mutants. Moreover, StoS and SreKRS demonstrated moderate expression of the major virulence factor, hypersensitive response and pathogenicity (Hrp) proteins through the HrpG-HrpX circuit. Most importantly, Xoo equipped with StoS and SreKRS outcompetes strains without StoS or SreKRS in co-infected rice and grows outside the host. Therefore, we propose that StoS and SreKRS adopt a novel strategy involving the moderation of Hrp protein expression and the promotion of EPS and motility to adapt to the environment.
PXD003081	26958645	Proteomic dataset of the organohalide-respiring bacterium Dehalococcoides mccartyi strain CBDB1 grown on hexachlorobenzene as electron acceptor. 	Proteomic Dataset of the organohalide-respiring bacterium Dehalococcoides mccartyi strain CBDB1 grown on hexachlorobenzene as electron acceptor	Dehalococcoides mccartyi strain CBDB1, organohalide respiration	The proteome of the anaerobic organohalide-respiring bacterium Dehalococcoides mccartyi strain CBDB1 was analyzed by nano liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Two different preparation methods, (i) in-solution and (ii) in-gel proteolytic digestion were assessed to elucidate the core and the functional proteome of bacterial cultures grown in synthetic anaerobic medium with hexachlorobenzene as sole electron acceptor. A detailed analysis of the data presented is available (Schiffmann et al., 2014) [1].
PXD002381	26958999	Targeted MS Assay Predicting Tamoxifen Resistance in Estrogen-Receptor-Positive Breast Cancer Tissues and Sera. 	Comparison between matched microdissected and whole tissue breast cancer specimen	LCM, estrogen receptor positive breast cancer, whole tissue	We recently reported on the development of a 4-protein-based classifier (PDCD4, CGN, G3BP2, and OCIAD1) capable of predicting outcome to tamoxifen treatment in recurrent, estrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer based on high-resolution MS data. A precise and high-throughput assay to measure these proteins in a multiplexed, targeted fashion would be favorable to measure large numbers of patient samples to move these findings toward a clinical setting. By coupling immunoprecipitation to multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) MS and stable isotope dilution, we developed a high-precision assay to measure the 4-protein signature in 38 primary breast cancer whole tissue lysates (WTLs). Furthermore, we evaluated the presence and patient stratification capabilities of our signature in an independent set of 24 matched (pre- and post-therapy) sera. We compared the performance of immuno-MRM (iMRM) with direct MRM in the absence of fractionation and shotgun proteomics in combination with label-free quantification (LFQ) on both WTL and laser capture microdissected (LCM) tissues. Measurement of the 4-proteins by iMRM showed not only higher accuracy in measuring proteotypic peptides (Spearman r: 0.74 to 0.93) when compared with MRM (Spearman r: 0.0 to 0.76) but also significantly discriminated patient groups based on treatment outcome (hazard ratio [HR]: 10.96; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 4.33 to 27.76; Log-rank P < 0.001) when compared with LCM (HR: 2.85; 95% CI: 1.24 to 6.54; Log-rank P = 0.013) and WTL (HR: 1.16; 95% CI: 0.57 to 2.33; Log-rank P = 0.680) LFQ-based predictors. Serum sample analysis by iMRM confirmed the detection of the four proteins in these samples. We hereby report that iMRM outperformed regular MRM, confirmed our previous high-resolution MS results in tumor tissues, and has shown that the 4-protein signature is measurable in serum samples.
PXD003678	26962051	Molecular architecture of the Dam1 complex-microtubule interaction. 	Dam1 complex-microtubule interaction	Dam1 complex, cross-linking, microtubule	Mitosis is a highly regulated process that allows the equal distribution of the genetic material to the daughter cells. Chromosome segregation requires the formation of a bipolar mitotic spindle and assembly of a multi-protein structure termed the kinetochore to mediate attachments between condensed chromosomes and spindle microtubules. In budding yeast, a single microtubule attaches to each kinetochore, necessitating robustness and processivity of this kinetochore-microtubule attachment. The yeast kinetochore-localized Dam1 complex forms a direct interaction with the spindle microtubule. In vitro, the Dam1 complex assembles as a ring around microtubules and couples microtubule depolymerization with cargo movement. However, the subunit organization within the Dam1 complex, its higher-order oligomerization and how it interacts with microtubules remain under debate. Here, we used chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometry to define the architecture and subunit organization of the Dam1 complex. This work reveals that both the C termini of Duo1 and Dam1 subunits interact with the microtubule and are critical for microtubule binding of the Dam1 complex, placing Duo1 and Dam1 on the inside of the ring structure. Integrating this information with available structural data, we provide a coherent model for how the Dam1 complex self-assembles around microtubules.
PXD010824	26966177	Identification of Haloferax volcanii Pilin N-Glycans with Diverse Roles in Pilus Biosynthesis, Adhesion, and Microcolony Formation. 	Characterizing of Haloferax volcanii Hvo_0405 as a Tat substrate	Archaea, Archaeosortase, Haloferax volcanii, Twin-Arginine Translocation	N-Glycosylation is a post-translational modification common to all three domains of life. In many archaea, the oligosacharyltransferase (AglB)-dependent N-glycosylation of flagellins is required for flagella assembly. However, whether N-glycosylation is required for the assembly and/or function of the structurally related archaeal type IV pili is unknown. Here, we show that of six Haloferax volcanii adhesion pilins, PilA1 and PilA2, the most abundant pilins in pili of wild-type and DeltaaglB strains, are modified under planktonic conditions in an AglB-dependent manner by the same pentasaccharide detected on H. volcanii flagellins. However, unlike wild-type cells, which have surfaces decorated with discrete pili and form a dispersed layer of cells on a plastic surface, DeltaaglB cells have thick pili bundles and form microcolonies. Moreover, expressing PilA1, PilA2, or PilA6 in DeltapilA[1-6]DeltaaglB stimulates microcolony formation compared with their expression in DeltapilA[1-6]. Conversely, expressing PilA3 or PilA4 in DeltapilA[1-6] cells results in strong surface adhesion, but not microcolony formation, and neither pilin stimulates surface adhesion in DeltapilA[1-6]DeltaaglB cells. Although PilA4 assembles into pili in the DeltapilA[1-6]DeltaaglB cells, these pili are, unlike wild-type pili, curled, perhaps rendering them non-functional. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of a differential effect of glycosylation on pilus assembly and function of paralogous pilins. The growth of wild-type cells in low salt media, a condition that decreases AglB glycosylation, also stimulates microcolony formation and inhibits motility, supporting our hypothesis that N-glycosylation plays an important role in regulating the transition between planktonic to sessile cell states as a response to stress.
PXD003524	26967195	Global Liver Proteome Analysis Using iTRAQ Reveals AMPK-mTOR-Autophagy Signaling Is Altered by Intrauterine Growth Restriction in Newborn Piglets. 	Proteomic analysis of liver proteome affected by intrauterine growth restriction in newborn piglets.	intrauterine growth restriction, liver, newborn piglets	Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) impairs fetal growth and development, perturbs nutrient metabolism, and increases the risk of developing diseases in postnatal life. However, the underlying mechanisms by which IUGR affects fetal liver development and metabolism remain incompletely understood. Here, we applied a high-throughput proteomics approach and biochemical analysis to investigate the impact of IUGR on the liver of newborn piglets. As a result, we identified 78 differentially expressed proteins in the three biological replicates, including 31 significantly up-regulated proteins and 47 significantly down-regulated proteins. Among them, a majority of differentially expressed proteins were related to nutrient metabolism and mitochondrial function. Additionally, many significantly down-regulated proteins participated in the mTOR signaling pathway and the phagosome maturation signaling pathway. Further analysis suggested that glucose concentration and hepatic glycogen storage were both reduced in IUGR newborn piglets, which may contribute to AMPK activation and mTORC1 inhibition. However, AMPK activation and mTORC1 inhibition failed to induce autophagy in the liver of IUGR neonatal pigs. A possible reason is that PP2Ac, a potential candidate in autophagy regulation, is significantly down-regulated in the liver of IUGR newborn piglets. These findings may provide implications for preventing and treating IUGR in human beings and domestic animals.
PXD003439	26969785	Dual mechanism of action of the atypical tetracycline chelocardin. 	Proteome profiling of Bacillus subtilis stressed with the antibiotics tetracycline and chelocardin	Bacillus subtilis tetracycline chelocardin 2D-PAGE Proteomics	Classical tetracyclines targeting the protein biosynthesis machinery are commonly applied in human and veterinary medicine. The development and spread of resistance seriously compromise the successful treatment of bacterial infections. The atypical tetracycline chelocardin holds promise as it retains activity against tetracycline-resistant strains. It has been suggested that chelocardin targets the bacterial membrane, thus differing in mode of action from that of classical tetracyclines. We investigated the mechanism of action of chelocardin using global proteome analysis. The proteome profiles after sublethal chelocardin stress were compared to a reference compendium containing antibiotic response profiles of Bacillus subtilis. This approach revealed a concentration-dependent dual mechanism of action. At low concentrations, like classical tetracyclines, chelocardin induces the proteomic signature for peptidyl transferase inhibition demonstrating that protein biosynthesis inhibition is the dominant physiological challenge. At higher concentrations B. subtilis mainly responds to membrane stress indicating that at clinically relevant concentrations the membrane is the main antibiotic target of chelocardin. Studying the effects on the membrane in more detail, we found that chelocardin causes membrane depolarization but does not lead to formation of large pores. We conclude that at growth inhibiting doses chelocardin not only targets protein biosynthesis but also corrupts the integrity of the bacterial membrane. This dual mechanism of action might prove beneficial in slowing the development of new resistance mechanisms against this atypical tetracycline.
PXD001085	26972000	Substrate-Trapped Interactors of PHD3 and FIH Cluster in Distinct Signaling Pathways. 	PHD3 and FIH substrates cluster in distinct signalling pathways	DMOG, ERK3, Hydroxylases, Hypoxia, MAPK6, RIPK4	Amino acid hydroxylation is a post-translational modification that regulates intra- and inter-molecular protein-protein interactions. The modifications are regulated by a family of 2-oxoglutarate- (2OG) dependent enzymes and, although the biochemistry is well understood, until now only a few substrates have been described for these enzymes. Using quantitative interaction proteomics, we screened for substrates of the proline hydroxylase PHD3 and the asparagine hydroxylase FIH, which regulate the HIF-mediated hypoxic response. We were able to identify hundreds of potential substrates. Enrichment analysis revealed that the potential substrates of both hydroxylases cluster in the same pathways but frequently modify different nodes of signaling networks. We confirm that two proteins identified in our screen, MAPK6 (Erk3) and RIPK4, are indeed hydroxylated in a FIH- or PHD3-dependent mechanism. We further determined that FIH-dependent hydroxylation regulates RIPK4-dependent Wnt signaling, and that PHD3-dependent hydroxylation of MAPK6 protects the protein from proteasomal degradation.
PXD003231	26973873	Bacterial antisense RNAs are mainly the product of transcriptional noise. 	Bacterial antisense RNAs are mainly the product of transcriptional noise	asRNAs, bacteria, non-coding RNAs, sRNAs	cis-Encoded antisense RNAs (asRNAs) are widespread along bacterial transcriptomes. However, the role of most of these RNAs remains unknown, and there is an ongoing discussion as to what extent these transcripts are the result of transcriptional noise. We show, by comparative transcriptomics of 20 bacterial species and one chloroplast, that the number of asRNAs is exponentially dependent on the genomic AT content and that expression of asRNA at low levels exerts little impact in terms of energy consumption. A transcription model simulating mRNA and asRNA production indicates that the asRNA regulatory effect is only observed above certain expression thresholds, substantially higher than physiological transcript levels. These predictions were verified experimentally by overexpressing nine different asRNAs in Mycoplasma pneumoniae. Our results suggest that most of the antisense transcripts found in bacteria are the consequence of transcriptional noise, arising at spurious promoters throughout the genome.
PXD004388	26975353	Spatiotemporal variation of mammalian protein complex stoichiometries. 	Quantification of NuRD complex member upon knockdown of MBD3	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	BACKGROUND: Recent large-scale studies revealed cell-type specific proteomes. However, protein complexes, the basic functional modules of a cell, have been so far mostly considered as static entities with well-defined structures. The co-expression of their members has not been systematically charted at the protein level. RESULTS: We used measurements of protein abundance across 11 cell types and five temporal states to analyze the co-expression and the compositional variations of 182 well-characterized protein complexes. We show that although the abundance of protein complex members is generally co-regulated, a considerable fraction of all investigated protein complexes is subject to stoichiometric changes. Compositional variation is most frequently seen in complexes involved in chromatin regulation and cellular transport, and often involves paralog switching as a mechanism for the regulation of complex stoichiometry. We demonstrate that compositional signatures of variable protein complexes have discriminative power beyond individual cell states and can distinguish cancer cells from healthy ones. CONCLUSIONS: Our work demonstrates that many protein complexes contain variable members that cause distinct stoichometries and functionally fine-tune complexes spatiotemporally. Only a fraction of these compositional variations is mediated by changes in transcription and other mechanisms regulating protein abundance contribute to determine protein complex stoichiometries. Our work highlights the superior power of proteome profiles to study protein complexes and their variants across cell states.
PXD012920	26980269	Mass spectrometric analysis of accumulated TDP-43 in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis brains. 	Mass spectrometric analysis of accumulated TDP-43 in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis brains 	TDP-43, amyloid, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions, inclusion body, phosphorylation	TDP-43 is the major disease-associated protein involved in the pathogenesis and progression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions linked to TDP-43 pathology (FTLD-TDP). Abnormal phosphorylation, truncation and cytoplasmic mis-localization are known to be the characteristics for the aggregated forms of TDP-43, and gain of toxic abnormal TDP-43 or loss of function of physiological TDP-43 have been suggested as the cause of neurodegeneration. However, most of the post-translational modifications or truncation sites in the abnormal TDP-43 in brains of patients remain to be identified by protein chemical analysis. In this study, we carried out a highly sensitive liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis of Sarkosyl-insoluble pathological TDP-43 from brains of ALS patients and identified several novel phosphorylation sites, deamidation sites, and cleavage sites. Almost all modifications were localized in the Gly-rich C-terminal half. Most of the cleavage sites identified in this study are novel and are located in N-terminal half, suggesting that these sites may be more accessible to proteolytic enzymes. The data obtained in this study provide a foundation for the molecular mechanisms of TDP-43 aggregation and ALS pathogenesis.
PXD003027	26983404	Gender differences in white matter pathology and mitochondrial dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease with cerebrovascular disease. 	AD+CVD temporal lobe proteome -  Gender differences in white matter pathology and mitochondrial dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease with cerebrovascular disease	BA21, DPMs, Mixed dementia, dementia	BACKGROUND: Dementia risk in women is higher than in men, but the molecular neuropathology of this gender difference remains poorly defined. In this study, we used unbiased, discovery-driven quantitative proteomics to assess the molecular basis of gender influences on risk of Alzheimer's disease with cerebrovascular disease (AD + CVD). RESULTS: We detected modulation of several redox proteins in the temporal lobe of AD + CVD subjects, and we observed sex-specific alterations in the white matter (WM) and mitochondria proteomes of female patients. Functional proteomic analysis of AD + CVD brain tissues revealed increased citrullination of arginine and deamidation of glutamine residues of myelin basic protein (MBP) in female which impaired degradation of degenerated MBP and resulted in accumulation of non-functional MBP in WM. Female patients also displayed down-regulation of ATP sub-units and cytochromes, suggesting increased severity of mitochondria impairment in women. CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates that gender-linked modulation of white matter and mitochondria proteomes influences neuropathology of the temporal lobe in AD + CVD.
PXD003498	26984886	Integrated Omics and Computational Glycobiology Reveal Structural Basis for Influenza A Virus Glycan Microheterogeneity and Host Interactions. 	Influenza A virus- integrated glycomics, proteomics and glycoproteomics	Glycomics, Glycoproteomics, Hemagglutinin, Influenza	Despite sustained biomedical research effort, influenza A virus remains an imminent threat to the world population and a major healthcare burden. The challenge in developing vaccines against influenza is the ability of the virus to mutate rapidly in response to selective immune pressure. Hemagglutinin is the predominant surface glycoprotein and the primary determinant of antigenicity, virulence and zoonotic potential. Mutations leading to changes in the number of HA glycosylation sites are often reported. Such genetic sequencing studies predict at best the disruption or creation of sequons for N-linked glycosylation; they do not reflect actual phenotypic changes in HA structure. Therefore, combined analysis of glycan micro and macro-heterogeneity and bioassays will better define the relationships among glycosylation, viral bioactivity and evolution. We present a study that integrates proteomics, glycomics and glycoproteomics of HA before and after adaptation to innate immune system pressure. We combined this information with glycan array and immune lectin binding data to correlate the phenotypic changes with biological activity. Underprocessed glycoforms predominated at the glycosylation sites found to be involved in viral evolution in response to selection pressures and interactions with innate immune-lectins. To understand the structural basis for site-specific glycan microheterogeneity at these sites, we performed structural modeling and molecular dynamics simulations. We observed that the presence of immature, high-mannose type glycans at a particular site correlated with reduced accessibility to glycan remodeling enzymes. Further, the high mannose glycans at sites implicated in immune lectin recognition were predicted to be capable of forming trimeric interactions with the immune-lectin surfactant protein-D.
PXD002655	26986205	Understanding butanol tolerance and assimilation in Pseudomonas putida BIRD-1: an integrated omics approach. 	Proteomics of Pseudomonas putida BIRD-1	MS/MS, butanol metabolism, butanol tolerance, shotgun proteomics	Pseudomonas putida BIRD-1 has the potential to be used for the industrial production of butanol due to its solvent tolerance and ability to metabolize low-cost compounds. However, the strain has two major limitations: it assimilates butanol as sole carbon source and butanol concentrations above 1% (v/v) are toxic. With the aim of facilitating BIRD-1 strain design for industrial use, a genome-wide mini-Tn5 transposon mutant library was screened for clones exhibiting increased butanol sensitivity or deficiency in butanol assimilation. Twenty-one mutants were selected that were affected in one or both of the processes. These mutants exhibited insertions in various genes, including those involved in the TCA cycle, fatty acid metabolism, transcription, cofactor synthesis and membrane integrity. An omics-based analysis revealed key genes involved in the butanol response. Transcriptomic and proteomic studies were carried out to compare short and long-term tolerance and assimilation traits. Pseudomonas putida initiates various butanol assimilation pathways via alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenases that channel the compound to central metabolism through the glyoxylate shunt pathway. Accordingly, isocitrate lyase - a key enzyme of the pathway - was the most abundant protein when butanol was used as the sole carbon source. Upregulation of two genes encoding proteins PPUBIRD1_2240 and PPUBIRD1_2241 (acyl-CoA dehydrogenase and acyl-CoA synthetase respectively) linked butanol assimilation with acyl-CoA metabolism. Butanol tolerance was found to be primarily linked to classic solvent defense mechanisms, such as efflux pumps, membrane modifications and control of redox state. Our results also highlight the intensive energy requirements for butanol production and tolerance; thus, enhancing TCA cycle operation may represent a promising strategy for enhanced butanol production.
PXD002886	26987580	Identification of a novel interaction between corticotropin releasing hormone (Crh) and macroautophagy. 	Identification of a novel interaction between corticotropin releasing hormone (Crh) and macroautophagy	Crh, Intestine	In inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), compromised restitution of the epithelial barrier contributes to disease severity. Owing to the complexity in the pathogenesis of IBD, a variety of factors have been implicated in its progress. In this study, we report a functional interaction between macroautophagy and Corticotropin Releasing Hormone (Crh) in the gut. For this purpose we used DSS colitis model on Crh -/- or wild-type (wt) with pharmacological inhibition of autophagy. We uncovered sustained basal autophagy in the gut of Crh -/- mice, which persisted over the course of DSS administration. Autophagy inhibition resulted in partial rescue of Crh -/- mice, while it increased the expression of Crh in the wt gut. Similarly, Crh deficiency was associated with sustained activation of base line autophagy. In vitro models of amino acid deprivation- and LPS-induced autophagy confirmed the in vivo findings. Our results indicate a novel role for Crh in the intestinal epithelium that involves regulation of autophagy, while suggesting the complementary action of the two pathways. These data suggest the intriguing possibility that targeting Crh stimulation in the intestine may provide a novel therapeutic approach to support the integrity of the epithelial barrier and to protect from chronic colitis.
PXD003382	26987684	A CEP215-HSET complex links centrosomes with spindle poles and drives centrosome clustering in cancer. 	CEP215_gallus_interactome -  A CEP215-HSET complex links centrosomes with spindle poles and drives centrosome clustering in cancer	CEP215, HSET, cancer, centrosome, centrosome  clustering, micr ocephaly, mitosis	Numerical centrosome aberrations underlie certain developmental abnormalities and may promote cancer. A cell maintains normal centrosome numbers by coupling centrosome duplication with segregation, which is achieved through sustained association of each centrosome with a mitotic spindle pole. Although the microcephaly- and primordial dwarfism-linked centrosomal protein CEP215 has been implicated in this process, the molecular mechanism responsible remains unclear. Here, using proteomic profiling, we identify the minus end-directed microtubule motor protein HSET as a direct binding partner of CEP215. Targeted deletion of the HSET-binding domain of CEP215 in vertebrate cells causes centrosome detachment and results in HSET depletion at centrosomes, a phenotype also observed in CEP215-deficient patient-derived cells. Moreover, in cancer cells with centrosome amplification, the CEP215-HSET complex promotes the clustering of extra centrosomes into pseudo-bipolar spindles, thereby ensuring viable cell division. Therefore, stabilization of the centrosome-spindle pole interface by the CEP215-HSET complex could promote survival of cancer cells containing supernumerary centrosomes.
PXD002946	26988343	The Functions of Serine 687 Phosphorylation of Human DNA Polymerase eta in UV Damage Tolerance. 	The Functions of Serine 687 Phosphorylation of Human DNA Polymerase eta in UV Damage Tolerance	CDK2, DNA polymerase eta, translesion synthesis	DNA polymerase eta (poleta) is a Y-family translesion synthesis polymerase that plays a key role in the cellular tolerance toward UV irradiation-induced DNA damage. Here, we identified, for the first time, the phosphorylation of serine 687 (Ser(687)), which is located in the highly conserved nuclear localization signal (NLS) region of human poleta and is mediated by cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2). We also showed that this phosphorylation is stimulated in human cells upon UV light exposure and results in diminished interaction of poleta with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Furthermore, we demonstrated that the phosphorylation of Ser(687) in poleta confers cellular protection from UV irradiation and increases the efficiency in replication across a site-specifically incorporated cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer in human cells. Based on these results, we proposed a mechanistic model where Ser(687) phosphorylation functions in the reverse polymerase switching step of translesion synthesis: The phosphorylation brings negative charges to the NLS of poleta, which facilitates its departure from PCNA, thereby resetting the replication fork for highly accurate and processive DNA replication. Thus, our study, together with previous findings, supported that the posttranslational modifications of NLS of poleta played a dual role in polymerase switching, where Lys(682) deubiquitination promotes the recruitment of poleta to PCNA immediately prior to lesion bypass and Ser(687) phosphorylation stimulates its departure from the replication fork immediately after lesion bypass.
PXD003337	26990150	Longitudinal quantification of the gingival crevicular fluid proteome during progression from gingivitis to periodontitis in a canine model. 	Longitudinal quantification of the GCF proteome during progression from gingivitis to periodontitis in a canine model	GCF, canine, gingivitis, periodontitis	AIM: Inflammatory periodontal disease is widespread in dogs. This study evaluated site-specific changes in the canine gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) proteome during longitudinal progression from very mild gingivitis to mild periodontitis. Periodontitis diagnosis in dogs requires general anaesthesia with associated risks and costs; our ultimate aim was to develop a periodontitis diagnostic for application in conscious dogs. The objective of this work was to identify potential biomarkers of periodontal disease progression in dogs. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Gingival crevicular fluid was sampled from a total of 10 teeth in eight dogs at three different stages of health/disease and samples prepared for quantitative mass spectrometry (data available via ProteomeXchange; identifier PXD003337). A univariate mixed model analysis determined significantly altered proteins between health states and six were evaluated by ELISA. RESULTS: Four hundred and six proteins were identified with 84 present in all samples. The prevalence of 40 proteins was found to be significantly changed in periodontitis relative to gingivitis. ELISA measurements confirmed that haptoglobin was significantly increased. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates for the first time that proteins detected by mass spectrometry have potential to identify novel biomarkers for canine periodontal disease. Further work is required to validate additional biomarkers for a periodontitis diagnostic.
PXD002939	26992294	Proteome profiling of the growth phases of Leishmania pifanoi promastigotes in axenic culture reveals differential abundance of immunostimulatory proteins. 	Differential gene expression in Leishmania [SPP.] promastigotes. Leishmania chagasi	2D-E, Differential gene expression, Leishmania, MALDI	Leishmaniasis is a term that encompasses a compendium of neglected tropical diseases caused by dimorphic and digenetic protozoan parasites from the genus Leishmania (Kinetoplastida: Trypanosomatidae). The clinical manifestations of neotropical cutaneous leishmaniasis (NCL) caused by Leishmania pifanoi and other species of the "Leishmania mexicana complex" mainly correspond to anergic diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis (ADCL), which is the origin of considerable morbidity. Despite the outstanding advances in the characterization of the trypanosomatid genomes and proteomes, the biology of this species has been scarcely explored. However, the close relation of L. pifanoi to the sequenced species L. mexicana and others included in the "L. mexicana complex" allowed us to perform a two-dimension electrophoresis (2DE) approach to the promastigote proteome at the differential expression level. Protein identifications were performed by matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization tandem time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/TOF). This insight has revealed similarities and differences between L. pifanoi and other species responsible for cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis. Interestingly, certain proteins that were previously described as immunostimulatory (elongation factor 1beta, trypanothione peroxidase, heat shock protein 70, enolase, GDP-forming succinyl-CoA and aldehyde dehydrogenase) are more abundant in the final growth stages of promastigotes (late-logarithmic and/or stationary phase) in the case of L. pifanoi.
PXD001622	26996810	Global analysis of the impact of linezolid onto virulence factor production in S. aureus USA300. 	Elucidating the Linezolid response of Staphylococcus aureus USA300 (metabolic labelling)	Linezolid, Staphylococcus aureus, Transertion, metabolic labelling	The translation inhibitor linezolid is an antibiotic of last resort against Gram-positive pathogens including methicillin resistant strains of the nosocomial pathogen Staphylococcus aureus. Linezolid is reported to inhibit production of extracellular virulence factors, but the molecular cause is unknown. To elucidate the physiological response of S. aureus to linezolid in general and the inhibition of virulence factor synthesis in particular a holistic study was performed. Linezolid was added to exponentially growing S. aureus cells and the linezolid stress response was analyzed with transcriptomics and quantitative proteomics methods. In addition, scanning and transmission electron microscopy experiments as well as fluorescence microscopy analyses of the cellular DNA and membrane were performed. As previously observed in studies on other translation inhibitors, S. aureus adapts its protein biosynthesis machinery to the reduced translation efficiency. For example the synthesis of ribosomal proteins was induced. Also unexpected results like a decline in the amount of extracellular and membrane proteins were obtained. In addition, cell shape and size changed after linezolid stress and cell division was diminished. Finally, the chromosome was condensed after linezolid stress and lost contact to the membrane. These morphological changes cannot be explained by established theories. A new hypothesis is discussed, which suggests that the reduced amount of membrane and extracellular proteins and observed defects in cell division are due to the disintegration of transertion complexes by linezolid.
PXD036882	26997225	Staphylococcal Nuclease and Tudor Domain Containing 1 (SND1 Protein) Promotes Hepatocarcinogenesis by Inhibiting Monoglyceride Lipase (MGLL). 	Staphylococcal Nuclease and Tudor Domain Containing protein SND1 interacts with ERG and plays a critical role in prostate cancer in vivo	ERG, MTDH, SND1, prostate cancer	Staphylococcal nuclease and tudor domain containing 1 (SND1) is overexpressed in multiple cancers, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and functions as an oncogene. This study was carried out to identify novel SND1-interacting proteins to better understand its molecular mechanism of action. SND1-interacting proteins were identified by a modified yeast two-hybrid assay. Protein-protein interaction was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation analysis. Monoglyceride lipase (MGLL) expression was analyzed by quantitative RT-PCR, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry. MGLL-overexpressing clones were analyzed for cell proliferation and cell cycle analysis and in vivo tumorigenesis in nude mice. MGLL was identified as an SND1-interacting protein. Interaction of SND1 with MGLL resulted in ubiquitination and proteosomal degradation of MGLL. MGLL expression was detected in normal human hepatocytes and mouse liver, although it was undetected in human HCC cell lines. An inverse correlation between SND1 and MGLL levels was identified in a human HCC tissue microarray as well as in the TCGA database. Forced overexpression of MGLL in human HCC cells resulted in marked inhibition in cell proliferation with a significant delay in cell cycle progression and a marked decrease in tumor growth in nude mouse xenograft assays. MGLL overexpression inhibited Akt activation that is independent of enzymatic activity of MGLL and overexpression of a constitutively active Akt rescued cells from inhibition of proliferation and restored normal cell cycle progression. This study unravels a novel mechanism of SND1 function and identifies MGLL as a unique tumor suppressor for HCC. MGLL might function as a homeostatic regulator of Akt restraining its activation.
PXD001652	26998524	Mitochondrial protein hyperacetylation in the failing heart. 	Mitochondrial Protein Hyperacetylation in the Failing Heart	Heart failure, acetylation, mitochondria	Myocardial fuel and energy metabolic derangements contribute to the pathogenesis of heart failure. Recent evidence implicates posttranslational mechanisms in the energy metabolic disturbances that contribute to the pathogenesis of heart failure. We hypothesized that accumulation of metabolite intermediates of fuel oxidation pathways drives posttranslational modifications of mitochondrial proteins during the development of heart failure. Myocardial acetylproteomics demonstrated extensive mitochondrial protein lysine hyperacetylation in the early stages of heart failure in well-defined mouse models and the in end-stage failing human heart. To determine the functional impact of increased mitochondrial protein acetylation, we focused on succinate dehydrogenase A (SDHA), a critical component of both the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and respiratory complex II. An acetyl-mimetic mutation targeting an SDHA lysine residue shown to be hyperacetylated in the failing human heart reduced catalytic function and reduced complex II-driven respiration. These results identify alterations in mitochondrial acetyl-CoA homeostasis as a potential driver of the development of energy metabolic derangements that contribute to heart failure.
PXD000859	26998692	Genetic predisposition for beta cell fragility underlies type 1 and type 2 diabetes. 	Genetic predisposition for beta cell fragility underlies type 1 and type 2 diabetes	B10 mice, NOD mice, diabetes, insHEL	Type 1 (T1D) and type 2 (T2D) diabetes share pathophysiological characteristics, yet mechanistic links have remained elusive. T1D results from autoimmune destruction of pancreatic beta cells, whereas beta cell failure in T2D is delayed and progressive. Here we find a new genetic component of diabetes susceptibility in T1D non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice, identifying immune-independent beta cell fragility. Genetic variation in Xrcc4 and Glis3 alters the response of NOD beta cells to unfolded protein stress, enhancing the apoptotic and senescent fates. The same transcriptional relationships were observed in human islets, demonstrating the role of beta cell fragility in genetic predisposition to diabetes.
PXD005100	26	[Studies on the action of an anticholinergic agent in combination with a tranquilizer on gastric juice secretion in man]. 	DREX proteome analysis for spectral library	Drosophila embryo proteome, fragmentation pattern, spectral library	A double-blind study with intra-individual comparisons was carried out to investigate the effects of 15 mg of (8r)-3alpha-hydroxy-8-isopropyl-1alphaH-tropanium bromide(+/-)-tropate (Sch 1000), 15 mg Sch 1000 + 10 mg oxazepam, 10 mg oxazepam and placebo with oral administration in randomized sequence on gastric juice volume, amount of acid, concentration and pH values in 12 healthy volunteers. The secretion parameters were measured during a 1-h basal period and a 2-h stimulation period. The gastric juice was obtained in 15 min portions via stomach tube. Stimulation was effected by 1 mug/kg/h pentagastrin via drip infusion. The Friedman test was used for the comparative statistical evaluation, and individual comparisons were carried out by means of the Wilcoxon test (pair-differences rank). The results show that Sch 1000 and Sch 1000 + oxazepam were equal in effect on basal and stimulated secretion volume. As compared with placebo, it was not possible to establish an effect on secretion volume for oxazepam alone. Sch 1000 and Sch 1000 + oxazepam were found to be equipotent in reducing the amount of basal acid, while oxazepam reduced this quantity only during the first 30 min of basal secretion. None of the three active preparations was capable of inhibiting the stimulated acid, although both Sch 1000 preparations produced a clear trend towards lowered mean values. During the basal secretion period, all three test preparations had an inhibiting action on acid concentration, but none of them had a significant effect during the stimulation period. The pH value was savely increased only by Sch 1000 and Sch 1000 + oxazepam, and this even only during the basal period. The results are discussed.
PXD002963	27001127	The proteome profile of embryogenic cell suspensions of Coffea arabica L. 	Proteome profile of coffee embryogenic cell suspensions	Coffea arabica, gel free proteomics, somatic embryogenesis, totipotency	Somatic embryogenesis, is a process by which new viable embryos are produced from somatic tissues. Somatic embryogenesis is not only a useful biotechnological tool for the massive clonal propagation and genetic engineering but it also allows to obtain fundamental knowledge about the molecular changes that take place during embryogenesis. We present the proteome profile of two embryogenic cell suspensions. We identified 1052 non-redundant proteins. We present their known GO annotations and show two protein networks sharing the GO annotations related to stress and embryogenic capacity via the free program Cytoscape. To our knowledge these results give the first high-throughput proteome description of embryogenic cell suspensions and provide new information about somatic embryos for the whole plant community. The published proteome is a first step toward understanding somatic embryogenesis in coffee and toward a better annotation of proteins in an important non-model crop. All data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002963.
PXD003419	27001287	Expression changes of proteins associated with the development of preeclampsia in maternal plasma: A case-control study. 	Expression changes of proteins associated with the development of preeclampsia in maternal plasma: a case control study	Defective deep placentation, MRM, Physiologic transformation of spiral artery, Preeclampsia, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	Defective deep placentation, involving abnormal transformation of the spiral arteries in the junctional zone of the myometrium, is known to cause significant obstetric complications, such as preeclampsia (PE), fetal growth restriction, and placental infarction leading to fetal death. Serological biomarkers to predict and diagnose PE would help antenatal care and reduce obstetric complications. To discover candidate PE biomarkers, we first performed global proteomic profiling of three pairs of plasma samples obtained from pregnant women in the early second trimester, who subsequently developed PE, and controls to identify candidate proteins that were abundant in the patients. We further evaluated the changes in the expression of PE-representing proteins in stored plasma samples of a cohort that subsequently developed PE and their matched controls by MRM-MS analysis. We identified that both complement C1s subcomponent (C1S) and protein AMBP were elevated in the plasma samples of the PE cohort before the manifestation of clinical disease. We propose that these proteins may be involved in the remodeling process of the spiral arteries even before PE manifestation. These proteins can serve as potential plasma biomarkers to predict the pregnant women having an increased risk of developing PE.
PXD003753	27003611	Phosphoproteome analysis of B. cinerea in response to different plant-based elicitors. 	Botrytis cinerea phosphoproteome.	Botrytis cinerea, phosphoproteome, plant pathogenicity	The phytopathogen Botrytis cinerea is a ubiquitous fungus with a high capacity to adapt its metabolism to different hosts and environmental conditions in order to deploy a variety of virulence and pathogenicity factors and develop a successful plant infection. Here we report the first comparative phosphoproteomic study of B. cinerea, aimed to analyze the phosphoprotein composition of the fungus and its changes under different phenotypical conditions induced by two different carbon sources as plant based elicitors: glucose and deproteinized tomato cell wall (TCW). A total of 2854 and 2269 different phosphosites (2883 and 1137 phosphopeptides) were identified in glucose and TCW respectively, which map to 1338 phosphoproteins in glucose and 733 in TCW. Out of the identified phosphoproteins, 173 were exclusively found when glucose was the only carbon source and 11 when the carbon source was TCW. Differences in the pattern of phosphorylation-sites were also detected according to the carbon source. Gene ontology classification of the identified phosphoproteins showed that most of the characteristic proteins of the different carbon sources were related to signalling and transmembrane transport, thus highlighting the importance of these processes in the fungal adaptation to the surrounding conditions. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The characterization of the B. cinerea phosphoproteome under different induction conditions reported here is the first comparative phosphoproteomic approach in this model phytopathogenic fungus. The identified phosphopeptides contribute to expand the map of known phosphoproteins in this pathogen and the observed changes according to the used carbon source contribute to understand the adaptation of the fungus to the environment changes. This knowledge improves the understanding of the adaptation mechanism, defines the role of the phosphoproteins involved in this process, and enables the advance in the design of novel strategies against the fungi.
PXD003276	27006477	Comparison of the Proteome of Adult and Cord Erythroid Cells, and Changes in the Proteome Following Reticulocyte Maturation. 	Comparison of the proteome of human adult and cord erythroid cells and changes in the proteome following reticulocyte maturation.	TMT labelling, cord blood, erythroid cells, nanoLC-MS/MS, reticulocytes	Cord blood stem cells are an attractive starting source for the production of red blood cells in vitro for therapy because of additional expansion potential compared with adult peripheral blood progenitors and cord blood banks usually being more representative of national populations than blood donors. Consequently, it is important to establish how similar cord RBCs are to adult cells. In this study, we used multiplex tandem mass tag labeling combined with nano-LC-MS/MS to compare the proteome of adult and cord RBCs and reticulocytes. 2838 unique proteins were identified, providing the most comprehensive compendium of RBC proteins to date. Using stringent criteria, 1674 proteins were quantified, and only a small number differed in amount between adult and cord RBC. We focused on proteins critical for RBC function. Of these, only the expected differences in globin subunits, along with higher levels of carbonic anhydrase 1 and 2 and aquaporin-1 in adult RBCs would be expected to have a phenotypic effect since they are associated with the differences in gaseous exchange between adults and neonates. Since the RBC and reticulocyte samples used were autologous, we catalogue the change in proteome following reticulocyte maturation. The majority of proteins (>60% of the 1671 quantified) reduced in abundance between 2- and 100-fold following maturation. However, ~5% were at a higher level in RBCs, localized almost exclusively to cell membranes, in keeping with the known clearance of intracellular recycling pools during reticulocyte maturation. Overall, these data suggest that, with respect to the proteome, there is no barrier to the use of cord progenitors for the in vitro generation of RBCs for transfusion to adults other than the expression of fetal, not adult, hemoglobin.
PXD003158	27008862	Allicin Induces Thiol Stress in Bacteria through S-Allylmercapto Modification of Protein Cysteines. 	Effects of the antibacterial compund Allicin from garlic on Escherichia coli	Allicin, Escherichia coli, S-allylmercapto modification, cysteine	Allicin (diallyl thiosulfinate) from garlic is a highly potent natural antimicrobial substance. It inhibits growth of a variety of microorganisms, among them antibiotic-resistant strains. However, the precise mode of action of allicin is unknown. Here, we show that growth inhibition of Escherichia coli during allicin exposure coincides with a depletion of the glutathione pool and S-allylmercapto modification of proteins, resulting in overall decreased total sulfhydryl levels. This is accompanied by the induction of the oxidative and heat stress response. We identified and quantified the allicin-induced modification S-allylmercaptocysteine for a set of cytoplasmic proteins by using a combination of label-free mass spectrometry and differential isotope-coded affinity tag labeling of reduced and oxidized thiol residues. Activity of isocitrate lyase AceA, an S-allylmercapto-modified candidate protein, is largely inhibited by allicin treatment in vivo Allicin-induced protein modifications trigger protein aggregation, which largely stabilizes RpoH and thereby induces the heat stress response. At sublethal concentrations, the heat stress response is crucial to overcome allicin stress. Our results indicate that the mode of action of allicin is a combination of a decrease of glutathione levels, unfolding stress, and inactivation of crucial metabolic enzymes through S-allylmercapto modification of cysteines.
PXD002565	27008969	Melanoma addiction to the long non-coding RNA SAMMSON. 	Targeting the lineage-specific long non-coding RNA LINC01212 as an effective anti-melanoma therapeutic strategy	lncRNA protein binding melanoma	Focal amplifications of chromosome 3p13-3p14 occur in about 10% of melanomas and are associated with a poor prognosis. The melanoma-specific oncogene MITF resides at the epicentre of this amplicon. However, whether other loci present in this amplicon also contribute to melanomagenesis is unknown. Here we show that the recently annotated long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) gene SAMMSON is consistently co-gained with MITF. In addition, SAMMSON is a target of the lineage-specific transcription factor SOX10 and its expression is detectable in more than 90% of human melanomas. Whereas exogenous SAMMSON increases the clonogenic potential in trans, SAMMSON knockdown drastically decreases the viability of melanoma cells irrespective of their transcriptional cell state and BRAF, NRAS or TP53 mutational status. Moreover, SAMMSON targeting sensitizes melanoma to MAPK-targeting therapeutics both in vitro and in patient-derived xenograft models. Mechanistically, SAMMSON interacts with p32, a master regulator of mitochondrial homeostasis and metabolism, to increase its mitochondrial targeting and pro-oncogenic function. Our results indicate that silencing of the lineage addiction oncogene SAMMSON disrupts vital mitochondrial functions in a cancer-cell-specific manner; this silencing is therefore expected to deliver highly effective and tissue-restricted anti-melanoma therapeutic responses.
PXD005643	27010111	Improved Identification and Analysis of Small Open Reading Frame Encoded Polypeptides. 	Improved Identification and Analysis of Small Open Reading Frame Encoded Polypeptides	LC-MS, smORF-encoded polypeptides (SEPs)	Computational, genomic, and proteomic approaches have been used to discover nonannotated protein-coding small open reading frames (smORFs). Some novel smORFs have crucial biological roles in cells and organisms, which motivates the search for additional smORFs. Proteomic smORF discovery methods are advantageous because they detect smORF-encoded polypeptides (SEPs) to validate smORF translation and SEP stability. Because SEPs are shorter and less abundant than average proteins, SEP detection using proteomics faces unique challenges. Here, we optimize several steps in the SEP discovery workflow to improve SEP isolation and identification. These changes have led to the detection of several new human SEPs (novel human genes), improved confidence in the SEP assignments, and enabled quantification of SEPs under different cellular conditions. These improvements will allow faster detection and characterization of new SEPs and smORFs.
PXD002393	27010757	Label-free quantification in ion mobility-enhanced data-independent acquisition proteomics. 	Label-free quantification in ion-mobility enhanced data-independent acquisition proteomics	data-independent acquisition, ion mobility separation, label-free quantification	Unbiased data-independent acquisition (DIA) strategies have gained increased popularity in the field of quantitative proteomics. The integration of ion mobility separation (IMS) into DIA workflows provides an additional dimension of separation to liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS), and it increases the achievable analytical depth of DIA approaches. Here we provide a detailed protocol for a label-free quantitative proteomics workflow based on ion mobility-enhanced DIA, which synchronizes precursor ion drift times with collision energies to improve precursor fragmentation efficiency. The protocol comprises a detailed description of all major steps including instrument setup, filter-aided sample preparation, LC-IMS-MS analysis and data processing. Our protocol can handle proteome samples of any complexity, and it enables a highly reproducible and accurate precursor intensity-based label-free quantification of up to 5,600 proteins across multiple runs in complete cellular lysates. Depending on the number of samples to be analyzed, the protocol takes a minimum of 3 d to complete from proteolytic digestion to data evaluation.
PXD003149	27014315	Synthesis of Chlorophyll-Binding Proteins in a Fully Segregated Deltaycf54 Strain of the Cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC 6803. 	Synthesis of chlorophyll-binding proteins in a fully-segregated ycf54 strain of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC 6803	Mg-protoporphyrin IX methylester cyclase, Synechocystis 6803, Ycf54, chlorophyll, photosystem II, protochlorophyllide	In the chlorophyll (Chl) biosynthesis pathway the formation of protochlorophyllide is catalyzed by Mg-protoporphyrin IX methyl ester (MgPME) cyclase. The Ycf54 protein was recently shown to form a complex with another component of the oxidative cyclase, Sll1214 (CycI), and partial inactivation of the ycf54 gene leads to Chl deficiency in cyanobacteria and plants. The exact function of the Ycf54 is not known, however, and further progress depends on construction and characterization of a mutant cyanobacterial strain with a fully inactivated ycf54 gene. Here, we report the complete deletion of the ycf54 gene in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis 6803; the resulting Deltaycf54 strain accumulates huge concentrations of the cyclase substrate MgPME together with another pigment, which we identified using nuclear magnetic resonance as 3-formyl MgPME. The detection of a small amount (~13%) of Chl in the Deltaycf54 mutant provides clear evidence that the Ycf54 protein is important, but not essential, for activity of the oxidative cyclase. The greatly reduced formation of protochlorophyllide in the Deltaycf54 strain provided an opportunity to use (35)S protein labeling combined with 2D electrophoresis to examine the synthesis of all known Chl-binding protein complexes under drastically restricted de novo Chl biosynthesis. We show that although the Deltaycf54 strain synthesizes very limited amounts of photosystem I and the CP47 and CP43 subunits of photosystem II (PSII), the synthesis of PSII D1 and D2 subunits and their assembly into the reaction centre (RCII) assembly intermediate were not affected. Furthermore, the levels of other Chl complexes such as cytochrome b 6 f and the HliD- Chl synthase remained comparable to wild-type. These data demonstrate that the requirement for de novo Chl molecules differs completely for each Chl-binding protein. Chl traffic and recycling in the cyanobacterial cell as well as the function of Ycf54 are discussed.
PXD005701	27016040	Microbial symbionts affect Pisum sativum proteome and metabolome under Didymella pinodes infection. 	Tripartite symbiosis formed by Pisum sativum, rhizobia and mycorrhiza: Implications for the symbionts, the host plant and the pathogenic fungi, part 2	Didymella pinodes, Pisum sativum, induced systemic resistance, microbial symbionts, mycorrhiza, rhizobia	The long cultivation of field pea led to an enormous diversity which, however, seems to hold just little resistance against the ascochyta blight disease complex. The potential of below ground microbial symbiosis to prime the immune system of Pisum for an upcoming pathogen attack has hitherto received little attention. This study investigates the effect of beneficial microbes on the leaf proteome and metabolome as well as phenotype characteristics of plants in various symbiont interactions (mycorrhiza, rhizobia, co-inoculation, non-symbiotic) after infestation by Didymella pinodes. In healthy plants, mycorrhiza and rhizobia induced changes in RNA metabolism and protein synthesis. Furthermore, metal handling and ROS dampening was affected in all mycorrhiza treatments. The co-inoculation caused the synthesis of stress related proteins with concomitant adjustment of proteins involved in lipid biosynthesis. The plant's disease infection response included hormonal adjustment, ROS scavenging as well as synthesis of proteins related to secondary metabolism. The regulation of the TCA, amino acid and secondary metabolism including the pisatin pathway, was most pronounced in rhizobia associated plants which had the lowest infection rate and the slowest disease progression. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: A most comprehensive study of the Pisum sativum proteome and metabolome infection response to Didymella pinodes is provided. Several distinct patterns of microbial symbioses on the plant metabolism are presented for the first time. Upon D. pinodes infection, rhizobial symbiosis revealed induced systemic resistance e.g. by an enhanced level of proteins involved in pisatin biosynthesis.
PXD002252	27016732	Identification and characterization of DNA sequences that prevent glucocorticoid receptor binding to nearby response elements. 	Identification and characterization of DNA sequences that restrict genomic binding of the glucocorticoid receptor	dna binding, glucocorticoid receptor, negative regulatory sequences	Out of the myriad of potential DNA binding sites of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) found in the human genome, only a cell-type specific minority is actually bound, indicating that the presence of a recognition sequence alone is insufficient to specify where GR binds. Cooperative interactions with other transcription factors (TFs) are known to contribute to binding specificity. Here, we reasoned that sequence signals preventing GR recruitment to certain loci provide an alternative means to confer specificity. Motif analyses uncovered candidate Negative Regulatory Sequences (NRSs) that interfere with genomic GR binding. Subsequent functional analyses demonstrated that NRSs indeed prevent GR binding to nearby response elements. We show that NRS activity is conserved across species, found in most tissues and that they also interfere with the genomic binding of other TFs. Interestingly, the effects of NRSs appear not to be a simple consequence of changes in chromatin accessibility. Instead, we find that NRSs interact with proteins found at sub-nuclear structures called paraspeckles and that these proteins might mediate the repressive effects of NRSs. Together, our studies suggest that the joint influence of positive and negative sequence signals partition the genome into regions where GR can bind and those where it cannot.
PXD002344	27017623	DNA Replication Stress Phosphoproteome Profiles Reveal Novel Functional Phosphorylation Sites on Xrs2 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Global and phosphoproteomic profiling of the DNA damage response in yeast by SILAC labeling and LC-MS/MS	DNA damage checkpoint, DNA damage response, Genetic interaction, Homologous recombination, Methylmethanesulfonate, Phosphorylation, telomere	In response to replication stress, a phospho-signaling cascade is activated and required for coordination of DNA repair and replication of damaged templates (intra-S-phase checkpoint) . How phospho-signaling coordinates the DNA replication stress response is largely unknown. We employed state-of-the-art liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) approaches to generate high-coverage and quantitative proteomic and phospho-proteomic profiles during replication stress in yeast, induced by continuous exposure to the DNA alkylating agent methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) . We identified 32,057 unique peptides representing the products of 4296 genes and 22,061 unique phosphopeptides representing the products of 3183 genes. A total of 542 phosphopeptides (mapping to 339 genes) demonstrated an abundance change of greater than or equal to twofold in response to MMS. The screen enabled detection of nearly all of the proteins known to be involved in the DNA damage response, as well as many novel MMS-induced phosphorylations. We assessed the functional importance of a subset of key phosphosites by engineering a panel of phosphosite mutants in which an amino acid substitution prevents phosphorylation. In total, we successfully mutated 15 MMS-responsive phosphorylation sites in seven representative genes including APN1 (base excision repair); CTF4 and TOF1 (checkpoint and sister-chromatid cohesion); MPH1 (resolution of homologous recombination intermediates); RAD50 and XRS2 (MRX complex); and RAD18 (PRR). All of these phosphorylation site mutants exhibited MMS sensitivity, indicating an important role in protecting cells from DNA damage. In particular, we identified MMS-induced phosphorylation sites on Xrs2 that are required for MMS resistance in the absence of the MRX activator, Sae2, and that affect telomere maintenance.
PXD002933	27018634	Quantitative Mass Spectrometry Identifies Novel Host Binding Partners for Pathogenic Escherichia coli Type III Secretion System Effectors. 	The E. coli type III secreted effectors NleB and EspL interact with the microtubule associated protein ensconsin to disrupt vesicle trafficking, part 1	E. coli, effector, host-pathogen	Enteropathogenic and enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli cause enteric diseases resulting in significant morbidity and mortality worldwide. These pathogens remain extracellular and translocate a set of type III secreted effector proteins into host cells to promote bacterial virulence. Effectors manipulate host cell pathways to facilitate infection by interacting with a variety of host targets, yet the binding partners and mechanism of action of many effectors remain elusive. We performed a mass spectrometry screen to identify host targets for a library of effectors. We found five known effector targets and discovered four novel interactions. Interestingly, we identified multiple effectors that interacted with the microtubule associated protein, ensconsin. Using co-immunoprecipitations, we confirmed that NleB1 and EspL interacted with ensconsin in a region that corresponded to its microtubule binding domain. Ensconsin is an essential cofactor of kinesin-1 that is required for intracellular trafficking, and we demonstrated that intracellular trafficking was severely disrupted during wild type EPEC infections but not during infections with DeltanleB1 or DeltaespL mutants. Our findings demonstrate the efficacy of quantitative proteomics for identifying effector-host protein interactions and suggest that vesicular trafficking is a crucial cellular process that may be targeted by NleB1 and EspL through their interaction with ensconsin.
PXD001689	27021271	A charge-suppressing strategy for probing protein methylation. 	A novel strategy of profiling protein methylation on lysine and arginine	methylation	Methylation of arginine and lysine (RK) residues play essential roles in epigenetics and the regulation of gene expression. However, research in this area is often hindered by the lack of effective tools for probing the protein methylation. Here, we present an antibody-free strategy to capture protein methylation on RK residues by using chemical reactions to eliminate the charges on un-modified RK residues and peptide N-termini. Peptides containing methylated RK residues remain positively charged and are then enriched by strong cation exchange chromatography, followed by high-resolution mass spectrometry identification.
PXD003406	27025457	Contribution of Human Fibroblasts and Endothelial Cells to the Hallmarks of Inflammation as Determined by Proteome Profiling. 	Contribution of primary human fibroblasts and endothelial cells to the hallmarks of inflammation as determined by proteome profiling - cytoplasmic proteins of untreated endothelial cells	Cell type-specific inflammatory response, hallmarks of inflammation, primary human fibroblasts and endothelial cells, secretome	In order to systematically analyze proteins fulfilling effector functionalities during inflammation, here we present a comprehensive proteome study of inflammatory activated primary human endothelial cells and fibroblasts. Cells were stimulated with interleukin 1-beta and fractionated in order to obtain secreted, cytoplasmic and nuclear protein fractions. Proteins were submitted to a data-dependent bottom up analytical platform using a QExactive orbitrap and the MaxQuant software for protein identification and label-free quantification. Results were further combined with similarly generated data previously obtained from the analysis of inflammatory activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Applying a false discovery rate of less than 0.01 at both, peptide and protein level, a total of 8370 protein groups assembled from 117,599 peptides was identified; mass spectrometry data have been made fully accessible via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003406 to PXD003417.Comparative proteome analysis allowed us to determine common and cell type-specific inflammation signatures comprising novel candidate marker molecules and related expression patterns of transcription factors. Cardinal features of inflammation such as interleukin 1-beta processing and the interferon response differed substantially between the investigated cells. Furthermore, cells also exerted similar inflammation-related tasks; however, by making use of different sets of proteins. Hallmarks of inflammation thus emerged, including angiogenesis, extracellular matrix reorganization, adaptive and innate immune responses, oxidative stress response, cell proliferation and differentiation, cell adhesion and migration in addition to monosaccharide metabolic processes, representing both, common and cell type-specific responsibilities of cells during inflammation.
PXD002732	27025787	Proteomics of thyroid tumours provides new insights into their molecular composition and changes associated with malignancy. 	Proteomics of thyroid tumours -  Proteomics of thyroid tumours provides new insights into their molecular composition and changes associated with malignancy	SWATH, Thyroid cancer proteomics	Around 5% of the general population have palpable thyroid nodules. Although most thyroid tumours are benign, thyroid cancer represents the most common malignancy of the endocrine system, comprising mainly follicular and papillary thyroid carcinomas. Previous studies have shed some light on the molecular pathogenesis of thyroid cancer but there have not been any comprehensive mass spectrometry-based proteomic studies of large scale to reveal protein expression differences between thyroid tumours and the molecular alterations associated with tumour malignancy. We applied data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry which enabled quantitative expression analysis of over 1,600 proteins from 32 specimens to compare normal thyroid tissue with the three most common tumours of the thyroid gland: follicular adenoma, follicular carcinoma and papillary carcinoma. In follicular tumours, we found marked reduction of the tumour suppressor and therapeutic target extracellular protein decorin. We made the novel observation that TGFbeta-induced protein ig-h3 (TGFBI) was found frequently overexpressed in follicular carcinoma compared with follicular adenoma. Proteomic pathway analysis showed changes in papillary carcinoma were associated with disruption of cell contacts (loss of E-cadherin), actin cytoskeleton dynamics and loss of differentiation markers, all hallmarks of an invasive phenotype.
PXD003286	27025927	Changes in Gab2 phosphorylation and interaction partners in response to interleukin (IL)-2 stimulation in T-lymphocytes. 	Changes in Gab2 phosphorylation and interaction partners in response to interleukin (IL)-2 stimulation in T-lymphocytes	GAB2, IL-2, T-lymphocytes, interactome, phosphorylation, scaffold protein	Interleukin-2 (IL-2) stimulation results in T-cell growth as a consequence of activation of highly sophisticated and fine-tuned signaling pathways. Despite lacking intrinsic enzymatic activity, scaffold proteins such as Gab2, play a pivotal role in IL-2-triggered signal transduction integrating, diversifying and amplifying the signal by serving as a platform for the assembly of effectors proteins. Traditionally, Gab2-mediated protein recruitment was believed to solely depend on cytokine-induced phosphotyrosine moieties. At present, phosphorylation on serine/threonine residues is also emerging as a key mediator of Gab2-dependent signal regulation. Despite its relevance, IL-2-triggered regulation on Gab2 phosphorylation is yet poorly understood. Combining antibody- and TiO2-based enrichment of the scaffold protein with SILAC quantitative mass spectrometry we disclose the prominent regulation IL-2 exerts on Gab2 serine/threonine phosphorylation by showing that at least 18 serines and 1 threonine, including previously non-reported ones, become phosphorylated in response to cytokine stimulation. Additionally, we decipher the interactome of the docking protein in resting and cytokine-treated T-lymphocytes and besides well-known Gab2 interactors we discover three novel cytokine-inducible Gab2-binding proteins. Thus, our data provide novel insights and a wealth of candidates for future studies that will shed light into the role of Gab2 in IL-2-initiated signal transduction.
PXD003888	27026526	Vulnerability of newly synthesized proteins to proteostasis stress. 	Identification of Proteins Sensitive to Thermal Stress in Human HEK293 cells	CCF-STTG1, HEK293, SH-SY5Y, detergent insoluble, heat shock	The capacity of the cell to produce, fold and degrade proteins relies on components of the proteostasis network. Multiple types of insults can impose a burden on this network, causing protein misfolding. Using thermal stress, a classic example of acute proteostatic stress, we demonstrate that ~5-10% of the soluble cytosolic and nuclear proteome in human HEK293 cells is vulnerable to misfolding when proteostatic function is overwhelmed. Inhibiting new protein synthesis for 30 min prior to heat-shock dramatically reduced the amount of heat-stress induced polyubiquitylation, and reduced the misfolding of proteins identified as vulnerable to thermal stress. Following prior studies in C. elegans in which mutant huntingtin (Q103) expression was shown to cause the secondary misfolding of cytosolic proteins, we also demonstrate that mutant huntingtin causes similar 'secondary' misfolding in human cells. Similar to thermal stress, inhibiting new protein synthesis reduced the impact of mutant huntingtin on proteostatic function. These findings suggest that newly made proteins are vulnerable to misfolding when proteostasis is disrupted by insults such as thermal stress and mutant protein aggregation.
PXD001815	27029354	Quantitative phosphoproteomics of protein kinase SnRK1 regulated protein phosphorylation in Arabidopsis under submergence. 	Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Reveals Targets of Protein Kinase SnRK1 in Arabidopsis under Submergence	SnRK1, energy starvation, phosphoproteomics, submergence	SNF1 RELATED PROTEIN KINASE 1 (SnRK1) is proposed to be a central integrator of the plant stress and energy starvation signalling pathways. We observed that the Arabidopsis SnRK1.1 dominant negative mutant (SnRK1.1 (K48M) ) had lower tolerance to submergence than the wild type, suggesting that SnRK1.1-dependent phosphorylation of target proteins is important in signalling pathways triggered by submergence. We conducted quantitative phosphoproteomics and found that the phosphorylation levels of 57 proteins increased and the levels of 27 proteins decreased in Col-0 within 0.5-3h of submergence. Among the 57 proteins with increased phosphorylation in Col-0, 38 did not show increased phosphorylation levels in SnRK1.1 (K48M) under submergence. These proteins are involved mainly in sugar and protein synthesis. In particular, the phosphorylation of MPK6, which is involved in regulating ROS responses under abiotic stresses, was disrupted in the SnRK1.1 (K48M) mutant. In addition, PTP1, a negative regulator of MPK6 activity that directly dephosphorylates MPK6, was also regulated by SnRK1.1. We also showed that energy conservation was disrupted in SnRK1.1 (K48M) , mpk6, and PTP1 (S7AS8A) under submergence. These results reveal insights into the function of SnRK1 and the downstream signalling factors related to submergence.
PXD003078	27029611	Enzymatic properties, evidence for in vivo expression, and intracellular localization of shewasin D, the pepsin homolog from Shewanella denitrificans. 	Recombinant shewasin D and shewasin A specificity preferences profiled by proteomic identification of protease cleavage sites (PICS)	GluC, PICS, Shewanella amazonensis, Shewanella denitrificans, pepsin-like, shewasin A, shewasin D, specificity profile, trypsin	The widespread presence of pepsin-like enzymes in eukaryotes together with their relevance in the control of multiple biological processes is reflected in the large number of studies published so far for this family of enzymes. By contrast, pepsin homologs from bacteria have only recently started to be characterized. The work with recombinant shewasin A from Shewanella amazonensis provided the first documentation of this activity in prokaryotes. Here we extend our studies to shewasin D, the pepsin homolog from Shewanella denitrificans, to gain further insight into this group of bacterial peptidases that likely represent ancestral versions of modern eukaryotic pepsin-like enzymes. We demonstrate that the enzymatic properties of recombinant shewasin D are strongly reminiscent of eukaryotic pepsin homologues. We determined the specificity preferences of both shewasin D and shewasin A using proteome-derived peptide libraries and observed remarkable similarities between both shewasins and eukaryotic pepsins, in particular with BACE-1, thereby confirming their phylogenetic proximity. Moreover, we provide first evidence of expression of active shewasin D in S. denitrificans cells, confirming its activity at acidic pH and inhibition by pepstatin. Finally, our results revealed an unprecedented localization for a family A1 member by demonstrating that native shewasin D accumulates preferentially in the cytoplasm.
PXD003256	27034005	Phospho-proteomic analyses of B-Raf protein complexes reveal new regulatory principles. 	BRAF interactome -  Phospho-proteomic analyses of B-Raf protein complexes reveal new regulatory principles	SILAC, affinity purification MS, chicken, sorafenib	B-Raf represents a critical physiological regulator of the Ras/RAF/MEK/ERK-pathway and a pharmacological target of growing clinical relevance, in particular in oncology. To understand how B-Raf itself is regulated, we combined mass spectrometry with genetic approaches to map its interactome in MCF-10A cells as well as in B-Raf deficient murine embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and B-Raf/Raf-1 double deficient DT40 lymphoma cells complemented with wildtype or mutant B-Raf expression vectors. Using a multi-protease digestion approach, we identified a novel ubiquitination site and provide a detailed B-Raf phospho-map. Importantly, we identify two evolutionary conserved phosphorylation clusters around T401 and S419 in the B-Raf hinge region. SILAC labelling and genetic/biochemical follow-up revealed that these clusters are phosphorylated in the contexts of oncogenic Ras, sorafenib induced Raf dimerization and in the background of the V600E mutation. We further show that the vemurafenib sensitive phosphorylation of the T401 cluster occurs in trans within a Raf dimer. Substitution of the Ser/Thr-residues of this cluster by alanine residues enhances the transforming potential of B-Raf, indicating that these phosphorylation sites suppress its signaling output. Moreover, several B-Raf phosphorylation sites, including T401 and S419, are somatically mutated in tumors, further illustrating the importance of phosphorylation for the regulation of this kinase.
PXD008323	27034094	Structural and activity characterization of human PHPT1 after oxidative modification. 	Characterization of phosphohistidine phosphatase 1-induced changes in the mouse liver proteome	PHPT1, hepatic proteomics, mus musculus, phosphohistidine	Phosphohistidine phosphatase 1 (PHPT1), the only known phosphohistidine phosphatase in mammals, regulates phosphohistidine levels of several proteins including those involved in signaling, lipid metabolism, and potassium ion transport. While the high-resolution structure of human PHPT1 (hPHPT1) is available and residues important for substrate binding and catalytic activity have been reported, little is known about post-translational modifications that modulate hPHPT1 activity. Here we characterize the structural and functional impact of hPHPT1 oxidation upon exposure to a reactive oxygen species, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Specifically, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry was used to quantify site-specific oxidation of redox-sensitive residues of hPHPT1. Results from this study revealed that H2O2 exposure induces selective oxidation of hPHPT1 at Met95, a residue within the substrate binding region. Explicit solvent molecular dynamics simulations, however, predict only a minor effect of Met95 oxidation in the structure and dynamics of the apo-state of the hPHPT1 catalytic site, suggesting that if Met95 oxidation alters hPHPT1 activity, then it will do so by altering the stability of an intermediate state. Employing a novel mass spectrometry-based assay, we determined that H2O2-induced oxidation does not impact hPHPT1 function negatively; a result contrary to the common conception that protein oxidation is typically a loss-of-function modification.
PXD003802	27035958	S-nitrosation of proteins relevant to Alzheimer's disease during early stages of neurodegeneration. 	S-nitrosation of proteins relevant to Alzheimer's disease during early stages of neurodegeneration	Alzheimers disease, S-nitrosylation, neurodegeneration	Protein S-nitrosation (SNO-protein), the nitric oxide-mediated posttranslational modification of cysteine thiols, is an important regulatory mechanism of protein function in both physiological and pathological pathways. A key first step toward elucidating the mechanism by which S-nitrosation modulates a protein's function is identification of the targeted cysteine residues. Here, we present a strategy for the simultaneous identification of SNO-cysteine sites and their cognate proteins to profile the brain of the CK-p25-inducible mouse model of Alzheimer's disease-like neurodegeneration. The approach-SNOTRAP (SNO trapping by triaryl phosphine)-is a direct tagging strategy that uses phosphine-based chemical probes, allowing enrichment of SNO-peptides and their identification by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. SNOTRAP identified 313 endogenous SNO-sites in 251 proteins in the mouse brain, of which 135 SNO-proteins were detected only during neurodegeneration. S-nitrosation in the brain shows regional differences and becomes elevated during early stages of neurodegeneration in the CK-p25 mouse. The SNO-proteome during early neurodegeneration identified increased S-nitrosation of proteins important for synapse function, metabolism, and Alzheimer's disease pathology. In the latter case, proteins related to amyloid precursor protein processing and secretion are S-nitrosated, correlating with increased amyloid formation. Sequence analysis of SNO-cysteine sites identified potential linear motifs that are altered under pathological conditions. Collectively, SNOTRAP is a direct tagging tool for global elucidation of the SNO-proteome, providing functional insights of endogenous SNO proteins in the brain and its dysregulation during neurodegeneration.
PXD004059	27037516	Mass spectrometry insights into a tandem ubiquitin-binding domain hybrid engineered for the selective recognition of unanchored polyubiquitin. 	Mass spectrometry insights into a tandem ubiquitinbinding domain hybrid engineered for the selective recognition of unanchored polyubiquitin	Ubiquitin, polyubiquitin	Unanchored polyubiquitin chains are emerging as important regulators of cellular physiology with diverse roles paralleling those of substrate-conjugated polyubiquitin. However tools able to discriminate unanchored polyubiquitin chains of different isopeptide linkages have not been reported. We describe the design of a linker-optimized ubiquitin-binding domain hybrid (t-UBD) containing two UBDs, a ZnF-UBP domain in tandem with a linkage-selective UBA domain, which exploits avidity effects to afford selective recognition of unanchored Lys48-linked polyubiquitin chains. Utilizing native MS to quantitatively probe binding affinities we confirm cooperative binding of the UBDs within the synthetic protein, and desired binding specificity for Lys48-linked ubiquitin dimers. Furthermore, MS/MS analyses indicate that the t-UBD, when applied as an affinity enrichment reagent, can be used to favor the purification of endogenous unanchored Lys48-linked polyubiquitin chains from mammalian cell extracts. Our study indicates that strategies for the rational design and engineering of polyubiquitin chain-selective binding in nonbiological polymers are possible, paving the way for the generation of reagents to probe unanchored polyubiquitin chains of different linkages and more broadly the 'ubiquitome'. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004059 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD004059).
PXD003664	27040163	Serial interactome capture of the human cell nucleus. 	Serial interactome capture of the human cell nucleus	RNA binding proteins, interactome capture, nuclear RNA binding proteome	Novel RNA-guided cellular functions are paralleled by an increasing number of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). Here we present 'serial RNA interactome capture' (serIC), a multiple purification procedure of ultraviolet-crosslinked poly(A)-RNA-protein complexes that enables global RBP detection with high specificity. We apply serIC to the nuclei of proliferating K562 cells to obtain the first human nuclear RNA interactome. The domain composition of the 382 identified nuclear RBPs markedly differs from previous IC experiments, including few factors without known RNA-binding domains that are in good agreement with computationally predicted RNA binding. serIC extends the number of DNA-RNA-binding proteins (DRBPs), and reveals a network of RBPs involved in p53 signalling and double-strand break repair. serIC is an effective tool to couple global RBP capture with additional selection or labelling steps for specific detection of highly purified RBPs.
PXD002830	27043018	An Arginine Deprivation Response Pathway Is Induced in Leishmania during Macrophage Invasion. 	Arginine sensing in Leishmania	Leishmania, arginine sensing, phosphoproteome	Amino acid sensing is an intracellular function that supports nutrient homeostasis, largely through controlled release of amino acids from lysosomal pools. The intracellular pathogen Leishmania resides and proliferates within human macrophage phagolysosomes. Here we describe a new pathway in Leishmania that specifically senses the extracellular levels of arginine, an amino acid that is essential for the parasite. During infection, the macrophage arginine pool is depleted due to its use to produce metabolites (NO and polyamines) that constitute part of the host defense response and its suppression, respectively. We found that parasites respond to this shortage of arginine by up-regulating expression and activity of the Leishmania arginine transporter (LdAAP3), as well as several other transporters. Our analysis indicates the parasite monitors arginine levels in the environment rather than the intracellular pools. Phosphoproteomics and genetic analysis indicates that the arginine-deprivation response is mediated through a mitogen-activated protein kinase-2-dependent signaling cascade.
PXD002768	27044871	Intact Cell MALDI-TOF MS on Sperm: A Molecular Test For Male Fertility Diagnosis. 	Chicken spermatozoa protein extract analyzed by Top-down HRMS	Chicken, spermatozoa, top-down	Currently, evaluation of sperm quality is primarily based on in vitro measures of sperm function such as motility, viability and/or acrosome reaction. However, results are often poorly correlated with fertility, and alternative diagnostic tools are therefore needed both in veterinary and human medicine. In a recent pilot study, we demonstrated that MS profiles from intact chicken sperm using MALDI-TOF profiles could detect significant differences between fertile/subfertile spermatozoa showing that such profiles could be useful for in vitro male fertility testing. In the present study, we performed larger standardized experimental procedures designed for the development of fertility- predictive mathematical models based on sperm cell MALDI-TOF MS profiles acquired through a fast, automated method. This intact cell MALDI-TOF MS-based method showed high diagnostic accuracy in identifying fertile/subfertile males in a large male population of known fertility from two distinct genetic lineages (meat and egg laying lines). We additionally identified 40% of the m/z peaks observed in sperm MS profiles through a top-down high-resolution protein identification analysis. This revealed that the MALDI-TOF MS spectra obtained from intact sperm cells contained a large proportion of protein degradation products, many implicated in important functional pathways in sperm such as energy metabolism, structure and movement. Proteins identified by our predictive model included diverse and important functional classes providing new insights into sperm function as it relates to fertility differences in this experimental system. Thus, in addition to the chicken model system developed here, with the use of appropriate models these methods should effectively translate to other animal taxa where similar tests for fertility are warranted.
PXD003554	27049334	Nuclear Functions of Nucleolin through Global Proteomics and Interactomic Approaches. 	Nuclear nucleolin interactome analysis	Nucleolin, nanoLC-MS/MS, tandem affinity purification	Nucleolin (NCL) is a major component of the cell nucleolus, which has the ability to rapidly shuttle to several other cells' compartments. NCL plays important roles in a variety of essential functions, among which are ribosome biogenesis, gene expression, and cell growth. However, the precise mechanisms underlying NCL functions are still unclear. Our study aimed to provide new information on NCL functions via the identification of its nuclear interacting partners. Using an interactomics approach, we identified 140 proteins co-purified with NCL, among which 100 of them were specifically found to be associated with NCL after RNase digestion. The functional classification of these proteins confirmed the prominent role of NCL in ribosome biogenesis and additionally revealed the possible involvement of nuclear NCL in several pre-mRNA processing pathways through its interaction with RNA helicases and proteins participating in pre-mRNA splicing, transport, or stability. NCL knockdown experiments revealed that NCL regulates the localization of EXOSC10 and the amount of ZC3HAV1, two components of the RNA exosome, further suggesting its involvement in the control of mRNA stability. Altogether, this study describes the first nuclear interactome of human NCL and provides the basis for further understanding the mechanisms underlying the essential functions of this nucleolar protein.
PXD003698	27050516	Identification of Mediator Kinase Substrates in Human Cells using Cortistatin A and Quantitative Phosphoproteomics. 	Identification of CDK8 and CDK19 substrates in human cells using cortistatin A and quantitative phosphoproteomics	CDK19, CDK8, HCT116, Mediator, Orbitrap LTQ, Orbitrap Velos, SILAC, colorectal carcinoma, cortistatin A, phosphoproteomics, quantitative	Cortistatin A (CA) is a highly selective inhibitor of the Mediator kinases CDK8 and CDK19. Using CA, we now report a large-scale identification of Mediator kinase substrates in human cells (HCT116). We identified over 16,000 quantified phosphosites including 78 high-confidence Mediator kinase targets within 64 proteins, including DNA-binding transcription factors and proteins associated with chromatin, DNA repair, and RNA polymerase II. Although RNA-seq data correlated with Mediator kinase targets, the effects of CA on gene expression were limited and distinct from CDK8 or CDK19 knockdown. Quantitative proteome analyses, tracking around 7,000 proteins across six time points (0-24 hr), revealed that CA selectively affected pathways implicated in inflammation, growth, and metabolic regulation. Contrary to expectations, increased turnover of Mediator kinase targets was not generally observed. Collectively, these data support Mediator kinases as regulators of chromatin and RNA polymerase II activity and suggest their roles extend beyond transcription to metabolism and DNA repair.
PXD002188	27053602	Nucleolar Enrichment of Brain Proteins with Critical Roles in Human Neurodevelopment. 	Nucleolar proteome of the developing brain	LC-MS, Nucleolus, Rat, iTRAQ	To study nucleolar involvement in brain development, the nuclear and nucleolar proteomes from the rat cerebral cortex at postnatal day 7 were analyzed using LC-MS/iTRAQ methodology. Data of the analysis are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002188. Among 504 candidate nucleolar proteins, the overrepresented gene ontology terms included such cellular compartmentcategories as "nucleolus", "ribosome" and "chromatin". Consistent with such classification, the most overrepresented functional gene ontology terms were related to RNA metabolism/ribosomal biogenesis, translation, and chromatin organization. Sixteen putative nucleolar proteins were associated with neurodevelopmental phenotypes in humans. Microcephaly and/or cognitive impairment were the most common phenotypic manifestations. Although several such proteins have links to ribosomal biogenesis and/or genomic stability/chromatin structure (e.g. EMG1, RPL10, DKC1, EIF4A3, FLNA, SMC1, ATRX, MCM4, NSD1, LMNA, or CUL4B), others including ADAR, LARP7, GTF2I, or TCF4 have no such connections known. Although neither the Alazami syndrome-associated LARP7nor the Pitt-Hopkins syndrome-associated TCF4 were reported in nucleoli of non-neural cells, in neurons, their nucleolar localization was confirmed by immunostaining. In cultured rat hippocampal neurons, knockdown of LARP7 reduced both perikaryal ribosome content and general protein synthesis. Similar anti-ribosomal/anti-translation effects were observed after knockdown of the ribosomal biogenesis factor EMG1 whose deficiency underlies Bowen-Conradi syndrome. Finally, moderate reduction of ribosome content and general protein synthesis followed overexpression of two Pitt-Hopkins syndrome mutant variants of TCF4. Therefore, dysregulation of ribosomal biogenesis and/or other functions of the nucleolus may disrupt neurodevelopment resulting in such phenotypes as microcephaly and/or cognitive impairment.
PXD003335	27053921	Proteomic Changes in Chicken Plasma Induced by Salmonella typhimurium Lipopolysaccharides. 	Chicken plasma proteome LPS	acute phase proteins, biomarkers, endotoxin, innate immunity	Lipopolysaccharides (LPS) are cell wall components of Gram-negative bacteria that produce inflammation and sickness in higher animals. The objective was to identify plasma proteomic changes in an avian model of inflammation. Chickens were treated with either saline or LPS, and blood was collected at 24 hours postinjection. The pooled plasma samples were depleted of high-abundant proteins and analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI)-time-of-flight mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). MALDI analyses showed an increase in fibrinogen beta-derived peptide and a decrease in apolipoprotein-AII-derived peptide in LPS samples. Label-free quantitation of LC-MS/MS spectra revealed an increase in the levels of alpha1-acid glycoprotein, a chemokine CCLI10, and cathelicidin-2, but a decrease in an interferon-stimulated gene-12-2 protein in the LPS group. These differentially expressed proteins are associated with immunomodulation, cytokine changes, and defense mechanisms, which may be useful as candidate biomarkers of infection and inflammation.
PXD000752	27055832	Alterations in the membrane-associated proteome fraction of alveolar macrophages in sarcoidosis. 	Alterations in the membrane-associated proteome of alveolar macrophages in sarcoidosis	Sarcoidosis, alveolar macrophages, inflammation, isoelectric focusing, membrane-associated proteins	BACKGROUND: Alveolar macrophages are implicated in the pathogenesis of lung sarcoidosis. Their interaction with T-cells leads to an inflammatory response that may either resolve within 2 years, or become chronic with an increased risk to develop lung fibrosis. OBJECTIVE: To perform quantitative profiling of the membrane-associated proteome of alveolar macrophages in sarcoidosis patients and healthy individuals to identify specific proteins and pathways involved in sarcoidosis pathology. METHODS: Differential proteomic analysis was performed on iTRAQ (isobaric Tag for Relative and Absolute Quantitation) labeled samples using tandem mass spectrometry. Subsequently, uni- and multivariate statistical analyses and pathway- and network analyses were performed. RESULTS: Eighty proteins were differentially expressed between healthy and sarcoidosis patients. Down-stream pathway analysis confirmed our recent reports of up-regulation of two phagocytotic pathways: Fcgamma receptor-mediated phagocytosis and clathrin-mediated endocytosis signaling. An additional pathway, pyruvate metabolism, was found to be up-regulated in sarcoidosis patients. The oxidative phosphorylation pathway was differentially expressed in subgroups of sarcoidosis, with up-regulation in Loefgren's patients and down-regulation in non-Loefgren's patients. CONCLUSION: This unprecedented proteome profiling of the membrane-associated fraction of alveolar macrophages confirmed previous findings of alterations in phagocytotic pathways due to sarcoidosis, as well as indicated a differential dysregulation of the oxidative phosphorylation pathway related to disease outcome in sarcoidosis.
PXD003079	27056914	Global Proteomic Analysis Reveals an Exclusive Role of Thylakoid Membranes in Bioenergetics of a Model Cyanobacterium. 	Proteomics analysis of isolated plasma membrane and thylakoid membrane from Synechocystis species PCC 6803	iTRAQ, plasma membrane, thylakoid	Cyanobacteria are photosynthetic microbes with highly differentiated membrane systems. These organisms contain an outer membrane, plasma membrane, and an internal system of thylakoid membranes where the photosynthetic and respiratory machinery are found. This existence of compartmentalization and differentiation of membrane systems poses a number of challenges for cyanobacterial cells in terms of organization and distribution of proteins to the correct membrane system. Proteomics studies have long sought to identify the components of the different membrane systems in cyanobacteria, and to date about 450 different proteins have been attributed to either the plasma membrane or thylakoid membrane. Given the complexity of these membranes, many more proteins remain to be identified, and a comprehensive catalogue of plasma membrane and thylakoid membrane proteins is needed. Here we describe the identification of 635 differentially localized proteins in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 by quantitative iTRAQ isobaric labeling; of these, 459 proteins were localized to the plasma membrane and 176 were localized to the thylakoid membrane. Surprisingly, we found over 2.5 times the number of unique proteins identified in the plasma membrane compared with the thylakoid membrane. This suggests that the protein composition of the thylakoid membrane is more homogeneous than the plasma membrane, consistent with the role of the plasma membrane in diverse cellular processes including protein trafficking and nutrient import, compared with a more specialized role for the thylakoid membrane in cellular energetics. Thus, our data clearly define the two membrane systems with distinct functions. Overall, the protein compositions of the Synechocystis 6803 plasma membrane and thylakoid membrane are quite similar to that of the plasma membrane of Escherichia coli and thylakoid membrane of Arabidopsis chloroplasts, respectively. Synechocystis 6803 can therefore be described as a Gram-negative bacterium with an additional internal membrane system that fulfills the energetic requirements of the cell.
PXD003350	27060339	Study of Plasmodium falciparum DHHC palmitoyl transferases identifies a role for PfDHHC9 in gametocytogenesis. 	Malaria Palmitoyl Transferases	DHHC, Gel, PFalciparum	Palmitoylation is the post-translational reversible addition of the acyl moiety, palmitate, to cysteine residues of proteins and is involved in regulating protein trafficking, localization, stability and function. The Aspartate-Histidine-Histidine-Cysteine (DHHC) protein family, named for their highly conserved DHHC signature motif, is thought to be responsible for catalysing protein palmitoylation. Palmitoylation is widespread in all eukaryotes, including the malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, where over 400 palmitoylated proteins are present in the asexual intraerythrocytic schizont stage parasites, including proteins involved in key aspects of parasite maturation and development. The P. falciparum genome includes 12 proteins containing the conserved DHHC motif. In this study, we adapted a palmitoyl-transferase activity assay for use with P. falciparum proteins and demonstrated for the first time that P. falciparum DHHC proteins are responsible for the palmitoylation of P. falciparum substrates. This assay also reveals that multiple DHHCs are capable of palmitoylating the same substrate, indicating functional redundancy at least in vitro. To test whether functional redundancy also exists in vivo, we investigated the endogenous localization and essentiality of a subset of schizont-expressed PfDHHC proteins. Individual PfDHHC proteins localized to distinct organelles, including parasite-specific organelles such as the rhoptries and inner membrane complex. Knock-out studies identified individual DHHCs that may be essential for blood-stage growth and others that were functionally redundant in the blood stages but may have functions in other stages of parasite development. Supporting this hypothesis, disruption of PfDHHC9 had no effect on blood-stage growth but reduced the formation of gametocytes, suggesting that this protein could be exploited as a transmission-blocking target. The localization and stage-specific expression of the DHHC proteins may be important for regulating their substrate specificity and thus may provide a path for inhibitor development.
PXD003603	27064065	Unconventional endosome-like compartment and retromer complex in Toxoplasma gondii govern parasite integrity and host infection. 	Toxoplasma gondii LC-MS/MS	Toxoplasma gondii LC-MS/MS	Membrane trafficking pathways play critical roles in Apicomplexa, a phylum of protozoan parasites that cause life-threatening diseases worldwide. Here we report the first retromer-trafficking interactome in Toxoplasma gondii. This retromer complex includes a trimer Vps35-Vps26-Vps29 core complex that serves as a hub for the endosome-like compartment and parasite-specific proteins. Conditional ablation of TgVps35 reveals that the retromer complex is crucial for the biogenesis of secretory organelles and for maintaining parasite morphology. We identify TgHP12 as a parasite-specific and retromer-associated protein with functions unrelated to secretory organelle formation. Furthermore, the major facilitator superfamily homologue named TgHP03, which is a multiple spanning and ligand transmembrane transporter, is maintained at the parasite membrane by retromer-mediated endocytic recycling. Thus, our findings highlight that both evolutionarily conserved and unconventional proteins act in concert in T. gondii by controlling retrograde transport that is essential for parasite integrity and host infection.
PXD002390	27067051	Proteomic Identification of Putative MicroRNA394 Target Genes in Arabidopsis thaliana Identifies Major Latex Protein Family Members Critical for Normal Development. 	Identification of microRNA394 target genes in A. thaliana	LCR F-Box, MLP proteins, gene regulation, microRNA394, plant development	Expression of the F-Box protein Leaf Curling Responsiveness (LCR) is regulated by microRNA, miR394, and alterations to this interplay in Arabidopsis thaliana produce defects in leaf polarity and shoot apical meristem organization. Although the miR394-LCR node has been documented in Arabidopsis, the identification of proteins targeted by LCR F-box itself has proven problematic. Here, a proteomic analysis of shoot apices from plants with altered LCR levels identified a member of the Latex Protein (MLP) family gene as a potential LCR F-box target. Bioinformatic and molecular analyses also suggested that other MLP family members are likely to be targets for this post-translational regulation. Direct interaction between LCR F-Box and MLP423 was validated. Additional MLP members had reduction in protein accumulation, in varying degrees, mediated by LCR F-Box. Transgenic Arabidopsis lines, in which MLP28 expression was reduced through an artificial miRNA technology, displayed severe developmental defects, including changes in leaf patterning and morphology, shoot apex defects, and eventual premature death. These phenotypic characteristics resemble those of Arabidopsis plants modified to over-express LCR Taken together, the results demonstrate that MLPs are driven to degradation by LCR, and indicate that MLP gene family is target of miR394-LCR regulatory node, representing potential targets for directly post-translational regulation mediated by LCR F-Box. In addition, MLP28 family member is associated with the LCR regulation that is critical for normal Arabidopsis development.
PXD003228	27067052	Identification of Targets and Interaction Partners of Arginyl-tRNA Protein Transferase in the Moss Physcomitrella patens. 	Interaction partners of arginyl-tRNA protein transferase in the moss Physcomitrella patens	Physcomitrella patens, co-IP, moss, protein interaction	Protein arginylation is a posttranslational modification of both N-terminal amino acids of proteins and sidechain carboxylates and can be crucial for viability and physiology in higher eukaryotes. The lack of arginylation causes severe developmental defects in moss, affects the low oxygen response in Arabidopsis thaliana and is embryo lethal in Drosophila and in mice. Although several studies investigated impact and function of the responsible enzyme, the arginyl-tRNA protein transferase (ATE) in plants, identification of arginylated proteins by mass spectrometry was not hitherto achieved. In the present study, we report the identification of targets and interaction partners of ATE in the model plant Physcomitrella patens by mass spectrometry, employing two different immuno-affinity strategies and a recently established transgenic ATE:GUS reporter line (Schuessele et al., 2016 New Phytol. , DOI: 10.1111/nph.13656). Here we use a commercially available antibody against the fused reporter protein (beta-glucuronidase) to pull down ATE and its interacting proteins and validate its in vivo interaction with a class I small heatshock protein via Foerster resonance energy transfer (FRET). Additionally, we apply and modify a method that already successfully identified arginylated proteins from mouse proteomes by using custom-made antibodies specific for N-terminal arginine. As a result, we identify four arginylated proteins from Physcomitrella patens with high confidence.Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003228 and PXD003232.
PXD015017	27067054	Dynamics of Protein Expression Reveals Primary Targets and Secondary Messengers of Estrogen Receptor Alpha Signaling in MCF-7 Breast Cancer Cells. 	Dynamics of protein expression of estrogen receptor alpha signalling in MCF-7 breast cancer cells	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha)-mediated proliferation of breast cancer cells is facilitated through expression of multiple primary target genes, products of which induce a secondary response to stimulation. To differentiate between the primary and secondary target proteins of ERalpha signaling, we measured dynamics of protein expression induced by 17beta-estradiol in MCF-7 breast cancer cells. Measurement of the global proteomic effects of estradiol by stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) resulted in identification of 103 estrogen-regulated proteins, with only 40 of the corresponding genes having estrogen response elements. Selected reaction monitoring (SRM) assays were used to validate the differential expression of 19 proteins and measure the dynamics of their expression within 72 h after estradiol stimulation, and in the absence or presence of 4-hydroxytamoxifen, to confirm ERalpha-mediated signaling. Dynamics of protein expression unambiguously revealed early and delayed response proteins and well correlated with presence or absence of estrogen response elements in the corresponding genes. Finally, we quantified dynamics of protein expression in a rarely studied network of transcription factors with a negative feedback loop (ERalpha-EGR3-NAB2). Because NAB2 protein is a repressor of EGR3-induced transcription, siRNA-mediated silencing of NAB2 resulted in the enhanced expression of the EGR3-induced protein ITGA2. To conclude, we provided a high-quality proteomic resource to supplement genomic and transcriptomic studies of ERalpha signaling.
PXD002839	27067055	Nuclear Phosphoproteomic Screen Uncovers ACLY as Mediator of IL-2-induced Proliferation of CD4+ T lymphocytes. 	Nuclear phosphoproteomics analysis of resting and IL-2-stimulated T lymphocytes	IL-2, Phosphorylation, T-lymphocyte, nucleus	Anti-cancer immunotherapies commonly rely on the use of interleukin-2 (IL-2) to promote the expansion of T lymphocytes. IL-2- dependent proliferation is the culmination of a complex network of phosphorylation-driven signaling events that impact on gene transcription through mechanisms that are not clearly understood. To study the role of IL-2 in the regulation of nuclear protein function we have performed an unbiased mass spectrometry-based study of the nuclear phosphoproteome of resting and IL-2-treated CD4(+) T lymphocytes. We detected 8521distinct phosphosites including many that are not yet reported in curated phosphorylation databases. Although most phosphorylation sites remained unaffected upon IL-2 treatment, 391 sites corresponding to 288 gene products showed robust IL-2-dependent regulation. Importantly, we show that ATP-citrate lyase (ACLY) is a key phosphoprotein effector of IL-2-mediated T-cell responses. ACLY becomes phosphorylated on serine 455 in T lymphocytes upon IL-2-driven activation of AKT, and depletion or inactivation of ACLY compromises IL-2-promoted T-cell growth. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that ACLY is required for enhancing histone acetylation levels and inducing the expression of cell cycle regulating genes in response to IL-2. Thus, the metabolic enzyme ACLY emerges as a bridge between cytokine signaling and proliferation of T lymphocytes, and may be an attractive candidate target for the development of more efficient anti-cancer immunotherapies.
PXD003233	27067626	Unbiased identification of substrates of protein tyrosine phosphatase ptp-3 in C. elegans. 	SILAC analysis of ptp-3 knockout in C. elegans	C. elegans, SILAC, phosoproteomics	The leukocyte antigen related (LAR) family of receptor-like protein tyrosine phosphatases has three members in humans - PTPRF, PTPRD and PTPRS - that have been implicated in diverse processes including embryonic development, inhibition of cell growth and axonal guidance. Mutations in the LAR family are associated with developmental defects such as cleft palate as well as various cancers including breast, neck, lung, colon and brain. Although this family of tyrosine phosphatases is important for many developmental processes, little is known of their substrates. This is partially due to functional redundancy within the LAR family, as deletion of a single gene in the LAR family does not have an appreciable phenotype, but a dual knockout is embryonically lethal in mouse models. To circumvent the inability to knockout multiple members of the LAR family in mouse models, we used a knockout of ptp-3, which is the only known ortholog of the LAR family in Caenorhabditis elegans and allows for the study of the LAR family at the organismal level. Using SILAC-based quantitative phosphoproteomics, we identified 255 putative substrates of ptp-3, which included four of the nine known annotated substrates of the LAR family. A motif analysis of the identified phosphopeptides allowed for the determination of sequences that appear to be preferentially dephosphorylated. Finally, we discovered that kinases were overrepresented in the list of identified putative substrates and tyrosine residues whose phosphorylation is known to increase kinase activity were dephosphorylated by ptp-3. These data are suggestive of ptp-3 as a potential negative regulator of several kinase families, such as the mitogen activated kinases (MAPKs), and multiple tyrosine kinases including FER, MET, and NTRK2.
PXD003209	27068479	ExtraPEG: A Polyethylene Glycol-Based Method for Enrichment of Extracellular Vesicles. 	Proteomics of Extracellular Vesicles Harvested with ExtraPEG	Polyethylene glycol, exosome, extracellular vesicle	Initially thought to be a means for cells to eliminate waste, secreted extracellular vesicles, known as exosomes, are now understood to mediate numerous healthy and pathological processes. Though abundant in biological fluids, purifying exosomes has been challenging because their biophysical properties overlap with other secreted cell products. Easy-to-use commercial kits for harvesting exosomes are now widely used, but the relative low-purity and high-cost of the preparations restricts their utility. Here we describe a method for purifying exosomes and other extracellular vesicles by adapting methods for isolating viruses using polyethylene glycol. This technique, called ExtraPEG, enriches exosomes from large volumes of media rapidly and inexpensively using low-speed centrifugation, followed by a single small-volume ultracentrifugation purification step. Total protein and RNA harvested from vesicles is sufficient in quantity and quality for proteomics and sequencing analyses, demonstrating the utility of this method for biomarker discovery and diagnostics. Additionally, confocal microscopy studies suggest that the biological activity of vesicles is not impaired. The ExtraPEG method can be easily adapted to enrich for different vesicle populations, or as an efficient precursor to subsequent purification techniques, providing a means to harvest exosomes from many different biological fluids and for a wide variety of purposes.
PXD002555	27068509	Extracellular matrix remodelling in response to venous hypertension: proteomics of human varicose veins. 	Extracellular Matrix Analysis of Human Varicose Veins	Cardiovascular, Extracellular Matrix, Human Varicose Vein, Q Exactive Plus, Remodeling, Venous Hypertension	AIMS: Extracellular matrix remodelling has been implicated in a number of vascular conditions, including venous hypertension and varicose veins. However, to date, no systematic analysis of matrix remodelling in human veins has been performed. METHODS AND RESULTS: To understand the consequences of venous hypertension, normal and varicose veins were evaluated using proteomics approaches targeting the extracellular matrix. Varicose saphenous veins removed during phlebectomy and normal saphenous veins obtained during coronary artery bypass surgery were collected for proteomics analysis. Extracellular matrix proteins were enriched from venous tissues. The proteomics analysis revealed the presence of >150 extracellular matrix proteins, of which 48 had not been previously detected in venous tissue. Extracellular matrix remodelling in varicose veins was characterized by a loss of aggrecan and several small leucine-rich proteoglycans and a compensatory increase in collagen I and laminins. Gene expression analysis of the same tissues suggested that the remodelling process associated with venous hypertension predominantly occurs at the protein rather than the transcript level. The loss of aggrecan in varicose veins was paralleled by a reduced expression of aggrecanases. Chymase and tryptase beta1 were among the up-regulated proteases. The effect of these serine proteases on the venous extracellular matrix was further explored by incubating normal saphenous veins with recombinant enzymes. Proteomics analysis revealed extensive extracellular matrix degradation after digestion with tryptase beta1. In comparison, chymase was less potent and degraded predominantly basement membrane-associated proteins. CONCLUSION: The present proteomics study provides unprecedented insights into the expression and degradation of structural and regulatory components of the vascular extracellular matrix in varicosis.
PXD003462	27070921	Quantitative analysis of the supernatant from host and transfected CHO cells using iTRAQ 8-plex technique. 	Quantitative analysis of the supernatant from native and transfected CHO cells using iTRAQ 8-plex technique	CHO supernatant, iTRAQ 8-PLEX	We employed UPLC-MS/MS with iTRAQ 8-plex labeling to quantitatively analyze the supernatant produced by two Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell lines (CHO K1SV and CHO CAT-S). In each case, the supernatant from the host and three transfected clones were analyzed at days 5, 7, and 10 of culture. A total of eight iTRAQ 8-plex experiments were performed. For each cell line, the overlap of supernatant protein identifications between transfected clones is over 60%. Over 70% of the supernatant proteins in the CHO K1SV host cell line are present in the CHO CAT-S cell line. For the CHO K1SV cell line, the overlap in supernatant protein identifications between the host cell line and the transfected clones is >59%. For the CHO CAT-S cell line, the overlap between supernatant protein identifications for the transfected clone and host cell is >45%. These differences in the supernatant protein identifications between transfected clones in each cell line and between the two host cell lines are not significant. We used cluster analysis to characterize the change in supernatant protein expression as a function of cell culture time. Roughly <60% of the supernatant proteins show significant change across the three time points (ratio >1.3 or <0.7). We also used cluster analysis to compare changes in supernatant protein expression between the host and three transfected clones at each time point. Greater than 65% of the common proteins in the CHO K1SV cell line supernatant and over 54% in the CHO CAT-S cell line supernatant show no significant expression difference between host and the three transfected clones. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003462. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2016;113: 2140-2148. (c) 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
PXD002545	27074791	Regulation of Platelet Derived Growth Factor Signaling by Leukocyte Common Antigen-related (LAR) Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase: A Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Study. 	Phosphoproteomic studies of role of LAR protein tyrosine phosphatase in mouse embryonic fibroblasts	LTQ Orbitrap Elite, fibroblast, phosphoproteomics	Intracellular signaling pathways are reliant on protein phosphorylation events that are controlled by a balance of kinase and phosphatase activity. Although kinases have been extensively studied, the role of phosphatases in controlling specific cell signaling pathways has been less so. Leukocyte common antigen-related protein (LAR) is a member of the LAR subfamily of receptor-like protein tyrosine phosphatases (RPTPs). LAR is known to regulate the activity of a number of receptor tyrosine kinases, including platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR). To gain insight into the signaling pathways regulated by LAR, including those that are PDGF-dependent, we have carried out the first systematic analysis of LAR-regulated signal transduction using SILAC-based quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic techniques. We haveanalyzed differential phosphorylation between wild-type mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs) and MEFs in which the LAR cytoplasmic phosphatase domains had been deleted (LARDeltaP), and found a significant change in abundance of phosphorylation on 270 phosphosites from 205 proteins because of the absence of the phosphatase domains of LAR. Further investigation of specific LAR-dependent phosphorylation sites and enriched biological processes reveal that LAR phosphatase activity impacts on a variety of cellular processes, most notably regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. Analysis of putative upstream kinases that may play an intermediary role between LAR and the identified LAR-dependent phosphorylation events has revealed a role for LAR in regulating mTOR and JNK signaling.
PXD003550	27075204	Mass spectrometry analysis of adipose-derived stem cells reveals a significant effect of hypoxia on pathways regulating extracellular matrix. 	Proteome analysis of adipose-derived stem cells cultured under clinically relevant conditions in a wound healing perspective	Adipose-derived stem cells, hypoxia, secretome, serum-free culture	BACKGROUND: Adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs) are being increasingly recognized for their potential to promote tissue regeneration and wound healing. These effects appear to be partly mediated by paracrine signaling pathways, and are enhanced during hypoxia. Mass spectrometry (MS) is a valuable tool for proteomic profiling of cultured ASCs, which may help to reveal the identity of the factors secreted by the cells under different conditions. However, serum starvation which is essentially required to obtain samples compatible with secretome analysis by MS can have a significant influence on ASCs. Here, we present a novel and optimized culturing approach based on the use of a clinically relevant serum-free formulation, which was used to assess the effects of hypoxia on the ASC proteomic profile. METHODS: Human ASCs from three human donors were expanded in StemPro(R) MSC SFM XenoFree medium. Cells were cultured for 24 h in serum- and albumin-free supplements in either normoxic (20 %) or hypoxic (1 %) atmospheres, after which the cells and conditioned medium were collected, subfractionated, and analyzed using MS. Prior to analysis, the secreted proteins were further subdivided into a secretome (>30 kDa) and a peptidome (3-30 kDa) fraction. RESULTS: MS analysis revealed the presence of 342, 98, and 3228 proteins in the normoxic ASC secretome, peptidome, and proteome, respectively. A relatively small fraction of the proteome (9.6 %) was significantly affected by hypoxia, and the most regulated proteins were those involved in extracellular matrix (ECM) synthesis and cell metabolism. No proteins were found to be significantly modulated by hypoxic treatment across all cultures for the secretome and peptidome samples. CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights ECM remodeling as a significant mechanism contributing to the ASC regenerative effect after hypoxic preconditioning, and further underscores considerable inter-individual differences in ASC response to hypoxia. The novel culture paradigm provides a basis for future proteomic studies under conditions that do not induce a stress response, so that the best responders can be accurately identified for prospective therapeutic use. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003550.
PXD003372	27079982	Quantitative proteomic analysis of post-flooding recovery in soybean root exposed to aluminum oxide nanoparticles. 	Proteomic and morphological analyses of post-flooding recovery in soybean root exposed to aluminum oxide nanoparticles	aluminum oxide nanoparticles, flooding stress, morphology, recovery, soybean	Aluminum oxide nanoparticles (Al2O3 NPs) are used in various commercial and agricultural products. Soybean exhibits severe reduction in growth under flooding condition. To examine the effects of Al2O3 NPs on the recovery of soybean from flooding, proteomic analysis was performed. Survival percentage and weight/length of root including hypocotyl were improved after 2 and 4days of flooding with 50ppm Al2O3 NPs leading to recovery as compared to flooding. A total of 211 common proteins were changed in abundance during the recovery period after treatment without or with Al2O3 NPs. These proteins were related to protein synthesis, stress, cell wall, and signaling. Among the identified stress-related proteins, S-adenosyl-l-methionine dependent methyltransferases were recovered from flooding with Al2O3 NPs. Hierarchical clustering divided the identified proteins into three clusters. Cluster II exhibited the greatest change in proteins related to protein synthesis, transport, and development during the recovery from flooding with Al2O3 NPs. However, activity of enolase remained unchanged during flooding leading to subsequent recovery with Al2O3 NPs. These results suggest that S-adenosyl-l-methionine dependent methyltransferases and enolase might be involved in mediating recovery responses by Al2O3 NPs. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This study highlighted the role of Al2O3 NPs in recovery of soybean seedlings from flooding stress using gel-free proteomic technique. The key findings of this study are as follows: (i) survival percentage was enhanced at 50ppm Al2O3 NPs during the recovery stage; (ii) seedling weight and weight/length of root including hypocotyl improved at 50ppm Al2O3 NPs during the period of recovery; (iii) protein synthesis and stress related proteins were increased on recovery after flooding without or with Al2O3 NPs; (iv) the abundance of S-adenosyl-l-methionine dependent methyltransferases recovered from flooding with Al2O3 NPs; (v) glycolysis related proteins amplified under flooding with Al2O3 NPs; (vi) enolase enzyme remained unchanged during flooding leading to subsequent recovery from flooding with Al2O3 NPs. Collectively, these results suggest that S-adenosyl-l-methionine dependent methyltransferases and enolase are involved in response to flooding with Al2O3 NPs and might be helpful in recovery from flooding stress.
PXD003094	27080496	Proteomic differences between native and tissue-engineered tendon and ligament. 	Comprehensive proteomic comparision between native tendon and ligament and 3D issue engineered tendon and ligament constructs	3D tissue engineered ligament, 3D tissue engineered tendon, native ligament, native tendon	Tendons and ligaments (T/Ls) play key roles in the musculoskeletal system, but they are susceptible to traumatic or age-related rupture, leading to severe morbidity as well as increased susceptibility to degenerative joint diseases such as osteoarthritis. Tissue engineering represents an attractive therapeutic approach to treating T/L injury but it is hampered by our poor understanding of the defining characteristics of the two tissues. The present study aimed to determine differences in the proteomic profile between native T/Ls and tissue engineered (TE) T/L constructs. The canine long digital extensor tendon and anterior cruciate ligament were analyzed along with 3D TE fibrin-based constructs created from their cells. Native tendon and ligament differed in their content of key structural proteins, with the ligament being more abundant in fibrocartilaginous proteins. 3D T/L TE constructs contained less extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins and had a greater proportion of cellular-associated proteins than native tissue, corresponding to their low collagen and high DNA content. Constructs were able to recapitulate native T/L tissue characteristics particularly with regard to ECM proteins. However, 3D T/L TE constructs had similar ECM and cellular protein compositions indicating that cell source may not be an important factor for T/L tissue engineering.
PXD002990	27080861	Integrative Phosphoproteomics Links IL-23R Signaling with Metabolic Adaptation in Lymphocytes. 	Complementary Phosphoproteomic Approaches Link IL-23R Downstream Signaling with Metabolic Adaptation in Lymphocytes	Highlighted, phosphoproteomics IL-23	Interleukin (IL)-23 mediated signal transduction represents a major molecular mechanism underlying the pathology of inflammatory bowel disease, Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. In addition, emerging evidence supports the role of IL-23-driven Th17 cells in inflammation. Components of the IL-23 signaling pathway, such as IL-23R, JAK2 and STAT3, have been characterized, but elements unique to this network as compared to other interleukins have not been readily explored. In this study, we have undertaken an integrative phosphoproteomics approach to better characterise downstream signaling events. To this end, we performed and compared phosphopeptide and phosphoprotein enrichment methodologies after activation of T lymphocytes by IL-23. We demonstrate the complementary nature of the two phosphoenrichment approaches by maximizing the capture of phosphorylation events. A total of 8202 unique phosphopeptides, and 4317 unique proteins were identified, amongst which STAT3, PKM2, CDK6 and LASP-1 showed induction of specific phosphorylation not readily observed after IL-2 stimulation. Interestingly, quantitative analysis revealed predominant phosphorylation of pre-existing STAT3 nuclear subsets in addition to translocation of phosphorylated STAT3 within 30 min after IL-23 stimulation. After IL-23R activation, a small subset of PKM2 also translocates to the nucleus and may contribute to STAT3 phosphorylation, suggesting multiple cellular responses including metabolic adaptation.
PXD003098	27081212	Comprehensively Characterizing the Thioredoxin Interactome In Vivo Highlights the Central Role Played by This Ubiquitous Oxidoreductase in Redox Control. 	In vivo trapping of thioredoxin substrates	E. Coli, TRX1, substrates	Thioredoxin (Trx) is a ubiquitous oxidoreductase maintaining protein-bound cysteine residues in the reduced thiol state. Here, we combined a well-established method to trap Trx substrates with the power of bacterial genetics to comprehensively characterize the in vivo Trx redox interactome in the model bacterium Escherichia coli Using strains engineered to optimize trapping, we report the identification of a total 268 Trx substrates, including 201 that had never been reported to depend on Trx for reduction. The newly identified Trx substrates are involved in a variety of cellular processes, ranging from energy metabolism to amino acid synthesis and transcription. The interaction between Trx and two of its newly identified substrates, a protein required for the import of most carbohydrates, PtsI, and the bacterial actin homolog MreB was studied in detail. We provide direct evidence that PtsI and MreB contain cysteine residues that are susceptible to oxidation and that participate in the formation of an intermolecular disulfide with Trx. By considerably expanding the number of Trx targets, our work highlights the role played by this major oxidoreductase in a variety of cellular processes. Moreover, as the dependence on Trx for reduction is often conserved across species, it also provides insightful information on the interactome of Trx in organisms other than E. coli.
PXD000915	27082425	The Effect of Chronic Methamphetamine Exposure on the Hippocampal and Olfactory Bulb Neuroproteomes of Rats. 	Effect of Chronic Methamphetamine Exposure on the Neuroproteomics of Rat Brain Tissues	chronic administration, drug abuse, escalating dose, methamphetamine, neuroproteomics, systems biology	Nowadays, drug abuse and addiction are serious public health problems in the USA. Methamphetamine (METH) is one of the most abused drugs and is known to cause brain damage after repeated exposure. In this paper, we conducted a neuroproteomic study to evaluate METH-induced brain protein dynamics, following a two-week chronic regimen of an escalating dose of METH exposure. Proteins were extracted from rat brain hippocampal and olfactory bulb tissues and subjected to liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. Both shotgun and targeted proteomic analysis were performed. Protein quantification was initially based on comparing the spectral counts between METH exposed animals and their control counterparts. Quantitative differences were further confirmed through multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) LC-MS/MS experiments. According to the quantitative results, the expression of 18 proteins (11 in the hippocampus and 7 in the olfactory bulb) underwent a significant alteration as a result of exposing rats to METH. 13 of these proteins were up-regulated after METH exposure while 5 were down-regulated. The altered proteins belonging to different structural and functional families were involved in processes such as cell death, inflammation, oxidation, and apoptosis.
PXD003685	27083931	The adaptive metabolic response involves specific protein glutathionylation during the filamentation process in the pathogen Candida albicans. 	The adaptive metabolic response involves specific protein glutathionylation during the filamentation process in the pathogen Candida albicans	Candida albicans / filamentation/ glutathionylation/ isocitrate lyase / mitochondria	Candida albicans is an opportunist pathogen responsible for a large spectrum of infections, from superficial mycosis to the systemic disease candidiasis. Its ability to adopt various morphological forms, such as unicellular yeasts, filamentous pseudohyphae and hyphae, contributes to its ability to survive within the host. It has been suggested that the antioxidant glutathione is involved in the filamentation process. We investigated S-glutathionylation, the reversible binding of glutathione to proteins, and the functional consequences on C. albicans metabolic remodeling during the yeast-to-hyphae transition. Our work provided evidence for the specific glutathionylation of mitochondrial proteins involved in bioenergetics pathways in filamentous forms and a regulation of the main enzyme of the glyoxylate cycle, isocitrate lyase, by glutathionylation. Isocitrate lyase inactivation in the hyphal forms was reversed by glutaredoxin treatment, in agreement with a glutathionylation process, which was confirmed by proteomic data showing the binding of one glutathione molecule to the enzyme (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003685). We also assessed the effect of alternative carbon sources on glutathione levels and isocitrate lyase activity. Changes in nutrient availability led to morphological flexibility and were related to perturbations in glutathione levels and isocitrate lyase activity, confirming the key role of the maintenance of intracellular redox status in the adaptive metabolic strategy of the pathogen.
PXD002781	27084891	Hepatic Cytochrome P450 Activity, Abundance, and Expression Throughout Human Development. 	Fetal to adult ontogeny of human cytochrome P450 activity, abundance, and expression	activity-based proteomics, cytochrome P450, ontogeny	Cytochrome P450s are oxidative metabolic enzymes that play critical roles in the biotransformation of endogenous compounds and xenobiotics. The expression and activity of P450 enzymes varies considerably throughout human development; the deficit in our understanding of these dynamics limits our ability to predict environmental and pharmaceutical exposure effects. In an effort to develop a more comprehensive understanding of the ontogeny of P450 enzymes, we employed a multi-omic characterization of P450 transcript expression, protein abundance, and functional activity. Modified mechanism-based inhibitors of P450s were used as chemical probes for isolating active P450 proteoforms in human hepatic microsomes with developmental stages ranging from early gestation to late adult. High-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to identify and quantify probe-labeled P450s, allowing for a functional profile of P450 ontogeny. Total protein abundance profiles and P450 rRNA was also measured, and our results reveal life-stage-dependent variability in P450 expression, abundance, and activity throughout human development and frequent discordant relationships between expression and activity. We have significantly expanded the knowledge of P450 ontogeny, particularly at the level of individual P450 activity. We anticipate that these results will be useful for enabling predictive therapeutic dosing, and for avoiding potentially adverse and harmful reactions during maturation from both therapeutic drugs and environmental xenobiotics.
PXD003223	27087446	Oncogenic KRAS Regulates Tumor Cell Signaling via Stromal Reciprocation. 	Oncogenic KRAS Regulates Tumor Cell Signaling via Stromal Reciprocation	KRAS PDA phosphoproteomics TMT APE SILAC CTAP	Oncogenic mutations regulate signaling within both tumor cells and adjacent stromal cells. Here, we show that oncogenic KRAS (KRAS(G12D)) also regulates tumor cell signaling via stromal cells. By combining cell-specific proteome labeling with multivariate phosphoproteomics, we analyzed heterocellular KRAS(G12D) signaling in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) cells. Tumor cell KRAS(G12D) engages heterotypic fibroblasts, which subsequently instigate reciprocal signaling in the tumor cells. Reciprocal signaling employs additional kinases and doubles the number of regulated signaling nodes from cell-autonomous KRAS(G12D). Consequently, reciprocal KRAS(G12D) produces a tumor cell phosphoproteome and total proteome that is distinct from cell-autonomous KRAS(G12D) alone. Reciprocal signaling regulates tumor cell proliferation and apoptosis and increases mitochondrial capacity via an IGF1R/AXL-AKT axis. These results demonstrate that oncogene signaling should be viewed as a heterocellular process and that our existing cell-autonomous perspective underrepresents the extent of oncogene signaling in cancer. VIDEO ABSTRACT.
PXD002847	27087653	Formalin-Fixed, Paraffin-Embedded Tissues (FFPE) as a Robust Source for the Profiling of Native and Protease-Generated Protein Amino Termini. 	Profiling of Native and Protease_Generated Protein Amino Termini from Formalin-Fixed, Paraffin-Embedded Tissues	FFPE, N-terminomics, TAILS, degradome, protease, proteolysis	Dysregulated proteolysis represents a hallmark of numerous diseases. In recent years, increasing number of studies has begun looking at the protein termini in hope to unveil the physiological and pathological functions of proteases in clinical research. However, the availability of cryopreserved tissue specimens is often limited. Alternatively, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues offer an invaluable resource for clinical research. Pathologically relevant tissues are often stored as FFPE, which represent the most abundant resource of archived human specimens. In this study, we established a robust workflow to investigate native and protease-generated protein N termini from FFPE specimens. We demonstrate comparable N-terminomes of cryopreserved and formalin-fixed tissue, thereby showing that formalin fixation/paraffin embedment does not proteolytically damage proteins. Accordingly, FFPE specimens are fully amenable to N-terminal analysis. Moreover, we demonstrate feasibility of FFPE-degradomics in a quantitative N-terminomic study of FFPE liver specimens from cathepsin L deficient or wild-type mice. Using a machine learning approach in combination with the previously determined cathepsin L specificity, we successfully identify a number of potential cathepsin L cleavage sites. Our study establishes FFPE specimens as a valuable alternative to cryopreserved tissues for degradomic studies.
PXD003625	27089233	A Pipeline for Differential Proteomics in Unsequenced Species. 	A differential proteomics pipeline for unsequenced species	Escherichia coli, Taenia hydatigena, Taenia solium	Shotgun proteomics experiments often take the form of a differential analysis, where two or more samples are compared against each other. The objective is to identify proteins that are either unique to a specific sample or a set of samples (qualitative differential proteomics), or that are significantly differentially expressed in one or more samples (quantitative differential proteomics). However, the success depends on the availability of a reliable protein sequence database for each sample. To perform such an analysis in the absence of a database, we here propose a novel, generic pipeline comprising an adapted spectral similarity score derived from database search algorithms that compares samples at the spectrum level to detect unique spectra. We applied our pipeline to compare two parasitic tapeworms: Taenia solium and Taenia hydatigena, of which only the former poses a threat to humans. Furthermore, because the genome of T. solium recently became available, we were able to prove the effectiveness and reliability of our pipeline a posteriori.
PXD003269	27091080	Facile preparation of salivary extracellular vesicles for cancer proteomics. 	human salivary extracellulae vesicles LC-MS/MS	saliva, vesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membrane surrounded structures released by cells, which have been increasingly recognized as mediators of intercellular communication. Recent reports indicate that EVs participate in important biological processes and could serve as potential source for cancer biomarkers. As an attractive EVs source with merit of non-invasiveness, human saliva is a unique medium for clinical diagnostics. Thus, we proposed a facile approach to prepare salivary extracellular vesicles (SEVs). Affinity chromatography column combined with filter system (ACCF) was developed to efficiently remove the high abundant proteins and viscous interferences of saliva. Protein profiling in the SEVs obtained by this strategy was compared with conventional centrifugation method, which demonstrated that about 70% more SEVs proteins could be revealed. To explore its utility for cancer proteomics, we analyzed the proteome of SEVs in lung cancer patients and normal controls. Shotgun proteomic analysis illustrated that 113 and 95 proteins have been identified in cancer group and control group, respectively. Among those 63 proteins that have been consistently discovered only in cancer group, 12 proteins are lung cancer related. Our results demonstrated that SEVs prepared through the developed strategy are valuable samples for proteomics and could serve as a promising liquid biopsy for cancer.
PXD001071	27093108	Proteogenomics of Candida tropicalis--An Opportunistic Pathogen with Importance for Global Health. 	Proteogenomics of Candida tropicalis - an opportunistic pathogen	genome annotation, shotgun proteomics	The frequency of Candida infections is currently rising, and thus adversely impacting global health. The situation is exacerbated by azole resistance developed by fungal pathogens. Candida tropicalis is an opportunistic pathogen that causes candidiasis, for example, in immune-compromised individuals, cancer patients, and those who undergo organ transplantation. It is a member of the non-albicans group of Candida that are known to be azole-resistant, and is frequently seen in individuals being treated for cancers, HIV-infection, and those who underwent bone marrow transplantation. Although the genome of C. tropicalis was sequenced in 2009, the genome annotation has not been supported by experimental validation. In the present study, we have carried out proteomics profiling of C. tropicalis using high-resolution Fourier transform mass spectrometry. We identified 2743 proteins, thus mapping nearly 44% of the computationally predicted protein-coding genes with peptide level evidence. In addition to identifying 2591 proteins in the cell lysate of this yeast, we also analyzed the proteome of the conditioned media of C. tropicalis culture and identified several unique secreted proteins among a total of 780 proteins. By subjecting the mass spectrometry data derived from cell lysate and conditioned media to proteogenomic analysis, we identified 86 novel genes, 12 novel exons, and corrected 49 computationally-predicted gene models. To our knowledge, this is the first high-throughput proteomics study of C. tropicalis validating predicted protein coding genes and refining the current genome annotation. The findings may prove useful in future global health efforts to fight against Candida infections.
PXD003653	27094026	Protein precipitation of diluted samples in SDS-containing buffer with acetone leads to higher protein recovery and reproducibility in comparison with TCA/acetone approach. 	Protein precipitation of diluted samples with acetone leads to higher protein recovery and reproducibility in comparison with TCA/acetone approach	Acetone, Protein Precipitation, SWATH, TCA/acetone	Proteomic approaches are extremely valuable in many fields of research, where mass spectrometry methods have gained an increasing interest, especially because of the ability to perform quantitative analysis. Nonetheless, sample preparation prior to mass spectrometry analysis is of the utmost importance. In this work, two protein precipitation approaches, widely used for cleaning and concentrating protein samples, were tested and compared in very diluted samples solubilized in a strong buffer (containing SDS). The amount of protein recovered after acetone and TCA/acetone precipitation was assessed, as well as the protein identification and relative quantification by SWATH-MS yields were compared with the results from the same sample without precipitation. From this study, it was possible to conclude that in the case of diluted samples in denaturing buffers, the use of cold acetone as precipitation protocol is more favourable than the use of TCA/acetone in terms of reproducibility in protein recovery and number of identified and quantified proteins. Furthermore, the reproducibility in relative quantification of the proteins is even higher in samples precipitated with acetone compared with the original sample.
PXD003091	27094473	SWATH-MS Glycoproteomics Reveals Consequences of Defects in the Glycosylation Machinery. 	Yeast cell wall glycoproteomic SWATH-MS	SWATH, cell wall	Glycan macro- and microheterogeneity have profound impacts on protein folding and function. This heterogeneity can be regulated by physiological or environmental factors. However, unregulated heterogeneity can lead to disease, and mutations in the glycosylation process cause a growing number of Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation. We systematically studied how mutations in the N-glycosylation pathway lead to defects in mature proteins using all viable Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains with deletions in genes encoding Endoplasmic Reticulum lumenal mannosyltransferases (Alg3, Alg9, and Alg12), glucosyltransferases (Alg6, Alg8, and Die2/Alg10), or oligosaccharyltransferase subunits (Ost3, Ost5, and Ost6). To measure the changes in glycan macro- and microheterogeneity in mature proteins caused by these mutations we developed a SWATH-mass spectrometry glycoproteomics workflow. We measured glycan structures and occupancy on mature cell wall glycoproteins, and relative protein abundance, in the different mutants. All mutants showed decreased glycan occupancy and altered cell wall proteomes compared with wild-type cells. Mutations in earlier mannosyltransferase or glucosyltransferase steps of glycan biosynthesis had stronger hypoglycosylation phenotypes, but glucosyltransferase defects were more severe. ER mannosyltransferase mutants displayed substantial global changes in glycan microheterogeneity consistent with truncations in the glycan transferred to protein in these strains. Although ER glucosyltransferase and oligosaccharyltransferase subunit mutants broadly showed no change in glycan structures, ost3Delta cells had shorter glycan structures at some sites, consistent with increased protein quality control mannosidase processing in this severely hypoglycosylating mutant. This method allows facile relative quantitative glycoproteomics, and our results provide insights into global regulation of site-specific glycosylation.
PXD003386	27094474	Identification of Bovine Sperm Surface Proteins Involved in Carbohydrate-mediated Fertilization Interactions. 	Bovine sperm surface lectinome	Bovine, fertilization, lectins, sperm	Glycan-protein interactions play a key role in mammalian fertilization, but data on the composition and identities of protein complexes involved in fertilization events are scarce, with the added complication that the glycans in such interactions tend to differ among species. In this study we have used a bovine model to detect, characterize and identify sperm lectins relevant in fertilization. Given the complexity of the sperm-toward-egg journey, two important aspects of the process, both primarily mediated by protein-sugar interactions, have been addressed: (1) formation of the sperm reservoir in the oviductal epithelium, and (2) gamete recognition (oocyte-sperm interaction). Using whole sperm cells and a novel affinity capture method, several groups of proteins with different glycan specificities, including 58 hitherto unreported as lectins, have been identified in sperm surface, underscoring both the efficacy of our selective approach and the complex composition and function of sperm. Based on these results and previous data, we suggest that sperm surface proteins play significant roles in fertilization events such as membrane remodeling, transport, protection and function, thus supporting the hypothesis that rather than a simple lock-and-key model, mammalian fertilization relies on a complex interactome involving multiple ligands/receptors and recognition/binding events.
PXD003621	27095734	Prolyl hydroxylation regulates protein degradation, synthesis, and splicing in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes. 	Prolyl hydroxylation regulates protein degradation, synthesis and splicing in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes	amino acid labeling, iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes, prolyl hydroxylation	AIMS: Protein hydroxylases are oxygen- and alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent enzymes that catalyse hydroxylation of amino acids such as proline, thus linking oxygen and metabolism to enzymatic activity. Prolyl hydroxylation is a dynamic post-translational modification that regulates protein stability and protein-protein interactions; however, the extent of this modification is largely uncharacterized. The goals of this study are to investigate the biological consequences of prolyl hydroxylation and to identify new targets that undergo prolyl hydroxylation in human cardiomyocytes. METHODS AND RESULTS: We used human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes in combination with pulse-chase amino acid labelling and proteomics to analyse the effects of prolyl hydroxylation on protein degradation and synthesis. We identified 167 proteins that exhibit differences in degradation with inhibition of prolyl hydroxylation by dimethyloxalylglycine (DMOG); 164 were stabilized. Proteins involved in RNA splicing such as serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 2 (SRSF2) and splicing factor and proline- and glutamine-rich (SFPQ) were stabilized with DMOG. DMOG also decreased protein translation of cytoskeletal and sarcomeric proteins such as alpha-cardiac actin. We searched the mass spectrometry data for proline hydroxylation and identified 134 high confidence peptides mapping to 78 unique proteins. We identified SRSF2, SFPQ, alpha-cardiac actin, and cardiac titin as prolyl hydroxylated. We identified 29 prolyl hydroxylated proteins that showed a significant difference in either protein degradation or synthesis. Additionally, we performed next-generation RNA sequencing and showed that the observed decrease in protein synthesis was not due to changes in mRNA levels. Because RNA splicing factors were prolyl hydroxylated, we investigated splicing +/- inhibition of prolyl hydroxylation and detected 369 alternative splicing events, with a preponderance of exon skipping. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides the first extensive characterization of the cardiac prolyl hydroxylome and demonstrates that inhibition of alpha-ketoglutarate hydroxylases alters protein stability, translation, and splicing.
PXD002846	27099343	Molecular Signatures of Membrane Protein Complexes Underlying Muscular Dystrophy. 	Molecular signatures of membrane protein complexes underlying muscular dystrophy	Skeletal Muscle, directed MS (dMS), membrane protein complexes	Mutations in genes encoding components of the sarcolemmal dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) are responsible for a large number of muscular dystrophies. As such, molecular dissection of the DGC is expected to both reveal pathological mechanisms, and provides a biological framework for validating new DGC components. Establishment of the molecular composition of plasma-membrane protein complexes has been hampered by a lack of suitable biochemical approaches. Here we present an analytical workflow based upon the principles of protein correlation profiling that has enabled us to model the molecular composition of the DGC in mouse skeletal muscle. We also report our analysis of protein complexes in mice harboring mutations in DGC components. Bioinformatic analyses suggested that cell-adhesion pathways were under the transcriptional control of NFkappaB in DGC mutant mice, which is a finding that is supported by previous studies that showed NFkappaB-regulated pathways underlie the pathophysiology of DGC-related muscular dystrophies. Moreover, the bioinformatic analyses suggested that inflammatory and compensatory mechanisms were activated in skeletal muscle of DGC mutant mice. Additionally, this proteomic study provides a molecular framework to refine our understanding of the DGC, identification of protein biomarkers of neuromuscular disease, and pharmacological interrogation of the DGC in adult skeletal muscle https://www.mda.org/disease/congenital-muscular-dystrophy/research.
PXD003447	27100182	Intestinal Microbiota and Microbial Metabolites Are Changed in a Pig Model Fed a High-Fat/Low-Fiber or a Low-Fat/High-Fiber Diet. 	pig microbiota ob/le -  Intestinal Microbiota and Microbial Metabolites Are Changed in a Pig Model Fed a High-Fat/Low-Fiber or a Low-Fat/High-Fiber Diet	GIT microbiota, pig	The intestinal microbiota and its metabolites appear to be an important factor for gastrointestinal function and health. However, research is still needed to further elaborate potential relationships between nutrition, gut microbiota and host's health by means of a suitable animal model. The present study examined the effect of two different diets on microbial composition and activity by using the pig as a model for humans. Eight pigs were equally allotted to two treatments, either fed a low-fat/high-fiber (LF), or a high-fat/low-fiber (HF) diet for 7 weeks. Feces were sampled at day 7 of every experimental week. Diet effects on fecal microbiota were assessed using quantitative real-time PCR, DNA fingerprinting and metaproteomics. Furthermore, fecal short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) profiles and ammonia concentrations were determined. Gene copy numbers of lactobacilli, bifidobacteria (P<0.001) and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii (P<0.05) were higher in the LF pigs, while Enterobacteriaceae were more abundant in the HF pigs (P<0.001). Higher numbers of proteins affiliated to Enterobacteriaceae were also present in the HF samples. Proteins for polysaccharide breakdown did almost exclusively originate from Prevotellaceae. Total and individual fecal SCFA concentrations were higher for pigs of the LF treatment (P<0.05), whereas fecal ammonia concentrations did not differ between treatments (P>0.05). Results provide evidence that beginning from the start of the experiment, the LF diet stimulated beneficial bacteria and SCFA production, especially butyrate (P<0.05), while the HF diet fostered those bacterial groups which have been associated with a negative impact on health conditions. These findings correspond to results in humans and might strengthen the hypothesis that the response of the porcine gut microbiota to a specific dietary modulation is in support of using the pig as suitable animal model for humans to assess diet-gut-microbiota interactions. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003447.
PXD003924	27100780	Nanonets Collect Cancer Secretome from Pericellular Space. 	Nanonets collect cancer secretome from pericellular space	Cancer, Secretome	Identifying novel cancer biomarkers is important for early cancer detection as it can reduce mortality rates. The cancer secretome, the collection of all macromolecules secreted by a tumor cell, alters its composition compared to normal tissue, and this change plays an important role in the observation of cancer progression. The collection and accurate analysis of cancer secretomes could lead to the discovery of novel biomarkers, thus improving outcomes of cancer treatment. We unexpectedly discovered that enzyme-instructed self-assembly (EISA) of a D-peptide hydrogelator results in nanonets/hydrogel around cancer cells that overexpress ectophosphatases. Here we show that these nanonets are able to rapidly collect proteins in the pericellular space (i.e., near the surface) of cancer cells. Because the secretory substances are at their highest concentration near the cell surface, the use of pericellular nanonets to collect the cancer secretome maximizes the yield and quality of samples, reduces pre-analytical variations, and allows the dynamic profiling of secretome samples. Thus, this new approach has great potential in identifying the heterotypic signaling in tumor microenvironments thereby improving the understanding of tumor microenvironments and accelerating the discovery of potential biomarkers in cancer biology. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003924.
PXD003623	27103343	Comprehensive Proteomic Study of the Antiproliferative Activity of a Polyphenol-Enriched Rosemary Extract on Colon Cancer Cells Using Nanoliquid Chromatography-Orbitrap MS/MS. 	Comprehensive proteomic study of the antiproliferative activity of a polyphenol-enriched rosemary extract on colon cancer cells using nano-liquid chromatography-Orbitrap MS/MS	HT-29 cells, antiproliferative activity, colon cancer, dimethyl labeling, foodomics, quantitative proteomics, rosemary extract	In this work, a proteomics strategy based on nanoliquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (nano-LC-MS/MS) using an Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometer together with stable isotope dimethyl labeling (DML) is applied to quantitatively examine relative changes in the protein fraction of HT-29 human colon cancer cells treated with different concentrations of a polyphenol-enriched rosemary extract over the time. The major objective of this study was to gain insights into the antiproliferative mechanisms induced by rosemary polyphenols. Using this methodology, 1909 and 698 proteins were identified and quantified in cell extracts. The polyphenol-enriched rosemary extract treatment changed the expression of several proteins in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Most of the altered proteins are implicated in the activation of Nrf2 transcription factor and the unfolded protein response. In conclusion, rosemary polyphenols induced proteomic changes that were related to the attenuation of aggresome formation and activation of autophagy to alleviate cellular stress.
PXD001776	27105822	Protein biomarkers of susceptibility and resilience to stress in a rat model of depression. 	Synaptosome Proteomics, Fraction 3	Rat, anhedonic, brain, depression, stress, synapses	The molecular etiologies of psychological stress and major depressive disorder (MDD) are highly complex and many brain regions are involved. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) has gained attention in depression research due to its role in cognition including working memory and decision-making, which are impaired in MDD. The aim of the present study was to identify differentially regulated synaptosomal proteins from PFC in stress-exposed animals. The well-established chronic mild stress (CMS) rodent model was applied and three groups of rats were studied: unstressed controls, stress-susceptible and stress resilient. Large-scale proteomics based on relative iTRAQ quantification was applied on three synaptosomal Percoll gradient fractions and 27 proteins were found to undergo significant differential regulation. Gradient fraction two (F2) contained the highest amounts of synaptosomal proteins and is therefore recommended to be included in proteomic studies onwards, in addition to the traditionally used fractions F3 and F4. The regulated proteins corroborate previous studies on depression regulated proteins; including GFAP, HOMER1 and glutamatergic transmission (vesicular transporter 1, VGLUT1). However, additional functionalities were represented - especially in stress-resilient rats - such as oxidative stress protection (peroxiredoxins PRDX1 and PRDX2), Na/K-transporter ATP1A2 and respiratory chain subunits (UQCRC1 and UQCRFS1), which illustrate the biochemical complexity behind the stress phenotypes, but may also aid in the development of novel treatment strategies.
PXD001962	27107064	Dual Roles of 17-beta Estradiol in Estrogen Receptor-dependent Growth Inhibition in Renal Cell Carcinoma. 	Phosphoproteomics of Human ACHN cells by estrogen	RCC, estrogen, phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: It has been proposed that 17-beta-estradiol (E2) activates estrogen receptor and inhibits renal cell carcinoma (RCC) growth. In the present study we explored the role of E2 and ER in the regulation of RCC growth. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The RCC cell line ACHN was treated by E2 combining with E2 antagonist Fulvestrant or ER knockdown, and cell growth was monitored. Quantitative phosphoproteomics was applied to study the E2 regulated non-genomic phosphorylation changes. Western blotting, immunofluorescence microscopy, and apoptosis assays were used for validation. RESULTS: E2 induced ER-dependent growth inhibition in RCC cell lines. Quantitative phosphoproteomics revealed that E2 induced both apoptosis and autophagy. Cellular apoptosis was confirmed by altered mitochondrial membrane potential, and ER-dependent autophagosome formation was also found. CONCLUSION: Our data revealed the potential dual roles of E2 in regulating RCC growth via autophagy and apoptosis pathways.
PXD003822	27107777	Freezing effects on the acute myeloid leukemia cell proteome and phosphoproteome revealed using optimal quantitative workflows. 	Human AML patient samples, Method Optimization, LC-MSMS	AML cells, LTQ-Orbitrap Elite, Label-free, Sample Preparation, Super-SILAC, phosphopeptide enrichment	MS-based proteomic studies aiming for the discovery of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) biomarkers require sample processing that can assure an optimal proteome coverage and identification of PTMs. We evaluated different in-solution and filter-aided sample preparation (FASP) proteomic workflows and different enrichment strategies of phosphorylated peptides. The FASP protocols in the label-free and SILAC (stable isotope labelling with amino acids in cell culture) approaches were selected for producing the highest number of quantified proteins with reduced number of missed cleavages. The IMAC method was selected for producing the highest number of quantified phosphopeptides from SILAC-labelled peptides prepared with FASP. Using these selected workflows, we studied the effect of liquid nitrogen storage on the proteome and phosphoproteome of four AML patients. Our results showed that although there was not a major global proteome and phosphoproteome change when compared to their freshly processed counterparts, the freezing appeared to influence the abundance of mitochondrial proteins involved in the respiratory chain transport and affect the phosphorylation of apoptosis related proteins, cell surface interactors, ERK/MAPK targets and proteins involved in thrombin signalling. Our results encourage the assessment of current procedures of AML sample collection and preservation that could be used in future AML biomarker discovery studies. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Proteomic studies aiming to identify potential cancer biomarkers need to utilize the best sample preparation workflows on the samples of interest to achieve maximal proteome coverage. We have tested the most popular and recent proteomic and phosphoproteomic methods on cell lysates from patients with AML and systematically evaluated their performance. Our study shows the relevance of selecting the patient sample procedure giving the highest protein and PTM coverage. Moreover, we assessed how the proteome and phosphoproteome were affected by the conventional liquid nitrogen storage compared to cell lysis of fresh material, using the methods that worked best in our hands. For potential biomarkers that could be used for AML diagnostic and prognostic, it is of great importance to study the behaviour during sample conservation in order to avoid artefactual findings. Our results recommend caution in data interpretation when using different protocols of sample collection and conservation for proteomic and phosphosproteomic research.
PXD003697	27109347	Gel-based and gel-free search for plasma membrane proteins in chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) augments the comprehensive data sets of membrane protein repertoire. 	Gel based and gel-free search for plasma membrane proteins in chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) augments the comprehensive data sets of membrane protein repertoire	Plant proteomics, high resolution mass spectrometry, shotgun proteomics	Plasma membrane (PM) encompasses total cellular contents, serving as semi-porous barrier to cell exterior. This living barrier regulates all cellular exchanges in a spatio-temporal fashion. Most of the essential tasks of PMs including molecular transport, cell-cell interaction and signal transduction are carried out by their proteinaceous components, which make the PM protein repertoire to be diverse and dynamic. Here, we report the systematic analysis of PM proteome of a food legume, chickpea and develop a PM proteome reference map. Proteins were extracted from highly enriched PM fraction of four-week-old seedlings using aqueous two-phase partitioning. To address a population of PM proteins that is as comprehensive as possible, both gel-based and gel-free approaches were employed, which led to the identification of a set of 2732 non-redundant proteins. These included both integral proteins having bilayer spanning domains as well as peripheral proteins associated with PMs through posttranslational modifications or protein-protein interactions. Further, the proteins were subjected to various in-silico analyses and functionally classified based on their gene ontology. Finally an inventory of the complete set of PM proteins, identified in several monocot and dicot species, was created for comparative study with the generated PM protein dataset of chickpea. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Chickpea, a rich source of dietary proteins, is the second most cultivated legume, which is grown over 10 million hectares of land worldwide. The annual global production of chickpea hovers around 8.5 million metric tons. Recent chickpea genome sequencing effort has provided a broad genetic basis for highlighting the important traits that may fortify other crop legumes. Improvement in chickpea varieties can further strengthen the world food security, which includes food availability, access and utilization. It is known that the phenotypic trait of a cultivar is the manifestation of the orchestrated functions of its proteins. Study of the PM proteome offers insights into the mechanism of communication between the cell and its environment by identification of receptors, signalling proteins and membrane transporters. Knowledge of the PM protein repertoire of a relatively dehydration tolerant chickpea variety, JG-62, can contribute in development of strategies for metabolic reprograming of crop species and breeding applications.
PXD003579	27109353	Characterization of the porcine seminal plasma proteome comparing ejaculate portions. 	Characterization of the porcine seminal plasma proteome	ejaculate, porcine, seminal plasma	Full identification of boar seminal plasma (SP) proteins remains challenging. This study aims to provide an extensive proteomic analysis of boar SP and to generate an accessible database of boar SP-proteome. A SP-pool (33entire ejaculates/11 boars; 3ejaculates/boar) was analyzed to characterize the boar SP-proteome. Twenty ejaculates (5 boars, 4ejaculates/boar) collected in portions (P1: first 10mL of sperm rich ejaculate fraction (SRF), P2: rest of SRF and P3: post-SRF) were analyzed to evaluate differentially expressed SP-proteins among portions. SP-samples were analyzed using a combination of SEC, 1-D SDS PAGE and NanoLC-ESI-MS/MS followed by functional bioinformatics. The identified proteins were quantified from normalized LFQ intensity data. A total of 536 SP-proteins were identified, 409 of them in Sus scrofa taxonomy (374 validated with >=99% confidence). Barely 20 of the identified SP-proteins were specifically implicated in reproductive processes, albeit other SP-proteins could be indirectly involved in functionality and fertility of boar spermatozoa. Thirty-four proteins (16 identified in S. scrofa taxonomy) were differentially expressed among ejaculate portions, 16 being over-expressed and 18 under-expressed in P1-P2 regarding to P3. This major proteome mapping of the boar SP provides a complex inventory of proteins with potential roles as sperm function- and fertility- biomarkers. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This proteomic study provides the major characterization of the boar SP-proteome with >250 proteins first reported. The boar SP-proteome is described so that a spectral library can be built for relative 'label free' protein quantification with SWATH approach. This proteomic profiling allows the creation of a publicly accessible database of the boar SP-proteome, as a first step for further understanding the role of SP-proteins in reproductive outcomes as well as for the identification of biomarkers for sperm quality and fertility.
PXD002119	27110685	Hypothalamus proteomics from mouse models with obesity and anorexia reveals therapeutic targets of appetite regulation. 	Fat BodFat Body, Hungry Brain: Nutriproteomics in the Hypothalamus from a Mouse Model with Obesity and Anorexiay, Hungry Brain: Nutriproteomics in the Hypothalamus from a Mouse Model with Obesity and Anorexia	acute inflammation, anorexia, chronic inflammation, hypothalamus, obesity	OBJECTIVE: This study examined the proteomic profile of the hypothalamus in mice exposed to a high-fat diet (HFD) or with the anorexia of acute illness. This comparison could provide insight on the effects of these two opposite states of energy balance on appetite regulation. METHODS: Four to six-week-old male C56BL/6J mice were fed a normal (control 1 group; n=7) or a HFD (HFD group; n=10) for 8 weeks. The control 2 (n=7) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) groups (n=10) were fed a normal diet for 8 weeks before receiving an injection of saline and LPS, respectively. Hypothalamic regions were analysed using a quantitative proteomics method based on a combination of techniques including iTRAQ stable isotope labeling, orthogonal two-dimensional liquid chromatography hyphenated with nanospray ionization and high-resolution mass spectrometry. Key proteins were validated with quantitative PCR. RESULTS: Quantitative proteomics of the hypothalamous regions profiled a total of 9249 protein groups (q<0.05). Of these, 7718 protein groups were profiled with a minimum of two unique peptides for each. Hierachical clustering of the differentiated proteome revealed distinct proteomic signatures for the hypothalamus under the HFD and LPS nutritional conditions. Literature research with in silico bioinformatics interpretation of the differentiated proteome identified key biological relevant proteins and implicated pathways. Furthermore, the study identified potential pharmacologic targets. In the LPS groups, the anorexigen pro-opiomelanocortin was downregulated. In mice with obesity, nuclear factor-kappaB, glycine receptor subunit alpha-4 (GlyR) and neuropeptide Y levels were elevated, whereas serotonin receptor 1B levels decreased. CONCLUSIONS: High-precision quantitative proteomics revealed that under acute systemic inflammation in the hypothalamus as a response to LPS, homeostatic mechanisms mediating loss of appetite take effect. Conversely, under chronic inflammation in the hypothalamus as a response to HFD, mechanisms mediating a sustained 'perpetual cycle' of appetite enhancement were observed. The GlyR protein may constitute a novel treatment target for the reduction of central orexigenic signals in obesity.
PXD002342	27114036	The Dynamic Regulatory Genome of Capsaspora and the Origin of Animal Multicellularity. 	The dynamic regulatory genome of Capsaspora owczarzaki and the origin of animal multicellularity	Histone acetylation methylation dimethilation trimethylation Capsaspora owczarzaki	The unicellular ancestor of animals had a complex repertoire of genes linked to multicellular processes. This suggests that changes in the regulatory genome, rather than in gene innovation, were key to the origin of animals. Here, we carry out multiple functional genomic assays in Capsaspora owczarzaki, the unicellular relative of animals with the largest known gene repertoire for transcriptional regulation. We show that changing chromatin states, differential lincRNA expression, and dynamic cis-regulatory sites are associated with life cycle transitions in Capsaspora. Moreover, we demonstrate conservation of animal developmental transcription-factor networks and extensive network interconnection in this premetazoan organism. In contrast, however, Capsaspora lacks animal promoter types, and its regulatory sites are small, proximal, and lack signatures of animal enhancers. Overall, our results indicate that the emergence of animal multicellularity was linked to a major shift in genome cis-regulatory complexity, most notably the appearance of distal enhancer regulation.
PXD002591	27114449	A Novel Quantitative Mass Spectrometry Platform for Determining Protein O-GlcNAcylation Dynamics. 	A novel quantitative mass spectrometry platform for determining site-specific protein O-GlcNAcylation dynamics	mass spectrometry method determines protein O-GlcNAcylation rates	Over the past decades, protein O-GlcNAcylation has been found to play a fundamental role in cell cycle control, metabolism, transcriptional regulation, and cellular signaling. Nevertheless, quantitative approaches to determine in vivo GlcNAc dynamics at a large-scale are still not readily available. Here, we have developed an approach to isotopically label O-GlcNAc modifications on proteins by producing (13)C-labeled UDP-GlcNAc from (13)C6-glucose via the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway. This metabolic labeling was combined with quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics to determine protein O-GlcNAcylation turnover rates. First, an efficient enrichment method for O-GlcNAc peptides was developed with the use of phenylboronic acid solid-phase extraction and anhydrous DMSO. The near stoichiometry reaction between the diol of GlcNAc and boronic acid dramatically improved the enrichment efficiency. Additionally, our kinetic model for turnover rates integrates both metabolomic and proteomic data, which increase the accuracy of the turnover rate estimation. Other advantages of this metabolic labeling method include in vivo application, direct labeling of the O-GlcNAc sites and higher confidence for site identification. Concentrating only on nuclear localized GlcNAc modified proteins, we are able to identify 105 O-GlcNAc peptides on 42 proteins and determine turnover rates of 20 O-GlcNAc peptides from 14 proteins extracted from HeLa nuclei. In general, we found O-GlcNAcylation turnover rates are slower than those published for phosphorylation or acetylation. Nevertheless, the rates widely varied depending on both the protein and the residue modified. We believe this methodology can be broadly applied to reveal turnovers/dynamics of protein O-GlcNAcylation from different biological states and will provide more information on the significance of O-GlcNAcylation, enabling us to study the temporal dynamics of this critical modification for the first time.
PXD002929	27114452	Global Membrane Protein Interactome Analysis using In vivo Crosslinking and Mass Spectrometry-based Protein Correlation Profiling. 	Global Membrane Protein Interactome Analysis using In vivo Crosslinking and MS-based Protein Correlation Profiling	Crosslinking, Protein-Protein Interactions	We present a methodology using in vivo crosslinking combined with HPLC-MS for the global analysis of endogenous protein complexes by protein correlation profiling. Formaldehyde crosslinked protein complexes were extracted with high yield using denaturing buffers that maintained complex solubility during chromatographic separation. We show this efficiently detects both integral membrane and membrane-associated protein complexes,in addition to soluble complexes, allowing identification and analysis of complexes not accessible in native extracts. We compare the protein complexes detected by HPLC-MS protein correlation profiling in both native and formaldehyde crosslinked U2OS cell extracts. These proteome-wide data sets of both in vivo crosslinked and native protein complexes from U2OS cells are freely available via a searchable online database (www.peptracker.com/epd). Raw data are also available via ProteomeXchange (identifier PXD003754).
PXD000011	27117477	NMDA receptors are selectively partitioned into complexes and supercomplexes during synapse maturation. 	TAP-GluN1, PSD95-TAP, WT (control) BNP-LC-MS/MS proteomics	NMDAR, native complexes, synapse	How neuronal proteomes self-organize is poorly understood because of their inherent molecular and cellular complexity. Here, focusing on mammalian synapses we use blue-native PAGE and 'gene-tagging' of GluN1 to report the first biochemical purification of endogenous NMDA receptors (NMDARs) directly from adult mouse brain. We show that NMDARs partition between two discrete populations of receptor complexes and ~1.5 MDa supercomplexes. We tested the assembly mechanism with six mouse mutants, which indicates a tripartite requirement of GluN2B, PSD93 and PSD95 gate the incorporation of receptors into ~1.5 MDa supercomplexes, independent of either canonical PDZ-ligands or GluN2A. Supporting the essential role of GluN2B, quantitative gene-tagging revealed a fourfold molar excess of GluN2B over GluN2A in adult forebrain. NMDAR supercomplexes are assembled late in postnatal development and triggered by synapse maturation involving epigenetic and activity-dependent mechanisms. Finally, screening the quaternary organization of 60 native proteins identified numerous discrete supercomplexes that populate the mammalian synapse.
PXD003279	27120771	Polyhydramnios, Transient Antenatal Bartter's Syndrome, and MAGED2 Mutations. 	Analysis of the MAGED2 interactome	293T, Kidney	BACKGROUND: Three pregnancies with male offspring in one family were complicated by severe polyhydramnios and prematurity. One fetus died; the other two had transient massive salt-wasting and polyuria reminiscent of antenatal Bartter's syndrome. METHODS: To uncover the molecular cause of this possibly X-linked disease, we performed whole-exome sequencing of DNA from two members of the index family and targeted gene analysis of other members of this family and of six additional families with affected male fetuses. We also evaluated a series of women with idiopathic polyhydramnios who were pregnant with male fetuses. We performed immunohistochemical analysis, knockdown and overexpression experiments, and protein-protein interaction studies. RESULTS: We identified a mutation in MAGED2 in each of the 13 infants in our analysis who had transient antenatal Bartter's syndrome. MAGED2 encodes melanoma-associated antigen D2 (MAGE-D2) and maps to the X chromosome. We also identified two different MAGED2 mutations in two families with idiopathic polyhydramnios. Four patients died perinatally, and 11 survived. The initial presentation was more severe than in known types of antenatal Bartter's syndrome, as reflected by an earlier onset of polyhydramnios and labor. All symptoms disappeared spontaneously during follow-up in the infants who survived. We showed that MAGE-D2 affects the expression and function of the sodium chloride cotransporters NKCC2 and NCC (key components of salt reabsorption in the distal renal tubule), possibly through adenylate cyclase and cyclic AMP signaling and a cytoplasmic heat-shock protein. CONCLUSIONS: We found that MAGED2 mutations caused X-linked polyhydramnios with prematurity and a severe but transient form of antenatal Bartter's syndrome. MAGE-D2 is essential for fetal renal salt reabsorption, amniotic fluid homeostasis, and the maintenance of pregnancy. (Funded by the University of Groningen and others.).
PXD003449	27121119	Comparative expression profiling reveals a role of the root apoplast in local phosphate response. 	Comparative Transcriptomics and Proteomics on Pi Depleted Arabidopsis Roots	Phosphate, Root	BACKGROUND: Plant adaptation to limited phosphate availability comprises a wide range of responses to conserve and remobilize internal phosphate sources and to enhance phosphate acquisition. Vigorous restructuring of root system architecture provides a developmental strategy for topsoil exploration and phosphate scavenging. Changes in external phosphate availability are locally sensed at root tips and adjust root growth by modulating cell expansion and cell division. The functionally interacting Arabidopsis genes, LOW PHOSPHATE RESPONSE 1 and 2 (LPR1/LPR2) and PHOSPHATE DEFICIENCY RESPONSE 2 (PDR2), are key components of root phosphate sensing. We recently demonstrated that the LOW PHOSPHATE RESPONSE 1 - PHOSPHATE DEFICIENCY RESPONSE 2 (LPR1-PDR2) module mediates apoplastic deposition of ferric iron (Fe(3+)) in the growing root tip during phosphate limitation. Iron deposition coincides with sites of reactive oxygen species generation and triggers cell wall thickening and callose accumulation, which interfere with cell-to-cell communication and inhibit root growth. RESULTS: We took advantage of the opposite phosphate-conditional root phenotype of the phosphate deficiency response 2 mutant (hypersensitive) and low phosphate response 1 and 2 double mutant (insensitive) to investigate the phosphate dependent regulation of gene and protein expression in roots using genome-wide transcriptome and proteome analysis. We observed an overrepresentation of genes and proteins that are involved in the regulation of iron homeostasis, cell wall remodeling and reactive oxygen species formation, and we highlight a number of candidate genes with a potential function in root adaptation to limited phosphate availability. Our experiments reveal that FERRIC REDUCTASE DEFECTIVE 3 mediated, apoplastic iron redistribution, but not intracellular iron uptake and iron storage, triggers phosphate-dependent root growth modulation. We further highlight expressional changes of several cell wall-modifying enzymes and provide evidence for adjustment of the pectin network at sites of iron accumulation in the root. CONCLUSION: Our study reveals new aspects of the elaborate interplay between phosphate starvation responses and changes in iron homeostasis. The results emphasize the importance of apoplastic iron redistribution to mediate phosphate-dependent root growth adjustment and suggest an important role for citrate in phosphate-dependent apoplastic iron transport. We further demonstrate that root growth modulation correlates with an altered expression of cell wall modifying enzymes and changes in the pectin network of the phosphate-deprived root tip, supporting the hypothesis that pectins are involved in iron binding and/or phosphate mobilization.
PXD004386	27121749	Cancer associated proteins in blood plasma: Determining normal variation. 	Cancer associated proteins in blood plasma: determining normal variation	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Protein biomarkers have the potential to improve diagnosis, stratification of patients into treatment cohorts, follow disease progression and treatment response. One distinct group of potential biomarkers comprises proteins which have been linked to cancer, known as cancer associated proteins (CAPs). We determined the normal variation of 86 CAPs in 72 individual plasma samples collected from ten individuals using SRM mass spectrometry. Samples were collected weekly during 5 weeks from ten volunteers and over one day at nine fixed time points from three volunteers. We determined the degree of the normal variation depending on interpersonal variation, variation due to time of day, and variation over weeks and observed that the variation dependent on the time of day appeared to be the most important. Subdivision of the proteins resulted in two predominant protein groups containing 21 proteins with relatively high variation in all three factors (day, week and individual), and 22 proteins with relatively low variation in all factors. We present a strategy for prioritizing biomarker candidates for future studies based on stratification over their normal variation and have made all data publicly available. Our findings can be used to improve selection of biomarker candidates in future studies and to determine which proteins are most suitable depending on study design.
PXD002785	27122596	Identification of Protease Specificity by Combining Proteome-Derived Peptide Libraries and Quantitative Proteomics. 	Tag-Free Identification of Protease Specificity Using Proteome-Derived Peptide Libraries	Proteolysis, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, machine learning	We present protease specificity profiling based on quantitative proteomics in combination with proteome-derived peptide libraries. Peptide libraries are generated by endoproteolytic digestion of proteomes without chemical modification of primary amines before exposure to a protease under investigation. After incubation with a test protease, treated and control libraries are differentially isotope-labeled using cost-effective reductive dimethylation. Upon analysis by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, cleavage products of the test protease appear as semi-specific peptides that are enriched for the corresponding isotope label. We validate our workflow with two proteases with well-characterized specificity profiles: trypsin and caspase-3. We provide the first specificity profile of a protease encoded by a human endogenous retrovirus and for chlamydial protease-like activity factor (CPAF). For CPAF, we also highlight the structural basis of negative subsite cooperativity between subsites S1 and S2'. For A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs (ADAMTS) -4, -5, and -15, we show a canonical preference profile, including glutamate in P1 and glycine in P3'. In total, we report nearly 4000 cleavage sites for seven proteases. Our protocol is fast, avoids enrichment or synthesis steps, and enables probing for lysine selectivity as well as subsite cooperativity. Due to its simplicity, we anticipate usability by most proteomic laboratories.
PXD003815	27123864	Quantitative Proteome Analysis of Leishmania donovani under Spermidine Starvation. 	Quantitative proteome profiling of Leishmania donovani after hypericin treatment	Label free proteome quantitaion, Leishmania donovani, hypericin	We have earlier reported antileishmanial activity of hypericin by spermidine starvation. In the current report, we have used label free proteome quantitation approach to identify differentially modulated proteins after hypericin treatment. A total of 141 proteins were found to be differentially regulated with ANOVA P value less than 0.05 in hypericin treated Leishmania promastigotes. Differentially modulated proteins have been broadly classified under nine major categories. Increase in ribosomal protein S7 protein suggests the repression of translation. Inhibition of proteins related to ubiquitin proteasome system, RNA binding protein and translation initiation factor also suggests altered translation. We have also observed increased expression of Hsp 90, Hsp 83-1 and stress inducible protein 1. Significant decreased level of cyclophilin was observed. These stress related protein could be cellular response of the parasite towards hypericin induced cellular stress. Also, defective metabolism, biosynthesis and replication of nucleic acids, flagellar movement and signalling of the parasite were observed as indicated by altered expression of proteins involved in these pathways. The data was analyzed rigorously to get further insight into hypericin induced parasitic death.
PXD003844	27125755	Cellulose and hemicellulose decomposition by forest soil bacteria proceeds by the action of structurally variable enzymatic systems. 	Cellulose and hemicellulose decomposition by forest soil bacteria proceeds by the action of structurally variable enzymatic systems	GeLC-MS/MS, decomposition, forest soil bacteria	Evidence shows that bacteria contribute actively to the decomposition of cellulose and hemicellulose in forest soil; however, their role in this process is still unclear. Here we performed the screening and identification of bacteria showing potential cellulolytic activity from litter and organic soil of a temperate oak forest. The genomes of three cellulolytic isolates previously described as abundant in this ecosystem were sequenced and their proteomes were characterized during the growth on plant biomass and on microcrystalline cellulose. Pedobacter and Mucilaginibacter showed complex enzymatic systems containing highly diverse carbohydrate-active enzymes for the degradation of cellulose and hemicellulose, which were functionally redundant for endoglucanases, beta-glucosidases, endoxylanases, beta-xylosidases, mannosidases and carbohydrate-binding modules. Luteibacter did not express any glycosyl hydrolases traditionally recognized as cellulases. Instead, cellulose decomposition was likely performed by an expressed GH23 family protein containing a cellulose-binding domain. Interestingly, the presence of plant lignocellulose as well as crystalline cellulose both trigger the production of a wide set of hydrolytic proteins including cellulases, hemicellulases and other glycosyl hydrolases. Our findings highlight the extensive and unexplored structural diversity of enzymatic systems in cellulolytic soil bacteria and indicate the roles of multiple abundant bacterial taxa in the decomposition of cellulose and other plant polysaccharides.
PXD003677	27125826	The Metacaspase (Mca1p) Restricts O-glycosylation During Farnesol-induced Apoptosis in Candida albicans. 	The metacaspase Mca1p restricts O-glycosylation during farnesol-induced apoptosis in Candida albicans	BGL2, CDC48, Candida albicans, ERAD, N-glycosylation, O-glycosylation, Orbitrap Fusion., PDI1, SSB1, aminoxyTMT, apoptosis, farnesol, glycans quantification, glycomics, glycoproteomics, metacaspase	Protein glycolysation is an essential posttranslational modification in eukaryotic cells. In pathogenic yeasts, it is involved in a large number of biological processes, such as protein folding quality control, cell viability and host/pathogen relationships. A link between protein glycosylation and apoptosis was established by the analysis of the phenotypes of oligosaccharyltransferase mutants in budding yeast. However, little is known about the contribution of glycosylation modifications to the adaptive response to apoptosis inducers. The cysteine protease metacaspase Mca1p plays a key role in the apoptotic response in Candida albicans triggered by the quorum sensing molecule farnesol. We subjected wild-type and mca1-deletion strains to farnesol stress and then studied the early phase of apoptosis release in quantitative glycoproteomics and glycomics experiments on cell-free extracts essentially devoid of cell walls. We identified and characterized 62 new glycosylated peptides with their glycan composition: 17 N-glycosylated, 45 O-glycosylated, and 81 additional sites of N-glycosylation. They were found to be involved in the control of protein folding, cell wall integrity and cell cycle regulation. We showed a general increase in the O-glycosylation of proteins in the mca1 deletion strain after farnesol challenge. We identified 44 new putative protein substrates of the metacaspase in the glycoprotein fraction enriched on concanavalin A. Most of these substrates are involved in protein folding or protein resolubilization and in mitochondrial functions. We show here that key Mca1p substrates, such as Cdc48p or Ssb1p, involved in degrading misfolded glycoproteins and in the protein quality control system, are themselves differentially glycosylated. We found putative substrates, such as Bgl2p (validated by immunoblot), Srb1p or Ugp1p, that are involved in the biogenesis of glycans. Our findings highlight a new role of the metacaspase in amplifying cell death processes by affecting several critical protein quality control systems through the alteration of the protein glycosylation machinery.Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003677.
PXD002876	27125827	Uncovering a Dual Regulatory Role for Caspases During Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress-induced Cell Death. 	Anania et al. 2015. Caspase substrate profiling	Caspase, ER Stress, Transcriptomics	Many diseases are associated with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, which results from an accumulation of misfolded proteins. This triggers an adaptive response called the "unfolded protein response" (UPR), and prolonged exposure to ER stress leads to cell death. Caspases are reported to play a critical role in ER stress-induced cell death but the underlying mechanisms by which they exert their effect continue to remain elusive. To understand the role caspases play during ER stress, a systems level approach integrating analysis of the transcriptome, proteome, and proteolytic substrate profile was employed. This quantitative analysis revealed transcriptional profiles for most human genes, provided information on protein abundance for 4476 proteins, and identified 445 caspase substrates. Based on these data sets many caspase substrates were shown to be downregulated at the protein level during ER stress suggesting caspase activity inhibits their cellular function. Additionally, RNA sequencing revealed a role for caspases in regulation of ER stress-induced transcriptional pathways and gene set enrichment analysis showed expression of multiple gene targets of essential transcription factors to be upregulated during ER stress upon inhibition of caspases. Furthermore, these transcription factors were degraded in a caspase-dependent manner during ER stress. These results indicate that caspases play a dual role in regulating the cellular response to ER stress through both post-translational and transcriptional regulatory mechanisms. Moreover, this study provides unique insight into progression of the unfolded protein response into cell death, which may help identify therapeutic strategies to treat ER stress-related diseases.
PXD003865	27127236	NAD+ repletion improves mitochondrial and stem cell function and enhances life span in mice. 	mouse stem cell SWATH-MS      .	SWATH-MS, mouse stem cell	Adult stem cells (SCs) are essential for tissue maintenance and regeneration yet are susceptible to senescence during aging. We demonstrate the importance of the amount of the oxidized form of cellular nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) and its effect on mitochondrial activity as a pivotal switch to modulate muscle SC (MuSC) senescence. Treatment with the NAD(+) precursor nicotinamide riboside (NR) induced the mitochondrial unfolded protein response and synthesis of prohibitin proteins, and this rejuvenated MuSCs in aged mice. NR also prevented MuSC senescence in the mdx (C57BL/10ScSn-Dmd(mdx)/J) mouse model of muscular dystrophy. We furthermore demonstrate that NR delays senescence of neural SCs and melanocyte SCs and increases mouse life span. Strategies that conserve cellular NAD(+) may reprogram dysfunctional SCs and improve life span in mammals.
PXD003622	27128805	Enhanced snoMEN Vectors Facilitate Establishment of GFP-HIF-1alpha Protein Replacement Human Cell Lines. 	Enhanced snoMEN vectors facilitate establishment of GFP-HIF-1alpha protein replacement human cell lines	RNA, snoMEN, snoRNA	The snoMEN (snoRNA Modulator of gene ExpressioN) vector technology was developed from a human box C/D snoRNA, HBII-180C, which contains an internal sequence that can be manipulated to make it complementary to RNA targets, allowing knock-down of targeted genes. Here we have screened additional human nucleolar snoRNAs and assessed their application for gene specific knock-downs to improve the efficiency of snoMEN vectors. We identify and characterise a new snoMEN vector, termed 47snoMEN, that is derived from box C/D snoRNA U47, demonstrating its use for knock-down of both endogenous cellular proteins and G/YFP-fusion proteins. Using multiplex 47snoMEM vectors that co-express multiple 47snoMEN in a single transcript, each of which can target different sites in the same mRNA, we document >3-fold increase in knock-down efficiency when compared with the original HBII-180C based snoMEN. The multiplex 47snoMEM vector allowed the construction of human protein replacement cell lines with improved efficiency, including the establishment of novel GFP-HIF-1alpha replacement cells. Quantitative mass spectrometry analysis confirmed the enhanced efficiency and specificity of protein replacement using the 47snoMEN-PR vectors. The 47snoMEN vectors expand the potential applications for snoMEN technology in gene expression studies, target validation and gene therapy.
PXD003271	27128972	Proteotranscriptomic Analysis Reveals Stage Specific Changes in the Molecular Landscape of Clear-Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma. 	Proteomic analysis of clear cell renal cell carcinoma tissue versus matched normal kidney tissue	ccRCC, kidney, renal cell carcinoma, tissue	Renal cell carcinoma comprises 2 to 3% of malignancies in adults with the most prevalent subtype being clear-cell RCC (ccRCC). This type of cancer is well characterized at the genomic and transcriptomic level and is associated with a loss of VHL that results in stabilization of HIF1. The current study focused on evaluating ccRCC stage dependent changes at the proteome level to provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of ccRCC progression. To accomplish this, label-free proteomics was used to characterize matched tumor and normal-adjacent tissues from 84 patients with stage I to IV ccRCC. Using pooled samples 1551 proteins were identified, of which 290 were differentially abundant, while 783 proteins were identified using individual samples, with 344 being differentially abundant. These 344 differentially abundant proteins were enriched in metabolic pathways and further examination revealed metabolic dysfunction consistent with the Warburg effect. Additionally, the protein data indicated activation of ESRRA and ESRRG, and HIF1A, as well as inhibition of FOXA1, MAPK1 and WISP2. A subset analysis of complementary gene expression array data on 47 pairs of these same tissues indicated similar upstream changes, such as increased HIF1A activation with stage, though ESRRA and ESRRG activation and FOXA1 inhibition were not predicted from the transcriptomic data. The activation of ESRRA and ESRRG implied that HIF2A may also be activated during later stages of ccRCC, which was confirmed in the transcriptional analysis. This combined analysis highlights the importance of HIF1A and HIF2A in developing the ccRCC molecular phenotype as well as the potential involvement of ESRRA and ESRRG in driving these changes. In addition, cofilin-1, profilin-1, nicotinamide N-methyltransferase, and fructose-bisphosphate aldolase A were identified as candidate markers of late stage ccRCC. Utilization of data collected from heterogeneous biological domains strengthened the findings from each domain, demonstrating the complementary nature of such an analysis. Together these results highlight the importance of the VHL/HIF1A/HIF2A axis and provide a foundation and therapeutic targets for future studies. (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003271 and MassIVE with identifier MSV000079511.).
PXD002996	27128991	Identification of syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria in anaerobic digesters by combined protein-based stable isotope probing and metagenomics. 	Identification of syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria in anaerobic digesters	Anaerobic digesters, Biogas, Protein-Stable Isotope Probing	Inhibition of anaerobic digestion through accumulation of volatile fatty acids occasionally occurs as the result of unbalanced growth between acidogenic bacteria and methanogens. A fast recovery is a prerequisite for establishing an economical production of biogas. However, very little is known about the microorganisms facilitating this recovery. In this study, we investigated the organisms involved by a novel approach of mapping protein-stable isotope probing (protein-SIP) onto a binned metagenome. Under simulation of acetate accumulation conditions, formations of (13)C-labeled CO2 and CH4 were detected immediately following incubation with [U-(13)C]acetate, indicating high turnover rate of acetate. The identified (13)C-labeled peptides were mapped onto a binned metagenome for improved identification of the organisms involved. The results revealed that Methanosarcina and Methanoculleus were actively involved in acetate turnover, as were five subspecies of Clostridia. The acetate-consuming organisms affiliating with Clostridia all contained the FTFHS gene for formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase, a key enzyme for reductive acetogenesis, indicating that these organisms are possible syntrophic acetate-oxidizing (SAO) bacteria that can facilitate acetate consumption via SAO, coupled with hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis (SAO-HM). This study represents the first study applying protein-SIP for analysis of complex biogas samples, a promising method for identifying key microorganisms utilizing specific pathways.
PXD002922	27136060	System level analysis of cacao seed ripening reveals a sequential interplay of primary and secondary metabolism leading to polyphenol accumulation and preparation of stress resistance. 	cacao seed development -  System level analysis of cacao seed ripening reveals a sequential interplay of primary and secondary metabolism leading to polyphenol accumulation and preparation of stress resistance	LC-MS, cacao seed	Theobroma cacao and its popular product, chocolate, are attracting attention due to potential health benefits including antioxidative effects by polyphenols, anti-depressant effects by high serotonin levels, inhibition of platelet aggregation and prevention of obesity-dependent insulin resistance. The development of cacao seeds during fruit ripening is the most crucial process for the accumulation of these compounds. In this study, we analyzed the primary and the secondary metabolome as well as the proteome during Theobroma cacao cv. Forastero seed development by applying an integrative extraction protocol. The combination of multivariate statistics and mathematical modelling revealed a complex consecutive coordination of primary and secondary metabolism and corresponding pathways. Tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and aromatic amino acid metabolism dominated during the early developmental stages (stages 1 and 2; cell division and expansion phase). This was accompanied with a significant shift of proteins from phenylpropanoid metabolism to flavonoid biosynthesis. At stage 3 (reserve accumulation phase), metabolism of sucrose switched from hydrolysis into raffinose synthesis. Lipids as well as proteins involved in lipid metabolism increased whereas amino acids and N-phenylpropenoyl amino acids decreased. Purine alkaloids, polyphenols, and raffinose as well as proteins involved in abiotic and biotic stress accumulated at stage 4 (maturation phase) endowing cacao seeds the characteristic astringent taste and resistance to stress. In summary, metabolic key points of cacao seed development comprise the sequential coordination of primary metabolites, phenylpropanoid, N-phenylpropenoyl amino acid, serotonin, lipid and polyphenol metabolism thereby covering the major compound classes involved in cacao aroma and health benefits.
PXD003213	27136688	Bistability in the Rac1, PAK, and RhoA Signaling Network Drives Actin Cytoskeleton Dynamics and Cell Motility Switches. 	Bistability in the Rac1, PAK and RhoA signalling network is a feature of cell motility.	PAK inhibition, Rac1, RhoA, bistable switches, cell motility, mathematical modelling	Dynamic interactions between RhoA and Rac1, members of the Rho small GTPase family, play a vital role in the control of cell migration. Using predictive mathematical modeling, mass spectrometry-based quantitation of network components, and experimental validation in MDA-MB-231 mesenchymal breast cancer cells, we show that a network containing Rac1, RhoA, and PAK family kinases can produce bistable, switch-like responses to a graded PAK inhibition. Using a small chemical inhibitor of PAK, we demonstrate that cellular RhoA and Rac1 activation levels respond in a history-dependent, bistable manner to PAK inhibition. Consequently, we show that downstream signaling, actin dynamics, and cell migration also behave in a bistable fashion, displaying switches and hysteresis in response to PAK inhibition. Our results demonstrate that PAK is a critical component in the Rac1-RhoA inhibitory crosstalk that governs bistable GTPase activity, cell morphology, and cell migration switches.
PXD003938	27137489	Chronic miR-29 antagonism promotes favorable plaque remodeling in atherosclerotic mice. 	Mouse Smooth muscle cell secretome with Anti-miR / pre-miR treatment	miR-29, smooth muscle cell	Abnormal remodeling of atherosclerotic plaques can lead to rupture, acute myocardial infarction, and death. Enhancement of plaque extracellular matrix (ECM) may improve plaque morphology and stabilize lesions. Here, we demonstrate that chronic administration of LNA-miR-29 into an atherosclerotic mouse model improves indices of plaque morphology. This occurs due to upregulation of miR-29 target genes of the ECM (col1A and col3A) resulting in reduced lesion size, enhanced fibrous cap thickness, and reduced necrotic zones. Sustained LNA-miR-29 treatment did not affect circulating lipids, blood chemistry, or ECM of solid organs including liver, lung, kidney, spleen, or heart. Collectively, these data support the idea that antagonizing miR-29 may promote beneficial plaque remodeling as an independent approach to stabilize vulnerable atherosclerotic lesions.
PXD001944	27141096	Proteomics-driven Antigen Discovery for Development of Vaccines Against Gonorrhea. 	Proteomic interrogation of the cell envelope of Neisseria gonorrhoeae exposed to physiologically relevant environmental cues.	Neisseria gonorrhoeae, cell envelope, iTRAQ, quantitative proteomics	Expanding efforts to develop preventive gonorrhea vaccines is critical because of the dire possibility of untreatable gonococcal infections. Reverse vaccinology, which includes genome and proteome mining, has proven very successful in the discovery of vaccine candidates against many pathogenic bacteria. However, progress with this approach for a gonorrhea vaccine remains in its infancy. Accordingly, we applied a comprehensive proteomic platform-isobaric tagging for absolute quantification coupled with two-dimensional liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry-to identify potential gonococcal vaccine antigens. Our previous analyses focused on cell envelopes and naturally released membrane vesicles derived from four different Neisseria gonorrhoeae strains. Here, we extended these studies to identify cell envelope proteins of N. gonorrhoeae that are ubiquitously expressed and specifically induced by physiologically relevant environmental stimuli: oxygen availability, iron deprivation, and the presence of human serum. Together, these studies enabled the identification of numerous potential gonorrhea vaccine targets. Initial characterization of five novel vaccine candidate antigens that were ubiquitously expressed under these different growth conditions demonstrated that homologs of BamA (NGO1801), LptD (NGO1715), and TamA (NGO1956), and two uncharacterized proteins, NGO2054 and NGO2139, were surface exposed, secreted via naturally released membrane vesicles, and elicited bactericidal antibodies that cross-reacted with a panel of temporally and geographically diverse isolates. In addition, analysis of polymorphisms at the nucleotide and amino acid levels showed that these vaccine candidates are highly conserved among N. gonorrhoeae strains. Finally, depletion of BamA caused a loss of N. gonorrhoeae viability, suggesting it may be an essential target. Together, our data strongly support the use of proteomics-driven discovery of potential vaccine targets as a sound approach for identifying promising gonococcal antigens.
PXD003105	27141528	Data for identification of GPI-anchored peptides and omega-sites in cancer cell lines. 	Identification of Glycosylphosphatidylinositol Anchored Proteins and -sites Using TiO2-Based Affinity Purification	GPI anchor	We present data obtained using a focused proteomics approach to identify the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored peptides in 19 human cancer cell lines. GPI-anchored proteins (GPI-APs), which localize to the outer leaflet of the membrane microdomains commonly referred to as lipid rafts play important roles in diverse biological processes. Due to the complex structure of the GPI-anchor moiety, it has been difficult to identify GPI-anchored peptide sequences on the proteomic scale by database searches using tools such as MASCOT. Here we provide data from 73 omega-sites derived from 49 GPI-APs in 19 human cancer cell lines. This article contains data related to the research article entitled "Identification of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins and omega-sites using TiO2-based affinity purification followed by hydrogen fluoride treatment" (Masuishi et al., 2016) [1].
PXD002431	27142507	Analytic framework for peptidomics applied to large-scale neuropeptide identification. 	Analytical framework for peptidomics applied to large scale neuropeptide identification	Peptidomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, bioinformatic framework, neuropeptides	Large-scale mass spectrometry-based peptidomics for drug discovery is relatively unexplored because of challenges in peptide degradation and identification following tissue extraction. Here we present a streamlined analytical pipeline for large-scale peptidomics. We developed an optimized sample preparation protocol to achieve fast, reproducible and effective extraction of endogenous peptides from sub-dissected organs such as the brain, while diminishing unspecific protease activity. Each peptidome sample was analysed by high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry and the resulting data set was integrated with publically available databases. We developed and applied an algorithm that reduces the peptide complexity for identification of biologically relevant peptides. The developed pipeline was applied to rat hypothalamus and identifies thousands of neuropeptides and their post-translational modifications, which is combined in a resource format for visualization, qualitative and quantitative analyses.
PXD004111	27143358	Quantitative Analysis of Dynamic Protein Interactions during Transcription Reveals a Role for Casein Kinase II in Polymerase-associated Factor (PAF) Complex Phosphorylation and Regulation of Histone H2B Monoubiquitylation. 	FACT, PAF-C, and CKII	Casein kinase II, FACT, PAF Complex, RNA polymerase II, phosphorylation, transcription	Using affinity purification MS approaches, we have identified a novel role for casein kinase II (CKII) in the modification of the polymerase associated factor complex (PAF-C). Our data indicate that the facilitates chromatin transcription complex (FACT) interacts with CKII and may facilitate PAF complex phosphorylation. Posttranslational modification analysis of affinity-isolated PAF-C shows extensive CKII phosphorylation of all five subunits of PAF-C, although CKII subunits were not detected as interacting partners. Consistent with this, recombinant CKII or FACT-associated CKII isolated from cells can phosphorylate PAF-C in vitro, whereas no intrinsic kinase activity was detected in PAF-C samples. Significantly, PAF-C purifications combined with stable isotope labeling in cells (SILAC) quantitation for PAF-C phosphorylation from wild-type and CKII temperature-sensitive strains (cka1Delta cka2-8) showed that PAF-C phosphorylation at consensus CKII sites is significantly reduced in cka1Delta cka2-8 strains. Consistent with a role of CKII in FACT and PAF-C function, we show that decreased CKII function in vivo results in decreased levels of histone H2B lysine 123 monoubiquitylation, a modification dependent on FACT and PAF-C. Taken together, our results define a coordinated role of CKII and FACT in the regulation of RNA polymerase II transcription through chromatin via phosphorylation of PAF-C.
PXD002884	27143409	The Pathogenesis of the Demyelinating Form of Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS): Proteo-peptidomic and Immunological Profiling of Physiological Fluids. 	The pathogenesis of Guillain-Barre syndrome: peptidomic profiling of physiological fluids	AIDP, Guillain-Barre syndrome, cerebrospinal fluid, peptidome	Acute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (AIDP) - the main form of Guillain-Barre syndrome-is a rare and severe disorder of the peripheral nervous system with an unknown etiology. One of the hallmarks of the AIDP pathogenesis is a significantly elevated cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) protein level. In this paper CSF peptidome and proteome in AIDP were analyzed and compared with multiple sclerosis and control patients. A total protein concentration increase was shown to be because of even changes in all proteins rather than some specific response, supporting the hypothesis of protein leakage from blood through the blood-nerve barrier. The elevated CSF protein level in AIDP was complemented by activization of protein degradation and much higher peptidome diversity. Because of the studies of the acute motor axonal form, Guillain-Barre syndrome as a whole is thought to be associated with autoimmune response against neurospecific molecules. Thus, in AIDP, autoantibodies against cell adhesion proteins localized at Ranvier's nodes were suggested as possible targets in AIDP. Indeed, AIDP CSF peptidome analysis revealed cell adhesion proteins degradation, however no reliable dependence on the corresponding autoantibodies levels was found. Proteome analysis revealed overrepresentation of Gene Ontology groups related to responses to bacteria and virus infections, which were earlier suggested as possible AIDP triggers. Immunoglobulin blood serum analysis against most common neuronal viruses did not reveal any specific pathogen; however, AIDP patients were more immunopositive in average and often had polyinfections. Cytokine analysis of both AIDP CSF and blood did not show a systemic adaptive immune response or general inflammation, whereas innate immunity cytokines were up-regulated. To supplement the widely-accepted though still unproven autoimmunity-based AIDP mechanism we propose a hypothesis of the primary peripheral nervous system damaging initiated as an innate immunity-associated local inflammation following neurotropic viruses egress, whereas the autoantibody production might be an optional complementary secondary process.
PXD003781	27145088	Parallel reaction monitoring using quadrupole-Orbitrap mass spectrometer: Principle and applications. 	Parallel reaction monitoring using quadrupole-orbitrap mass spectrometer: principle and applications	DDA, PRM, exploratory study	Targeted mass spectrometry-based approaches are nowadays widely used for quantitative proteomics studies and more recently have been implemented on high resolution/accurate mass (HRAM) instruments resulting in a considerable performance improvement. More specifically, the parallel reaction monitoring technique (PRM) performed on quadrupole-Orbitrap mass spectrometers, leveraging the high resolution and trapping capabilities of the instrument, offers a clear advantage over the conventional selected reaction monitoring (SRM) measurements executed on triple quadrupole instruments. Analyses performed in HRAM mode allow for an improved discrimination between signals derived from analytes and those resulting from matrix interferences translating in the reliable quantification of low abundance components. The purpose of the study defines various implementation schemes of PRM, namely: (i) exploratory experiments assessing the detectability of very large sets of peptides (100-1000), (ii) wide-screen analyses using (crude) internal standards to obtain statistically meaningful (relative) quantitative analyses, and (iii) precise/accurate quantification of a limited number of analytes using calibrated internal standards. Each of the three implementation schemes requires specific acquisition methods with defined parameters to appropriately control the acquisition during the actual peptide elution. This tutorial describes the different PRM approaches and discusses their benefits and limitations in terms of quantification performance and confidence in analyte identification.
PXD002678	27146306	Gluten-specific antibodies of celiac disease gut plasma cells recognize long proteolytic fragments that typically harbor T-cell epitopes. 	Gluten-specific antibodies of celiac disease gut plasma cells recognize long proteolytic fragments that typically harbor T-cell epitopes	Celiac disease, epitopes, gliadin, monoclonal antibodies	This study aimed to identify proteolytic fragments of gluten proteins recognized by recombinant IgG1 monoclonal antibodies generated from single IgA plasma cells of celiac disease lesions. Peptides bound by monoclonal antibodies in complex gut-enzyme digests of gluten treated with the deamidating enzyme transglutaminase 2, were identified by mass spectrometry after antibody pull-down with protein G beads. The antibody bound peptides were long deamidated peptide fragments that contained the substrate recognition sequence of transglutaminase 2. Characteristically, the fragments contained epitopes with the sequence QPEQPFP and variants thereof in multiple copies, and they typically also harbored many different gluten T-cell epitopes. In the pull-down setting where antibodies were immobilized on a solid phase, peptide fragments with multivalent display of epitopes were targeted. This scenario resembles the situation of the B-cell receptor on the surface of B cells. Conceivably, B cells of celiac disease patients select gluten epitopes that are repeated multiple times in long peptide fragments generated by gut digestive enzymes. As the fragments also contain many different T-cell epitopes, this will lead to generation of strong antibody responses by effective presentation of several distinct T-cell epitopes and establishment of T-cell help to B cells.
PXD003485	27147131	Detergent-Assisted Glycoprotein Capture: A Versatile Tool for In-Depth N-Glycoproteome Analysis. 	Detergents assisted glycoprotein capture	HEK 293, LC-MS, N-glycoproteome, human serum	Large-scale N-glycoproteome studies have been hindered by poor solubility of hydrophobic membrane proteins and the complexity of proteome samples. Herein, we developed a detergent-assisted glycoprotein capture method to reduce these issues by conducting hydrazide chemistry-based glycoprotein capture in the presence of strong detergents such as sodium dodecyl sulfate and Triton X-100. The strong detergents helped to solubilize hydrophobic membrane proteins and then increased the access of hydrazide groups to oxidized glycoproteins, thus increasing the coverage of the N-glycoproteome. Compared with the conventional glycopeptide capture method, the detergent-assisted glycoprotein capture approach nearly doubled the number of N-glycosylation sites identified from HEK 293T cells with improved specificity. Application of this approach in the larger scale N-glycoproteomics analysis of the HEK 293T cell membrane led to the identification of 2253 unique N-glycosites from 953 proteins. Furthermore, the application of this approach to human serum resulted in the identification of 850 N-glycosylation sites without any immunodepletion or fractionation. Overall, the detergent-assisted glycoprotein capture method simplified the capture process, and it increased the number of sites observed on both hydrophobic membrane proteins and hydrophilic secreted proteins.
PXD003126	27147532	Community proteomics provides functional insight into polyhydroxyalkanoate production by a mixed microbial culture cultivated on fermented dairy manure. 	Proteomic investigation of a mixed microbial culture synthesizing polyhydroxyalkanoates from fermented dairy manure under aerobic feast-famine conditions	Metaproteomics, mixed microbial culture, polyhydroxyalkanoates, two-dimensional electrophoresis	Polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) are bio-based, biodegradable polyesters that can be produced from organic-rich waste streams using mixed microbial cultures (MMCs). To maximize PHA production, MMCs are enriched for bacteria with a high polymer storage capacity through the application of aerobic dynamic feeding (ADF) in a sequencing batch reactor (SBR), which consequently induces a feast-famine metabolic response. Though the feast-famine response is generally understood empirically at a macro-level, the molecular level is less refined. The objective of this study was to investigate the microbial community composition and proteome profile of an enriched MMC cultivated on fermented dairy manure. The enriched MMC exhibited a feast-famine response and was capable of producing up to 40 % (wt. basis) PHA in a fed-batch reactor. High-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing revealed a microbial community dominated by Meganema, a known PHA-producing genus not often observed in high abundance in enrichment SBRs. The application of the proteomic methods two-dimensional electrophoresis and LC-MS/MS revealed PHA synthesis, energy generation, and protein synthesis prominently occurring during the feast phase, corroborating bulk solution variable observations and theoretical expectations. During the famine phase, nutrient transport, acyl-CoA metabolism, additional energy generation, and housekeeping functions were more pronounced, informing previously under-determined MMC functionality under famine conditions. During fed-batch PHA production, acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase and PHA granule-bound phasin proteins were in increased abundance relative to the SBR, supporting the higher PHA content observed. Collectively, the results provide unique microbial community structural and functional insight into feast-famine PHA production from waste feedstocks using MMCs.
PXD003292	27147818	Proteomic Changes in the Plasma of Broiler Chickens with Femoral Head Necrosis. 	Chicken plasma proteome femoral head seperation	biomarkers, chicken, femoral head necrosis, plasma	Femoral head necrosis (FHN) is a skeletal problem in broiler chickens, where the proximal femoral head cartilage shows susceptibility to separation from its growth plate. The selected birds with FHN showed higher body weights and reduced plasma cholesterol. The proteomic differences in the plasma of healthy and FHN-affected chickens were explored using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) and liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to prospect for protein biomarkers. We isolated two differentially expressed low molecular weight proteins and identified them by MALDI peptide mass fingerprinting as fibrinogen- and fetuin-derived peptides, respectively. These peptides were reduced in birds susceptible to femoral head problems. Quantitation of LC-MS/MS spectra showed elevated levels of gallinacin-9, apolipoprotein A1, and hemoglobin and reduced levels of alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, albumin, and SPINK7 proteins in FHN. These results suggest that the bodyweight and the lipid profiles along with the above proteins can be useful as noninvasive biomarkers of FHN.
PXD003764	27148221	Tyrosine 601 of Bacillus subtilis DnaK Undergoes Phosphorylation and Is Crucial for Chaperone Activity and Heat Shock Survival. 	Tyrosine 601 of Bacillus subtilis DnaK undergoes phosphorylation and is crucial for chaperone activity and heat shock survival	Quantitative phosphoproteomics, SILAC, bacterial protein-tyrosine kinases, molecular chaperons, protein folding, protein phosphorylation	In order to screen for cellular substrates of the Bacillus subtilis BY-kinase PtkA, and its cognate phosphotyrosine-protein phosphatase PtpZ, we performed a triple Stable Isotope Labeling by Amino acids in Cell culture-based quantitative phosphoproteome analysis. Detected tyrosine phosphorylation sites for which the phosphorylation level decreased in the DeltaptkA strain and increased in the DeltaptpZ strain, compared to the wild type (WT), were considered as potential substrates of PtkA/PtpZ. One of those sites was the residue tyrosine 601 of the molecular chaperone DnaK. We confirmed that DnaK is a substrate of PtkA and PtpZ by in vitro phosphorylation and dephosphorylation assays. In vitro, DnaK Y601F mutant exhibited impaired interaction with its co-chaperones DnaJ and GrpE, along with diminished capacity to hydrolyze ATP and assist the re-folding of denatured proteins. In vivo, loss of DnaK phosphorylation in the mutant strain dnaK Y601F, or in the strain overexpressing the phosphatase PtpZ, led to diminished survival upon heat shock, consistent with the in vitro results. The decreased survival of the mutant dnaK Y601F at an elevated temperature could be rescued by complementing with the WT dnaK allele expressed ectopically. We concluded that the residue tyrosine 601 of DnaK can be phosphorylated and dephosphorylated by PtkA and PtpZ, respectively. Furthermore, Y601 is important for DnaK chaperone activity and heat shock survival of B. subtilis.
PXD003735	27148305	Proteomic Analysis of a Poplar Cell Suspension Culture Suggests a Major Role of Protein S-Acylation in Diverse Cellular Processes. 	Populus Palmitoylome	Populus, S-acylation, spectral counting	S-acylation is a reversible post-translational modification of proteins known to be involved in membrane targeting, subcellular trafficking, and the determination of a great variety of functional properties of proteins. The aim of this work was to identify S-acylated proteins in poplar. The use of an acyl-biotin exchange method and mass spectrometry allowed the identification of around 450 S-acylated proteins, which were subdivided into three major groups of proteins involved in transport, signal transduction, and response to stress, respectively. The largest group of S-acylated proteins was the protein kinase superfamily. Soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor-activating protein receptors, band 7 family proteins and tetraspanins, all primarily related to intracellular trafficking, were also identified. In addition, cell wall related proteins, including cellulose synthases and other glucan synthases, were found to be S-acylated. Twenty four of the identified S-acylated proteins were also enriched in detergent-resistant membrane microdomains, suggesting S-acylation plays a key role in the localization of proteins to specialized plasma membrane subdomains. This dataset promises to enhance our current understanding of the various functions of S-acylated proteins in plants.
PXD000947	27148881	A Proteomics Approach to Identify New Putative Cardiac Intercalated Disk Proteins. 	A Proteomics Approach to Identify New Cardiac Intercalated Disc Proteins	Rat, heart, intercalated disc	AIMS: Synchronous beating of the heart is dependent on the efficient functioning of the cardiac intercalated disk (ID). The ID is composed of a complex protein network enabling electrical continuity and chemical communication between individual cardiomyocytes. Recently, several different studies have shed light on increasingly prevalent cardiac diseases involving the ID. Insufficient knowledge of its composition makes it difficult to study these disease mechanisms in more detail and therefore here we aim expand the ID proteome. Here, using a combination of general membrane enrichment, in-depth quantitative proteomics and an intracellular location driven bioinformatics approach, we aim to discover new putative ID proteins in rat ventricular tissue. METHODS AND RESULTS: General membrane isolation, enriched amongst others also with ID proteins as based on presence of the established markers connexin-43 and n-cadherin, was performed using centrifugation. By mass spectrometry, we quantitatively evaluated the level of 3455 proteins in the enriched membrane fraction (EMF) and its counterpart, the soluble cytoplasmic fraction. These data were stringently filtered to generate a final set of 97 enriched, putative ID proteins. These included Cx43 and n-cadherin, but also many interesting novel candidates. We selected 4 candidates (Flotillin-2 (FLOT2), Nexilin (NEXN), Popeye-domain-containg-protein 2 (POPDC2) and thioredoxin-related-transmembrane-protein 2 (TMX2)) and confirmed their co-localization with n-cadherin in the ID of human and rat heart cryo-sections, and isolated dog cardiomyocytes. CONCLUSION: The presented proteomics dataset of putative new ID proteins is a valuable resource for future research into this important molecular intersection of the heart.
PXD000907	27150359	Mass spectrometric analysis of allergens in roasted walnuts. 	Roasted English Walnut Label-Free LC-MS/MS Quantification	Food Allergens, Thermal Processing, Walnut	Thermal processing of allergenic foods can induce changes in the foods' constituent allergens, but the effects of heat treatment are poorly defined. Like other commonly allergenic tree nuts, walnuts often undergo heat treatment (e.g. roasting or baking) prior to consumption. This study evaluated the changes in solubility and detectability of allergens from roasted walnuts using tandem mass spectrometry methods. Walnuts were roasted (132degreesC or 180degreesC for 5, 10, or 20min) and prepared for LC-MS/MS using sequential or simultaneous extraction and tryptic digestion protocols. The LC-MS/MS data analysis incorporated label-free quantification of relevant allergens and Maillard adduct screening. In some proteins (2S albumin, LTP, and the 7S globulin N-terminal region) minor changes in relative abundance were observed following roasting. The mature 7S and 11S globulins, however, showed significantly increased detection following roasting at 180degreesC for 20min when using the simultaneous extraction/digestion protocol, possibly due to increased digestibility of the proteins. The results of this study indicate that individual walnut allergens respond differently to thermal processing, and the detection of these proteins by LC-MS/MS is dependent on the protein in question, its susceptibility to proteolytic digestion, the degree of thermal processing, and the sample preparation methodology. SIGNIFICANCE: Understanding the behavior of food allergens in the context of relevant food matrices is critical for both food allergen management and for elucidating matrix and processing-associated factors influencing protein allergenicity. The use of mass spectrometry to identify food allergens and detect allergenic food residues has been increasingly developed due to the advantages associated with the direct, sequence-level analysis possible with MS. To date, however, few studies have implemented MS technology to analyze the effects of thermal processing on allergenic food proteins. The MS analysis results presented in this study revealed not only information about the molecular-level effects of roasting on walnut allergens but also data pertinent to the development of MS-based detection methods for walnut residues in food products.
PXD003473	27150525	Differential Neuroproteomic and Systems Biology Analysis of Spinal Cord Injury. 	DIFFERENTIAL NEUROPROTEOMIC AND SYSTEMS BIOLOGY ANALYSIS OF SPINAL CORD INJURY	Rat LC-MS/MS	Acute spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating condition with many consequences and no known effective treatment. Although it is quite easy to diagnose traumatic SCI, the assessment of injury severity and projection of disease progression or recovery are often challenging, as no consensus biomarkers have been clearly identified. Here rats were subjected to experimental moderate or severe thoracic SCI. At 24h and 7d postinjury, spinal cord segment caudal to injury center versus sham samples was harvested and subjected to differential proteomic analysis. Cationic/anionic-exchange chromatography, followed by 1D polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, was used to reduce protein complexity. A reverse phase liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry proteomic platform was then utilized to identify proteome changes associated with SCI. Twenty-two and 22 proteins were up-regulated at 24 h and 7 day after SCI, respectively; whereas 19 and 16 proteins are down-regulated at 24 h and 7 day after SCI, respectively, when compared with sham control. A subset of 12 proteins were identified as candidate SCI biomarkers - TF (Transferrin), FASN (Fatty acid synthase), NME1 (Nucleoside diphosphate kinase 1), STMN1 (Stathmin 1), EEF2 (Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 2), CTSD (Cathepsin D), ANXA1 (Annexin A1), ANXA2 (Annexin A2), PGM1 (Phosphoglucomutase 1), PEA15 (Phosphoprotein enriched in astrocytes 15), GOT2 (Glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 2), and TPI-1 (Triosephosphate isomerase 1), data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003473. In addition, Transferrin, Cathepsin D, and TPI-1 and PEA15 were further verified in rat spinal cord tissue and/or CSF samples after SCI and in human CSF samples from moderate/severe SCI patients. Lastly, a systems biology approach was utilized to determine the critical biochemical pathways and interactome in the pathogenesis of SCI. Thus, SCI candidate biomarkers identified can be used to correlate with disease progression or to identify potential SCI therapeutic targets.
PXD003492	27155012	Elucidation of tonic and activated B-cell receptor signaling in Burkitt's lymphoma provides insights into regulation of cell survival. 	Elucidation of tonic and activated B cell receptor signaling in Burkitt's lymphoma provides insights into regulation of cell survival	B cell receptor, cancer biology, lymphoma, phosphoproteome	Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) is a highly proliferative B-cell neoplasm and is treated with intensive chemotherapy that, because of its toxicity, is often not suitable for the elderly or for patients with endemic BL in developing countries. BL cell survival relies on signals transduced by B-cell antigen receptors (BCRs). However, tonic as well as activated BCR signaling networks and their relevance for targeted therapies in BL remain elusive. We have systematically characterized and compared tonic and activated BCR signaling in BL by quantitative phosphoproteomics to identify novel BCR effectors and potential drug targets. We identified and quantified ~16,000 phospho-sites in BL cells. Among these sites, 909 were related to tonic BCR signaling, whereas 984 phospho-sites were regulated upon BCR engagement. The majority of the identified BCR signaling effectors have not been described in the context of B cells or lymphomas yet. Most of these newly identified BCR effectors are predicted to be involved in the regulation of kinases, transcription, and cytoskeleton dynamics. Although tonic and activated BCR signaling shared a considerable number of effector proteins, we identified distinct phosphorylation events in tonic BCR signaling. We investigated the functional relevance of some newly identified BCR effectors and show that ACTN4 and ARFGEF2, which have been described as regulators of membrane-trafficking and cytoskeleton-related processes, respectively, are crucial for BL cell survival. Thus, this study provides a comprehensive dataset for tonic and activated BCR signaling and identifies effector proteins that may be relevant for BL cell survival and thus may help to develop new BL treatments.
PXD002437	27155584	Proteome Profiling in Lung Injury after Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation. 	Proteome Profiling in Lung Injury Following Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation	2DLC-MS/MS, BALF, HSCT, Orbitrap, iTRAQ	Pulmonary complications due to infection and idiopathic pneumonia syndrome (IPS), a noninfectious lung injury in hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients, are frequent causes of transplantation-related mortality and morbidity. Our objective was to characterize the global bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) protein expression of IPS to identify proteins and pathways that differentiate IPS from infectious lung injury after HSCT. We studied 30 BALF samples from patients who developed lung injury within 180 days of HSCT or cellular therapy transfusion (natural killer cell transfusion). Adult subjects were classified as having IPS or infectious lung injury by the criteria outlined in the 2011 American Thoracic Society statement. BALF was depleted of hemoglobin and 14 high-abundance proteins, treated with trypsin, and labeled with isobaric tagging for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) 8-plex reagent for two-dimensional capillary liquid chromatography (LC) and data dependent peptide tandem mass spectrometry (MS) on an Orbitrap Velos system in higher-energy collision-induced dissociation activation mode. Protein identification employed a target-decoy strategy using ProteinPilot within Galaxy P. The relative protein abundance was determined with reference to a global internal standard consisting of pooled BALF from patients with respiratory failure and no history of HSCT. A variance weighted t-test controlling for a false discovery rate of <=5% was used to identify proteins that showed differential expression between IPS and infectious lung injury. The biological relevance of these proteins was determined by using gene ontology enrichment analysis and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis. We characterized 12 IPS and 18 infectious lung injury BALF samples. In the 5 iTRAQ LC-MS/MS experiments 845, 735, 532, 615, and 594 proteins were identified for a total of 1125 unique proteins and 368 common proteins across all 5 LC-MS/MS experiments. When comparing IPS to infectious lung injury, 96 proteins were differentially expressed. Gene ontology enrichment analysis showed that these proteins participate in biological processes involved in the development of lung injury after HSCT. These include acute phase response signaling, complement system, coagulation system, liver X receptor (LXR)/retinoid X receptor (RXR), and farsenoid X receptor (FXR)/RXR modulation. We identified 2 canonical pathways modulated by TNF-alpha, FXR/RXR activation, and IL2 signaling in macrophages. The proteins also mapped to blood coagulation, fibrinolysis, and wound healing-processes that participate in organ repair. Cell movement was identified as significantly over-represented by proteins with differential expression between IPS and infection. In conclusion, the BALF protein expression in IPS differed significantly from infectious lung injury in HSCT recipients. These differences provide insights into mechanisms that are activated in lung injury in HSCT recipients and suggest potential therapeutic targets to augment lung repair.
PXD004741	27158779	The ciliopathy-associated CPLANE proteins direct basal body recruitment of intraflagellar transport machinery. 	Mouse ciliopathy-associated CPLANE proteins	"Planar Cell Polarity", CPLANE, ciliopathy, "Human Genetics"	Cilia use microtubule-based intraflagellar transport (IFT) to organize intercellular signaling. Ciliopathies are a spectrum of human diseases resulting from defects in cilia structure or function. The mechanisms regulating the assembly of ciliary multiprotein complexes and the transport of these complexes to the base of cilia remain largely unknown. Combining proteomics, in vivo imaging and genetic analysis of proteins linked to planar cell polarity (Inturned, Fuzzy and Wdpcp), we identified and characterized a new genetic module, which we term CPLANE (ciliogenesis and planar polarity effector), and an extensive associated protein network. CPLANE proteins physically and functionally interact with the poorly understood ciliopathy-associated protein Jbts17 at basal bodies, where they act to recruit a specific subset of IFT-A proteins. In the absence of CPLANE, defective IFT-A particles enter the axoneme and IFT-B trafficking is severely perturbed. Accordingly, mutation of CPLANE genes elicits specific ciliopathy phenotypes in mouse models and is associated with ciliopathies in human patients.
PXD003922	27160897	Interaction of tau with the RNA-Binding Protein TIA1 Regulates tau Pathophysiology and Toxicity. 	TIA1 interactome from mouse cortex	Alzheimers disease, MAP, RNA binding protein, RNA metabolism, Stress, stress granule, translational regulation	Dendritic mislocalization of microtubule associated protein tau is a hallmark of tauopathies, but the role of dendritic tau is unknown. We now report that tau interacts with the RNA-binding protein (RBP) TIA1 in brain tissue, and we present the brain-protein interactome network for TIA1. Analysis of the TIA1 interactome in brain tissue from wild-type (WT) and tau knockout mice demonstrates that tau is required for normal interactions of TIA1 with proteins linked to RNA metabolism, including ribosomal proteins and RBPs. Expression studies show that tau regulates the distribution of TIA1, and tau accelerates stress granule (SG) formation. Conversely, TIA1 knockdown or knockout inhibits tau misfolding and associated toxicity in cultured hippocampal neurons, while overexpressing TIA1 induces tau misfolding and stimulates neurodegeneration. Pharmacological interventions that prevent SG formation also inhibit tau pathophysiology. These studies suggest that the pathophysiology of tauopathy requires an intimate interaction with RNA-binding proteins.
PXD002836	27161445	SWATH Mass Spectrometry Performance Using Extended Peptide MS/MS Assay Libraries. 	SWATH mass spectrometry performance using extended ion assay libraries	DIA, Extended library, SWATH	The use of data-independent acquisition methods such as SWATH for mass spectrometry based proteomics is usually performed with peptide MS/MS assay libraries which enable identification and quantitation of peptide peak areas. Reference assay libraries can be generated locally through information dependent acquisition, or obtained from community data repositories for commonly studied organisms. However, there have been no studies performed to systematically evaluate how locally generated or repository-based assay libraries affect SWATH performance for proteomic studies. To undertake this analysis, we developed a software workflow, SwathXtend, which generates extended peptide assay libraries by integration with a local seed library and delivers statistical analysis of SWATH-quantitative comparisons. We designed test samples using peptides from a yeast extract spiked into peptides from human K562 cell lysates at three different ratios to simulate protein abundance change comparisons. SWATH-MS performance was assessed using local and external assay libraries of varying complexities and proteome compositions. These experiments demonstrated that local seed libraries integrated with external assay libraries achieve better performance than local assay libraries alone, in terms of the number of identified peptides and proteins and the specificity to detect differentially abundant proteins. Our findings show that the performance of extended assay libraries is influenced by the MS/MS feature similarity of the seed and external libraries, while statistical analysis using multiple testing corrections increases the statistical rigor needed when searching against large extended assay libraries.
PXD004077	27161446	Identification and Characterization of Potential Biomarkers by Quantitative Tissue Proteomics of Primary Lung Adenocarcinoma. 	Quantitative tissue proteomics analysis of primary lung  adenocarcinoma	ERO1L, NARS, adenocarcinoma, biomarkers, iTRAQ, lung cancer, lymph node metastasis	Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Both diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers are urgently needed to increase patient survival. In this study, we identified/quantified 1763 proteins from paired adenocarcinoma (ADC) tissues with different extents of lymph node (LN) involvement using an iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis. Based on a bioinformatics analysis and literature search, we selected six candidates (ERO1L, PABPC4, RCC1, RPS25, NARS, and TARS) from a set of 133 proteins that presented a 1.5-fold increase in expression in ADC tumors without LN metastasis compared with adjacent normal tissues. These six proteins were further verified using immunohistochemical staining and Western blot analyses. The protein levels of these six candidates were higher in tumor tissues compared with adjacent normal tissues. The ERO1L and NARS levels were positively associated with LN metastasis. Importantly, ERO1L overexpression in patients with early-stage ADC was positively correlated with poor survival, suggesting that ERO1L overexpression in primary sites of early-stage cancer tissues indicates a high risk for cancer micrometastasis. Moreover, we found that knockdown of either ERO1L or NARS reduced the viability and migration ability of ADC cells. Our results collectively provide a potential biomarker data set for ADC diagnosis/prognosis and reveal novel roles of ERO1L and NARS in ADC progression.
PXD003136	27162549	Interleukin-6 Induced "Acute" Phenotypic Microenvironment Promotes Th1 Anti-Tumor Immunity in Cryo-Thermal Therapy Revealed By Shotgun and Parallel Reaction Monitoring Proteomics. 	Interleukin-6 induced acute' response promotes Th1 anti-tumor immunity in cryo-thermal therapy: shotgun proteomics	Th1 anti-tumor immunity, acute phase response, cryo-thermal therapy, interleukin-6, parallel reaction monitoring	Cryo-thermal therapy has been emerged as a promising novel therapeutic strategy for advanced breast cancer, triggering higher incidence of tumor regression and enhanced remission of metastasis than routine treatments. To better understand its anti-tumor mechanism, we utilized a spontaneous metastatic mouse model and quantitative proteomics to compare N-glycoproteome changes in 94 serum samples with and without treatment. We quantified 231 highly confident N-glycosylated proteins using iTRAQ shotgun proteomics. Among them, 53 showed significantly discriminated regulatory patterns over the time course, in which the acute phase response emerged as the most enhanced pathway. The anti-tumor feature of the acute response was further investigated using parallel reaction monitoring target proteomics and flow cytometry on 23 of the 53 significant proteins. We found that cryo-thermal therapy reset the tumor chronic inflammation to an "acute" phenotype, with up-regulation of acute phase proteins including IL-6 as a key regulator. The IL-6 mediated "acute" phenotype transformed IL-4 and Treg-promoting ICOSL expression to Th1-promoting IFN-gamma and IL-12 production, augmented complement system activation and CD86(+)MHCII(+) dendritic cells maturation and enhanced the proliferation of Th1 memory cells. In addition, we found an increased production of tumor progression and metastatic inhibitory proteins under such "acute" environment, favoring the anti-metastatic effect. Moreover, cryo-thermal on tumors induced the strongest "acute" response compared to cryo/hyperthermia alone or cryo-thermal on healthy tissues, accompanying by the most pronounced anti-tumor immunological effect. In summary, we demonstrated that cryo-thermal therapy induced, IL-6 mediated "acute" microenvironment shifted the tumor chronic microenvironment from Th2 immunosuppressive and pro-tumorigenic to Th1 immunostimulatory and tumoricidal state. Moreover, the magnitude of "acute" and "danger" signals play a key role in determining the efficacy of anti-tumor activity.
PXD001498	27167067	Evolutionary Events Associated with an Outbreak of Meningococcal Disease in Men Who Have Sex with Men. 	Evolution of an outbreak of meningococcal disease among men who have sex with men	AniA, Neisseria meningitidis, evolution	Meningococci spread via respiratory droplets, whereas the closely related gonococci are transmitted sexually. Several outbreaks of invasive meningococcal disease have been reported in Europe and the United States among men who have sex with men (MSM). We recently identified an outbreak of serogroup C meningococcal disease among MSM in Germany and France. In this study, genomic and proteomic techniques were used to analyze the outbreak isolates. In addition, genetically identical urethritis isolates were recovered from France and Germany and included in the analysis. Genome sequencing revealed that the isolates from the outbreak among MSM and from urethritis cases belonged to a clade within clonal complex 11. Proteome analysis showed they expressed nitrite reductase, enabling anaerobic growth as previously described for gonococci. Invasive isolates from MSM, but not urethritis isolates, further expressed functional human factor H binding protein associated with enhanced survival in a newly developed transgenic mouse model expressing human factor H, a complement regulatory protein. In conclusion, our data suggest that urethritis and outbreak isolates followed a joint adaptation route including adaption to the urogenital tract.
PXD003503	27169413	Quantitative Mass Spectrometry Reveals Changes in Histone H2B Variants as Cells Undergo Inorganic Arsenic-Mediated Cellular Transformation. 	H2B variants expression during iAs-mediated EMT	Fourier transform, Inorganic arsenic, epigenetics, histone variants, ion cyclotron resonance, proteoform, top-down, toxin, transformation	Exposure to inorganic arsenic, a ubiquitous environmental toxic metalloid, leads to carcinogenesis. However, the mechanism is unknown. Several studies have shown that inorganic arsenic exposure alters specific gene expression patterns, possibly through alterations in chromatin structure. While most studies on understanding the mechanism of chromatin-mediated gene regulation have focused on histone post-translational modifications, the role of histone variants remains largely unknown. Incorporation of histone variants alters the functional properties of chromatin. To understand the global dynamics of chromatin structure and function in arsenic-mediated carcinogenesis, analysis of the histone variants incorporated into the nucleosome and their covalent modifications is required. Here we report the first global mass spectrometric analysis of histone H2B variants as cells undergo arsenic-mediated epithelial to mesenchymal transition. We used electron capture dissociation-based top-down tandem mass spectrometry analysis validated with quantitative reverse transcription real-time polymerase chain reaction to identify changes in the expression levels of H2B variants in inorganic arsenic-mediated epithelial-mesenchymal transition. We identified changes in the expression levels of specific histone H2B variants in two cell types, which are dependent on dose and length of exposure of inorganic arsenic. In particular, we found increases in H2B variants H2B1H/1K/1C/1J/1O and H2B2E/2F, and significant decreases in H2B1N/1D/1B as cells undergo inorganic arsenic-mediated epithelial-mesenchymal transition. The analysis of these histone variants provides a first step toward an understanding of the functional significance of the diversity of histone structures, especially in inorganic arsenic-mediated gene expression and carcinogenesis.
PXD002843	27169553	Proteomic investigation of the secretome of Cellvibrio japonicus during growth on chitin. 	Cellvibrio japonicus chitin secretome	Chitin, secretome	Studies of the secretomes of microbes grown on insoluble substrates are important for the discovery of novel proteins involved in biomass conversion. However, data in literature and this study indicate that secretome samples tend to be contaminated with cytoplasmic proteins. We have examined the secretome of the Gram-negative soil bacterium Cellvibrio japonicus using a simple plate-based culturing technique that yields samples with high fractions (60-75%) of proteins that are predicted to be secreted. By combining this approach with label-free quantification using the MaxLFQ algorithm, we have mapped and quantified proteins secreted by C. japonicus during growth on alpha- and beta-chitin. Hierarchical clustering of the detected protein quantities revealed groups of up-regulated proteins that include all five putative C. japonicus chitinases as well as a chitin-specific lytic polysaccharide monooxygenase (CjLPMO10A). A small set of secreted proteins were co-regulated with known chitin-specific enzymes, including several with unknown catalytic functions. These proteins provide interesting targets for further studies aimed at unraveling the enzymatic machineries used by C. japonicus for recalcitrant polysaccharide degradation. Studies of chitin degradation indicated that C. japonicus indeed produces an efficient chitinolytic enzyme cocktail. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with the dataset identifier PXD002843 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD002843).
PXD002638	27171912	Biosynthesis of Chlorophyll a in a Purple Bacterial Phototroph and Assembly into a Plant Chlorophyll-Protein Complex. 	Incorporation of chlorophyll a into Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Brassica oleracea var. gammifera, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, water soluble chlorophyll protein	Improvements to photosynthetic efficiency could be achieved by manipulating pigment biosynthetic pathways of photosynthetic organisms in order to increase the spectral coverage for light absorption. The development of organisms that can produce both bacteriochlorophylls and chlorophylls is one way to achieve this aim, and accordingly we have engineered the bacteriochlorophyll-utilizing anoxygenic phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides to make chlorophyll a. Bacteriochlorophyll and chlorophyll share a common biosynthetic pathway up to the precursor chlorophyllide. Deletion of genes responsible for the bacteriochlorophyll-specific modifications of chlorophyllide and replacement of the native bacteriochlorophyll synthase with a cyanobacterial chlorophyll synthase resulted in the production of chlorophyll a. This pigment could be assembled in vivo into the plant water-soluble chlorophyll protein, heterologously produced in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which represents a proof-of-principle for the engineering of novel antenna complexes that enhance the spectral range of photosynthesis.
PXD003368	27172881	Molecular characterization of S. japonicum exosome-like vesicles reveals their regulatory roles in parasite-host interactions. 	LC/MS -  Molecular characterization of S	LC/MS	Secreted extracellular vesicles play an important role in pathogen-host interactions. Increased knowledge of schistosome extracellular vesicles could provide insights into schistosome-host interactions and enable the development of novel intervention strategies to inhibit parasitic processes and lessen disease transmission. Here, we describe biochemical characterization of Schistosoma japonicum exosome-like vesicles (S. japonicum EVs). A total of 403 proteins were identified in S. japonicum EVs, and bioinformatics analyses indicated that these proteins were mainly involved in binding, catalytic activity, and translation regulatory activity. Next, we characterized the population of small RNAs associated with S. japonicum EVs. Further studies demonstrated that mammalian cells could internalize S. japonicum EVs and transfer their cargo miRNAs to recipient cells. Additionally, we found that a specific miRNA, likely originating from a final host, ocu-miR-191-5p, is also associated with S. japonicum EVs. Overall, our findings demonstrate that S. japonicum EVs could be implicated in the pathogenesis of schistosomiasis via a mechanism involving the transfer of their cargo miRNAs to hosts. Our findings provide novel insights into the mechanisms of schistosome-host interactions.
PXD003720	27174546	Analysis of low-density lipoprotein-associated proteins using the method of digitized native protein mapping. 	Analysis of LDL-associated proteins using the method of digitized native protein mapping	Digitized native protein mapping, grid gel-cutting, human plasma low-density lipoprotein, nondenaturing micro 2DE, protein-protein interactions, quantitative LC-HDMSE	The method of digitized native protein mapping, combining nondenaturing micro 2DE, grid gel-cutting, and quantitative LC-MS/MS (in data-independent acquisition mode, or MS(E) ), was improved by using a new MS/MS mode, ion mobility separation enhanced-MS(E) (HDMS(E) ), and applied to analyze the area of human plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL). An 18 mm x 4.8 mm rectangular area which included LDL on a nondenaturing micro 2D gel of human plasma was grid-cut into 72 square gel pieces and subjected to quantitative LC-MS/MS. Compared with MS(E) , HDMS(E) showed significantly higher performance, by assigning 50% more proteins and detecting each protein in more squares. A total of 253 proteins were assigned with LC-HDMS(E) and the quantity distribution of each was reconstructed as a native protein map. The maps showed that Apo B-100 was the most abundant protein in the grid-cut area, concentrated at pI ca. 5.4-6.1 and apparent mass ca. 1000 kDa, which corresponded to four gel pieces, squares 39-42. An Excel macro was prepared to search protein maps which showed protein quantity peaks localized within this concentrated region of Apo B-100. Twenty-two proteins out of the 252 matched this criterion, in which 19 proteins have been reported to be associated with LDL. This method only requires several microliters of a plasma sample and the principle of the protein separation is totally different from the commonly used ultracentrifugation. The results obtained by this method would provide new insights on the structure and function of LDL.
PXD001603	27174698	The Clathrin-dependent Spindle Proteome. 	Signaling pathways altered at the mitotic spindle in clathrin depleted cells	CHC knock-down, Dimethylation, HeLa, SCX, TiO2, high pH reverse phase	The mitotic spindle is required for chromosome congression and subsequent equal segregation of sister chromatids. These processes involve a complex network of signaling molecules located at the spindle. The endocytic protein, clathrin, has a "moonlighting" role during mitosis, whereby it stabilizes the mitotic spindle. The signaling pathways that clathrin participates in to achieve mitotic spindle stability are unknown. Here, we assessed the mitotic spindle proteome and phosphoproteome in clathrin-depleted cells using quantitative MS/MS (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001603). We report a spindle proteome that consists of 3046 proteins and a spindle phosphoproteome consisting of 5157 phosphosites in 1641 phosphoproteins. Of these, 2908 (95.4%) proteins and 1636 (99.7%) phosphoproteins are known or predicted spindle-associated proteins. Clathrin-depletion from spindles resulted in dysregulation of 121 proteins and perturbed signaling to 47 phosphosites. The majority of these proteins increased in mitotic spindle abundance and six of these were validated by immunofluorescence microscopy. Functional pathway analysis confirmed the reported role of clathrin in mitotic spindle stabilization for chromosome alignment and highlighted possible new mechanisms of clathrin action. The data also revealed a novel second mitotic role for clathrin in bipolar spindle formation.
PXD003821	27177187	An unbiased nuclear proteomics approach reveals novel nuclear protein components that participates in MAMP-triggered immunity. 	Arabidopsis Col-0 and cerk1 treated with chitosan or water	PAMP- triggered immunity, cerk1, chitosan	(MAMP)-triggered immunity (MTI) is the first layer of molecular defense encountered by pathogens. Genetic screens have contributed to our knowledge of MTI, but are limited to phenotype-causing mutations. Here we attempt to identify novel factors involved in the early event leading to plant MTI by comparing the nuclear proteomes of two Arabidopsis genotypes treated with chitosan. Our approach revealed that following chitosan treatment, cerk1 plants had many nuclear accumulating proteins in common, but also some unique ones, when compared with Col-0 plants. Analysis of the identified proteins revealed a nuclear accumulation of DNA-modifying enzymes, RNA-binding proteins and ribosomal proteins. Our results demonstrate that nuclear proteomic is a valid, phenotype-independent approach to uncover factor involved in cellular processes.
PXD003403	27178327	Mapping Proteoforms and Protein Complexes From King Cobra Venom Using Both Denaturing and Native Top-down Proteomics. 	Denaturing and native top-down venomics:  Mapping proteoforms and protein complexes from king cobra venom	King cobra venom, native mass spectrometry, protein complexes, proteoforms, top-down proteomics	Characterizing whole proteins by top-down proteomics avoids a step of inference encountered in the dominant bottom-up methodology when peptides are assembled computationally into proteins for identification. The direct interrogation of whole proteins and protein complexes from the venom of Ophiophagus hannah (king cobra) provides a sharply clarified view of toxin sequence variation, transit peptide cleavage sites and post-translational modifications (PTMs) likely critical for venom lethality. A tube-gel format for electrophoresis (called GELFrEE) and solution isoelectric focusing were used for protein fractionation prior to LC-MS/MS analysis resulting in 131 protein identifications (18 more than bottom-up) and a total of 184 proteoforms characterized from 14 protein toxin families. Operating both GELFrEE and mass spectrometry to preserve non-covalent interactions generated detailed information about two of the largest venom glycoprotein complexes: the homodimeric l-amino acid oxidase (~130 kDa) and the multichain toxin cobra venom factor (~147 kDa). The l-amino acid oxidase complex exhibited two clusters of multiproteoform complexes corresponding to the presence of 5 or 6 N-glycans moieties, each consistent with a distribution of N-acetyl hexosamines. Employing top-down proteomics in both native and denaturing modes provides unprecedented characterization of venom proteoforms and their complexes. A precise molecular inventory of venom proteins will propel the study of snake toxin variation and the targeted development of new antivenoms or other biotherapeutics.
PXD002927	27180971	Phosphoprotein network analysis of white adipose tissues unveils deregulated pathways in response to high-fat diet. 	Phosphoprotein network analysis of white adipose tissues unveils deregulated pathways in response to high-fat diet	Diet, Mouse Phosphoproteome	Despite efforts in the last decade, signaling aberrations associated with obesity remain poorly understood. To dissect molecular mechanisms that define this complex metabolic disorder, we carried out global phosphoproteomic analysis of white adipose tissue (WAT) from mice fed on low-fat diet (LFD) and high-fat diet (HFD). We quantified phosphorylation levels on 7696 peptides, and found significant differential phosphorylation levels in 282 phosphosites from 191 proteins, including various insulin-responsive proteins and metabolic enzymes involved in lipid homeostasis in response to high-fat feeding. Kinase-substrate prediction and integrated network analysis of the altered phosphoproteins revealed underlying signaling modulations during HFD-induced obesity, and suggested deregulation of lipogenic and lipolytic pathways. Mutation of the differentially-regulated novel phosphosite on cytoplasmic acetyl-coA forming enzyme ACSS2 (S263A) upon HFD-induced obesity led to accumulation of serum triglycerides and reduced insulin-responsive AKT phosphorylation as compared to wild type ACSS2, thus highlighting its role in obesity. Altogether, our study presents a comprehensive map of adipose tissue phosphoproteome in obesity and reveals many previously unknown candidate phosphorylation sites for future functional investigation.
PXD003871	27184853	Translational Capacity of a Cell Is Determined during Transcription Elongation via the Ccr4-Not Complex. 	Yeast not5 mutant protein translation analysis	SILAC, protein synthesis, turnover	The current understanding of gene expression considers transcription and translation to be independent processes. Challenging this notion, we found that translation efficiency is determined during transcription elongation through the imprinting of mRNAs with Not1, the central scaffold of the Ccr4-Not complex. We determined that another subunit of the complex, Not5, defines Not1 binding to specific mRNAs, particularly those produced from ribosomal protein genes. This imprinting mechanism specifically regulates ribosomal protein gene expression, which in turn determines the translational capacity of cells. We validate our model by SILAC and polysome profiling experiments. As a proof of concept, we demonstrate that enhanced translation compensates for transcriptional elongation stress. Taken together, our data indicate that in addition to defining mRNA stability, components of the Ccr4-Not imprinting complex regulate RNA translatability, thus ensuring global gene expression homeostasis.
PXD004175	27184855	TFG Promotes Organization of Transitional ER and Efficient Collagen Secretion. 	TFG Cell-derived matrix proteome	RPE1 cells	Collagen is the most abundant protein in the animal kingdom. It is of fundamental importance during development for cell differentiation and tissue morphogenesis as well as in pathological processes such as fibrosis and cancer cell migration. However, our understanding of the mechanisms of procollagen secretion remains limited. Here, we show that TFG organizes transitional ER (tER) and ER exit sites (ERESs) into larger structures. Depletion of TFG results in dispersion of tER elements that remain associated with individual ER-Golgi intermediate compartments (ERGICs) as largely functional ERESs. We show that TFG is not required for the transport and packaging of small soluble cargoes but is necessary for the export of procollagen from the ER. Our work therefore suggests a key relationship between the structure and function of ERESs and a central role for TFG in optimizing COPII assembly for procollagen export.
PXD003832	27185460	The Spliceosomal Protein SF3B5 is a Novel Component of Drosophila SAGA that Functions in Gene Expression Independent of Splicing. 	Novel spliceosomal SF3B component in SAGA functions in transcriptional coactivation	Affinity Purification, Chromatin, SAGA complex, SF3B3, SF3B5, Splicing factors	The interaction between splicing factors and the transcriptional machinery provides an intriguing link between the coupled processes of transcription and splicing. Here, we show that the two components of the SF3B complex, SF3B3 and SF3B5, that form part of the U2 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (snRNP) are also subunits of the Spt-Ada-Gcn5 acetyltransferase (SAGA) transcriptional coactivator complex in Drosophila melanogaster. Whereas SF3B3 had previously been identified as a human SAGA subunit, SF3B5 had not been identified as a component of SAGA in any species. We show that SF3B3 and SF3B5 bind to SAGA independent of RNA and interact with multiple SAGA subunits including Sgf29 and Spt7 in a yeast two-hybrid assay. Through analysis of sf3b5 mutant flies, we show that SF3B5 is necessary for proper development and cell viability but not for histone acetylation. Although SF3B5 does not appear to function in SAGA's histone-modifying activities, SF3B5 is still required for expression of a subset of SAGA-regulated genes independent of splicing. Thus, our data support an independent function of SF3B5 in SAGA's transcription coactivator activity that is separate from its role in splicing.
PXD003970	27186238	Decoding the complete arsenal for cellulose and hemicellulose deconstruction in the highly efficient cellulose decomposer Paenibacillus O199. 	Decoding the complete arsenal for cellulose and hemicellulose deconstruction in the highly efficient cellulose decomposer Paenibacillus O199	GeLC-MS/MS, cellulose degradation	BACKGROUND: The search for new enzymes and microbial strains to degrade plant biomass is one of the most important strategies for improving the conversion processes in the production of environment-friendly chemicals and biofuels. In this study, we report a new Paenibacillus isolate, O199, which showed the highest efficiency for cellulose deconstruction in a screen of environmental isolates. Here, we provide a detailed description of the complex multi-component O199 enzymatic system involved in the degradation of lignocellulose. RESULTS: We examined the genome and the proteome of O199 grown on complex lignocellulose (wheat straw) and on microcrystalline cellulose. The genome contained 476 genes with domains assigned to carbohydrate-active enzyme (CAZyme) families, including 100 genes coding for glycosyl hydrolases (GHs) putatively involved in cellulose and hemicellulose degradation. Moreover, 31 % of these CAZymes were expressed on cellulose and 29 % on wheat straw. Proteomic analyses also revealed a complex and complete set of enzymes for deconstruction of cellulose (at least 22 proteins, including 4 endocellulases, 2 exocellulases, 2 cellobiohydrolases and 2 beta-glucosidases) and hemicellulose (at least 28 proteins, including 5 endoxylanases, 1 beta-xylosidase, 2 xyloglucanases, 2 endomannanases, 2 licheninases and 1 endo-beta-1,3(4)-glucanase). Most of these proteins were secreted extracellularly and had numerous carbohydrate-binding domains (CBMs). In addition, O199 also secreted a high number of substrate-binding proteins (SBPs), including at least 42 proteins binding carbohydrates. Interestingly, both plant lignocellulose and crystalline cellulose triggered the production of a wide array of hydrolytic proteins, including cellulases, hemicellulases, and other GHs. CONCLUSIONS: Our data provide an in-depth analysis of the complex and complete set of enzymes and accessory non-catalytic proteins-GHs, CBMs, transporters, and SBPs-implicated in the high cellulolytic capacity shown by this bacterial strain. The large diversity of hydrolytic enzymes and the extracellular secretion of most of them supports the use of Paenibacillus O199 as a candidate for second-generation technologies using paper or lignocellulosic agricultural wastes.
PXD004072	27188442	Themis1 enhances T cell receptor signaling during thymocyte development by promoting Vav1 activity and Grb2 stability. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of the Themis1 interactome in murine thymocytes	AP-MS, TCR signalling, Themis1, interactome, thymocytes	The T cell signaling protein Themis1 is essential for the positive and negative selection of thymocytes in the thymus. Although the developmental defect that results from the loss of Themis1 suggests that it enhances T cell receptor (TCR) signaling, Themis1 also recruits Src homology 2 domain-containing phosphatase-1 (SHP-1) to the vicinity of TCR signaling complexes, suggesting that it has an inhibitory role in TCR signaling. We used TCR signaling reporter mice and quantitative proteomics to explore the role of Themis1 in developing T cells. We found that Themis1 acted mostly as a positive regulator of TCR signaling in vivo when receptors were activated by positively selecting ligands. Proteomic analysis of the Themis1 interactome identified SHP-1, the TCR-associated adaptor protein Grb2, and the guanine nucleotide exchange factor Vav1 as the principal interacting partners of Themis1 in isolated mouse thymocytes. Analysis of TCR signaling in Themis1-deficient and Themis1-overexpressing mouse thymocytes demonstrated that Themis1 promoted Vav1 activity both in vitro and in vivo. The reduced activity of Vav1 and the impaired T cell development in Themis1(-/-) mice were due in part to increased degradation of Grb2, which suggests that Themis1 is required to maintain the steady-state abundance of Grb2 in thymocytes. Together, these data suggest that Themis1 acts as a positive regulator of TCR signaling in developing T cells, and identify a mechanism by which Themis1 regulates thymic selection.
PXD003064	27189269	Commercial processed soy-based food product contains glycated and glycoxidated lunasin proteoforms. 	Top-down characterization of lunasin in a commercial soybean-derived product	Soybean, advanced glycation end produts, glycation, top-down	Nutraceuticals have been proposed to exert positive effects on human health and confer protection against many chronic diseases. A major bioactive component of soy-based foods is lunasin peptide, which has potential to exert a major impact on the health of human consumers worldwide, but the biochemical features of dietary lunasin still remain poorly characterized. In this study, lunasin was purified from a soy-based food product via strong anion exchange solid phase extraction and then subjected to top-down mass spectrometry analysis that revealed in detail the molecular diversity of lunasin in processed soybean foods. We detected multiple glycated proteoforms together with potentially toxic advanced glycation end products (AGEs) derived from lunasin. In both cases, modification sites were Lys24 and Lys29 located at the helical region that shows structural homology with a conserved region of chromatin-binding proteins. The identified post-translational modifications may have an important repercussion on lunasin epigenetic regulatory capacity. Taking together, our results demonstrate the importance of proper chemical characterization of commercial processed food products to assess their impact on consumer's health and risk of chronic diseases.
PXD008092	27189490	In vivo Real-Time Mass Spectrometry for Guided Surgery Application. 	Moving Forward Real-Time Proteomics Mass Spectrometry by Remote Infrared Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization	Mass Spectrometry  Real-Time Analysis  Remote IR MALDI Proteins  Charge State Distribution	Here we describe a new instrument (SpiderMass) designed for in vivo and real-time analysis. In this instrument ion production is performed remotely from the MS instrument and the generated ions are transported in real-time to the MS analyzer. Ion production is promoted by Resonant Infrared Laser Ablation (RIR-LA) based on the highly effective excitation of O-H bonds in water molecules naturally present in most biological samples. The retrieved molecular patterns are specific to the cell phenotypes and benign versus cancer regions of patient biopsies can be easily differentiated. We also demonstrate by analysis of human skin that SpiderMass can be used under in vivo conditions with minimal damage and pain. Furthermore SpiderMass can also be used for real-time drug metabolism and pharmacokinetic (DMPK) analysis or food safety topics. SpiderMass is thus the first MS based system designed for in vivo real-time analysis under minimally invasive conditions.
PXD003252	27193186	The Essential Role of H19 Contributing to Cisplatin Resistance by Regulating Glutathione Metabolism in High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer. 	Ovarian cancer cell line LC-MS-MS	LC-MS-MS, Ovarian cancer, cisplatin resistance	Primary and acquired drug resistance is one of the main obstacles encountered in high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSC) chemotherapy. Cisplatin induces DNA damage through cross-linking and long integrated non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) play an important role in chemical induced DNA-damage response, which suggests that lincRNAs may be also associated with cisplatin resistance. However, the mechanism of long integrated non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) acting on cisplatin resistance is not well understood. Here, we showed that expression of lin-RECK-3, H19, LUCAT1, LINC00961, and linc-CARS2-2 was enhanced in cisplatin-resistant A2780-DR cells, while transcriptome sequencing showed decreased Linc-TNFRSF19-1 and LINC00515 expression. Additionally, we verified that different H19 expression levels in HGSC tissues showed strong correlation with cancer recurrence. H19 knockdown in A2780-DR cells resulted in recovery of cisplatin sensitivity in vitro and in vivo. Quantitative proteomics analysis indicated that six NRF2-targeted proteins, including NQO1, GSR, G6PD, GCLC, GCLM and GSTP1 involved in the glutathione metabolism pathway, were reduced in H19-knockdown cells. Furthermore, H19-knockdown cells were markedly more sensitive to hydrogen-peroxide treatment and exhibited lower glutathione levels. Our results reveal a previously unknown link between H19 and glutathione metabolism in the regulation of cancer-drug resistance.
PXD002448	27193225	Composition of Rosenthal Fibers, the Protein Aggregate Hallmark of Alexander Disease. 	Composition of Rosenthal fibers in Alexander disease patients and mouse models	Alexander disease, Rosenthal fibers, iTRAQ 8-plex	Alexander disease (AxD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by astrocytic protein aggregates called Rosenthal fibers (RFs). We used mouse models of AxD to determine the protein composition of RFs to obtain information about disease mechanisms including the hypothesis that sequestration of proteins in RFs contributes to disease. A method was developed for RF enrichment, and analysis of the resulting fraction using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation mass spectrometry identified 77 proteins not previously associated with RFs. Three of five proteins selected for follow-up were confirmed enriched in the RF fraction by immunobloting of both the AxD mouse models and human patients: receptor for activated protein C kinase 1 (RACK1), G1/S-specific cyclin D2, and ATP-dependent RNA helicase DDX3X. Immunohistochemistry validated cyclin D2 as a new RF component, but results for RACK1 and DDX3X were equivocal. None of these was decreased in the non-RF fractions compared to controls. A similar result was obtained for the previously known RF component, alphaB-crystallin, which had been a candidate for sequestration. Thus, no support was obtained for the sequestration hypothesis for AxD. Providing possible insight into disease progression, the association of several of the RF proteins with stress granules suggests a role for stress granules in the origin of RFs.
PXD003561	27195445	Identification of glycoproteins associated with HIV latently infected cells using quantitative glycoproteomics. 	Identification of Glycoproteins Associated with HIV Latently Infected Cells Using Quantitative Glycoproteomics	HIV, SPEG, latency, quantitative glycoproteomics	HIV infection is not curable due to viral latency. Compelling reports suggest that there is a distinct profile of surface proteins that can be used for targeting latently infected cells. We have recently reported that glycoproteins were differentially secreted from HIV latently infected ACH-2 cells compared to the parental A3.01 cells. This finding suggests that glyco-phenotype might be different in these two cell lines. To determine the difference, the ACH-2 and A3.01 cell lines were subjected to a glycoproteomic analysis. A total number of 940 unique N-linked glycosite-containing peptides from 515 glycoproteins were identified. Among the glycoproteins, 365 and 104 were annotated as cell surface and membrane-associated proteins, respectively. Quantitative LC-MS/MS analysis revealed a change of 236 glycosite-containing peptides from 172 glycoproteins between the two cell lines without reactivation. Bioinformatic analysis suggests that cell adhesion, immune response, glycoprotein metabolic process, cell motion, and cell activation were associated with the changed proteins. After reactivation of latency, changes in glycosite-containing peptides were observed in both cell lines. The changed proteins suggest that cell migration, response to wounding and immune response might be impaired in reactivated latently infected cells. Glycoproteomics merits future application using primary cells to discover reveal mechanisms in HIV pathogenesis.
PXD003480	27197216	Venus flytrap carnivorous lifestyle builds on herbivore defense strategies. 	Dionaea secretome stimulation -  Venus flytrap carnivorous lifestyle builds on herbivore defense strategies	Dionaea, secretion fluid, venus fly trap	Although the concept of botanical carnivory has been known since Darwin's time, the molecular mechanisms that allow animal feeding remain unknown, primarily due to a complete lack of genomic information. Here, we show that the transcriptomic landscape of the Dionaea trap is dramatically shifted toward signal transduction and nutrient transport upon insect feeding, with touch hormone signaling and protein secretion prevailing. At the same time, a massive induction of general defense responses is accompanied by the repression of cell death-related genes/processes. We hypothesize that the carnivory syndrome of Dionaea evolved by exaptation of ancient defense pathways, replacing cell death with nutrient acquisition.
PXD003898	27197221	A novel nuclear genetic code alteration in yeasts and the evolution of codon reassignment in eukaryotes. 	Pachysolen tannophilus LC-MSMS	yeast CUG codon usage	The genetic code is the cellular translation table for the conversion of nucleotide sequences into amino acid sequences. Changes to the meaning of sense codons would introduce errors into almost every translated message and are expected to be highly detrimental. However, reassignment of single or multiple codons in mitochondria and nuclear genomes, although extremely rare, demonstrates that the code can evolve. Several models for the mechanism of alteration of nuclear genetic codes have been proposed (including "codon capture," "genome streamlining," and "ambiguous intermediate" theories), but with little resolution. Here, we report a novel sense codon reassignment in Pachysolen tannophilus, a yeast related to the Pichiaceae. By generating proteomics data and using tRNA sequence comparisons, we show that Pachysolen translates CUG codons as alanine and not as the more usual leucine. The Pachysolen tRNACAG is an anticodon-mutated tRNA(Ala) containing all major alanine tRNA recognition sites. The polyphyly of the CUG-decoding tRNAs in yeasts is best explained by a tRNA loss driven codon reassignment mechanism. Loss of the CUG-tRNA in the ancient yeast is followed by gradual decrease of respective codons and subsequent codon capture by tRNAs whose anticodon is not part of the aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase recognition region. Our hypothesis applies to all nuclear genetic code alterations and provides several testable predictions. We anticipate more codon reassignments to be uncovered in existing and upcoming genome projects.
PXD008265	27197958	Large-scale multiplex absolute protein quantification of drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters in human intestine, liver, and kidney microsomes by SWATH-MS: Comparison with MRM/SRM and HR-MRM/PRM. 	Human tissue microsomed by MRM, MRMHR and SWATH	MRM, SWATH, intestine, kidney, liver, microsomed	The purpose of the present study was to examine simultaneously the absolute protein amounts of 152 membrane and membrane-associated proteins, including 30 metabolizing enzymes and 107 transporters, in pooled microsomal fractions of human liver, kidney, and intestine by means of SWATH-MS with stable isotope-labeled internal standard peptides, and to compare the results with those obtained by MRM/SRM and high resolution (HR)-MRM/PRM. The protein expression levels of 27 metabolizing enzymes, 54 transporters, and six other membrane proteins were quantitated by SWATH-MS; other targets were below the lower limits of quantitation. Most of the values determined by SWATH-MS differed by less than 50% from those obtained by MRM/SRM or HR-MRM/PRM. Various metabolizing enzymes were expressed in liver microsomes more abundantly than in other microsomes. Ten, 13, and eight transporters listed as important for drugs by International Transporter Consortium were quantified in liver, kidney, and intestinal microsomes, respectively. Our results indicate that SWATH-MS enables large-scale multiplex absolute protein quantification while retaining similar quantitative capability to MRM/SRM or HR-MRM/PRM. SWATH-MS is expected to be useful methodology in the context of drug development for elucidating the molecular mechanisms of drug absorption, metabolism, and excretion in the human body based on protein profile information.
PXD003658	27198063	In planta chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometry analysis of protein structure and interaction in Arabidopsis. 	In planta chemical crosslinking and mass spectrometry analysis of protein structure and interaction in Arabidopsis	disuccinimidyl suberate, exhaustive cross-linked peptides identification tool, in planta chemical cross-linking, interactomics	Site-specific chemical cross-linking in combination with mass spectrometry analysis has emerged as a powerful proteomic approach for studying the three-dimensional structure of protein complexes and in mapping protein-protein interactions (PPIs). Building on the success of MS analysis of in vitro cross-linked proteins, which has been widely used to investigate specific interactions of bait proteins and their targets in various organisms, we report a workflow for in vivo chemical cross-linking and MS analysis in a multicellular eukaryote. This approach optimizes the in vivo protein cross-linking conditions in Arabidopsis thaliana, establishes a MudPIT procedure for the enrichment of cross-linked peptides, and develops an integrated software program, exhaustive cross-linked peptides identification tool (ECL), to identify the MS spectra of in planta chemical cross-linked peptides. In total, two pairs of in vivo cross-linked peptides of high confidence have been identified from two independent biological replicates. This work demarks the beginning of an alternative proteomic approach in the study of in vivo protein tertiary structure and PPIs in multicellular eukaryotes.
PXD003345	27199111	Discordant signaling and autophagy response to fasting in hearts of obese mice: Implications for ischemia tolerance. 	Discordant Fasting Signaling Response in Hearts of Mice with Diet-Induced Obeisity and Insulin Resistance	FVBN, Fasting, IN-Sequence, MS, heart, metabolism	Autophagy is regulated by nutrient and energy status and plays an adaptive role during nutrient deprivation and ischemic stress. Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a hypernutritive state characterized by obesity, dyslipidemia, elevated fasting blood glucose levels, and insulin resistance. It has also been associated with impaired autophagic flux and larger-sized infarcts. We hypothesized that diet-induced obesity (DIO) affects nutrient sensing, explaining the observed cardiac impaired autophagy. We subjected male friend virus B NIH (FVBN) mice to a high-fat diet, which resulted in increased weight gain, fat deposition, hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, and larger infarcts after myocardial ischemia-reperfusion. Autophagic flux was impaired after 4 wk on a high-fat diet. To interrogate nutrient-sensing pathways, DIO mice were subjected to overnight fasting, and hearts were processed for biochemical and proteomic analysis. Obese mice failed to upregulate LC3-II or to clear p62/SQSTM1 after fasting, although mRNA for LC3B and p62/SQSTM1 were appropriately upregulated in both groups, demonstrating an intact transcriptional response to fasting. Energy- and nutrient-sensing signal transduction pathways [AMPK and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)] also responded appropriately to fasting, although mTOR was more profoundly suppressed in obese mice. Proteomic quantitative analysis of the hearts under fed and fasted conditions revealed broad changes in protein networks involved in oxidative phosphorylation, autophagy, oxidative stress, protein homeostasis, and contractile machinery. In many instances, the fasting response was quite discordant between lean and DIO mice. Network analysis implicated the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor and mTOR regulatory nodes. Hearts of obese mice exhibited impaired autophagy, altered proteome, and discordant response to nutrient deprivation.
PXD002090	27203355	High-throughput production of a stable isotope-labeled peptide library for targeted proteomics using a wheat germ cell-free synthesis system. 	Development of a Mass Spectrometry-Based Quantitation Assay for Human Body Fluid Proteins using a Wheat Germ Cell-Free Synthesis System	Human body fluid proteins, Reference peptide library, Targeted proteomics, Wheat germ cell-free system	Quantitative proteomic approaches using selected reaction monitoring (SRM) are currently limited by the difficulty in the preparation of reference standards. In this study, we demonstrat the high-throughput production of a reference peptide library using a wheat germ cell-free synthesis system to develop a large-scale SRM assay for targeted proteomics.
PXD004188	27213465	High-precision iRT prediction in the targeted analysis of data-independent acquisition and its impact on identification and quantitation. 	High precision iRT retention time prediction in the targeted analysis of data-independent acquisition and its impact on identification and quantitation	DIA, Retention time prediction	Targeted analysis of data-independent acquisition (DIA) data is a powerful mass spectrometric approach for comprehensive, reproducible and precise proteome quantitation. It requires a spectral library, which contains for all considered peptide precursor ions empirically determined fragment ion intensities and their predicted retention time (RT). RTs, however, are not comparable on an absolute scale, especially if heterogeneous measurements are combined. Here, we present a method for high-precision prediction of RT, which significantly improves the quality of targeted DIA analysis compared to in silico RT prediction and the state of the art indexed retention time (iRT) normalization approach. We describe a high-precision normalized RT algorithm, which is implemented in the Spectronaut software. We, furthermore, investigate the influence of nine different experimental factors, such as chromatographic mobile and stationary phase, on iRT precision. In summary, we show that using targeted analysis of DIA data with high-precision iRT significantly increases sensitivity and data quality. The iRT values are generally transferable across a wide range of experimental conditions. Best results, however, are achieved if library generation and analytical measurements are performed on the same system.
PXD014703	27214592	Serine and threonine residues of plant STN7 kinase are differentially phosphorylated upon changing light conditions and specifically influence the activity and stability of the kinase. 	Differential light-dependent phosphorylation of Ser and Thr residues regulates plant STN7 kinase	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	STN7 kinase catalyzes the phosphorylation of the globally most common membrane proteins, the light-harvesting complex II (LHCII) in plant chloroplasts. STN7 itself possesses one serine (Ser) and two threonine (Thr) phosphosites. We show that phosphorylation of the Thr residues protects STN7 against degradation in darkness, low light and red light, whereas increasing light intensity and far red illumination decrease phosphorylation and induce STN7 degradation. Ser phosphorylation, in turn, occurs under red and low intensity white light, coinciding with the client protein (LHCII) phosphorylation. Through analysis of the counteracting LHCII phosphatase mutant tap38/pph1, we show that Ser phosphorylation and activation of the STN7 kinase for subsequent LHCII phosphorylation are heavily affected by pre-illumination conditions. Transitions between the three activity states of the STN7 kinase (deactivated in darkness and far red light, activated in low and red light, inhibited in high light) are shown to modulate the phosphorylation of the STN7 Ser and Thr residues independently of each other. Such dynamic regulation of STN7 kinase phosphorylation is crucial for plant growth and environmental acclimation.
PXD003121	27215607	Identification of Maturation-Specific Proteins by Single-Cell Proteomics of Human Oocytes. 	Human oocytes -  Identification of Maturation-Specific Proteins by Single-Cell Proteomics of Human Oocytes	Human oocytes, LCMS/MS, single occoyte analysis	Oocytes undergo a range of complex processes via oogenesis, maturation, fertilization, and early embryonic development, eventually giving rise to a fully functioning organism. To understand proteome composition and diversity during maturation of human oocytes, here we have addressed crucial aspects of oocyte collection and proteome analysis, resulting in the first proteome and secretome maps of human oocytes. Starting from 100 oocytes collected via a novel serum-free hanging drop culture system, we identified 2,154 proteins, whose function indicate that oocytes are largely resting cells with a proteome that is tailored for homeostasis, cellular attachment, and interaction with its environment via secretory factors. In addition, we have identified 158 oocyte-enriched proteins (such as ECAT1, PIWIL3, NLRP7)(1) not observed in high-coverage proteomics studies of other human cell lines or tissues. Exploiting SP3, a novel technology for proteomic sample preparation using magnetic beads, we scaled down proteome analysis to single cells. Despite the low protein content of only ~100 ng per cell, we consistently identified ~450 proteins from individual oocytes. When comparing individual oocytes at the germinal vesicle (GV) and metaphase II (MII) stage, we found that the Tudor and KH domain-containing protein (TDRKH) is preferentially expressed in immature oocytes, while Wee2, PCNA, and DNMT1 were enriched in mature cells, collectively indicating that maintenance of genome integrity is crucial during oocyte maturation. This study demonstrates that an innovative proteomics workflow facilitates analysis of single human oocytes to investigate human oocyte biology and preimplantation development. The approach presented here paves the way for quantitative proteomics in other quantity-limited tissues and cell types. Data associated with this study are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004142.
PXD004026	27216279	A clickable glutathione approach for identification of protein glutathionylation in response to glucose metabolism. 	Clickable Glutathione Approach for Identification of Protein Glutathionylation in Response to Glucose Metabolism	Glutathionylation	Glucose metabolism and mitochondrial function are closely interconnected with cellular redox-homeostasis. Although glucose starvation, which mimics ischemic conditions or insufficient vascularization, is known to perturb redox-homeostasis, global and individual protein glutathionylation in response to glucose metabolism or mitochondrial activity remains largely unknown. In this report, we use our clickable glutathione approach, which forms clickable glutathione (azido-glutathione) by using a mutant of glutathione synthetase (GS M4), for detection and identification of protein glutathionylation in response to glucose starvation. We found that protein glutathionylation is readily induced in HEK293 cells in response to low glucose concentrations when mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) are elevated in cells, and glucose is the major determinant for inducing reversible glutathionylation. Proteomic and biochemical analysis identified over 1300 proteins, including SMYD2, PP2Calpha, and catalase. We further showed that PP2Calpha is glutathionylated at C314 in a C-terminal domain, and PP2Calpha C314 glutathionylation disrupts the interaction with mGluR3, an important glutamate receptor associated with synaptic plasticity.
PXD003288	27216497	Enrichment of extracellular vesicles from tissues of the central nervous system by PROSPR. 	CNS-EVs enriched by PROSPR -  Enrichment of extracellular vesicles from tissues of the central nervous system by PROSPR	EVs, PROSPR, exosomes, microvesicles, purification	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) act as key mediators of intercellular communication and are secreted and taken up by all cell types in the central nervous system (CNS). While detailed study of EV-based signaling is likely to significantly advance our understanding of human neurobiology, the technical challenges of isolating EVs from CNS tissues have limited their characterization using 'omics' technologies. We therefore developed a new Protein Organic Solvent Precipitation (PROSPR) method that can efficiently isolate the EV repertoire from human biological samples. RESULTS: In the current report, we present a novel experimental workflow that outlines the process of sample extraction and enrichment of CNS-derived EVs using PROSPR. Subsequent LC-MS/MS-based proteomic profiling of EVs enriched from brain homogenates successfully identified 86 of the top 100 exosomal markers. Proteomic profiling of PROSPR-enriched CNS EVs indicated that > 75 % of the proteins identified matched previously reported exosomal and microvesicle cargoes, while also expanded the known human EV-associated proteome with 685 novel identifications. Similarly, lipidomic characterization of enriched CNS vesicles not only identified previously reported EV-specific lipid families (PS, SM, lysoPC, lysoPE) but also uncovered novel lipid isoforms not previously detected in human EVs. Finally, dedicated flow cytometry of PROSPR-CNS-EVs revealed that ~80 % of total microparticles observed were exosomes ranging in diameter from <=100 nm to 300 nm. CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that the optimized use of PROSPR represents an easy-to-perform and inexpensive method of enriching EVs from human CNS tissues for detailed characterization by 'omics' technologies. We predict that widespread use of the methodology described herein will greatly accelerate the study of EVs biology in neuroscience.
PXD005086	27216938	Proteomic analysis of ascending colon biopsies from a paediatric inflammatory bowel disease inception cohort identifies protein biomarkers that differentiate Crohn's disease from UC. 	Ascending colon biopsies from pediatric patients	Colon, LCMSMS	OBJECTIVE: Accurate differentiation between Crohn's disease (CD) and UC is important to ensure early and appropriate therapeutic intervention. We sought to identify proteins that enable differentiation between CD and UC in children with new onset IBD. DESIGN: Mucosal biopsies were obtained from children undergoing baseline diagnostic endoscopy prior to therapeutic interventions. Using a super-stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based approach, the proteomes of 99 paediatric control and biopsies of patients with CD and UC were compared. Multivariate analysis of a subset of these (n=50) was applied to identify novel biomarkers, which were validated in a second subset (n=49). RESULTS: In the discovery cohort, a panel of five proteins was sufficient to distinguish control from IBD-affected tissue biopsies with an AUC of 1.0 (95% CI 0.99 to 1.0); a second panel of 12 proteins segregated inflamed CD from UC within an AUC of 0.95 (95% CI 0.86 to 1.0). Application of the two panels to the validation cohort resulted in accurate classification of 95.9% (IBD from control) and 80% (CD from UC) of patients. 116 proteins were identified to have correlation with the severity of disease, four of which were components of the two panels, including visfatin and metallothionein-2. CONCLUSIONS: This study has identified two panels of candidate biomarkers for the diagnosis of IBD and the differentiation of IBD subtypes to guide appropriate therapeutic interventions in paediatric patients.
PXD002762	27217465	Biomarker Panel for Chronic Graft-Versus-Host Disease. 	A Biomarker Panel for Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease	biomarker, cGVHD	PURPOSE: To identify diagnostic and prognostic markers of chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD), the major cause of morbidity and mortality after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Using a quantitative proteomics approach, we compared pooled plasma samples obtained at matched time points after HCT (median, 103 days) from 35 patients with cGVHD and 18 without cGVHD (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002762). Of 105 proteins showing at least a 1.25-fold difference in expression, 22 were selected on the basis of involvement in relevant pathways and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay availability. Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 9 (CXCL9) and suppression of tumorigenicity 2 (ST2) also were measured on the basis of previously determined associations with GVHD. Concentrations of the four lead biomarkers were measured at or after diagnosis in plasma from two independent verification cohorts (n = 391) to determine their association with cGVHD. Their prognostic ability when measured at approximately day +100 after HCT was evaluated in plasma of a second verification cohort (n = 172). RESULTS: Of 24 proteins measured in the first verification cohort, nine proteins were associated with cGVHD, and only four (ST2, CXCL9, matrix metalloproteinase 3, and osteopontin) were necessary to compose a four-biomarker panel with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.89 and significant correlation with cGVHD diagnosis, cGVHD severity, and nonrelapse mortality. In a second verification cohort, this panel distinguished patients with cGVHD (AUC, 0.75), and finally, the panel measured at day +100 could predict cGVHD occurring within the next 3 months with an AUC of 0.67 and 0.79 without and with known clinical risk factors, respectively. CONCLUSION: We conclude that the biomarker panel measured at diagnosis or day +100 after HCT may allow patient stratification according to risk of cGVHD.
PXD001954	27217537	Interferon-driven alterations of the host's amino acid metabolism in the pathogenesis of typhoid fever. 	Molecular signatures after challenge with Salmonella Typhi implicate host tryptophan metabolism in the pathogenesis of typhoid fever, part 2	Caecum, HDMSe, Label Free, Salmonella Typhi, Tissue	Enteric fever, caused by Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi, is an important public health problem in resource-limited settings and, despite decades of research, human responses to the infection are poorly understood. In 41 healthy adults experimentally infected with wild-type S. Typhi, we detected significant cytokine responses within 12 h of bacterial ingestion. These early responses did not correlate with subsequent clinical disease outcomes and likely indicate initial host-pathogen interactions in the gut mucosa. In participants developing enteric fever after oral infection, marked transcriptional and cytokine responses during acute disease reflected dominant type I/II interferon signatures, which were significantly associated with bacteremia. Using a murine and macrophage infection model, we validated the pivotal role of this response in the expression of proteins of the host tryptophan metabolism during Salmonella infection. Corresponding alterations in tryptophan catabolites with immunomodulatory properties in serum of participants with typhoid fever confirmed the activity of this pathway, and implicate a central role of host tryptophan metabolism in the pathogenesis of typhoid fever.
PXD004385	27219855	Assessment of SRM, MRM(3) , and DIA for the targeted analysis of phosphorylation dynamics in non-small cell lung cancer. 	Targeted Analysis of Phosphorylation Dynamics in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer, QTRAP	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Hypothesis-driven MS-based targeted proteomics has gained great popularity in a relatively short timespan. Next to the widely established selected reaction monitoring (SRM) workflow, data-independent acquisition (DIA), also referred to as sequential window acquisition of all theoretical spectra (SWATH) was introduced as a high-throughput targeted proteomics method. DIA facilitates increased proteome coverage, however, does not yet reach the sensitivity obtained with SRM. Therefore, a well-informed method selection is crucial for designing a successful targeted proteomics experiment. This is especially the case when targeting less conventional peptides such as those that contain PTMs, as these peptides do not always adhere to the optimal fragmentation considerations for targeted assays. Here, we provide insight into the performance of DIA, SRM, and MRM cubed (MRM(3) ) in the analysis of phosphorylation dynamics throughout the phosphoinositide 3-kinase mechanistic target of rapamycin (PI3K-mTOR) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling network. We observe indeed that DIA is less sensitive when compared to SRM, however demonstrates increased flexibility, by postanalysis selection of alternative phosphopeptide precursors. Additionally, we demonstrate the added benefit of MRM(3) , allowing the quantification of two poorly accessible phosphosites. In total, targeted proteomics enabled the quantification of 42 PI3K-mTOR and MAPK phosphosites, gaining a so far unachieved in-depth view mTOR signaling events linked to tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance in non-small cell lung cancer.
PXD003511	27222042	Proteomic characterization of Nalpha- and Nepsilon-acetylation in Acinetobacter baumannii. 	N-acetylation in Acinetobacter baumannii	Acinetobacter baumannii, acetylation	Nalpha- and Nepsilon-acetylation represent a pivotal post-translational modification used by both eukaryotes and prokaryotes to modulate diverse biological processes. Acinetobacter baumannii has been described as an important nosocomial pathogen for the past 30 years, frequently involved in ventilator-associated pneumonia, bloodstream and urinary tract infections. Many aspects of the biology of A. baumannii remain elusive, in particular the extent and function of N-acetylation. We investigated here N-acetylation in A. baumannii strain ATCC 17978 by proteomic analysis, and we showed the usefulness of using different analytical approaches. Overall, we identified 525 N-acetylated proteins in which, 145 were Nalpha-acetylated and 411 were Nepsilon-acetylated. Among them, 41 proteins carried both types of N-acetylation. We found that N-acetylation may play a role in biofilm formation, bacterial virulence (e.g. in several iron acquisition pathways), as well as a number of phenotypes, such as, stress adaptation and drug resistance. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This study is the first to perform the N-acetylome of A. baumannii using different analytical approaches. Each analytical tool permitted to characterize distinctive modified peptides. The combination of all these methods allowed us to identify 145 and 411 Nalpha- and Nepsilon-acetylated proteins. Besides the fact that acetylation was involved in central metabolism as previously described in other bacteria, some N-acetylated proteins showed interesting role in bacterial virulence (iron acquisition), biofilm formation, stress adaptation and drug resistance of A. baumannii.
PXD003405	27224449	Dinosaur: A Refined Open-Source Peptide MS Feature Detector. 	Dinosaur: refined open source peptide MS feature detector	Dinosaur, Feature detection, Plot trail	In bottom-up mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics, peptide isotopic and chromatographic traces (features) are frequently used for label-free quantification in data-dependent acquisition MS but can also be used for the improved identification of chimeric spectra or sample complexity characterization. Feature detection is difficult because of the high complexity of MS proteomics data from biological samples, which frequently causes features to intermingle. In addition, existing feature detection algorithms commonly suffer from compatibility issues, long computation times, or poor performance on high-resolution data. Because of these limitations, we developed a new tool, Dinosaur, with increased speed and versatility. Dinosaur has the functionality to sample algorithm computations through quality-control plots, which we call a plot trail. From the evaluation of this plot trail, we introduce several algorithmic improvements to further improve the robustness and performance of Dinosaur, with the detection of features for 98% of MS/MS identifications in a benchmark data set, and no other algorithm tested in this study passed 96% feature detection. We finally used Dinosaur to reimplement a published workflow for peptide identification in chimeric spectra, increasing chimeric identification from 26% to 32% over the standard workflow. Dinosaur is operating-system-independent and is freely available as open source on https://github.com/fickludd/dinosaur .
PXD004010	27225868	JUMPg: An Integrative Proteogenomics Pipeline Identifying Unannotated Proteins in Human Brain and Cancer Cells. 	JUMPg: an Integrative Proteogenomics Pipeline Identifying Unannotated Proteins in Human Brain and Cancer Cells	Genomics, RNA-seq, database search, multistage analysis, proteogenomics, spectrum quality control	Proteogenomics is an emerging approach to improve gene annotation and interpretation of proteomics data. Here we present JUMPg, an integrative proteogenomics pipeline including customized database construction, tag-based database search, peptide-spectrum match filtering, and data visualization. JUMPg creates multiple databases of DNA polymorphisms, mutations, splice junctions, partially trypticity, as well as protein fragments translated from the whole transcriptome in all six frames upon RNA-seq de novo assembly. We use a multistage strategy to search these databases sequentially, in which the performance is optimized by re-searching only unmatched high-quality spectra and reusing amino acid tags generated by the JUMP search engine. The identified peptides/proteins are displayed with gene loci using the UCSC genome browser. Then, the JUMPg program is applied to process a label-free mass spectrometry data set of Alzheimer's disease postmortem brain, uncovering 496 new peptides of amino acid substitutions, alternative splicing, frame shift, and "non-coding gene" translation. The novel protein PNMA6BL specifically expressed in the brain is highlighted. We also tested JUMPg to analyze a stable-isotope labeled data set of multiple myeloma cells, revealing 991 sample-specific peptides that include protein sequences in the immunoglobulin light chain variable region. Thus, the JUMPg program is an effective proteogenomics tool for multiomics data integration.
PXD002889	27226403	Stage-specific Proteomes from Onchocerca ochengi, Sister Species of the Human River Blindness Parasite, Uncover Adaptations to a Nodular Lifestyle. 	Stage-specific proteomes from Onchocerca ochengi, sister species of the human river blindness parasite, uncovers adaptations to a nodular lifestyle	Onchocerca ochengi, River Blindness	Despite 40 years of control efforts, onchocerciasis (river blindness) remains one of the most important neglected tropical diseases, with 17 million people affected. The etiological agent, Onchocerca volvulus, is a filarial nematode with a complex lifecycle involving several distinct stages in the definitive host and blackfly vector. The challenges of obtaining sufficient material have prevented high-throughput studies and the development of novel strategies for disease control and diagnosis. Here, we utilize the closest relative of O. volvulus, the bovine parasite Onchocerca ochengi, to compare stage-specific proteomes and host-parasite interactions within the secretome. We identified a total of 4260 unique O. ochengi proteins from adult males and females, infective larvae, intrauterine microfilariae, and fluid from intradermal nodules. In addition, 135 proteins were detected from the obligate Wolbachia symbiont. Observed protein families that were enriched in all whole body extracts relative to the complete search database included immunoglobulin-domain proteins, whereas redox and detoxification enzymes and proteins involved in intracellular transport displayed stage-specific overrepresentation. Unexpectedly, the larval stages exhibited enrichment for several mitochondrial-related protein families, including members of peptidase family M16 and proteins which mediate mitochondrial fission and fusion. Quantification of proteins across the lifecycle using the Hi-3 approach supported these qualitative analyses. In nodule fluid, we identified 94 O. ochengi secreted proteins, including homologs of transforming growth factor-beta and a second member of a novel 6-ShK toxin domain family, which was originally described from a model filarial nematode (Litomosoides sigmodontis). Strikingly, the 498 bovine proteins identified in nodule fluid were strongly dominated by antimicrobial proteins, especially cathelicidins. This first high-throughput analysis of an Onchocerca spp. proteome across the lifecycle highlights its profound complexity and emphasizes the extremely close relationship between O. ochengi and O. volvulus The insights presented here provide new candidates for vaccine development, drug targeting and diagnostic biomarkers.
PXD003709	27226594	Preferential Phosphorylation on Old Histones during Early Mitosis in Human Cells. 	Preferential phosphorylation on old histones during early mitosis in human cells	cell cycle, histone modifications, histone phosphorylation, mitosis	How histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) are inherited through the cell cycle remains poorly understood. Canonical histones are made in the S phase of the cell cycle. Combining mass spectrometry-based technologies and stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture, we question the distribution of multiple histone PTMs on old versus new histones in synchronized human cells. We show that histone PTMs can be grouped into three categories according to their distributions. Most lysine mono-methylation and acetylation PTMs are either symmetrically distributed on old and new histones or are enriched on new histones. In contrast, most di- and tri-methylation PTMs are enriched on old histones, suggesting that the inheritance of different PTMs is regulated distinctly. Intriguingly, old and new histones are distinct in their phosphorylation status during early mitosis in the following three human cell types: HeLa, 293T, and human foreskin fibroblast cells. The mitotic hallmark H3S10ph is predominantly associated with old H3 at early mitosis and becomes symmetric with the progression of mitosis. This same distribution was observed with other mitotic phosphorylation marks, including H3T3/T6ph, H3.1/2S28ph, and H1.4S26ph but not S28/S31ph on the H3 variant H3.3. Although H3S10ph often associates with the neighboring Lys-9 di- or tri-methylations, they are not required for the asymmetric distribution of Ser-10 phosphorylation on the same H3 tail. Inhibition of the kinase Aurora B does not change the distribution despite significant reduction of H3S10ph levels. However, K9me2 abundance on the new H3 is significantly reduced after Aurora B inhibition, suggesting a cross-talk between H3S10ph and H3K9me2.
PXD004030	27228164	Proteomic Study of Entamoeba histolytica Trophozoites, Cysts, and Cyst-Like Structures. 	Comparative Proteomic Study of Entamoeba histolytica Trophozoites, Cysts, and Cyst-Like Structures	cyst-like structures, cysts, trophozoites	The cyst stage of Entamoeba histolytica is a promising therapeutic target against human amoebiasis. Our research team previously reported the production in vitro of Cyst-Like Structures (CLS) sharing structural features with cysts, including rounded shape, size reduction, multinucleation, and the formation of a chitin wall coupled to the overexpression of glucosamine 6-phosphate isomerase, the rate-limiting enzyme of the chitin synthesis pathway. A proteomic study of E. histolytica trophozoites, cysts, and in vitro-produced CLS is reported herein to determine the nature of CLS, widen our knowledge on the cyst stage, and identify possible proteins and pathways involved in the encystment process. Total protein extracts were obtained from E. histolytica trophozoites, CLS, and partially purified cysts recovered from the feces of amoebic human patients; extracts were trypsin-digested and analyzed by LC-MS/MS. In total, 1029 proteins were identified in trophozoites, 550 in CLS, and 411 in cysts, with 539, 299, and 84 proteins unique to each sample, respectively, and only 74 proteins shared by all three stages. About 70% of CLS proteins were shared with trophozoites, even though differences were observed in the relative protein abundance. While trophozoites showed a greater abundance of proteins associated to a metabolically active cell, CLS showed higher expression of proteins related to proteolysis, redox homeostasis, and stress response. In addition, the expression of genes encoding for the cyst wall proteins Jessie and Jacob was detected by RT-PCR and the Jacob protein identified by Western blotting and immunofluorescence in CLS. However, the proteomic profile of cysts as determined by LC-MS/MS was very dissimilar to that of trophozoites and CLS, with almost 40% of hypothetical proteins. Our global results suggest that CLS are more alike to trophozoites than to cysts, and they could be generated as a rapid survival response of trophozoites to a stressful condition, which allows the parasite to survive temporarily inside a chitin-like resistant cover containing Jacob protein. Our findings lead us to suggest that encystment and CLS formation could be distinct stress responses. In addition, we show that cysts express a high number of genes with unknown function, including four new, highly antigenic, possibly membrane-located proteins that could be targets of therapeutic and diagnostic usefulness.
PXD003845	27231314	PyQuant: A Versatile Framework for Analysis of Quantitative Mass Spectrometry Data. 	Ratios of SILAC labels in E. Coli	E. Coli, SILAC	Quantitative mass spectrometry data necessitates an analytical pipeline that captures the accuracy and comprehensiveness of the experiments. Currently, data analysis is often coupled to specific software packages, which restricts the analysis to a given workflow and precludes a more thorough characterization of the data by other complementary tools. To address this, we have developed PyQuant, a cross-platform mass spectrometry data quantification application that is compatible with existing frameworks and can be used as a stand-alone quantification tool. PyQuant supports most types of quantitative mass spectrometry data including SILAC, NeuCode, (15)N, (13)C, or (18)O and chemical methods such as iTRAQ or TMT and provides the option of adding custom labeling strategies. In addition, PyQuant can perform specialized analyses such as quantifying isotopically labeled samples where the label has been metabolized into other amino acids and targeted quantification of selected ions independent of spectral assignment. PyQuant is capable of quantifying search results from popular proteomic frameworks such as MaxQuant, Proteome Discoverer, and the Trans-Proteomic Pipeline in addition to several standalone search engines. We have found that PyQuant routinely quantifies a greater proportion of spectral assignments, with increases ranging from 25-45% in this study. Finally, PyQuant is capable of complementing spectral assignments between replicates to quantify ions missed because of lack of MS/MS fragmentation or that were omitted because of issues such as spectra quality or false discovery rates. This results in an increase of biologically useful data available for interpretation. In summary, PyQuant is a flexible mass spectrometry data quantification platform that is capable of interfacing with a variety of existing formats and is highly customizable, which permits easy configuration for custom analysis.
PXD003427	27231315	Proteomics Analysis with a Nano Random Forest Approach Reveals Novel Functional Interactions Regulated by SMC Complexes on Mitotic Chromosomes. 	Mitotic chromatin proteomics -  Proteomics analysis with a nano Random Forest approach reveals novel functional interactions regulated by SMC complexes on mitotic chromosomes	Mitosis, SMC, chromatin	Packaging of DNA into condensed chromosomes during mitosis is essential for the faithful segregation of the genome into daughter nuclei. Although the structure and composition of mitotic chromosomes have been studied for over 30 years, these aspects are yet to be fully elucidated. Here, we used stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture to compare the proteomes of mitotic chromosomes isolated from cell lines harboring conditional knockouts of members of the condensin (SMC2, CAP-H, CAP-D3), cohesin (Scc1/Rad21), and SMC5/6 (SMC5) complexes. Our analysis revealed that these complexes associate with chromosomes independently of each other, with the SMC5/6 complex showing no significant dependence on any other chromosomal proteins during mitosis. To identify subtle relationships between chromosomal proteins, we employed a nano Random Forest (nanoRF) approach to detect protein complexes and the relationships between them. Our nanoRF results suggested that as few as 113 of 5058 detected chromosomal proteins are functionally linked to chromosome structure and segregation. Furthermore, nanoRF data revealed 23 proteins that were not previously suspected to have functional interactions with complexes playing important roles in mitosis. Subsequent small-interfering-RNA-based validation and localization tracking by green fluorescent protein-tagging highlighted novel candidates that might play significant roles in mitotic progression.
PXD003827	27233093	Comparative genomic, proteomic and exoproteomic analyses of three Pseudomonas strains reveals novel insights into the phosphorus scavenging capabilities of soil bacteria. 	Comparative genomic, proteomic and exoproteomic analyses of three Pseudomonas spp. - part 2	Pseudomonas, exoproteome	Bacteria that inhabit the rhizosphere of agricultural crops can have a beneficial effect on crop growth. One such mechanism is the microbial-driven solubilization and remineralization of complex forms of phosphorus (P). It is known that bacteria secrete various phosphatases in response to low P conditions. However, our understanding of their global proteomic response to P stress is limited. Here, exoproteomic analysis of Pseudomonas putida BIRD-1 (BIRD-1), Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25 and Pseudomonas stutzeri DSM4166 was performed in unison with whole-cell proteomic analysis of BIRD-1 grown under phosphate (Pi) replete and Pi deplete conditions. Comparative exoproteomics revealed marked heterogeneity in the exoproteomes of each Pseudomonas strain in response to Pi depletion. In addition to well-characterized members of the PHO regulon such as alkaline phosphatases, several proteins, previously not associated with the response to Pi depletion, were also identified. These included putative nucleases, phosphotriesterases, putative phosphonate transporters and outer membrane proteins. Moreover, in BIRD-1, mutagenesis of the master regulator, phoBR, led us to confirm the addition of several novel PHO-dependent proteins. Our data expands knowledge of the Pseudomonas PHO regulon, including species that are frequently used as bioinoculants, opening up the potential for more efficient and complete use of soil complexed P.
PXD002950	27234505	Plasma-derived Extracellular Vesicles Contain Predictive Biomarkers and Potential Therapeutic Targets for Myocardial Ischemic (MI) Injury. 	Plasma-derived extracellular vesicles contain predictive biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for myocardial ischemic injury	Biomarker: Diagnostic, Cardiovascular disease, Exosomes, Extracellular vesicles, Label-free quantification, Plasma or serum analysis	Myocardial infarction (MI) triggers a potent inflammatory response via the release of circulatory mediators, including extracellular vesicles (EVs) by damaged cardiac cells, necessary for myocardial healing. Timely repression of inflammatory response are critical to prevent and minimize cardiac tissue injuries, nonetheless, progression in this aspect remains challenging. The ability of EVs to trigger a functional response upon delivery of carried bioactive cargos, have made them clinically attractive diagnostic biomarkers and vectors for therapeutic interventions. Using label-free quantitative proteomics approach, we compared the protein cargo of plasma EVs between patients with MI and from patients with stable angina (NMI). We report, for the first time, the proteomics profiling on 252 EV proteins that were modulated with >1.2-fold after MI. We identified six up-regulated biomarkers with potential for clinical applications; these reflected post-infarct pathways of complement activation (Complement C1q subcomponent subunit A (C1QA), 3.23-fold change, p = 0.012; Complement C5 (C5), 1.27-fold change, p = 0.087), lipoprotein metabolism (Apoliporotein D (APOD), 1.86-fold change, p = 0.033; Apolipoprotein C-III (APOCC3), 2.63-fold change, p = 0.029) and platelet activation (Platelet glycoprotein Ib alpha chain (GP1BA), 9.18-fold change, p < 0.0001; Platelet basic protein (PPBP), 4.72-fold change, p = 0.027). The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002950. This novel biomarker panel was validated in 43 patients using antibody-based assays (C1QA (p = 0.005); C5 (p = 0.0047), APOD (p = 0.0267); APOC3 (p = 0.0064); GP1BA (p = 0.0031); PPBP (p = 0.0465)). We further present that EV-derived fibrinogen components were paradoxically down-regulated in MI, suggesting that a compensatory mechanism may suppress post-infarct coagulation pathways, indicating potential for therapeutic targeting of this mechanism in MI. Taken together, these data demonstrated that plasma EVs contain novel diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets that can be further developed for clinical use to benefit patients with coronary artery diseases (CADs).
PXD003596	27239679	Minichromosome Maintenance Complex Is a Critical Node in the miR-183 Signaling Network of MYCN-Amplified Neuroblastoma Cells. 	Inhibitory effect of miR-183 on MCM family members	cell cycle progression, eukaryotic genome replication, genomic integrity, label-free proteomics, oncogene	MYCN and HDAC2 jointly repress the transcription of tumor suppressive miR-183 in neuroblastoma. Enforced miR-183 expression induces neuroblastoma cell death and inhibits xenograft growth in mice. Here we aimed to focus more closely on the miR-183 signaling network using a label-free mass spectrometric approach. Analysis of neuroblastoma cells transfected with either control or miR-183 expression vectors identified 85 differentially expressed proteins. All six members of the minichromosome maintenance (MCM) complex, which is indispensable for initiation and elongation during DNA replication and transcriptionally activated by MYCN in neuroblastoma, emerged to be down-regulated by miR-183. Subsequent annotation category enrichment analysis revealed a ~14-fold enrichment in the "MCM" protein module category, which highlighted this complex as a critical node in the miR-183 signaling network. Down-regulation was confirmed by Western blotting. MCMs 2-5 were predicted by in silico methods as direct miR-183 targets. Dual-luciferase reporter gene assays with 3'-UTR constructs of the randomly selected MCMs 3 and 5 experimentally confirmed them as direct targets of miR-183. Our results reveal the MCM complex to be a critical and directly regulated node within the miR-183 signaling network in MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma cells.
PXD003792	27245613	Protein kinase A-dependent phosphorylation stimulates the transcriptional activity of hypoxia-inducible factor 1. 	Protein kinase A-dependent phosphorylation stimulates the transcriptional activity of hypoxia-inducible factor 1, part 1	HIF, PKA, cAMP, cancer cell, cardiomyocyte, hypoxia, phosphorylation	Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) activates the transcription of genes encoding proteins that enable cells to adapt to reduced O2 availability. Proteins encoded by HIF-1 target genes play a central role in mediating physiological processes that are dysregulated in cancer and heart disease. These diseases are also characterized by increased production of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), the allosteric activator of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA). Using glutathione S-transferase pull-down, coimmunoprecipitation, and mass spectrometry analyses, we demonstrated that PKA interacts with HIF-1alpha in HeLa cervical carcinoma cells and rat cardiomyocytes. PKA phosphorylated Thr(63) and Ser(692) on HIF-1alpha in vitro and enhanced HIF transcriptional activity and target gene expression in HeLa cells and rat cardiomyocytes. PKA inhibited the proteasomal degradation of HIF-1alpha in an O2-independent manner that required the phosphorylation of Thr(63) and Ser(692) and was not affected by prolyl hydroxylation. PKA also stimulated the binding of the coactivator p300 to HIF-1alpha to enhance its transcriptional activity and counteracted the inhibitory effect of asparaginyl hydroxylation on the association of p300 with HIF-1alpha. Furthermore, increased cAMP concentrations enhanced the expression of HIF target genes encoding CD39 and CD73, which are enzymes that convert extracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate to adenosine, a molecule that enhances tumor immunosuppression and reduces heart rate and contractility. These data link stimuli that promote cAMP signaling, HIF-1alpha-dependent changes in gene expression, and increased adenosine, all of which contribute to the pathophysiology of cancer and heart disease.
PXD001768	27246553	Quantitative proteome profiling of dystrophic dog skeletal muscle reveals a stabilized muscular architecture and protection against oxidative stress after systemic delivery of MuStem cells. 	Differential analysis of dystrophic dog muscle after MuStem cell therapy	Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, Golden Retriever Muscular dog, ICPL, cell therapy	Proteomic profiling plays a decisive role in the elucidation of molecular signatures representative of a specific clinical context. MuStem cell based therapy represents a promising approach for clinical applications to cure Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). To expand our previous studies collected in the clinically relevant DMD animal model, we decided to investigate the skeletal muscle proteome 4 months after systemic delivery of allogenic MuStem cells. Quantitative proteomics with isotope-coded protein labeling was used to compile quantitative changes in the protein expression profiles of muscle in transplanted Golden Retriever muscular dystrophy (GRMD) dogs as compared to Golden Retriever muscular dystrophy dogs. A total of 492 proteins were quantified, including 25 that were overrepresented and 46 that were underrepresented after MuStem cell transplantation. Interestingly, this study demonstrates that somatic stem cell therapy impacts on the structural integrity of the muscle fascicle by acting on fibers and its connections with the extracellular matrix. We also show that cell infusion promotes protective mechanisms against oxidative stress and favors the initial phase of muscle repair. This study allows us to identify putative candidates for tissue markers that might be of great value in objectively exploring the clinical benefits resulting from our cell-based therapy for DMD. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001768 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD001768).
PXD003179	27246681	Untargeted, spectral library-free analysis of data-independent acquisition proteomics data generated using Orbitrap mass spectrometers. 	Untargeted data independent acquisition proteomics analysis using Orbitrap mass spectrometers and DIA-Umpire	DIA, DIA-Umpire	We describe an improved version of the data-independent acquisition (DIA) computational analysis tool DIA-Umpire, and show that it enables highly sensitive, untargeted, and direct (spectral library-free) analysis of DIA data obtained using the Orbitrap family of mass spectrometers. DIA-Umpire v2 implements an improved feature detection algorithm with two additional filters based on the isotope pattern and fractional peptide mass analysis. The targeted re-extraction step of DIA-Umpire is updated with an improved scoring function and a more robust, semiparametric mixture modeling of the resulting scores for computing posterior probabilities of correct peptide identification in a targeted setting. Using two publicly available Q Exactive DIA datasets generated using HEK-293 cells and human liver microtissues, we demonstrate that DIA-Umpire can identify similar number of peptide ions, but with better identification reproducibility between replicates and samples, as with conventional data-dependent acquisition. We further demonstrate the utility of DIA-Umpire using a series of Orbitrap Fusion DIA experiments with HeLa cell lysates profiled using conventional data-dependent acquisition and using DIA with different isolation window widths.
PXD003284	27246970	In-Depth Proteomics Identifies a Role for Autophagy in Controlling Reactive Oxygen Species Mediated Endothelial Permeability. 	In-depth proteomics identifies a role for autophagy in controlling ROS-mediated endothelial barrier permeability	Endothelial cells, SILAC, autophagy, permeability	Endothelial cells (ECs) form the inner layer of blood vessels and physically separate the blood from the surrounding tissue. To support tissues with nutrients and oxygen, the endothelial monolayer is semipermeable. When EC permeability is altered, blood vessels are not functional, and this is associated with disease. A comprehensive knowledge of the mechanisms regulating EC permeability is key in developing strategies to target this mechanism in pathologies. Here we have used an in vitro model of human umbilical vein endothelial cells mimicking the formation of a physiologically permeable vessel and performed time-resolved in-depth molecular profiling using stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture mass spectrometry (MS)-proteomics. Autophagy is induced when ECs are assembled into a physiologically permeable monolayer. By using siRNA and drug treatment to block autophagy in combination with functional assays and MS proteomics, we show that ECs require autophagy flux to maintain intracellular reactive oxygen species levels, and this is required to maintain the physiological permeability of the cells.
PXD002300	27247105	Polyamine transporter in Streptococcus pneumoniae is essential for evading early innate immune responses in pneumococcal pneumonia. 	Host response to S. pneumoniae TIGR4 and potABCD	lung, streptococcal pneumonia	Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common bacterial etiology of pneumococcal pneumonia in adults worldwide. Genomic plasticity, antibiotic resistance and extreme capsular antigenic variation complicates the design of effective therapeutic strategies. Polyamines are ubiquitous small cationic molecules necessary for full expression of pneumococcal virulence. Polyamine transport system is an attractive therapeutic target as it is highly conserved across pneumococcal serotypes. In this study, we compared an isogenic deletion strain of S. pneumoniae TIGR4 in polyamine transport operon (DeltapotABCD) with the wild type in a mouse model of pneumococcal pneumonia. Our results show that the wild type persists in mouse lung 24 h post infection while the mutant strain is cleared by host defense mechanisms. We show that intact potABCD is required for survival in the host by providing resistance to neutrophil killing. Comparative proteomics analysis of murine lungs infected with wild type and DeltapotABCD pneumococci identified expression of proteins that could confer protection to wild type strain and help establish infection. We identified ERM complex, PGLYRP1, PTPRC/CD45 and POSTN as new players in the pathogenesis of pneumococcal pneumonia. Additionally, we found that deficiency of polyamine transport leads to up regulation of the polyamine synthesis genes speE and cad in vitro.
PXD002160	27249196	PsbS interactions involved in the activation of energy dissipation in Arabidopsis. 	PsbS interacting proteins -  PsbS interactions involved in the activation of energy dissipation in Arabidopsis	AP-MS, LC-MS, PsbS, thylakoid	The non-photochemical quenching of light energy as heat (NPQ) is an important photoprotective mechanism that is activated in plants when light absorption exceeds the capacity of light utilization in photosynthesis. The PsbS protein plays a central role in this process and is supposed to activate NPQ through specific, light-regulated interactions with photosystem (PS) II antenna proteins. However, NPQ-specific interaction partners of PsbS in the thylakoid membrane are still unknown. Here, we have determined the localization and protein interactions of PsbS in thylakoid membranes in the NPQ-inactive (dark) and NPQ-active (light) states. Our results corroborate a localization of PsbS in PSII supercomplexes and support the model that the light activation of NPQ is based on the monomerization of dimeric PsbS and a light-induced enhanced interaction of PsbS with Lhcb1, the major component of trimeric light-harvesting complexes in PSII.
PXD003375	27250205	Proteomic Analysis of the Spatio-temporal Based Molecular Kinetics of Acute Spinal Cord Injury Identifies a Time- and Segment-specific Window for Effective Tissue Repair. 	Proteomic analysis of the spatiotemporal based molecular kinetics of acute spinal cord injury identifies a time- and segment-specific window for effective tissue repair.	Microglial cells, Spinal cord lesion, mass spectrometry imaging	Spinal cord injury (SCI) represents a major debilitating health issue with a direct socioeconomic burden on the public and private sectors worldwide. Although several studies have been conducted to identify the molecular progression of injury sequel due from the lesion site, still the exact underlying mechanisms and pathways of injury development have not been fully elucidated. In this work, based on OMICs, 3D matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) imaging, cytokines arrays, confocal imaging we established for the first time that molecular and cellular processes occurring after SCI are altered between the lesion proximity, i.e. rostral and caudal segments nearby the lesion (R1-C1) whereas segments distant from R1-C1, i.e. R2-C2 and R3-C3 levels coexpressed factors implicated in neurogenesis. Delay in T regulators recruitment between R1 and C1 favor discrepancies between the two segments. This is also reinforced by presence of neurites outgrowth inhibitors in C1, absent in R1. Moreover, the presence of immunoglobulins (IgGs) in neurons at the lesion site at 3 days, validated by mass spectrometry, may present additional factor that contributes to limited regeneration. Treatment in vivo with anti-CD20 one hour after SCI did not improve locomotor function and decrease IgG expression. These results open the door of a novel view of the SCI treatment by considering the C1 as the therapeutic target.
PXD003486	27250206	Structure of Complement C3(H2O) Revealed By Quantitative Cross-Linking/Mass Spectrometry And Modeling. 	Quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry analysis revealed unknown structure of complement iC3	Quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry, activation of complement system, alternative pathway, domain architecture	The slow but spontaneous and ubiquitous formation of C3(H2O), the hydrolytic and conformationally rearranged product of C3, initiates antibody-independent activation of the complement system that is a key first line of antimicrobial defense. The structure of C3(H2O) has not been determined. Here we subjected C3(H2O) to quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry (QCLMS). This revealed details of the structural differences and similarities between C3(H2O) and C3, as well as between C3(H2O) and its pivotal proteolytic cleavage product, C3b, which shares functionally similarity with C3(H2O). Considered in combination with the crystal structures of C3 and C3b, the QCMLS data suggest that C3(H2O) generation is accompanied by the migration of the thioester-containing domain of C3 from one end of the molecule to the other. This creates a stable C3b-like platform able to bind the zymogen, factor B, or the regulator, factor H. Integration of available crystallographic and QCLMS data allowed the determination of a 3D model of the C3(H2O) domain architecture. The unique arrangement of domains thus observed in C3(H2O), which retains the anaphylatoxin domain (that is excised when C3 is enzymatically activated to C3b), can be used to rationalize observed differences between C3(H2O) and C3b in terms of complement activation and regulation.
PXD002967	27250503	Improving GENCODE reference gene annotation using a high-stringency proteogenomics workflow. 	Improving Human Genome Annotation Using a High-Stringency Proteogenomics Workflow	GENCODE, proteogenomics, tissue	Complete annotation of the human genome is indispensable for medical research. The GENCODE consortium strives to provide this, augmenting computational and experimental evidence with manual annotation. The rapidly developing field of proteogenomics provides evidence for the translation of genes into proteins and can be used to discover and refine gene models. However, for both the proteomics and annotation groups, there is a lack of guidelines for integrating this data. Here we report a stringent workflow for the interpretation of proteogenomic data that could be used by the annotation community to interpret novel proteogenomic evidence. Based on reprocessing of three large-scale publicly available human data sets, we show that a conservative approach, using stringent filtering is required to generate valid identifications. Evidence has been found supporting 16 novel protein-coding genes being added to GENCODE. Despite this many peptide identifications in pseudogenes cannot be annotated due to the absence of orthogonal supporting evidence.
PXD004074	27250689	Pre-40S ribosome biogenesis factor Tsr1 is an inactive structural mimic of translational GTPases. 	Pre-40S ribosome biogenesis factor Tsr1 is an inactive structural mimic of translational GTPases	Pre-40S ribosome biogenesis, cross-linking/mass spectrometry, protein structure	Budding yeast Tsr1 is a ribosome biogenesis factor with sequence similarity to GTPases, which is essential for cytoplasmic steps in 40S subunit maturation. Here we present the crystal structure of Tsr1 at 3.6 Aa. Tsr1 has a similar domain architecture to translational GTPases such as EF-Tu and the selenocysteine incorporation factor SelB. However, active site residues required for GTP binding and hydrolysis are absent, explaining the lack of enzymatic activity in previous analyses. Modelling of Tsr1 into cryo-electron microscopy maps of pre-40S particles shows that a highly acidic surface of Tsr1 is presented on the outside of pre-40S particles, potentially preventing premature binding to 60S subunits. Late pre-40S maturation also requires the GTPase eIF5B and the ATPase Rio1. The location of Tsr1 is predicted to block binding by both factors, strongly indicating that removal of Tsr1 is an essential step during cytoplasmic maturation of 40S ribosomal subunits.
PXD003736	27251291	Diverse roles of assembly factors revealed by structures of late nuclear pre-60S ribosomes. 	Diverse roles of assembly factors revealed by structures of late nuclear pre-60S ribosomal particles	CXMS, Pre-60S ribosome, assembly factors, cryo-EM	Ribosome biogenesis is a highly complex process in eukaryotes, involving temporally and spatially regulated ribosomal protein (r-protein) binding and ribosomal RNA remodelling events in the nucleolus, nucleoplasm and cytoplasm. Hundreds of assembly factors, organized into sequential functional groups, facilitate and guide the maturation process into productive assembly branches in and across different cellular compartments. However, the precise mechanisms by which these assembly factors function are largely unknown. Here we use cryo-electron microscopy to characterize the structures of yeast nucleoplasmic pre-60S particles affinity-purified using the epitope-tagged assembly factor Nog2. Our data pinpoint the locations and determine the structures of over 20 assembly factors, which are enriched in two areas: an arc region extending from the central protuberance to the polypeptide tunnel exit, and the domain including the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) that separates 5.8S and 25S ribosomal RNAs. In particular, two regulatory GTPases, Nog2 and Nog1, act as hub proteins to interact with multiple, distant assembly factors and functional ribosomal RNA elements, manifesting their critical roles in structural remodelling checkpoints and nuclear export. Moreover, our snapshots of compositionally and structurally different pre-60S intermediates provide essential mechanistic details for three major remodelling events before nuclear export: rotation of the 5S ribonucleoprotein, construction of the active centre and ITS2 removal. The rich structural information in our structures provides a framework to dissect molecular roles of diverse assembly factors in eukaryotic ribosome assembly.
PXD003005	27251877	Annexin A5 is the Most Abundant Membrane-Associated Protein in Stereocilia but is Dispensable for Hair-Bundle Development and Function. 	Mouse wild-type and Anxa5-null utricles and hair bundles	annexins, hair cells, stereocilia, vestibular	The phospholipid- and Ca(2+)-binding protein annexin A5 (ANXA5) is the most abundant membrane-associated protein of ~P23 mouse vestibular hair bundles, the inner ear's sensory organelle. Using quantitative mass spectrometry, we estimated that ANXA5 accounts for ~15,000 copies per stereocilium, or ~2% of the total protein there. Although seven other annexin genes are expressed in mouse utricles, mass spectrometry showed that none were present at levels near ANXA5 in bundles and none were upregulated in stereocilia of Anxa5(-/-) mice. Annexins have been proposed to mediate Ca(2+)-dependent repair of membrane lesions, which could be part of the repair mechanism in hair cells after noise damage. Nevertheless, mature Anxa5(-/-) mice not only have normal hearing and balance function, but following noise exposure, they are identical to wild-type mice in their temporary or permanent changes in hearing sensitivity. We suggest that despite the unusually high levels of ANXA5 in bundles, it does not play a role in the bundle's key function, mechanotransduction, at least until after two months of age in the cochlea and six months of age in the vestibular system. These results reinforce the lack of correlation between abundance of a protein in a specific compartment or cellular structure and its functional significance.
PXD003604	27255222	Efficient Microscale Basic Reverse Phase Peptide Fractionation for Global and Targeted Proteomics. 	Efficient micro-scale basic reverse phase peptide fractionation for global and targeted proteomics	cell lines, colon tumor tissue	Analysis of small biological samples would benefit from an efficient microscale fractionation strategy that minimizes sample handling, transfer steps, and accompanying losses. Here we describe a microscale basic reverse phase liquid chromatographic (bRPLC) fractionation method that offers high reproducibility and efficiency for peptide mixtures from small (5-20 mug) samples. We applied our platform to detect differentially expressed proteins from lung tumor cell lines that are sensitive (11-18) and resistant (11-18R) to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor erlotinib. Label-free analyses of 5-20 mug samples yielded identifications of approximately 3,200 to 4,000 proteins with coefficients of variation of 1.9-8.9% in replicate analyses. iTRAQ analyses produced similar protein inventories. Label-free and iTRAQ analyses displayed high concordance in identifications of proteins differentially expressed in 11-18 and 11-18R cells. Micro-bRPLC fractionation of cell proteomes increased sensitivity by an average of 4.5-fold in targeted quantitation using parallel reaction monitoring for three representative receptor tyrosine kinases (EGFR, PDGFRA, and BMX), which are present at low abundance in 11-18 and 11-18R cells. These data illustrate the broad utility of micro-bRPLC fractionation for global and targeted proteomic analyses. Data are available through Proteome eXchange Accession PXD003604.
PXD002472	27255285	Integrated omics approaches provide strategies for rapid erythromycin yield increase in Saccharopolyspora erythraea. 	Proteomic study of S erythrea bioprocess	Saccharopolyspora erythrea, bioprocess	BACKGROUND: Omics approaches have significantly increased our understanding of biological systems. However, they have had limited success in explaining the dramatically increased productivity of commercially important natural products by industrial high-producing strains, such as the erythromycin-producing actinomycete Saccharopolyspora erythraea. Further yield increase is of great importance but requires a better understanding of the underlying physiological processes. RESULTS: To reveal the mechanisms related to erythromycin yield increase, we have undertaken an integrated study of the genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic differences between the wild type strain NRRL2338 (WT) and the industrial high-producing strain ABE1441 (HP) of S. erythraea at multiple time points of a simulated industrial bioprocess. 165 observed mutations lead to differences in gene expression profiles and protein abundance between the two strains, which were most prominent in the initial stages of erythromycin production. Enzymes involved in erythromycin biosynthesis, metabolism of branched chain amino acids and proteolysis were most strongly upregulated in the HP strain. Interestingly, genes related to TCA cycle and DNA-repair were downregulated. Additionally, comprehensive data analysis uncovered significant correlations in expression profiles of the erythromycin-biosynthetic genes, other biosynthetic gene clusters and previously unidentified putative regulatory genes. Based on this information, we demonstrated that overexpression of several genes involved in amino acid metabolism can contribute to increased yield of erythromycin, confirming the validity of our systems biology approach. CONCLUSIONS: Our comprehensive omics approach, carried out in industrially relevant conditions, enabled the identification of key pathways affecting erythromycin yield and suggests strategies for rapid increase in the production of secondary metabolites in industrial environment.
PXD002936	27257648	The proteome of the infectious bronchitis virus  Beau-R virion. 	The Proteome of the Infectious Bronchitis Virus Beau-R Virion	Beau-R Virion, Infectious Bronchitis Virus	Infectious bronchitis is a highly contagious respiratory disease of poultry caused by the coronavirus infectious bronchitis virus (IBV). It was thought that coronavirus virions were composed of three major viral structural proteins until investigations of other coronaviruses showed that the virions also include viral non-structural and genus-specific accessory proteins as well as host-cell proteins. To study the proteome of IBV virions, virus was grown in embryonated chicken eggs, purified by sucrose-gradient ultracentrifugation and analysed by mass spectrometry. Analysis of three preparations of purified IBV yielded the three expected structural proteins plus 35 additional virion-associated host proteins. The virion-associated host proteins had a diverse range of functional attributions, being involved in cytoskeleton formation, RNA binding and protein folding pathways. Some of these proteins were unique to this study, while others were found to be orthologous to proteins identified in severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus virions and also virions from a number of other RNA and DNA viruses.
PXD003385	27259232	Characterization and use of HapT1-derived homologous tumors as a preclinical model to evaluate therapeutic efficacy of drugs against pancreatic tumor desmoplasia. 	Characterisation and use of orthotopically grownHapT1tumours in its homologous host as a preclinical model to evaluate novel drugs against desmoplastic pancreatic cancer	Hamster, pancreatic cell line	Desmoplasia in human pancreatic cancer (PC) promotes cancer progression and hinders effective drug delivery. The objectives of this study were to characterize a homologous orthotopic model of PC in Syrian golden hamster and investigate the effect of anti-fibrotic (pirfenidone), antioxidant (N-acetyl cysteine, NAC) and anti-addiction (disulfiram, DSF) drugs on desmoplasia and tumor growth in this model. The HapT1 PC cells when implanted orthotopically into hamsters formed tumors with morphological, cellular and molecular similarities to human PC. Protein profiling of activated hamster pancreatic stellate cells (ha-PSCs) revealed expression of proteins involved in fibrosis, cancer cells growth and metastasis. Pirfenidone, suppressed growth of HapT1 cells and the desmoplastic response in vivo; these effects were enhanced by co-administration of NAC. Disulfiram alone or in combination with copper (Cu) was toxic to HapT1 cells and PSCs in vitro; but co-administration of DSF and Cu accelerated growth of HapT1 cells in vivo. Moreover, DSF had no effect on tumor-associated desmoplasia. Overall, this study identifies HapT1-derived orthotopic tumors as a useful model to study desmoplasia and tumor-directed therapeutics in PC. Pirfenidone in combination with NAC could be a novel combination therapy for PC and warrants investigation in human subjects.
PXD003198	27259358	Resolution of Novel Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Subtypes by Global Phosphotyrosine Profiling. 	Characterisation of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma subtypes by global phosphotyrosine  profiling	Pancreatic cancer, phosphoproteome, phosphoproteomics, phosphotyrosine, shotgun, subtypes	Comprehensive characterization of signaling in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) promises to enhance our understanding of the molecular aberrations driving this devastating disease, and may identify novel therapeutic targets as well as biomarkers that enable stratification of patients for optimal therapy. Here, we use immunoaffinity-coupled high-resolution mass spectrometry to characterize global tyrosine phosphorylation patterns across two large panels of human PDAC cell lines: the ATCC series (19 cell lines) and TKCC series (17 cell lines). This resulted in the identification and quantification of over 1800 class 1 tyrosine phosphorylation sites and the consistent segregation of both PDAC cell line series into three subtypes with distinct tyrosine phosphorylation profiles. Subtype-selective signaling networks were characterized by identification of subtype-enriched phosphosites together with pathway and network analyses. This revealed that the three subtypes characteristic of the ATCC series were associated with perturbations in signaling networks associated with cell-cell adhesion and epithelial-mesenchyme transition, mRNA metabolism, and receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) signaling, respectively. Specifically, the third subtype exhibited enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple RTKs including the EGFR, ERBB3 and MET. Interestingly, a similar RTK-enriched subtype was identified in the TKCC series, and 'classifier' sites for each series identified using Random Forest models were able to predict the subtypes of the alternate series with high accuracy, highlighting the conservation of the three subtypes across the two series. Finally, RTK-enriched cell lines from both series exhibited enhanced sensitivity to the small molecule EGFR inhibitor erlotinib, indicating that their phosphosignature may provide a predictive biomarker for response to this targeted therapy. These studies highlight how resolution of subtype-selective signaling networks can provide a novel taxonomy for particular cancers, and provide insights into PDAC biology that can be exploited for improved patient management.
PXD003459	27264542	Specific threonine-4 phosphorylation and function of RNA polymerase II CTD during M phase progression. 	The interactome of the human RNA Pol II	Homo sapiens, Interactome, RNA Pol II	Dynamic phosphorylation of Tyr1-Ser2-Pro3-Thr4-Ser5-Pro6-Ser7 heptad-repeats in the C-terminal domain (CTD) of the large subunit coordinates progression of RNA polymerase (Pol) II through the transcription cycle. Here, we describe an M phase-specific form of Pol II phosphorylated at Thr4, but not at Tyr1, Ser2, Ser5, and Ser7 residues. Thr4 phosphorylated Pol II binds to centrosomes and midbody and interacts with the Thr4-specific Polo-like kinase 1. Binding of Pol II to centrosomes does not require the CTD but may involve subunits of the non-canonical R2TP-Prefoldin-like complex, which bind to and co-localize with Pol II at centrosomes. CTD Thr4 mutants, but not Ser2 and Ser5 mutants, display severe mitosis and cytokinesis defects characterized by multipolar spindles and polyploid cells. We conclude that proper M phase progression of cells requires binding of Pol II to centrosomes to facilitate regulation of mitosis and cytokinesis in a CTD Thr4-P dependent manner.
PXD003557	27265680	A Comprehensive Investigation toward the Indicative Proteins of Bladder Cancer in Urine: From Surveying Cell Secretomes to Verifying Urine Proteins. 	Human bladder cancer LC MS/MS -  A Comprehensive Investigation toward the Indicative Proteins of Bladder Cancer in Urine: From Surveying Cell Secretomes to Verifying Urine Proteins	LC MS/MS, bladder cancer	Urine is an ideal material to study the cancer-related protein biomarkers in bladder, whereas exploration to these candidates is confronting technique challenges. Herein, we propose a comprehensive strategy of searching the urine proteins related with bladder cancer. The strategy consists of three core combinations, screening the biomarker candidates in the secreted proteins derived from the bladder cancer cell lines and verifying them in patient urines, defining the differential proteins through two-dimensional electrophoresis (2DE) and isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) coupled with LC-MS/MS, and implementing quantitative proteomics of profiling and targeting analysis. With proteomic survey, a total of 700 proteins were found with their abundance of secreted proteins in cancer cell lines different from normal, while 87 proteins were identified in the urine samples. The multiple reaction monitoring (MRM)-based quantification was adapted in verifying the bladder cancer related proteins in individual urine samples, resulting in 10 differential urine proteins linked with the cancer. Of these candidates, receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that the combination of CO3 and LDHB was more sensitive as the cancer indicator than other groups. The discovery of the bladder cancer indicators through our strategy has paved an avenue to further biomarker validation.
PXD008428	27266261	Quantitative and In-Depth Survey of the Isotopic Abundance Distribution Errors in Shotgun Proteomics. 	Quantitative and In-Depth Survey of the Isotopic Abundance Distribution Errors	Data quality, Isotopic profile error, Quantitative Proteomics	Accuracy is an important metric when mass spectrometry (MS) is used in large-scale quantitative proteomics research. For MS-based quantification by extracting ion chromatogram (XIC), both the mass and intensity dimensions must be accurate. Although much research has focused on mass accuracy in recent years, less attention has been paid to intensity errors. Here, we investigated signal intensity measurement errors systematically and quantitatively using the natural properties of isotopic distributions. First, we defined a normalized isotopic abundance error model and presented its merits and demerits. Second, a comprehensive survey of the isotopic abundance errors using data sets with increasing sample complexities and concentrations was performed. We examined parameters such as error distribution, relationships between signal intensities within one isotopic cluster, and correlations between different peak errors in isotopic profiles. Our data demonstrated that the high resolution MS platforms might also generate large isotopic intensity measurement errors (approximately 20%). Meanwhile, this error can be reduced to less than 5% using a novel correction algorithm, which is based on the theoretical isotopic abundance distribution. Finally, a nonlinear relationship was observed as the abundance error decreased in isotopic profiles with higher intensity. Our findings are expected to provide insight into isotopic abundance recalibration in quantitative proteomics.
PXD003186	27267252	N-Myristoyltransferase Inhibition Induces ER-Stress, Cell Cycle Arrest, and Apoptosis in Cancer Cells. 	N-Myristoyltransferase inhibition in HeLa	HeLa, N-myristoyltransferase inhibition, Q-exactive, spike-in SILAC	N-Myristoyltransferase (NMT) covalently attaches a C14 fatty acid to the N-terminal glycine of proteins and has been proposed as a therapeutic target in cancer. We have recently shown that selective NMT inhibition leads to dose-responsive loss of N-myristoylation on more than 100 protein targets in cells, and cytotoxicity in cancer cells. N-myristoylation lies upstream of multiple pro-proliferative and oncogenic pathways, but to date the complex substrate specificity of NMT has limited determination of which diseases are most likely to respond to a selective NMT inhibitor. We describe here the phenotype of NMT inhibition in HeLa cells and show that cells die through apoptosis following or concurrent with accumulation in the G1 phase. We used quantitative proteomics to map protein expression changes for more than 2700 proteins in response to treatment with an NMT inhibitor in HeLa cells and observed down-regulation of proteins involved in cell cycle regulation and up-regulation of proteins involved in the endoplasmic reticulum stress and unfolded protein response, with similar results in breast (MCF-7, MDA-MB-231) and colon (HCT116) cancer cell lines. This study describes the cellular response to NMT inhibition at the proteome level and provides a starting point for selective targeting of specific diseases with NMT inhibitors, potentially in combination with other targeted agents.
PXD002903	27270312	Quantitative proteomics reveals that distant recurrence-associated protein R-Ras and Transgelin predict post-surgical survival in patients with Stage III colorectal cancer. 	Quantitative proteomics reveals that distant recurrence-associated protein R-Ras and Transgelin predict post-surgical survival of colorectal cancer Stage III patients	R-Ras, Stage III colorectal cancer, Transgelin., post-surgical recurrence, prognostic biomarker, quantitative proteomics	Surgical resection supplemented with adjuvant chemotherapy is the current preferred treatment for Stage III colorectal cancer (CRC). However, as many as 48% of patients who undergo curative resection eventually suffer from incurable distant recurrence. To investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in Stage III CRC post-surgical distant recurrence, we identified a total of 146 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) associated with distant recurrence in Stage III CRC using TMT-based quantitative mass spectrometry. Among these DEPs, the altered expressions of R-Ras and Transgelin were then validated in 192 individual specimens using immunohistochemistry (IHC). Furthermore, Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that the levels of R-Ras and Transgelin were significantly associated with 5-year overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS), and multivariate Cox-regression analyses revealed that R-Ras and Transgelin were independent prognostic factors for OS and DFS, respectively. In conclusion, this study identified potential biochemical players involved in distant recurrence and indicates that R-Ras and Transgelin are potential post-surgical prognostic biomarkers for Stage III CRC. This proteomics data have been submitted to Proteome Xchange under accession number PXD002903.
PXD003908	27273156	Phosphoproteome analysis of the MAPK pathway reveals previously undetected feedback mechanisms. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of MAPK signaling	MAPK	The RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK (MAPK) pathway is prevalently perturbed in cancer. Recent large-scale sequencing initiatives profiled thousands of tumors providing insight into alterations at the DNA and RNA levels. These efforts confirmed that key nodes of the MAPK pathway, in particular KRAS and BRAF, are among the most frequently altered proteins in cancer. The establishment of targeted therapies, however, has proven difficult. To decipher the underlying challenges, it is essential to decrypt the phosphorylation network spanned by the MAPK core axis. Using mass spectrometry we identified 2241 phosphorylation sites on 1020 proteins, and measured their responses to inhibition of MEK or ERK. Multiple phosphorylation patterns revealed previously undetected feedback, as upstream signaling nodes, including receptor kinases, showed changes at the phosphorylation level. We provide a dataset rich in potential therapeutic targets downstream of the MAPK cascade. By integrating TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas) data, we highlight some downstream phosphoproteins that are frequently altered in cancer. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003908 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD003908).
PXD003111	27274532	Proteomics data in support of the quantification of the changes of bovine milk proteins during mammary gland involution. 	Silencing of eIF5B Changes Proteostasis by Providing Negative Feedback on MAPK Signaling	eIF5B, protein synthesis, proteostasis, ribosome.	Here we provide data from three proteomics techniques; two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) followed by identification of selected spots using PSD MALDI-TOF MS/MS, one-dimensional gel electrophoresis followed by LC-MS/MS analysis of gel slices (GeLC) and dimethyl isotopic labelling of tryptic peptides followed by Orbitrap MS/MS (DML), to quantify the changes in the repertoire of bovine milk proteins that occurs after drying off. We analysed skim milk and whey sampled at day 0 and either day 3 or day 8 after drying off. These analyses identified 45 spots by MALDI-TOF, 51 proteins by GeLC and 161 proteins by DML, for which the detailed data work-up is presented as three Excel files. The data supplied in this article supports the accompanying publication "Changes in the repertoire of bovine milk proteins during mammary involution" (Boggs et al., 2015) [1]. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers ProteomeXchange: PXD003110 and ProteomeXchange: PXD003011.
PXD000740	27274716	Synovial fluid proteome in rheumatoid arthritis. 	Synovial fluid proteome in rheumatoid arthritis	Rheumatoid arthritis, Synovial fluid	BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoinflammatory disorder that affects small joints. Despite intense efforts, there are currently no definitive markers for early diagnosis of RA and for monitoring the progression of this disease, though some of the markers like anti CCP antibodies and anti vimentin antibodies are promising. We sought to catalogue the proteins present in the synovial fluid of patients with RA. It was done with the aim of identifying newer biomarkers, if any, that might prove promising in future. METHODS: To enrich the low abundance proteins, we undertook two approaches-multiple affinity removal system (MARS14) to deplete some of the most abundant proteins and lectin affinity chromatography for enrichment of glycoproteins. The peptides were analyzed by LC-MS/MS on a high resolution Fourier transform mass spectrometer. RESULTS: This effort was the first total profiling of the synovial fluid proteome in RA that led to identification of 956 proteins. From the list, we identified a number of functionally significant proteins including vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, S100 proteins, AXL receptor protein tyrosine kinase, macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF), programmed cell death ligand 2 (PDCD1LG2), TNF receptor 2, (TNFRSF1B) and many novel proteins including hyaluronan-binding protein 2, semaphorin 4A (SEMA4D) and osteoclast stimulating factor 1. Overall, our findings illustrate the complex and dynamic nature of RA in which multiple pathways seems to be participating actively. CONCLUSIONS: The use of high resolution mass spectrometry thus, enabled identification of proteins which might be critical to the progression of RA.
PXD002705	27275780	NrdR Transcription Regulation: Global Proteome Analysis and Its Role in Escherichia coli Viability and Virulence. 	E.coli NrdR Expression and LC-MSMS	E.coli, NrdR, bacterial viability, infection and virulence, over-expression, transcription repressor	Bacterial ribonucleotide reductases (RNRs) play an important role in the synthesis of dNTPs and their expression is regulated by the transcription factors, NrdR and Fur. Recent transcriptomic studies using deletion mutants have indicated a role for NrdR in bacterial chemotaxis and in the maintenance of topoisomerase levels. However, NrdR deletion alone has no effect on bacterial growth or virulence in infected flies or in human blood cells. Furthermore, transcriptomic studies are limited to the deletion strain alone, and so are inadequate for drawing biological implications when the NrdR repressor is active or abundant. Therefore, further examination is warranted of changes in the cellular proteome in response to both NrdR overexpression, as well as deletion, to better understand its functional relevance as a bacterial transcription repressor. Here, we profile bacterial fate under conditions of overexpression and deletion of NrdR in E. coli. Biochemical assays show auxiliary zinc enhances the DNA binding activity of NrdR. We also demonstrate at the physiological level that increased nrdR expression causes a significant reduction in bacterial growth and fitness even at normal temperatures, and causes lethality at elevated temperatures. Corroborating these direct effects, global proteome analysis following NrdR overexpression showed a significant decrease in global protein expression. In parallel, studies on complementary expression of downregulated essential genes polA, eno and thiL showed partial rescue of the fitness defect caused by NrdR overexpression. Deletion of downregulated non-essential genes ygfK and trxA upon NrdR overexpression resulted in diminished bacterial growth and fitness suggesting an additional role for NrdR in regulating other genes. Moreover, in comparison with NrdR deletion, E. coli cells overexpressing NrdR showed significantly diminished adherence to human epithelial cells, reflecting decreased bacterial virulence. These results suggest that elevated expression of NrdR could be a suitable means to retard bacterial growth and virulence, as its elevated expression reduces bacterial fitness and impairs host cell adhesion.
PXD004073	27277118	Potential of Environmental Enrichment to Prevent Transgenerational Effects of Paternal Trauma. 	iTRAQ quantification of hippocampal proteins in a mouse model of unpredictable maternal separation and maternal stress	environmental enrichment, hippocampus, iTRAQ, paternal trauma, trangenerational inheritance	Adverse experiences in early life are risk factors for the development of behavioral and physiological symptoms that can lead to psychiatric and cognitive disorders later in life. Some of these symptoms can be transmitted to the offspring, in some cases by non-genomic mechanisms involving germ cells. Using a mouse model of unpredictable maternal separation and maternal stress, we show that postnatal trauma alters coping behaviors in adverse conditions in exposed males when adult and in their adult male progeny. The behavioral changes are accompanied by increased glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression and decreased DNA methylation of the GR promoter in the hippocampus. DNA methylation is also decreased in sperm cells of exposed males when adult. Transgenerational transmission of behavioral symptoms is prevented by paternal environmental enrichment, an effect associated with the reversal of alterations in GR gene expression and DNA methylation in the hippocampus of the male offspring. These findings highlight the influence of both negative and positive environmental factors on behavior across generations and the plasticity of the epigenome across life.
PXD003275	27279223	Environmental Breviatea harbour mutualistic Arcobacter epibionts. 	Differential proteomics of Lenisia limosa (Breviatea) and its epibiotic Arcobacter symbiont	Easy nLC 1000, Lenisia limosa, Q Exactive plus, metaproteomics, microbial community, symbiosis	Breviatea form a lineage of free living, unicellular protists, distantly related to animals and fungi. This lineage emerged almost one billion years ago, when the oceanic oxygen content was low, and extant Breviatea have evolved or retained an anaerobic lifestyle. Here we report the cultivation of Lenisia limosa, gen. et sp. nov., a newly discovered breviate colonized by relatives of animal-associated Arcobacter. Physiological experiments show that the association of L. limosa with Arcobacter is driven by the transfer of hydrogen and is mutualistic, providing benefits to both partners. With whole-genome sequencing and differential proteomics, we show that an experimentally observed fitness gain of L. limosa could be explained by the activity of a so far unknown type of NAD(P)H-accepting hydrogenase, which is expressed in the presence, but not in the absence, of Arcobacter. Differential proteomics further reveal that the presence of Lenisia stimulates expression of known 'virulence' factors by Arcobacter. These proteins typically enable colonization of animal cells during infection, but may in the present case act for mutual benefit. Finally, re-investigation of two currently available transcriptomic data sets of other Breviatea reveals the presence and activity of related hydrogen-consuming Arcobacter, indicating that mutualistic interaction between these two groups of microbes might be pervasive. Our results support the notion that molecular mechanisms involved in virulence can also support mutualism, as shown here for Arcobacter and Breviatea.
PXD001503	27281222	Dual targeting of p53 and c-MYC selectively eliminates leukaemic stem cells. 	CML proteome analysis, QSTAR -  Dual targeting of p53 and c-MYC selectively eliminates leukaemic stem cells	CD34+, CML, iTRAQ, shotgun proteomics	Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) arises after transformation of a haemopoietic stem cell (HSC) by the protein-tyrosine kinase BCR-ABL. Direct inhibition of BCR-ABL kinase has revolutionized disease management, but fails to eradicate leukaemic stem cells (LSCs), which maintain CML. LSCs are independent of BCR-ABL for survival, providing a rationale for identifying and targeting kinase-independent pathways. Here we show--using proteomics, transcriptomics and network analyses--that in human LSCs, aberrantly expressed proteins, in both imatinib-responder and non-responder patients, are modulated in concert with p53 (also known as TP53) and c-MYC regulation. Perturbation of both p53 and c-MYC, and not BCR-ABL itself, leads to synergistic cell kill, differentiation, and near elimination of transplantable human LSCs in mice, while sparing normal HSCs. This unbiased systems approach targeting connected nodes exemplifies a novel precision medicine strategy providing evidence that LSCs can be eradicated.
PXD002704	27281782	Simultaneous Enrichment of Cysteine-containing Peptides and Phosphopeptides Using a Cysteine-specific Phosphonate Adaptable Tag (CysPAT) in Combination with titanium dioxide (TiO2) Chromatography. 	Ssimultaneous enrichment of cysteine-containing peptides and phosphopeptides using a novel Cysteine-specific Phosphonate Adaptable Tag (CysPAT) in combination with TiO2 chromatography	Cross-talk, CysPAT, Protein phosphorylation, Redox chemistry, Reversible Cys modifications, TiO2 enrichment	Cysteine is a rare and conserved amino acid involved in most cellular functions. The thiol group of cysteine can be subjected to diverse oxidative modifications that regulate many physio-pathological states. In the present work, a Cysteine-specific Phosphonate Adaptable Tag (CysPAT) was synthesized to selectively label cysteine-containing peptides (Cys peptides) followed by their enrichment with titanium dioxide (TiO2) and subsequent mass spectrometric analysis. The CysPAT strategy was developed using a synthetic peptide, a standard protein and subsequently the strategy was applied to protein lysates from Hela cells, achieving high specificity and enrichment efficiency. In particular, for Cys proteome analysis, the method led to the identification of 7509 unique Cys peptides from 500 mug of HeLa cell lysate starting material. Furthermore, the method was developed to simultaneously enrich Cys peptides and phosphorylated peptides. This strategy was applied to SILAC labeled Hela cells subjected to 5 min epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulation. In total, 10440 unique reversibly modified Cys peptides (3855 proteins) and 7339 unique phosphopeptides (2234 proteins) were simultaneously identified from 250 mug starting material. Significant regulation was observed in both phosphorylation and reversible Cys modification of proteins involved in EGFR signaling. Our data indicates that EGF stimulation can activate the well-known phosphorylation of EGFR and downstream signaling molecules, such as mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK1 and MAPK3), however, it also leads to substantial modulation of reversible cysteine modifications in numerous proteins. Several protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) showed a reduction of the catalytic Cys site in the conserved putative phosphatase HC(X)5R motif indicating an activation and subsequent de-phosphorylation of proteins involved in the EGF signaling pathway. Overall, the CysPAT strategy is a straight forward, easy and promising method for studying redox proteomics and the simultaneous enrichment strategy offers an excellent solution for characterization of cross-talk between phosphorylation and redox induced reversible cysteine modifications.
PXD002890	27281784	Identification of RNA-binding Proteins in Macrophages by Interactome Capture. 	mRNA interactome in mouse macrophages	mRNA, macrophage, protein interaction	Pathogen components, such as lipopolysaccharides of Gram-negative bacteria that activate Toll-like receptor 4, induce mitogen activated protein kinases and NFkappaB through different downstream pathways to stimulate pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine expression. Importantly, post-transcriptional control of the expression of Toll-like receptor 4 downstream signaling molecules contributes to the tight regulation of inflammatory cytokine synthesis in macrophages. Emerging evidence highlights the role of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) in the post-transcriptional control of the innate immune response. To systematically identify macrophage RBPs and their response to LPS stimulation, we employed RNA interactome capture in LPS-induced and untreated murine RAW 264.7 macrophages. This combines RBP-crosslinking to RNA, cell lysis, oligo(dT) capture of polyadenylated RNAs and mass spectrometry analysis of associated proteins. Our data revealed 402 proteins of the macrophage RNA interactome including 91 previously not annotated as RBPs. A comparison with published RNA interactomes classified 32 RBPs uniquely identified in RAW 264.7 macrophages. Of these, 19 proteins are linked to biochemical activities not directly related to RNA. From this group, we validated the HSP90 cochaperone P23 that was demonstrated to exhibit cytosolic prostaglandin E2 synthase 3 (PTGES3) activity, and the hematopoietic cell-specific LYN substrate 1 (HCLS1 or HS1), a hematopoietic cell-specific adapter molecule, as novel macrophage RBPs. Our study expands the mammalian RBP repertoire, and identifies macrophage RBPs that respond to LPS. These RBPs are prime candidates for the post-transcriptional regulation and execution of LPS-induced signaling pathways and the innate immune response. Macrophage RBP data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002890.
PXD003899	27282143	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of the PI3K-regulated signaling network. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of PI3K signaling	PI3K	The PI3K pathway is commonly activated in cancer. Only a few studies have attempted to explore the spectrum of phosphorylation signaling downstream of the PI3K cascade. Such insight, however, is imperative to understand the mechanisms responsible for oncogenic phenotypes. By applying MS-based phosphoproteomics, we mapped 2509 phosphorylation sites on 1096 proteins, and quantified their responses to activation or inhibition of PIK3CA using isogenic knock-in derivatives and a series of targeted inhibitors. We uncovered phosphorylation changes in a wide variety of proteins involved in cell growth and proliferation, many of which have not been previously associated with PI3K signaling. A significant update of the posttranslational modification database PHOSIDA (http://www.phosida.com) allows efficient use of the data. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003899 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD003899).
PXD004099	27284163	The CENP-T/-W complex is a binding partner of the histone chaperone FACT. 	The CENP-T/-W complex is a binding partner of the histone chaperone FACT	CENP, centromere, histone chaperone, mitosis	The CENP-T/-W histone fold complex, as an integral part of the inner kinetochore, is essential for building a proper kinetochore at the centromere in order to direct chromosome segregation during mitosis. Notably, CENP-T/-W is not inherited at centromeres, and new deposition is absolutely required at each cell cycle for kinetochore function. However, the mechanisms underlying this new deposition of CENP-T/-W at centromeres are unclear. Here, we found that CENP-T deposition at centromeres is uncoupled from DNA synthesis. We identified Spt16 and SSRP1, subunits of the H2A-H2B histone chaperone facilitates chromatin transcription (FACT), as CENP-W binding partners through a proteomic screen. We found that the C-terminal region of Spt16 binds specifically to the histone fold region of CENP-T/-W. Furthermore, depletion of Spt16 impairs CENP-T and CENP-W deposition at endogenous centromeres, and site-directed targeting of Spt16 alone is sufficient to ensure local de novo CENP-T accumulation. We propose a model in which the FACT chaperone stabilizes the soluble CENP-T/-W complex in the cell and promotes dynamics of exchange, enabling CENP-T/-W deposition at centromeres.
PXD004268	27291344	Dynamic and Combinatorial Landscape of Histone Modifications during the Intraerythrocytic Developmental Cycle of the Malaria Parasite. 	Multiple Reaction Monitoring assays targeting modified peptides from Plasmodium histones at 0, 18 and 36 hours post-invasion	Histones, Multiple Reaction Monitoring, Post-translational Modifications, intra-erythrocytic cycle, malaria parasite	A major obstacle in understanding the complex biology of the malaria parasite remains to discover how gene transcription is controlled during its life cycle. Accumulating evidence indicates that the parasite's epigenetic state plays a fundamental role in gene expression and virulence. Using a comprehensive and quantitative mass spectrometry approach, we determined the global and dynamic abundance of histones and their covalent post-transcriptional modifications throughout the intraerythrocytic developmental cycle of Plasmodium falciparum. We detected a total of 232 distinct modifications, of which 160 had never been detected in Plasmodium and 88 had never been identified in any other species. We further validated over 10% of the detected modifications and their expression patterns by multiple reaction monitoring assays. In addition, we uncovered an unusual chromatin organization with parasite-specific histone modifications and combinatorial dynamics that may be directly related to transcriptional activity, DNA replication, and cell cycle progression. Overall, our data suggest that the malaria parasite has a unique histone modification signature that correlates with parasite virulence.
PXD003758	27294783	The dynamic interactome and genomic targets of Polycomb complexes during stem-cell differentiation. 	The dynamic interactome of Polycomb family complexes during stem cell differentiation	PR-DUB, PRC1, PRC2, PcG	Although the core subunits of Polycomb group (PcG) complexes are well characterized, little is known about the dynamics of these protein complexes during cellular differentiation. We used quantitative interaction proteomics and genome-wide profiling to study PcG proteins in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and neural progenitor cells (NPCs). We found that the stoichiometry and genome-wide binding of PRC1 and PRC2 were highly dynamic during neural differentiation. Intriguingly, we observed a downregulation and loss of PRC2 from chromatin marked with trimethylated histone H3 K27 (H3K27me3) during differentiation, whereas PRC1 was retained at these sites. Additionally, we found PRC1 at enhancer and promoter regions independently of PRC2 binding and H3K27me3. Finally, overexpression of NPC-specific PRC1 interactors in ESCs led to increased Ring1b binding to, and decreased expression of, NPC-enriched Ring1b-target genes. In summary, our integrative analyses uncovered dynamic PcG subcomplexes and their widespread colocalization with active chromatin marks during differentiation.
PXD003759	27297041	Calredoxin represents a novel type of calcium-dependent sensor-responder connected to redox regulation in the chloroplast. 	Proteomic comparison of Chlamydomonas wildtype and calredoxin knock-down mutants via 14N/15N metabolic labeling	Chlamydomonas, calredoxin	Calcium (Ca(2+)) and redox signalling play important roles in acclimation processes from archaea to eukaryotic organisms. Herein we characterized a unique protein from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii that has the competence to integrate Ca(2+)- and redox-related signalling. This protein, designated as calredoxin (CRX), combines four Ca(2+)-binding EF-hands and a thioredoxin (TRX) domain. A crystal structure of CRX, at 1.6 Aa resolution, revealed an unusual calmodulin-fold of the Ca(2+)-binding EF-hands, which is functionally linked via an inter-domain communication path with the enzymatically active TRX domain. CRX is chloroplast-localized and interacted with a chloroplast 2-Cys peroxiredoxin (PRX1). Ca(2+)-binding to CRX is critical for its TRX activity and for efficient binding and reduction of PRX1. Thereby, CRX represents a new class of Ca(2+)-dependent 'sensor-responder' proteins. Genetically engineered Chlamydomonas strains with strongly diminished amounts of CRX revealed altered photosynthetic electron transfer and were affected in oxidative stress response underpinning a function of CRX in stress acclimation.
PXD003422	27297043	A Proteomics Approach to the Protein Normalization Problem: Selection of Unvarying Proteins for MS-Based Proteomics and Western Blotting. 	A proteomics approach to the protein normalization problem	Data normalization	Proteomics and other protein-based analysis methods such as Western blotting all face the challenge of discriminating changes in the levels of proteins of interest from inadvertent changes in the amount loaded for analysis. Mass-spectrometry-based proteomics can now estimate the relative and absolute amounts of thousands of proteins across diverse biological systems. We reasoned that this new technology could prove useful for selection of very stably expressed proteins that could serve as better loading controls than those traditionally employed. Large-scale proteomic analyses of SDS lysates of cultured cells and tissues revealed deglycase DJ-1 as the protein with the lowest variability in abundance among different cell types in human, mouse, and amphibian cells. The protein constitutes 0.069 +/- 0.017% of total cellular protein and occurs at a specific concentration of 34.6 +/- 8.7 pmol/mg of total protein. Since DJ-1 is ubiquitous and therefore easily detectable with several peptides, it can be helpful in normalization of proteomic data sets. In addition, DJ-1 appears to be an advantageous loading control for Western blot that is superior to those used commonly used, allowing comparisons between tissues and cells originating from evolutionarily distant vertebrate species. Notably, this is not possible by the detection and quantitation of housekeeping proteins, which are often used in the Western blot technique. The approach introduced here can be applied to select the most appropriate loading controls for MS-based proteomics or Western blotting in any biological system.
PXD004081	27301800	The innate immune protein calprotectin promotes Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus interaction. 	The innate immune protein calprotectin promotes Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus interaction	Calprotectin, PA14, Pseudomonas aeruginoa, S100A8, S100A9, biofilms, drip flow reactor	Microorganisms form biofilms containing differentiated cell populations. To determine factors driving differentiation, we herein visualize protein and metal distributions within Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms using imaging mass spectrometry. These in vitro experiments reveal correlations between differential protein distribution and metal abundance. Notably, zinc- and manganese-depleted portions of the biofilm repress the production of anti-staphylococcal molecules. Exposure to calprotectin (a host protein known to sequester metal ions at infectious foci) recapitulates responses occurring within metal-deplete portions of the biofilm and promotes interaction between P. aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. Consistent with these results, the presence of calprotectin promotes co-colonization of the murine lung, and polymicrobial communities are found to co-exist in calprotectin-enriched airspaces of a cystic fibrosis lung explant. These findings, which demonstrate that metal fluctuations are a driving force of microbial community structure, have clinical implications because of the frequent occurrence of P. aeruginosa and S. aureus co-infections.
PXD003611	27302567	FASIL-MS: An Integrated Proteomic and Bioinformatic Workflow To Universally Quantitate In Vivo-Acetylated Positional Isomers. 	FASIL-MS: An Integrated Proteomic and Bioinformatic Workflow to Universally Quantitate In vivo-acetylated Positional Isomers	FASP, MS2-based quantitation, N-acetoxy-D3-sucinnimide, histone acetylation, lysine deacetylase inhibitor, protein derivatisation	Dynamic changes in histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) regulate gene transcription leading to fine-tuning of biological processes such as DNA replication and cell cycle progression. Moreover, specific histone modifications constitute docking sites for recruitment of DNA damage repair proteins and mediation of subsequent cell survival. Therefore, understanding and monitoring changes in histone PTMs that can alter cell proliferation and thus lead to disease progression are of considerable medical interest. In this study, stable isotope labeling with N-acetoxy-D3-succinimide (D3-NAS) was utilized to efficiently derivatize unmodified lysine residues at the protein level. The sample preparation method was streamlined to facilitate buffer exchange between the multiple steps of the protocol by coupling chemical derivatization to filter-aided sample preparation (FASP). Additionally, the mass spectrometry method was adapted to simultaneously coisolate and subsequently cofragment all differentially H3/D3-acetylated histone peptide clusters. Combination of these multiplexed MS(2) spectra with the implementation of a data analysis algorithm enabled the quantitation of each and every in vivo-acetylated DMSO- and SAHA-treated H4(4-17) and H3(18-26) peptide. We have termed our new approach FASIL-MS for filter-aided stable isotopic labeling coupled to mass spectrometry. FASIL-MS enables the universal and site-specific quantitation of peptides with multiple in vivo-acetylated lysine residues. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD003611).
PXD001675	27302889	Quantitative Cross-linking/Mass Spectrometry Using Isotope-labeled Cross-linkers and MaxQuant. 	Quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry reveals subtle protein conformational changes	Quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry, activation of complement system, conformation changes, human C3	The conceptually simple step from cross-linking/mass spectrometry (CLMS) to quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry (QCLMS) is compounded by technical challenges. Currently, quantitative proteomics software is tightly integrated with the protein identification workflow. This prevents automatically quantifying other m/z features in a targeted manner including those associated with cross-linked peptides. Here we present a new release of MaxQuant that permits starting the quantification process from an m/z feature list. Comparing the automated quantification to a carefully manually curated test set of cross-linked peptides obtained by cross-linking C3 and C3b with BS(3) and isotope-labeled BS(3)-d4 revealed a number of observations: (1) Fully automated process using MaxQuant can quantify cross-links in our reference data set with 68% recall rate and 88% accuracy. (2) Hidden quantification errors can be converted into exposed failures by label-swap replica, which makes label-swap replica an essential part of QCLMS. (3) Cross-links that failed during automated quantification can be recovered by semi-automated re-quantification. The integrated workflow of MaxQuant and semi-automated assessment provides the maximum of quantified cross-links. In contrast, work on larger data sets or by less experienced users will benefit from full automation in MaxQuant.
PXD002560	27302890	Systems Level Analysis of Histone H3 Post-translational Modifications (PTMs) Reveals Features of PTM Crosstalk in Chromatin Regulation. 	Systems level analysis of histone H3 post-translational modifications reveals features of PTM crosstalk in chromatin regulation	crosstalk, histone, post-translational modification	Histones are abundant chromatin constituents carrying numerous post-translational modifications (PTMs). Such PTMs mediate a variety of biological functions, including recruitment of enzymatic readers, writers and erasers that modulate DNA replication, transcription and repair. Individual histone molecules contain multiple coexisting PTMs, some of which exhibit crosstalk, i.e. coordinated or mutually exclusive activities. Here, we present an integrated experimental and computational systems level molecular characterization of histone PTMs and PTM crosstalk. Using wild type and engineered mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) knocked out in components of the Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2, Suz12(-/-)), PRC1 (Ring1A/B(-/-)) and (Dnmt1/3a/3b(-/-)) we performed comprehensive PTM analysis of histone H3 tails (50 aa) by utilizing quantitative middle-down proteome analysis by tandem mass spectrometry. We characterized combinatorial PTM features across the four mESC lines and then applied statistical data analysis to predict crosstalk between histone H3 PTMs. We detected an overrepresentation of positive crosstalk (codependent marks) between adjacent mono-methylated and acetylated marks, and negative crosstalk (mutually exclusive marks) among most of the seven characterized di- and tri-methylated lysine residues in the H3 tails. We report novel features of PTM interplay involving hitherto poorly characterized arginine methylation and lysine methylation sites, including H3R2me, H3R8me and H3K37me. Integration of the H3 data with RNAseq data by coabundance clustering analysis of histone PTMs and histone modifying enzymes revealed correlations between PTM and enzyme levels. We conclude that middle-down proteomics is a powerful tool to determine conserved or dynamic interdependencies between histone marks, which paves the way for detailed investigations of the histone code. Histone H3 PTM data is publicly available in the CrossTalkDB repository at http://crosstalkdb.bmb.sdu.dk.
PXD002097	27307780	Phosphotyrosine profiling of curcumin-induced signaling. 	Phosphotyrosine profiling of curcumin-induced signaling	Curcumin, Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, Immunoaffinity purification	BACKGROUND: Curcumin, derived from the rhizome Curcuma longa, is a natural anti-cancer agent and has been shown to inhibit proliferation and survival of tumor cells. Although the anti-cancer effects of curcumin are well established, detailed understanding of the signaling pathways altered by curcumin is still lacking. In this study, we carried out SILAC-based quantitative proteomic analysis of a HNSCC cell line (CAL 27) to investigate tyrosine signaling in response to curcumin. RESULTS: Using high resolution Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid Fourier transform mass spectrometer, we identified 627 phosphotyrosine sites mapping to 359 proteins. We observed alterations in the level of phosphorylation of 304 sites corresponding to 197 proteins upon curcumin treatment. We report here for the first time, curcumin-induced alterations in the phosphorylation of several kinases including TNK2, FRK, AXL, MAPK12 and phosphatases such as PTPN6, PTPRK, and INPPL1 among others. Pathway analysis revealed that the proteins differentially phosphorylated in response to curcumin are known to be involved in focal adhesion kinase signaling and actin cytoskeleton reorganization. CONCLUSIONS: The study indicates that curcumin may regulate cellular processes such as proliferation and migration through perturbation of the focal adhesion kinase pathway. This is the first quantitative phosphoproteomics-based study demonstrating the signaling events that are altered in response to curcumin. Considering the importance of curcumin as an anti-cancer agent, this study will significantly improve the current knowledge of curcumin-mediated signaling in cancer.
PXD003803	27311020	Influenza A Virus Challenge Models in Cynomolgus Macaques Using the Authentic Inhaled Aerosol and Intra-Nasal Routes of Infection. 	Macaque models for influenza A virus	H1N1pdm influenza virus, Intra-nasal challenge, label free proteomics	Non-human primates are the animals closest to humans for use in influenza A virus challenge studies, in terms of their phylogenetic relatedness, physiology and immune systems. Previous studies have shown that cynomolgus macaques (Macaca fascicularis) are permissive for infection with H1N1pdm influenza virus. These studies have typically used combined challenge routes, with the majority being intra-tracheal delivery, and high doses of virus (> 107 infectious units). This paper describes the outcome of novel challenge routes (inhaled aerosol, intra-nasal instillation) and low to moderate doses (103 to 106 plaque forming units) of H1N1pdm virus in cynomolgus macaques. Evidence of virus replication and sero-conversion were detected in all four challenge groups, although the disease was sub-clinical. Intra-nasal challenge led to an infection confined to the nasal cavity. A low dose (103 plaque forming units) did not lead to detectable infectious virus shedding, but a 1000-fold higher dose led to virus shedding in all intra-nasal challenged animals. In contrast, aerosol and intra-tracheal challenge routes led to infections throughout the respiratory tract, although shedding from the nasal cavity was less reproducible between animals compared to the high-dose intra-nasal challenge group. Intra-tracheal and aerosol challenges induced a transient lymphopaenia, similar to that observed in influenza-infected humans, and greater virus-specific cellular immune responses in the blood were observed in these groups in comparison to the intra-nasal challenge groups. Activation of lung macrophages and innate immune response genes was detected at days 5 to 7 post-challenge. The kinetics of infection, both virological and immunological, were broadly in line with human influenza A virus infections. These more authentic infection models will be valuable in the determination of anti-influenza efficacy of novel entities against less severe (and thus more common) influenza infections.
PXD004285	27311716	Activation of an Endoribonuclease by Non-intein Protein Splicing. 	Non-intein splicing of RB47 -  Activation of an Endoribonuclease by Non-intein Protein Splicing	C. reinhardti, Intein, RB47, chloroplast	The Chlamydomonas reinhardtii chloroplast-localized poly(A)-binding protein RB47 is predicted to contain a non-conserved linker (NCL) sequence flanked by highly conserved N- and C-terminal sequences, based on the corresponding cDNA. RB47 was purified from chloroplasts in association with an endoribonuclease activity; however, protein sequencing failed to detect the NCL. Furthermore, while recombinant RB47 including the NCL did not display endoribonuclease activity in vitro, versions lacking the NCL displayed strong activity. Both full-length and shorter forms of RB47 could be detected in chloroplasts, with conversion to the shorter form occurring in chloroplasts isolated from cells grown in the light. This conversion could be replicated in vitro in chloroplast extracts in a light-dependent manner, where epitope tags and protein sequencing showed that the NCL was excised from a full-length recombinant substrate, together with splicing of the flanking sequences. The requirement for endogenous factors and light differentiates this protein splicing from autocatalytic inteins, and may allow the chloroplast to regulate the activation of RB47 endoribonuclease activity. We speculate that this protein splicing activity arose to post-translationally repair proteins that had been inactivated by deleterious insertions or extensions.
PXD003334	27314513	Chilling temperature stimulates growth, gene over-expression and podophyllotoxin biosynthesis in Podophyllum hexandrum Royle. 	Podophyllum hexandrum Royle MS/MS	Chilling temperature, Gene expression, Growth and development, Podophyllotoxin biosynthesis, Podophyllum hexandrum Royle	Podophyllotoxin (PPT) and its derivatives, isolated from the rhizome of Podophyllum hexandrum Royle (P. hexandrum), are typically used in clinical settings for anti-cancer and anti-virus treatments. Empirical studies have verified that P. hexandrum had stronger tolerance to chilling, due to involving PPT accumulation in rhizome induced by cold stress. However, the cold-adaptive mechanism and its association with PPT accumulation at a molecular level in P. hexandrum are still limited. In this study, the morpho-physiological traits related to plant growth, PPT accumulation and key gene expressions controlling PPT biosynthesis were assessed by exposing P. hexandrum seedlings to different temperatures (4 degreesC and 10 degreesC as chilling stress and 22 degreesC as the control). The results showed that chilling significantly increased chlorophyll content, net photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance, and plant biomass, whereas it greatly decreased transpiration rates and intercellular CO2 concentration. Compared to the control, the chilling treatments under 4 degreesC and 10 degreesC conditions induced a 5.00- and 3.33-fold increase in PPT contents, respectively. The mRNA expressions of six key genes were also up-regulated by chilling stresses. The findings are useful in understanding the molecular basis of P. hexandrum response to chilling.
PXD003326	27314851	Transgenic Soybean Production of Bioactive Human Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF). 	Transgenic soybeans expressing human epidermal growth factor	LTQ Velos soybean Glycine max hispida epidermal growth factor transgenic	Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is a devastating condition of premature infants that results from the gut microbiome invading immature intestinal tissues. This results in a life-threatening disease that is frequently treated with the surgical removal of diseased and dead tissues. Epidermal growth factor (EGF), typically found in bodily fluids, such as amniotic fluid, salvia and mother's breast milk, is an intestinotrophic growth factor and may reduce the onset of NEC in premature infants. We have produced human EGF in soybean seeds to levels biologically relevant and demonstrated its comparable activity to commercially available EGF. Transgenic soybean seeds expressing a seed-specific codon optimized gene encoding of the human EGF protein with an added ER signal tag at the N' terminal were produced. Seven independent lines were grown to homozygous and found to accumulate a range of 6.7 +/- 3.1 to 129.0 +/- 36.7 mug EGF/g of dry soybean seed. Proteomic and immunoblot analysis indicates that the inserted EGF is the same as the human EGF protein. Phosphorylation and immunohistochemical assays on the EGF receptor in HeLa cells indicate the EGF protein produced in soybean seed is bioactive and comparable to commercially available human EGF. This work demonstrates the feasibility of using soybean seeds as a biofactory to produce therapeutic agents in a soymilk delivery platform.
PXD003879	27317401	The Response of the Root Proteome to the Synthetic Strigolactone GR24 in Arabidopsis. 	The response of the root proteome to the synthetic strigolactone GR24 in Arabidopsis	Root responses to strigolactone treatment	Strigolactones are plant metabolites that act as phytohormones and rhizosphere signals. Whereas most research on unraveling the action mechanisms of strigolactones is focused on plant shoots, we investigated proteome adaptation during strigolactone signaling in the roots of Arabidopsis thaliana. Through large-scale, time-resolved, and quantitative proteomics, the impact of the strigolactone analog rac-GR24 was elucidated on the root proteome of the wild type and the signaling mutant more axillary growth 2 (max2). Our study revealed a clear MAX2-dependent rac-GR24 response: an increase in abundance of enzymes involved in flavonol biosynthesis, which was reduced in the max2-1 mutant. Mass spectrometry-driven metabolite profiling and thin-layer chromatography experiments demonstrated that these changes in protein expression lead to the accumulation of specific flavonols. Moreover, quantitative RT-PCR revealed that the flavonol-related protein expression profile was caused by rac-GR24-induced changes in transcript levels of the corresponding genes. This induction of flavonol production was shown to be activated by the two pure enantiomers that together make up rac-GR24. Finally, our data provide much needed clues concerning the multiple roles played by MAX2 in the roots and a comprehensive view of the rac-GR24-induced response in the root proteome.
PXD003876	27318176	Top-down venomics of the East African green mamba, Dendroaspis angusticeps, and the black mamba, Dendroaspis polylepis, highlight the complexity of their toxin arsenals. 	Venomics of the East African green mamba and black mamba, highlights the complexity of their toxin arsenal	black mamba, green mamba, venom, venomics	We report the characterization, by combination of high-resolution on-line molecular mass and disulfide bond profiling and top-down MS/MS analysis, of the venom proteomes of two congeneric African snake species of medical importance, Dendroaspis angusticeps (green mamba) and D. polylepis (black mamba). Each of these mamba venoms comprised more than two-hundred polypeptides belonging to just a few toxin families. Both venom proteomes are overwhelmingly composed of post-synaptically-acting short- and long-chain neurotoxins that potently inhibit muscle- and neuronal-type nicotinic acetylcholine receptors; muscarinic cardiotoxins; and dendrotoxins, that block some of the Kv1, n-class of K+ channels. However, the identity of the major proteins and their relative abundances exhibit marked interspecific variation. In addition, the greater resolution of the top-down venomic analytical approach revealed previously undetected protein species, isoforms and proteoforms, including the identification and precise location of modified lysine residues in a number of proteins in both venoms, but particularly in green mamba toxins. This comparative top-down venomic analysis unveiled the untapped complexity of Dendroaspis venoms and lays the foundations for rationalizing the notably different potency of green and black mamba lethal arsenals at locus resolution. SIGNIFICANCE PARAGRAPH: We report the characterization, by combination of high-resolution on-line molecular mass and disulfide bond profiling and top-down MS/MS analysis, of the venom proteomes of two congeneric African snake species of medical importance, Dendroaspis angusticeps (green mamba) and D. polylepis (black mamba). Each of these mamba venoms comprised more than two-hundred polypeptides belonging to just a few toxin families. Both venom proteomes are overwhelmingly composed of post-synaptically-acting short- and long-chain neurotoxins that potently inhibit muscle- and neuronal-type nicotinic acetylcholine receptors; muscarinic cardiotoxins; and dendrotoxins, that block some of the Kv1, n-class of K+ channels. However, the identity of the major proteins and their relative abundances exhibit marked interspecific variation. In addition, the greater resolution of the top-down venomic analytical approach revealed previously undetected protein species, isoforms and proteoforms, including the identification and precise location of modified lysine residues in a number of proteins in both venoms, but particularly in green mamba toxins. This comparative top-down venomic analysis unveiled the untapped complexity of Dendroaspis venoms and lays the foundations for rationalizing the notably different potency of green and black mamba lethal arsenals at locus resolution.
PXD001773	27321582	Investigation of urine proteome of preterm newborns with respiratory pathologies. 	Urine proteome analysis in the differential diagnostics of respiratory tract pathology in newbornes under intensive care	neonatal intensive care, preterm newborn, respiratory tract disorders, urine, very low birth weight	A serious problem during intensive care and nursing of premature infants is the invasiveness of many examination methods. Urine is an excellent source of potential biomarkers due to the safety of the collection procedure. The purpose of this study was to determine the features specific for the urine proteome of preterm newborns and their changes under respiratory pathologies of infectious and non-infectious origin. The urine proteome of 37 preterm neonates with respiratory diseases and 10 full-term newborns as a control group were investigated using the LC-MS/MS method. The total number of identified proteins and unique peptides was 813 and 3672 respectively. In order to further specify the defined infant-specific dataset these proteins were compared with urine proteome of healthy adults (11 men and 11 pregnant women) resulting in 94 proteins found only in infants. Pairwise analysis performed for label-free proteomic data revealed 36 proteins which reliably distinguished newborns with respiratory disorders of infectious genesis from those with non-infectious pathologies, including: proteins involved in cell adhesion (CDH-2,-5,-11, NCAM1, TRY1, DSG2), metabolism (LAMP1, AGRN, TPP1, GPX3, APOD, CUBN, IDH1), regulation of enzymatic activity (SERPINA4, VASN, GAPDH), inflammatory and stress response (CD55, CD 93, NGAL, HP, TNFR, LCN2, AGT, S100P, SERPINA1/C1/B1/F1).
PXD002823	27321585	Modifications to the composition of the hyphal outer layer of Aspergillus fumigatus modulates HUVEC proteins related to inflammatory and stress responses. 	Modifications of the composition of the hyphal outerlayer of Aspergillus fumigatus affects HUVEC inflammatory and immune response	Aspergillus fumigatus, Galactosaminogalactan, HDMSE, HUVEC, interaction, label-free	Aspergillus fumigatus, the main etiologic agent causing invasive aspergillosis, can induce an inflammatory response and a prothrombotic phenotype upon contact with human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). However, the fungal molecules involved in this endothelial response remain unknown. A. fumigatus hyphae produce an extracellular matrix composed of galactomannan, galactosaminogalactan and alpha-(1,3)-glucan. In this study, we investigated the consequences of UGM1 gene deletion in A. fumigatus, which produces a mutant with increased galactosaminogalactan production. The incrementugm1 mutant exhibited an HUVEC-hyperadhesive phenotype and induced increased endothelial TNF-alpha secretion and tissue factor mRNA overexpression in this "semi-professional" immune host cell. Using a shotgun proteomics approach, we show that the A. fumigatus incrementugm1 strain can modulate the levels of proteins in important endothelial pathways related to the inflammatory response mediated by TNF-alpha and to stress response pathways. Furthermore, a purified galactosaminogalactan fraction was also able to induce TNF-alpha secretion and the coincident HUVEC pathways regulated by the incrementugm1 mutant, which overexpresses this component, as demonstrated by fluorescence microscopy. This work contributes new data regarding endothelial mechanisms in response to A. fumigatus infection. SIGNIFICANCE: Invasive aspergillosis is the main opportunistic fungal infection described in neutropenic hematologic patients. One important clinical aspect of this invasive fungal infection is vascular thrombosis, which could be related, at least in part, to the activation of endothelial cells, as shown in previous reports from our group. It is known that direct contact between the A. fumigatus hyphal cell wall and the HUVEC cell surface is necessary to induce an endothelial prothrombotic phenotype and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, though the cell surface components of this angioinvasive fungus that trigger this endothelial response are unknown. The present work employs a discovery-driven proteomics approach to reveal the role of one important cell wall polysaccharide of A. fumigatus, galactosaminogalactan, in the HUVEC interaction and the consequent mechanisms of endothelial activation. This is the first report of the overall panel of proteins related to the HUVEC response to a specific and purified cell wall component of the angioinvasive fungus A. fumigatus.
PXD001568	27321915	Deciphering the interactions between the Bacillus cereus linear plasmid, pBClin15, and its host by high-throughput comparative proteomics. 	Bacillus cereus proteomics	exoproteome, shotgun proteomics, toxin	The pathogen, Bacillus cereus, is able to adapt its metabolism to various environmental conditions. The reference strain, Bacillus cereus ATCC 14579, harbors a linear plasmid, pBClin15, which displays a cryptic prophage behavior. Here, we studied the impact of pBClin15 on the aerobic respiratory metabolism of B. cereus by curing its host strain. We compared, by means of a high-throughput shotgun proteomic approach, both the cellular proteome and the exoproteome of B. cereus ATCC 14579 in the presence and absence of pBClin15 at the early, late and stationary growth phases. The results were visualized through a hierarchical cluster analysis of proteomic data. We found that pBClin15 contributes significantly to the metabolic efficiency of B. cereus by restricting the production of chromosome-encoded phage proteins in the extracellular milieu. The data also revealed intricate regulatory mechanisms between pBClin15 and its host. Finally, we show that pBClin15 provides benefit to its host to adapt to different ecologic niches. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Bacteria belonging to the Bacillus cereus group include B. cereus, a notorious food borne pathogen which causes gastroenteritis. The B. cereus type, strain ATCC 14579, harbors a linear plasmid, pBClin15, which displays cryptic prophage behavior. Here, we present data supporting the idea that pBClin15 may have a much greater role in B. cereus metabolism that has hitherto been suspected. Specifically, our comparative proteomic analyses reveal that pBClin15 manages B. cereus central metabolism to optimize energy and carbon utilization through the repression of several chromosome-encoded phage proteins. These results suggest that pBClin15 provides benefit to the host for surviving adverse environmental conditions.
PXD002304	27322910	Discovery of Manassantin A Protein Targets Using Large-Scale Protein Folding and Stability Measurements. 	MManassantin A iTRAQ-SPROX Drug Mode-of-Action	MDA-MB-231, Stability of Proteins from Rates of Oxidation (SPROX), drug mode-of-action, iTRAQ, manassantin A, protein-ligand binding interactions	Manassantin A is a natural product that has been shown to have anticancer activity in cell-based assays, but has a largely unknown mode-of-action. Described here is the use of two different energetics-based approaches to identify protein targets of manassantin A. Using the stability of proteins from rates of oxidation technique with an isobaric mass tagging strategy (iTRAQ-SPROX) and the pulse proteolysis technique with a stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture strategy (SILAC-PP), over 1000 proteins in a MDA-MB-231 cell lysate grown under hypoxic conditions were assayed for manassantin A interactions (both direct and indirect). A total of 28 protein hits were identified with manassantin A-induced thermodynamic stability changes. Two of the protein hits (filamin A and elongation factor 1alpha) were identified using both experimental approaches. The remaining 26 hit proteins were only assayed in either the iTRAQ-SPROX or the SILAC-PP experiment. The 28 potential protein targets of manassantin A identified here provide new experimental avenues along which to explore the molecular basis of manassantin A's mode of action. The current work also represents the first application iTRAQ-SPROX and SILAC-PP to the large-scale analysis of protein-ligand binding interactions involving a potential anticancer drug with an unknown mode-of-action.
PXD002864	27324416	Critical Role of COI1-Dependent Jasmonate Pathway in AAL toxin induced PCD in Tomato Revealed by Comparative Proteomics. 	Comparative proteomics of defense response to AAL toxin	AAL toxin, Solanum lycopersicum, programmed cell death	Alternaria alternata f.sp. Lycopersici (AAL) toxin induces programmed cell death (PCD) in susceptible tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) leaves. Jasmonate (JA) promotes AAL toxin induced PCD in a COI1 (coronatine insensitive 1, JA receptor)-dependent manner by enhancement of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. To further elucidate the underlying mechanisms of this process, we performed a comparative proteomic analysis using tomato jasmonic acid insensitive1 ( jai1), the receptor mutant of JA, and its wild type (WT) after AAL toxin treatment with or without JA treatment. A total of 10367 proteins were identified in tomato leaves using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) quantitative proteomics approach. 2670 proteins were determined to be differentially expressed in response to AAL toxin and JA. Comparison between AAL toxin treated jai1 and its WT revealed the COI1-dependent JA pathway regulated proteins, including pathways related to redox response, ceramide synthesis, JA, ethylene (ET), salicylic acid (SA) and abscisic acid (ABA) signaling. Autophagy, PCD and DNA damage related proteins were also identified. Our data suggest that COI1-dependent JA pathway enhances AAL toxin induced PCD through regulating the redox status of the leaves, other phytohormone pathways and/or important PCD components.
PXD004003	27327135	Determination of the interactome of non-structural protein12 from highly pathogenic porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus with host cellular proteins using high throughput proteomics and identification of HSP70 as a cellular factor for virus replication. 	Determination of the interactome of Non-Structural Protein12 from Highly Pathogenic Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus with Host Cellular Proteins UsingHigh Throughput Proteomics and Identification of Hsp70 as a Critical Cellular Factor f	HP-PRRSV, HSP70, NSP12, inhibitor study, interactome, label free proteomics	Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) has caused tremendous economic losses and continues to be a serious problem to the swine industry worldwide. Although extensive research has been focused on PRRSV, the structure and function of some viral proteins like nonstructural protein12 (NSP12), which may play important roles in viral replication and production, still remain unknown. In order to better understand the function of NSP12, we investigated the interaction of NSP12 with cellular proteins using quantitative proteomics coupled with an immune-precipitation strategy based on the over expression of an NSP12-EGFP fusion protein in 293T cells. Data analysis identified 112 cellular proteins interacted with NSP12-EGFP with high probability. The majority of those proteins are nucleic acid binding proteins or chaperones, which are involved in RNA post-transcriptional modification, protein synthesis and cellular assembly and organization. Among them, cellular chaperon HSP70 was verified to interact with PRRSV NSP12 protein, and inhibition of HSP70 significantly reduced the viral mRNA synthesis and virus replication. Our data suggested that NSP12 could recruit cellular proteins such as HSP70 to maintain its own stability and benefit for the virus replication. SIGNIFICANCE: Published data for PRRSV NSP12 is still very limited and the structure and function of NSP12 remain unknown, cellular interactome of PRRSV NSP12 has not been reported to the best of our knowledge. In this paper, we investigated the interaction of NSP12 with cellular proteins using quantitative proteomics coupled with an immune-precipitation strategy, and identified 112 cellular proteins that had a high probability to interact with NSP12. Among these cellular proteins, we verified the interaction of cellular chaperon HSP70 with NSP12, and demonstrated that NSP12 could recruit HSP70 to maintain its own stability and benefit for the virus replication. Our data obtained here could provide crucial clues for better understanding the roles of NSP12 in PRRSV infection.
PXD003099	27329576	Modifications of fungal membrane proteins profile under pathogenicity induction: A proteomic analysis of Botrytis cinerea membranome. 	Modifications of fungal membrane proteins profile under pathogenicity induction: a proteomic analysis of Botrytis cinerea membranome.	Botritys cinerea, membranome, phytopathogenicity	Botrytis cinerea is a model fungus for the study of phytopathogenicity that exhibits a wide arsenal of tools to infect plant tissues. Most of these factors are related to signal transduction cascades, in which membrane proteins play a key role as a bridge between environment and intracellular molecular processes. This work describes the first description of the membranome of Botrytis under different pathogenicity conditions induced by different plant-based elicitors: glucose and tomato cell wall (TCW). A discovery proteomics analysis of membrane proteins was carried out by mass spectrometry. A total of 2794 proteins were successfully identified, 46% of them were classified as membrane proteins based on the presence of transmembrane regions and lipidation. Further analyses showed significant differences in the membranome composition depending on the available carbon source: 804 proteins were exclusively identified when the fungus was cultured with glucose as a sole carbon source, and 251 proteins were exclusively identified with TCW. Besides, among the 1737 common proteins, a subset of 898 proteins presented clear differences in their abundance. GO enrichment and clustering interaction analysis revealed changes in the composition of membranome with increase of signalling function in glucose conditions and carbohydrate degradation process in TCW conditions. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003099 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD003099).
PXD003424	27329856	aKMT Catalyzes Extensive Protein Lysine Methylation in the Hyperthermophilic Archaeon Sulfolobus islandicus but is Dispensable for the Growth of the Organism. 	Sulfolobus islandicus LC-MSMS -  aKMT catalyzes extensive protein lysine methylation in the hyperthermophilic archaeon Sulfolobus islandicus but is dispensable for the growth of the organism	Sulfolobus islandicus, methylation	Protein methylation is believed to occur extensively in creanarchaea. Recently, aKMT, a highly conserved crenarchaeal protein lysine methyltransferase, was identified and shown to exhibit broad substrate specificity in vitro Here, we have constructed an aKMT deletion mutant of the hyperthermophilic crenarchaeon Sulfolobus islandicus The mutant was viable but showed a moderately slower growth rate than the parental strain under non-optimal growth conditions. Consistent with the moderate effect of the lack of aKMT on the growth of the cell, expression of a small number of genes, which encode putative functions in substrate transportation, energy metabolism, transcriptional regulation, stress response proteins, etc, was differentially regulated by more than twofold in the mutant strain, as compared with that in the parental strain. Analysis of the methylation of total cellular protein by mass spectrometry revealed that methylated proteins accounted for ~2/3 (1,158/1,751) and ~1/3 (591/1,757) of the identified proteins in the parental and the mutant strains, respectively, indicating that there is extensive protein methylation in S. islandicus and that aKMT is a major protein methyltransferase in this organism. No significant sequence preference was detected at the sites of methylation by aKMT. Methylated lysine residues, when visible in the structure, are all located on the surface of the proteins. The crystal structure of aKMT in complex with S-adenosyl-l-methionine (SAM) or S-adenosyl homocysteine (SAH) reveals that the protein consists of four alpha helices and seven beta sheets, lacking a substrate recognition domain found in PrmA, a bacterial homolog of aKMT, in agreement with the broad substrate specificity of aKMT. Our results suggest that aKMT may serve a role in maintaining the methylation status of cellular proteins required for the efficient growth of the organism under certain non-optimal conditions.
PXD003527	27343061	MetaPro-IQ: a universal metaproteomic approach to studying human and mouse gut microbiota. 	Mouse gut metaproteome -  MetaPro-IQ: a universal metaproteomic approach to studying human and mouse gut microbiota	Metaproteomics, gut microbiota, metaproteomics	BACKGROUND: The gut microbiota has been shown to be closely associated with human health and disease. While next-generation sequencing can be readily used to profile the microbiota taxonomy and metabolic potential, metaproteomics is better suited for deciphering microbial biological activities. However, the application of gut metaproteomics has largely been limited due to the low efficiency of protein identification. Thus, a high-performance and easy-to-implement gut metaproteomic approach is required. RESULTS: In this study, we developed a high-performance and universal workflow for gut metaproteome identification and quantification (named MetaPro-IQ) by using the close-to-complete human or mouse gut microbial gene catalog as database and an iterative database search strategy. An average of 38 and 33 % of the acquired tandem mass spectrometry (MS) spectra was confidently identified for the studied mouse stool and human mucosal-luminal interface samples, respectively. In total, we accurately quantified 30,749 protein groups for the mouse metaproteome and 19,011 protein groups for the human metaproteome. Moreover, the MetaPro-IQ approach enabled comparable identifications with the matched metagenome database search strategy that is widely used but needs prior metagenomic sequencing. The response of gut microbiota to high-fat diet in mice was then assessed, which showed distinct metaproteome patterns for high-fat-fed mice and identified 849 proteins as significant responders to high-fat feeding in comparison to low-fat feeding. CONCLUSIONS: We present MetaPro-IQ, a metaproteomic approach for highly efficient intestinal microbial protein identification and quantification, which functions as a universal workflow for metaproteomic studies, and will thus facilitate the application of metaproteomics for better understanding the functions of gut microbiota in health and disease.
PXD003346	27345528	Evaluation and Improvement of Quantification Accuracy in Isobaric Mass Tag-Based Protein Quantification Experiments. 	Ratio accuracy evaluation and correction using tandem mass tags	HCD, Tandem mass tags, label-free quantification, quantitative mass spectrometry	The multiplexing capabilities of isobaric mass tag-based protein quantification, such as Tandem Mass Tags or Isobaric Tag for Relative and Absolute Quantitation have dramatically increased the scope of mass spectrometry-based proteomics studies. Not only does the technology allow for the simultaneous quantification of multiple samples in a single MS injection, but its seamless compatibility with extensive sample prefractionation methods allows for comprehensive studies of complex proteomes. However, reporter ion-based quantification has often been criticized for limited quantification accuracy due to interference from coeluting peptides and peptide fragments. In this study, we investigate the extent of this problem and propose an effective and easy-to-implement remedy that relies on spiking a 6-protein calibration mixture to the samples. We evaluated our ratio adjustment approach using two large scale TMT 10-plex data sets derived from a human cancer and noncancer cell line as well as E. coli cells grown at two different conditions. Furthermore, we analyzed a complex 2-proteome artificial sample mixture and investigated the precision of TMT and precursor ion intensity-based label free quantification. Studying the protein set identified by both methods, we found that differentially abundant proteins were assigned dramatically higher statistical significance when quantified using TMT. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003346.
PXD010515	27346420	Mechanisms of increased Trichodesmium fitness under iron and phosphorus co-limitation in the present and future ocean. 	Trichodesmium LC-MSMS iron and phosphorous co-limitation in the ocean	Metaproteomics, Thermo Fusion, Trichodesmium, iron and phosphorus co-limitation, ocean marine microbes	Nitrogen fixation by cyanobacteria supplies critical bioavailable nitrogen to marine ecosystems worldwide; however, field and lab data have demonstrated it to be limited by iron, phosphorus and/or CO2. To address unknown future interactions among these factors, we grew the nitrogen-fixing cyanobacterium Trichodesmium for 1 year under Fe/P co-limitation following 7 years of both low and high CO2 selection. Fe/P co-limited cell lines demonstrated a complex cellular response including increased growth rates, broad proteome restructuring and cell size reductions relative to steady-state growth limited by either Fe or P alone. Fe/P co-limitation increased abundance of a protein containing a conserved domain previously implicated in cell size regulation, suggesting a similar role in Trichodesmium. Increased CO2 further induced nutrient-limited proteome shifts in widespread core metabolisms. Our results thus suggest that N2-fixing microbes may be significantly impacted by interactions between elevated CO2 and nutrient limitation, with broad implications for global biogeochemical cycles in the future ocean.
PXD002133	27346722	Identifying Kinase Substrates via a Heavy ATP Kinase Assay and Quantitative Mass Spectrometry. 	Identifying Kinase Substrates via a Heavy ATP Kinase Assay and Quantitative Mass Spectrometry	heavy ATP, in vitro kinase assay, kinase substrates, non receptor tyrosine kinase Abl1	Mass spectrometry-based in vitro kinase screens play an essential role in the discovery of kinase substrates, however, many suffer from biological and technical noise or necessitate genetically-altered enzyme-cofactor systems. We describe a method that combines stable gamma-[(18)O2]-ATP with classical in vitro kinase assays within a contemporary quantitative proteomic workflow. Our approach improved detection of known substrates of the non-receptor tyrosine kinase ABL1; and identified potential, new in vitro substrates.
PXD003299	27347675	Proteomic Analysis of the Rat Canalicular Membrane Reveals Expression of a Complex System of P4-ATPases in Liver. 	Proteomic analysis of the rat canalicular membrane reveals expression of a complex system of P4-ATPases in liver	cell localization, immunohistochemistry, phospholipid homeostasis	Transport processes in the canalicular membrane are key elements in bile formation and are the driving force of the enterohepatic circulation of bile salts. The canalicular membrane is constantly exposed to the detergent action of bile salts. One potential element protecting the canalicular membrane from the high canalicular bile salt concentrations may be bile salt resistant microdomains, however additional factors are likely to play a role. To obtain more insights into the molecular composition of the canalicular membrane, the proteome of highly purified rat canalicular membrane vesicles was determined. Isolated rat canalicular membrane vesicles were stripped from adhering proteins, deglycosylated and protease digested before subjecting the samples to shot gun proteomic analysis. The expression of individual candidates was studied by PCR, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. A total of 2449 proteins were identified, of which 1282 were predicted to be membrane proteins. About 50% of the proteins identified here were absent from previously published liver proteomes. In addition to ATP8B1, four more P4-ATPases were identified. ATP8A1 and ATP9A showed expression specific to the canalicular membrane, ATP11C at the bLPM and ATP11A in an intracellular vesicular compartment partially colocalizing with RAB7A and EEA1 as markers of the endosomal compartment. This study helped to identify additional P4-ATPases from rat liver particularly in the canalicular membrane, previously not known to be expressed in liver. These P4-ATPases might be contributing for maintaining transmembrane lipid homeostasis in hepatocytes.
PXD004303	27350002	Redox Sensitivities of Global Cellular Cysteine Residues under Reductive and Oxidative Stress. 	Cysteine-targeted proteomics analysis	HEK293T, iodoTMT6plex	The protein cysteine residue is one of the amino acids most susceptible to oxidative modifications, frequently caused by oxidative stress. Several applications have enabled cysteine-targeted proteomics analysis with simultaneous detection and quantitation. In this study, we employed a quantitative approach using a set of iodoacetyl-based cysteine reactive isobaric tags (iodoTMT) and evaluated the transient cellular oxidation ratio of free and reversibly modified cysteine thiols under DTT and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) treatments. DTT treatment (1 mM for 5 min) reduced most cysteine thiols, irrespective of their cellular localizations. It also caused some unique oxidative shifts, including for peroxiredoxin 2 (PRDX2), uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (UROD), and thioredoxin (TXN), proteins reportedly affected by cellular reactive oxygen species production. Modest H2O2 treatment (50 muM for 5 min) did not cause global oxidations but instead had apparently reductive effects. Moreover, with H2O2, significant oxidative shifts were observed only in redox active proteins, like PRDX2, peroxiredoxin 1 (PRDX1), TXN, and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH). Overall, our quantitative data illustrated both H2O2- and reduction-mediated cellular responses, whereby while redox homeostasis is maintained, highly reactive thiols can potentiate the specific, rapid cellular signaling to counteract acute redox stress.
PXD003545	27350074	Bioorthogonal Chemical Reporters for Monitoring Unsaturated Fatty-Acylated Proteins. 	Fatty-acylation in RAW264.7 -  Bioorthogonal Chemical Reporters for Monitoring Unsaturated Fatty-Acylated Proteins	RAW264.7, fatty-acylation, unsaturated fatty acid	Dietary unsaturated fatty acids, such as oleic acid, have been shown to be covalently incorporated into a small subset of proteins, but the generality and diversity of this protein modification has not been studied. We synthesized unsaturated fatty-acid chemical reporters and determined their protein targets in mammalian cells. The reporters can induce the formation of lipid droplets and be incorporated site-specifically onto known fatty-acylated proteins and label many proteins in mammalian cells. Quantitative proteomics analysis revealed that unsaturated fatty acids modify similar protein targets to saturated fatty acids, including several immunity-associated proteins. This demonstrates that unsaturated fatty acids can directly modify many proteins to exert their unique and often beneficial physiological effects in vivo.
PXD003336	27357166	Xanthine oxidoreductase mediates membrane docking of milk-fat droplets but is not essential for apocrine lipid secretion. 	Xanthine Oxidoreductase mediates milk fat globule secretion.	apocrine secretion, lactation, lipid droplet, milk fat globule, xanthine oxidoreductase	KEY POINTS: Xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR) modulates milk lipid secretion and lactation initiation. XOR is required for butyrophilin1a1 clustering in the membrane during milk lipid secretion. XOR mediates apical membrane reorganization during milk lipid secretion. Loss of XOR delays milk fat globule secretion. XOR loss alters the proteome of milk fat globules. ABSTRACT: Apocrine secretion is utilized by epithelial cells of exocrine glands. These cells bud off membrane-bound particles into the lumen of the gland, losing a portion of the cytoplasm in the secretion product. The lactating mammary gland secretes milk lipid by this mechanism, and xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR) has long been thought to be functionally important. We generated mammary-specific XOR knockout (MGKO) mice, expecting lactation to fail. Histology of the knockout glands showed very large lipid droplets enclosed in the mammary alveolar cells, but milk analysis showed that these large globules were secreted. Butyrophilin, a membrane protein known to bind to XOR, was clustered at the point of contact of the cytoplasmic lipid droplet with the apical plasma membrane, in the wild-type gland but not in the knockout, suggesting that XOR mediates 'docking' to this membrane. Secreted milk fat globules were isolated from mouse milk of wild-type and XOR MGKO dams, and subjected to LC-MS/MS for analysis of protein component. Proteomic results showed that loss of XOR leads to an increase in cytoplasmic, cytoskeletal, Golgi apparatus and lipid metabolism proteins associated with the secreted milk fat globule. Association of XOR with the lipid droplet results in membrane docking and more efficient retention of cytoplasmic components by the secretory cell. Loss of XOR then results in a reversion to a more rudimentary, less efficient, apocrine secretion mechanism, but does not prevent milk fat globule secretion.
PXD002024	27357474	Phosphoproteomic analysis of Methanohalophilus portucalensis FDF1(T) identified the role of protein phosphorylation in methanogenesis and osmoregulation. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of methanoarchaeon Methanohalophilus portucalensis FDF1T reveals diverse functions in methanogenesis and osmoadaptation	Methanohalophilus portucalensis, methanogenesis, phosphorylation modificatioin	Methanogens have gained much attention for their metabolic product, methane, which could be an energy substitute but also contributes to the greenhouse effect. One factor that controls methane emission, reversible protein phosphorylation, is a crucial signaling switch, and phosphoproteomics has become a powerful tool for large-scale surveying. Here, we conducted the first phosphorylation-mediated regulation study in halophilic Methanohalophilus portucalensis FDF1(T), a model strain for studying stress response mechanisms in osmoadaptation. A shotgun approach and MS-based analysis identified 149 unique phosphoproteins. Among them, 26% participated in methanogenesis and osmolytes biosynthesis pathways. Of note, we uncovered that protein phosphorylation might be a crucial factor to modulate the pyrrolysine (Pyl) incorporation and Pyl-mediated methylotrophic methanogenesis. Furthermore, heterologous expression of glycine sarcosine N-methyltransferase (GSMT) mutant derivatives in the osmosensitive Escherichia coli MKH13 revealed that the nonphosphorylated T68A mutant resulted in increased salt tolerance. In contrast, mimic phosphorylated mutant T68D proved defective in both enzymatic activity and salinity tolerance for growth. Our study provides new insights into phosphorylation modification as a crucial role of both methanogenesis and osmoadaptation in methanoarchaea, promoting biogas production or reducing future methane emission in response to global warming and climate change.
PXD004040	27357545	Quantitative deep mapping of the cultured podocyte proteome uncovers shifts in proteostatic mechanisms during differentiation. 	Proteomic analysis of mouse podocytes	podocyte	The renal filtration barrier is maintained by the renal podocyte, an epithelial postmitotic cell. Immortalized mouse podocyte cell lines-both in the differentiated and undifferentiated state-are widely utilized tools to estimate podocyte injury and cytoskeletal rearrangement processes in vitro. Here, we mapped the cultured podocyte proteome at a depth of more than 8,800 proteins and quantified 7,240 proteins. Copy numbers of proteins mutated in forms of hereditary nephrotic syndrome or focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) were assessed. We found that cultured podocytes express abundant copy numbers of endogenous receptors, such as tyrosine kinase membrane receptors, the G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), NPR3 (ANP receptor), and several poorly characterized GPCRs. The data set was correlated with deep mapping mRNA sequencing ("mRNAseq") data from the native mouse podocyte, the native mouse podocyte proteome and staining intensities from the human protein atlas. The generated data set was similar to these previously published resources, but several native and high-abundant podocyte-specific proteins were not identified in the data set. Notably, this data set detected general perturbations in proteostatic mechanisms as a dominant alteration during podocyte differentiation, with high proteasome activity in the undifferentiated state and markedly increased expression of lysosomal proteins in the differentiated state. Phosphoproteomics analysis of mouse podocytes at a resolution of more than 3,000 sites suggested a preference of phosphorylation of actin filament-associated proteins in the differentiated state. The data set obtained here provides a resource and provides the means for deep mapping of the native podocyte proteome and phosphoproteome in a similar manner.
PXD003230	27358	Dependence upon pH of steady-state parameters for the beta-galactosidase-catalysed hydrolyses of beta-D-galactopyranosyl derivatives of different chemical types. 	Whole saliva baseline proteome profile - head and neck cancer	LC-MS/-MS, Whole saliva	The effect of pH upon the beta-galactosidase-catalyzed hydrolyses of aryl galactosides is essentially similar for each of the three steps of their hydrolysis. It differs markedly from that on the hydrolysis of galactosyl pyridinium salts; these proceed through a 'non-bottleneck' pathway. While pH increase abolishes the rate of every step of the reaction for aryl galactosides, it favors the first step of hydrolysis of the galactosyl pyridinium salts, which supports the hypothesis that catalysis of these compounds originates largely in non-covalent interactions.
PXD005911	27362937	Phosphoproteome and Transcriptome of RA-Responsive and RA-Resistant Breast Cancer Cell Lines. 	Phosphoproteome of RA-responsive and RA-resistant breast cancer cell lines	Breast Cancer, RNA-Seq, Retinoic acid, gene expression, phosphoproteome, phosphorylation	Retinoic acid (RA), the main active vitamin A metabolite, controls multiple biological processes such as cell proliferation and differentiation through genomic programs and kinase cascades activation. Due to these properties, RA has proven anti-cancer capacity. Several breast cancer cells respond to the antiproliferative effects of RA, while others are RA-resistant. However, the overall signaling and transcriptional pathways that are altered in such cells have not been elucidated. Here, in a large-scale analysis of the phosphoproteins and in a genome-wide analysis of the RA-regulated genes, we compared two human breast cancer cell lines, a RA-responsive one, the MCF7 cell line, and a RA-resistant one, the BT474 cell line, which depicts several alterations of the "kinome". Using high-resolution nano-LC-LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometry associated to phosphopeptide enrichment, we found that several proteins involved in signaling and in transcription, are differentially phosphorylated before and after RA addition. The paradigm of these proteins is the RA receptor alpha (RARalpha), which was phosphorylated in MCF7 cells but not in BT474 cells after RA addition. The panel of the RA-regulated genes was also different. Overall our results indicate that RA resistance might correlate with the deregulation of the phosphoproteome with consequences on gene expression.
PXD003785	27364157	A Human Lectin Microarray for Sperm Surface Glycosylation Analysis. 	Analysis of human sperm surface glycoproteins which can interact with galectin-1	Galectin-1, Human sperm, NLM	Glycosylation is one of the most abundant and functionally important protein post-translational modifications. As such, technology for efficient glycosylation analysis is in high demand. Lectin microarrays are a powerful tool for such investigations and have been successfully applied for a variety of glycobiological studies. However, most of the current lectin microarrays are primarily constructed from plant lectins, which are not well suited for studies of human glycosylation because of the extreme complexity of human glycans. Herein, we constructed a human lectin microarray with 60 human lectin and lectin-like proteins. All of the lectins and lectin-like proteins were purified from yeast, and most showed binding to human glycans. To demonstrate the applicability of the human lectin microarray, human sperm were probed on the microarray and strong bindings were observed for several lectins, including galectin-1, 7, 8, GalNAc-T6, and ERGIC-53 (LMAN1). These bindings were validated by flow cytometry and fluorescence immunostaining. Further, mass spectrometry analysis showed that galectin-1 binds several membrane-associated proteins including heat shock protein 90. Finally, functional assays showed that binding of galectin-8 could significantly enhance the acrosome reaction within human sperms. To our knowledge, this is the first construction of a human lectin microarray, and we anticipate it will find wide use for a range of human or mammalian studies, alone or in combination with plant lectin microarrays.
PXD002912	27364158	Coordination of Metabolism and Virulence Factors Expression of Extraintestinal Pathogenic Escherichia coli Purified from Blood Cultures of Patients with Sepsis. 	Expressed Proteome of Extraintestinal Escherichia coli Associated with Urinary Tract Infections	Extraintestinal/ Uropathogenic Escherichia coli, LFQ, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, machine learning	One of the trademarks of extraintestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli is adaptation of metabolism and basic physiology to diverse host sites. However, little is known how this common human pathogen adapts to permit survival and growth in blood. We used label-free quantitative proteomics to characterize five E. coli strains purified from clinical blood cultures associated with sepsis and urinary tract infections. Further comparison of proteome profiles of the clinical strains and a reference uropathogenic E. coli strain 536 cultivated in blood culture and on two different solid media distinguished cellular features altered in response to the pathogenically relevant condition. The analysis covered nearly 60% of the strains predicted proteomes, and included quantitative description based on label-free intensity scores for 90% of the detected proteins. Statistical comparison of anaerobic and aerobic blood cultures revealed 32 differentially expressed proteins (1.5% of the shared proteins), mostly associated with acquisition and utilization of metal ions critical for anaerobic or aerobic respiration. Analysis of variance identified significantly altered amounts of 47 proteins shared by the strains (2.7%), including proteins involved in vitamin B6 metabolism and virulence. Although the proteomes derived from blood cultures were fairly similar for the investigated strains, quantitative proteomic comparison to the growth on solid media identified 200 proteins with substantially changed levels (11% of the shared proteins). Blood culture was characterized by up-regulation of anaerobic fermentative metabolism and multiple virulence traits, including cell motility and iron acquisition. In a response to the growth on solid media there were increased levels of proteins functional in aerobic respiration, catabolism of medium-specific carbon sources and protection against oxidative and osmotic stresses. These results demonstrate on the expressed proteome level that expression of extraintestinal virulence factors and overall cellular metabolism closely reflects specific growth conditions. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002912.
PXD002861	27365400	Discovery Proteomics Identifies a Molecular Link between the Coatomer Protein Complex I and Androgen Receptor-dependent Transcription. 	Ligand-dependent interaction networks linked to androgen receptor function in prostate-tumor cells	Golgi membrane, androgen, androgen receptor, intracellular trafficking, mass spectrometry-based proteomics, prostate cancer, protein trafficking, transcription	Aberrant androgen receptor (AR)-dependent transcription is a hallmark of human prostate cancers. At the molecular level, ligand-mediated AR activation is coordinated through spatial and temporal protein-protein interactions involving AR-interacting proteins, which we designate the "AR-interactome." Despite many years of research, the ligand-sensitive protein complexes involved in ligand-mediated AR activation in prostate tumor cells have not been clearly defined. Here, we describe the development, characterization, and utilization of a novel human LNCaP prostate tumor cell line, N-AR, which stably expresses wild-type AR tagged at its N terminus with the streptavidin-binding peptide epitope (streptavidin-binding peptide-tagged wild-type androgen receptor; SBP-AR). A bioanalytical workflow involving streptavidin chromatography and label-free quantitative mass spectrometry was used to identify SBP-AR and associated ligand-sensitive cytosolic proteins/protein complexes linked to AR activation in prostate tumor cells. Functional studies verified that ligand-sensitive proteins identified in the proteomic screen encoded modulators of AR-mediated transcription, suggesting that these novel proteins were putative SBP-AR-interacting proteins in N-AR cells. This was supported by biochemical associations between recombinant SBP-AR and the ligand-sensitive coatomer protein complex I (COPI) retrograde trafficking complex in vitro Extensive biochemical and molecular experiments showed that the COPI retrograde complex regulates ligand-mediated AR transcriptional activation, which correlated with the mobilization of the Golgi-localized ARA160 coactivator to the nuclear compartment of prostate tumor cells. Collectively, this study provides a bioanalytical strategy to validate the AR-interactome and define novel AR-interacting proteins involved in ligand-mediated AR activation in prostate tumor cells. Moreover, we describe a cellular system to study how compartment-specific AR-interacting proteins influence AR activation and contribute to aberrant AR-dependent transcription that underlies the majority of human prostate cancers.
PXD003501	27369081	Evidence That G-quadruplex DNA Accumulates in the Cytoplasm and Participates in Stress Granule Assembly in Response to Oxidative Stress. 	G4 Quadruplex Binding Proteins	Metastatic Melanoma WM 266-4 cell lines	Cells engage numerous signaling pathways in response to oxidative stress that together repair macromolecular damage or direct the cell toward apoptosis. As a result of DNA damage, mitochondrial DNA or nuclear DNA has been shown to enter the cytoplasm where it binds to "DNA sensors," which in turn initiate signaling cascades. Here we report data that support a novel signaling pathway in response to oxidative stress mediated by specific guanine-rich sequences that can fold into G-quadruplex DNA (G4DNA). In response to oxidative stress, we demonstrate that sequences capable of forming G4DNA appear at increasing levels in the cytoplasm and participate in assembly of stress granules. Identified proteins that bind to endogenous G4DNA in the cytoplasm are known to modulate mRNA translation and participate in stress granule formation. Consistent with these findings, stress granule formation is known to regulate mRNA translation during oxidative stress. We propose a signaling pathway whereby cells can rapidly respond to DNA damage caused by oxidative stress. Guanine-rich sequences that are excised from damaged genomic DNA are proposed to enter the cytoplasm where they can regulate translation through stress granule formation. This newly proposed role for G4DNA provides an additional molecular explanation for why such sequences are prevalent in the human genome.
PXD003324	27371727	Quantification of Human Kallikrein-Related Peptidases in Biological Fluids by Multiplatform Targeted Mass Spectrometry Assays. 	Multiplex selected reaction monitoring assay for quantification of 15 human tissue kallikreins in biological samples	KLK4 secretion, Kallikreins, cervicovaginal fluid, selected reaction monitoring, seminal plasma, sweat	Human kallikrein-related peptidases (KLKs) are a group of 15 secreted serine proteases encoded by the largest contiguous cluster of protease genes in the human genome. KLKs are involved in coordination of numerous physiological functions including regulation of blood pressure, neuronal plasticity, skin desquamation, and semen liquefaction, and thus represent promising diagnostic and therapeutic targets. Until now, quantification of KLKs in biological and clinical samples was accomplished by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA). Here, we developed multiplex targeted mass spectrometry assays for the simultaneous quantification of all 15 KLKs. Proteotypic peptides for each KLK were carefully selected based on experimental data and multiplexed in single assays. Performance of assays was evaluated using three different mass spectrometry platforms including triple quadrupole, quadrupole-ion trap, and quadrupole-orbitrap instruments. Heavy isotope-labeled synthetic peptides with a quantifying tag were used for absolute quantification of KLKs in sweat, cervico-vaginal fluid, seminal plasma, and blood serum, with limits of detection ranging from 5 to 500 ng/ml. Analytical performance of assays was evaluated by measuring endogenous KLKs in relevant biological fluids, and results were compared with selected ELISAs. The multiplex targeted proteomic assays were demonstrated to be accurate, reproducible, sensitive, and specific alternatives to antibody-based assays. Finally, KLK4, a highly prostate-specific protein and a speculated biomarker of prostate cancer, was unambiguously detected and quantified by immunoenrichment-SRM assay in seminal plasma and blood serum samples from individuals with confirmed prostate cancer and negative biopsy. Mass spectrometry revealed exclusively the presence of a secreted isoform and thus unequivocally resolved earlier disputes about KLK4 identity in seminal plasma. Measurements of KLK4 in either 41 seminal plasma or 58 blood serum samples revealed no statistically significant differences between patients with confirmed prostate cancer and negative biopsy. The presented multiplex targeted proteomic assays are an alternative analytical tool to study the biological and pathological roles of human KLKs.
PXD003487	27371728	Proteomic Analysis of the Plasmodium berghei Gametocyte Egressome and Vesicular bioID of Osmiophilic Body Proteins Identifies Merozoite TRAP-like Protein (MTRAP) as an Essential Factor for Parasite Transmission. 	proteomic analysis of the gametocyte secretome	gamete egress, plasmodium	Malaria transmission from an infected host to the mosquito vector requires the uptake of intraerythrocytic sexual precursor cells into the mosquito midgut. For the release of mature extracellular gametes two membrane barriers-the parasite parasitophorous vacuole membrane and the host red blood cell membrane-need to be dissolved. Membrane lysis occurs after the release of proteins from specialized secretory vesicles including osmiophilic bodies. In this study we conducted proteomic analyses of the P. berghei gametocyte egressome and developed a vesicular bioID approach to identify hitherto unknown proteins with a potential function in gametocyte egress. This first Plasmodium gametocyte egressome includes the proteins released by the parasite during the lysis of the parasitophorous vacuole membrane and red blood cell membrane. BioID of the osmiophilic body protein MDV1/PEG3 revealed a vesicular proteome of these gametocyte-specific secretory vesicles. Fluorescent protein tagging and gene deletion approaches were employed to validate and identify a set of novel factors essential for this lysis and egress process. Our study provides the first in vivo bioID for a rodent malaria parasite and together with the first Plasmodium gametocyte egressome identifies MTRAP as a novel factor essential for mosquito transmission. Our data provide an important resource for proteins potentially involved in a key step of gametogenesis.
PXD003894	27371946	Identification of Cargo for Adaptor Protein (AP) Complexes 3 and 4 by Sucrose Gradient Profiling. 	AP-4 cargo -  Identification of cargo for adaptor protein complexes AP-3 and AP-4 by sucrose gradient profiling	adaptor protein complex 4	Intracellular vesicle trafficking is a fundamental process in eukaryotic cells. It enables cellular polarity and exchange of proteins between subcellular compartments such as the plasma membrane or the vacuole. Adaptor protein complexes participate in the vesicle formation by specific selection of the transported cargo. We investigated the role of the adaptor protein complex 3 (AP-3) and adaptor protein complex 4 (AP-4) in this selection process by screening for AP-3 and AP-4 dependent cargo proteins. Specific cargo proteins are expected to be mis-targeted in knock-out mutants of adaptor protein complex components. Thus, we screened for altered distribution profiles across a density gradient of membrane proteins in wild type versus ap-3beta and ap-4beta knock-out mutants. In ap-3beta mutants, especially proteins with transport functions, such as aquaporins and plasma membrane ATPase, as well as vesicle trafficking proteins showed differential protein distribution profiles across the density gradient. In the ap-4beta mutant aquaporins but also proteins from lipid metabolism were differentially distributed. These proteins also showed differential phosphorylation patterns in ap-3beta and ap-4beta compared with wild type. Other proteins, such as receptor kinases were depleted from the AP-3 mutant membrane system, possibly because of degradation after mis-targeting. In AP-4 mutants, membrane fractions were depleted for cytochrome P450 proteins, cell wall proteins and receptor kinases. Analysis of water transport capacity in wild type and mutant mesophyll cells confirmed aquaporins as cargo proteins of AP-3 and AP-4. The combination of organelle density gradients with proteome analysis turned out as a suitable experimental strategy for large-scale analyses of protein trafficking.
PXD003153	27373681	Tumor promoter PMA enhances kindlin-2 and decreases vimentin recruitment into cell adhesion sites. 	Effect of TPA on focal adhesion composition	CHO cells, focal adhesions	Phorbol diester PMA (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate) is a well-known promoter of tumor progression. PMA also regulates cell adhesion by several mechanisms including conformational activation of integrins and integrin clustering. Here, PMA was shown to induce lamellipodia formation and reorganization of the adhesion sites as well as actin and vimentin filaments independently of integrin preactivation. To further analyze the mechanism of PMA action, the protein composition in the alpha1beta1 integrin/collagen IV adhesion sites was analyzed by mass spectrometry and proteomics. In four independent experiments we observed the reduced recruitment of vimentin in relation to integrin alpha1 subunit. This was in full agreement with the fact that we also detected the retraction of vimentin from cell adhesions by confocal microscopy. Furthermore, the accumulation of kindlin-2 into cell adhesions was significantly increased after PMA treatment. Kindlin-2 siRNA inhibited cell spreading as well as the formation of actin fibrils and cell adhesions, but did not prevent the effect of PMA on lamellipodia formation. Thus, kindlin-2 recruitment was considered to be a consequence rather than the primary cause for the loss of connection between vimentin and the adhesion sites.
PXD003768	27375629	Metabolomic and Proteomic Profiles Reveal the Dynamics of Primary Metabolism during Seed Development of Lotus (Nelumbo nucifera). 	Lotus seed development        .	LC-ESI-Orbitrap-MS, Nelumbo nucifera, seed	Sacred lotus (Nelumbo nucifera) belongs to the Nelumbonaceae family. Its seeds are widely consumed in Asian countries as snacks or even medicine. Besides the market value, lotus seed also plays a crucial role in the lotus life cycle. Consequently, it is essential to gain a comprehensive understanding of the development of lotus seed. During its development, lotus seed undergoes cell division, expansion, reserve accumulation, desiccation, and maturation phases. We observed morphological and biochemical changes from 10 to 25 days after pollination (DAP) which corresponded to the reserve synthesis and accumulation phase. The volume of the seed expanded until 20 DAP with the color of the seed coat changing from yellow-green to dark green and gradually fading again. Starch and protein rapidly accumulated from 15 to 20 DAP. To further reveal metabolic adaptation, primary metabolites and proteins profiles were obtained using mass spectrometry based platforms. Metabolites and enzymes involved in sugar metabolism, glycolysis, TCA cycle and amino acid metabolism showed sequential dynamics enabling the clear separation of the different metabolic states during lotus seed development. The integration of the data revealed a highly significant metabolic switch at 15 DAP going through a transition of metabolically highly active tissue to the preparation of storage tissue. The results provide a reference data set for the evaluation of primary metabolism during lotus seed development.
PXD003762	27375898	HIV-host interactome revealed directly from infected cells. 	Probing the HIV-Host Interactome in Infected Cells	AP-MS, Env, I-DIRT, Vif, protein interactions	Although genetically compact, HIV-1 commandeers vast arrays of cellular machinery to sustain and protect it during cycles of viral outgrowth. Transposon-mediated saturation linker scanning mutagenesis was used to isolate fully replication-competent viruses harbouring a potent foreign epitope tag. Using these viral isolates, we performed differential isotopic labelling and affinity-capture mass spectrometric analyses on samples obtained from cultures of human lymphocytes to classify the vicinal interactomes of the viral Env and Vif proteins as they occur during natural infection. Importantly, interacting proteins were recovered without bias, regardless of their potential for positive, negative or neutral impact on viral replication. We identified specific host associations made with trimerized Env during its biosynthesis, at virological synapses, with innate immune effectors (such as HLA-E) and with certain cellular signalling pathways (for example, Notch1). We also defined Vif associations with host proteins involved in the control of nuclear transcription and nucleoside biosynthesis as well as those interacting stably or transiently with the cytoplasmic protein degradation apparatus. Our approach is broadly applicable to elucidating pathogen-host interactomes, providing high-certainty identification of interactors by their direct access during cycling infection. Understanding the pathophysiological consequences of these associations is likely to provide strategic targets for antiviral intervention.
PXD003272	27376153	Temporal Regulation of the Bacillus subtilis Acetylome and Evidence for a Role of MreB Acetylation in Cell Wall Growth. 	Growth-phase regulated acetylation in B. subtilis	Bacillus, LFQ, acetyllysine	N(epsilon)-Lysine acetylation has been recognized as a ubiquitous regulatory posttranslational modification that influences a variety of important biological processes in eukaryotic cells. Recently, it has been realized that acetylation is also prevalent in bacteria. Bacteria contain hundreds of acetylated proteins, with functions affecting diverse cellular pathways. Still, little is known about the regulation or biological relevance of nearly all of these modifications. Here we characterize the cellular growth-associated regulation of the Bacillus subtilis acetylome. Using acetylation enrichment and quantitative mass spectrometry, we investigate the logarithmic and stationary growth phases, identifying over 2,300 unique acetylation sites on proteins that function in essential cellular pathways. We determine an acetylation motif, EK(ac)(D/Y/E), which resembles the eukaryotic mitochondrial acetylation signature, and a distinct stationary-phase-enriched motif. By comparing the changes in acetylation with protein abundances, we discover a subset of critical acetylation events that are temporally regulated during cell growth. We functionally characterize the stationary-phase-enriched acetylation on the essential shape-determining protein MreB. Using bioinformatics, mutational analysis, and fluorescence microscopy, we define a potential role for the temporal acetylation of MreB in restricting cell wall growth and cell diameter. IMPORTANCE: The past decade highlighted N(epsilon)-lysine acetylation as a prevalent posttranslational modification in bacteria. However, knowledge regarding the physiological importance and temporal regulation of acetylation has remained limited. To uncover potential regulatory roles for acetylation, we analyzed how acetylation patterns and abundances change between growth phases in B. subtilis. To demonstrate that the identification of cell growth-dependent modifications can point to critical regulatory acetylation events, we further characterized MreB, the cell shape-determining protein. Our findings led us to propose a role for MreB acetylation in controlling cell width by restricting cell wall growth.
PXD003941	27376408	Automated SDS Depletion for Mass Spectrometry of Intact Membrane Proteins though Transmembrane Electrophoresis. 	Automated SDS depletion for mass spectrometry of membrane proteins through transmembrane electrophoresis	E.coli, LTQ, membrane proteins	Membrane proteins are underrepresented in proteome analysis platforms because of their hydrophobic character, contributing to decreased solubility. Sodium dodecyl sulfate is a favored denaturant in proteomic workflows, facilitating cell lysis and protein dissolution; however, SDS impedes MS detection and therefore must be removed prior to analysis. Although strategies exist for SDS removal, they provide low recovery, purity, or reproducibility. Here we present a simple automated device, termed transmembrane electrophoresis (TME), incorporating the principles of membrane filtration, but with an applied electric current to ensure near-complete (99.9%) removal of the surfactant, including protein-bound SDS. Intact proteins are recovered in solution phase in high yield (90-100%) within 1 h of operation. The strategy is applied to protein standards and proteome mixtures, including an enriched membrane fraction from E. coli, resulting in quality MS spectra free of SDS adducts. The TME platform is applicable to both bottom-up MS/MS as well as LC-ESI-MS analysis of intact proteins. SDS-depleted fractions reveal a similar number of protein identifications (285) compared wit a non-SDS control (280), being highly correlated in terms of protein spectral counts. This fully automated approach to SDS removal presents a viable tool for proteome sample processing ahead of MS analysis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange, identifier PXD003941.
PXD008237	27376980	Effect of Intestinal Flora on Protein Expression of Drug-Metabolizing Enzymes and Transporters in the Liver and Kidney of Germ-Free and Antibiotics-Treated Mice. 	Mouse liver and kidney proteome with antibiotics treatment	antibiotics, kidney, liver, microbiome	Dysbiosis (alteration of intestinal flora) is associated with various host physiologies, including diseases. The purpose of this study was to clarify the effect of dysbiosis on protein expression levels in mouse liver and kidney by quantitative proteomic analysis, focusing in particular on drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters in order to investigate the potential impact of dysbiosis on drug pharmacokinetics. Germ-free (GF) mice and antibiotics-treated mice were used as dysbiosis models. Expression levels of 825 and 357 proteins were significantly changed in the liver and kidney, respectively, of GF mice (vs specific-pathogen-free mice), while 306 and 178 proteins, respectively, were changed in antibiotics-treated mice (vs vehicle controls). Among them, 52 and 16 drug-metabolizing enzyme and transporter proteins were significantly changed in the liver and kidney, respectively, of GF mice, while 25 and 8, respectively were changed in antibiotics-treated mice. Expression of mitochondrial proteins was also changed in the liver and kidney of both model mice. In GF mice, Oatp1a1 was decreased in both the liver and kidney, while Sult1a1 and two Cyp enzymes were increased and Gstp1, four Cyp enzymes, three Ces enzymes, Bcrp1, and Oct1 were decreased in the liver. In antibiotics-treated mice, Cyp51a1 was increased and three Cyp enzymes, Bcrp1, and Bsep were decreased in the liver. Notably, the expression of Cyp2b10 and Cyp3a11 was greatly decreased in the liver of both models. Cyp2b activity in the liver microsomal fraction was also decreased. Our results indicate that dysbiosis changes the protein expression of multiple drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters in the liver and kidney and may alter pharmacokinetics in the host.
PXD003468	27377007	Proteome-wide measurement of non-canonical bacterial mistranslation by quantitative mass spectrometry of protein modifications. 	Incorporation of nonproteinogenic amino acids into bacterial proteome analyzed by unbiased quantitative MS of protein modifications	Mistranslation, Orbitrap, leucine, nonproteinogenic amino acids, norvaline, tRNA synthetase	The genetic code is virtually universal in biology and was likely established before the advent of cellular life. The extent to which mistranslation occurs is poorly understood and presents a fundamental question in basic research and production of recombinant proteins. Here we used shotgun proteomics combined with unbiased protein modification analysis to quantitatively analyze in vivo mistranslation in an E. coli strain with a defect in the editing mechanism of leucyl-tRNA synthetase. We detected the misincorporation of a non-proteinogenic amino acid norvaline on 10% of all measured leucine residues under microaerobic conditions and revealed preferential deployment of a tRNA(Leu)(CAG) isoacceptor during norvaline misincorporation. The strain with the norvalylated proteome demonstrated a substantial reduction in cell fitness under both prolonged aerobic and microaerobic cultivation. Unlike norvaline, isoleucine did not substitute for leucine even under harsh error-prone conditions. Our study introduces shotgun proteomics as a powerful tool in quantitative analysis of mistranslation.
PXD003229	27378031	Comprehensive Proteomic Analysis of Nitrogen-Starved Mycobacterium smegmatis Deltapup Reveals the Impact of Pupylation on Nitrogen Stress Response. 	Comprehensive Proteomic Analysis of Nitrogen Starved Mycobacterium smegmatis pup Reveals the Impact of Pupylation on Nitrogen Stress Response	Mycobacterium smegmatis, nitrogen starvation, pupylation, quantitative proteomics	Pupylation is a bacterial ubiquitin-like protein modification pathway, which results in the attachment of the small protein Pup to specific lysine residues of cellular targets. Pup was shown to serve as a degradation signal, directing proteins toward the bacterial proteasome for turnover. Recently, it was hypothesized that pupylation and proteasomal protein degradation support the survival of Mycobacterium smegmatis (Msm) during nitrogen starvation by supplying recycled amino acids. In the present study we generated a Pup deletion strain to investigate the influence of pupylation on Msm proteome in the absence of nitrogen sources. Quantitative proteomic analyses revealed a relatively low impact of Pup on MsmDeltapup proteome immediately after exposure to growth medium lacking nitrogen. Less than 5.4% of the proteins displayed altered cellular levels when compared to Msm wild type. In contrast, post 24 h of nitrogen starvation 501 proteins (41% of the total quantified proteome) of Msm pup deletion strain showed significant changes in abundance. Noteworthy, important players involved in nitrogen assimilation were significantly affected in MsmDeltapup. Furthermore, we quantified pupylated proteins of nitrogen-starved Msm to gain more detailed insights in the role of pupylation in surviving and overcoming the lack of nitrogen.
PXD004139	27381497	NEDDylation promotes stress granule assembly. 	TBOhn_DK	ProteinID	Stress granules (SGs) harbour translationally stalled messenger ribonucleoproteins and play important roles in regulating gene expression and cell fate. Here we show that neddylation promotes SG assembly in response to arsenite-induced oxidative stress. Inhibition or depletion of key components of the neddylation machinery concomitantly inhibits stress-induced polysome disassembly and SG assembly. Affinity purification and subsequent mass-spectrometric analysis of Nedd8-conjugated proteins from translationally stalled ribosomal fractions identified ribosomal proteins, translation factors and RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), including SRSF3, a previously known SG regulator. We show that SRSF3 is selectively neddylated at Lys85 in response to arsenite. A non-neddylatable SRSF3 (K85R) mutant do not prevent arsenite-induced polysome disassembly, but fails to support the SG assembly, suggesting that the neddylation pathway plays an important role in SG assembly.
PXD004031	27381557	Proteome-wide analysis of lysine acetylation in the plant pathogen Botrytis cinerea. 	Acetylome analysis of Botrytis cinerea	Botrytis cinerea, immune-affinity purification, lysine acetylome	Lysine acetylation is a dynamic and reversible post-translational modification that plays an important role in diverse cellular processes. Botrytis cinerea is the most thoroughly studied necrotrophic species due to its broad host range and huge economic impact. However, to date, little is known about the functions of lysine acetylation in this plant pathogen. In this study, we determined the lysine acetylome of B. cinerea through the combination of affinity enrichment and high-resolution LC-MS/MS analysis. Overall, 1582 lysine acetylation sites in 954 proteins were identified. Bioinformatics analysis shows that the acetylated proteins are involved in diverse biological functions and show multiple cellular localizations. Several particular amino acids preferred near acetylation sites, including K(ac)Y, K(ac)H, K(ac)***R, K(ac)F, FK(ac) and K(ac)***K, were identified in this organism. Protein interaction network analysis demonstrates that a variety of interactions are modulated by protein acetylation. Interestingly, 6 proteins involved in virulence of B. cinerea, including 3 key components of the high-osmolarity glycerol pathway, were found to be acetylated, suggesting that lysine acetylation plays regulatory roles in pathogenesis. These data provides the first comprehensive view of the acetylome of B. cinerea and serves as a rich resource for functional analysis of lysine acetylation in this plant pathogen.
PXD001837	27381654	Proteomics reveals reduced expression of transketolase in pyrimidine 5'-nucleotidase deficient patients. 	Erythrocyte soluble proteome analysis in hemolytic anaemia patients	hemolytic anema, red blood cell	PURPOSE: To date, it remains a challenge to correctly and timely diagnose red blood cell (RBC) enzymopathies that result in hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia (HNSHA), the third most common of which is pyrimidine 5'-nucleotidase (P5N) deficiency with just over 100 cases recognized and confirmed worldwide. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We have investigated the RBC proteome of a patient with P5N deficiency due to a homozygous frameshift mutation in the NT5C3A gene. Protein expression levels were analyzed against healthy controls and against patients with hemolytic anemia of different origin, to account for the patient's elevated reticulocyte versus RBC ratio. RESULTS: Stringent relative quantification of the patient's protein levels revealed reduced levels of P5N, and unexpectedly, also decreased levels of transketolase, an enzyme involved in the nonoxidative phase of the pentose phosphate pathway, one of the few key pathways active in RBCs. Immunoblotting of whole blood samples from this and other P5N-deficient patients with dissimilar mutations indicated that P5N deficiency was correlated with reduced transketolase levels. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Consequently, insight into patient RBC proteomes illustrates potential benefit of coupling quantitative proteomics strategies with routine HNSHA diagnostic procedures. Proteomics facilitates finding novel biomarkers for HNSHA patients, for example, suffering from P5N deficiency, providing new prospects for future diagnosis and therapy.
PXD004078	27381823	Embryonic lethal abnormal vision proteins and adenine and uridine-rich element mRNAs after global cerebral ischemia and reperfusion in the rat. 	ELAV proteomics after brain ischemia and reperfusion in the rat	ELAV, HuB, HuC, HuD, HuR, brain ischemia and reperfusion	Prolonged translation arrest correlates with delayed neuronal death of hippocampal CA1 neurons following global cerebral ischemia and reperfusion. Many previous studies investigated ribosome molecular biology, but mRNA regulatory mechanisms after brain ischemia have been less studied. Here we investigated the embryonic lethal abnormal vision/Hu isoforms HuR, HuB, HuC, and HuD, as well as expression of mRNAs containing adenine and rich uridine elements following global ischemia in rat brain. Proteomics of embryonic lethal abnormal vision immunoprecipitations or polysomes isolated from rat hippocampal CA1 and CA3 from controls or following 10 min ischemia plus 8 h of reperfusion showed distinct sets of mRNA-binding proteins, suggesting differential mRNA regulation in each condition. Notably, HuB, HuC, and HuD were undetectable in NIC CA1. At 8 h reperfusion, polysome-associated mRNAs contained 46.1% of ischemia-upregulated mRNAs containing adenine and rich uridine elements in CA3, but only 18.7% in CA1. Since mRNAs containing adenine and rich uridine elements regulation are important to several cellular stress responses, our results suggest CA1 is disadvantaged compared to CA3 in coping with ischemic stress, and this is expected to be an important contributing factor to CA1 selective vulnerability. (Data are available via ProteomeXchange identifier PXD004078 and GEO Series accession number GSE82146).
PXD006078	27384440	Integrative Analysis of Subcellular Quantitative Proteomics Studies Reveals Functional Cytoskeleton Membrane-Lipid Raft Interactions in Cancer. 	Ovarian Cancer Lipid raft proteomics and role of OPCML	Lipid raft, OPCML, P95R OPCML, SILAC, Skov-3	Lipid rafts are dynamic membrane microdomains that orchestrate molecular interactions and are implicated in cancer development. To understand the functions of lipid rafts in cancer, we performed an integrated analysis of quantitative lipid raft proteomics data sets modeling progression in breast cancer, melanoma, and renal cell carcinoma. This analysis revealed that cancer development is associated with increased membrane raft-cytoskeleton interactions, with ~40% of elevated lipid raft proteins being cytoskeletal components. Previous studies suggest a potential functional role for the raft-cytoskeleton in the action of the putative tumor suppressors PTRF/Cavin-1 and Merlin. To extend the observation, we examined lipid raft proteome modulation by an unrelated tumor suppressor opioid binding protein cell-adhesion molecule (OPCML) in ovarian cancer SKOV3 cells. In agreement with the other model systems, quantitative proteomics revealed that 39% of OPCML-depleted lipid raft proteins are cytoskeletal components, with microfilaments and intermediate filaments specifically down-regulated. Furthermore, protein-protein interaction network and simulation analysis showed significantly higher interactions among cancer raft proteins compared with general human raft proteins. Collectively, these results suggest increased cytoskeleton-mediated stabilization of lipid raft domains with greater molecular interactions as a common, functional, and reversible feature of cancer cells.
PXD003599	27384951	HVint: A Strategy for Identifying Novel Protein-Protein Interactions in Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1. 	HVint validation by AP-MS analysis of HSV-1 VP26	Orbitrap Velos, herpes simplex virus, interactome, protein interactions, virology	Human herpesviruses are widespread human pathogens with a remarkable impact on worldwide public health. Despite intense decades of research, the molecular details in many aspects of their function remain to be fully characterized. To unravel the details of how these viruses operate, a thorough understanding of the relationships between the involved components is key. Here, we present HVint, a novel protein-protein intraviral interaction resource for herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) integrating data from five external sources. To assess each interaction, we used a scoring scheme that takes into consideration aspects such as the type of detection method and the number of lines of evidence. The coverage of the initial interactome was further increased using evolutionary information, by importing interactions reported for other human herpesviruses. These latter interactions constitute, therefore, computational predictions for potential novel interactions in HSV-1. An independent experimental analysis was performed to confirm a subset of our predicted interactions. This subset covers proteins that contribute to nuclear egress and primary envelopment events, including VP26, pUL31, pUL40, and the recently characterized pUL32 and pUL21. Our findings support a coordinated crosstalk between VP26 and proteins such as pUL31, pUS9, and the CSVC complex, contributing to the development of a model describing the nuclear egress and primary envelopment pathways of newly synthesized HSV-1 capsids. The results are also consistent with recent findings on the involvement of pUL32 in capsid maturation and early tegumentation events. Further, they open the door to new hypotheses on virus-specific regulators of pUS9-dependent transport. To make this repository of interactions readily accessible for the scientific community, we also developed a user-friendly and interactive web interface. Our approach demonstrates the power of computational predictions to assist in the design of targeted experiments for the discovery of novel protein-protein interactions.
PXD003657	27396729	Antibody-independent identification of bovine milk-derived peptides in breast-milk. 	Antibody-independent identification of bovine milk-derived peptides in breast-milk	bovine, milk, peptides	Exclusively breast-fed infants can exhibit clear signs of IgE or non IgE-mediated cow's milk allergy. However, the definite characterization of dietary cow's milk proteins (CMP) that survive the maternal digestive tract to be absorbed into the bloodstream and secreted into breast milk remains missing. Herein, we aimed at assessing possible CMP-derived peptides in breast milk. Using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-high resolution mass spectrometry (MS), we compared the peptide fraction of breast milk from 12 donors, among which 6 drank a cup of milk daily and 6 were on a strict dairy-free diet. We identified two bovine beta-lactoglobulin (beta-Lg, 2 out 6 samples) and one alphas1-casein (1 out 6 samples) fragments in breast milk from mothers receiving a cup of bovine milk daily. These CMP-derived fragments, namely beta-Lg (f42-54), (f42-57) and alphas1-casein (f180-197), were absent in milk from mothers on dairy-free diet. In contrast, neither intact nor hydrolyzed beta-Lg was detected by western blot and competitive ELISA in any breast milk sample. Eight additional bovine milk-derived peptides identified by software-assisted MS were most likely false positive. The results of this study demonstrate that CMP-derived peptides rather than intact CMP may sensitize or elicit allergic responses in the neonate through mother's milk. Immunologically active peptides from the maternal diet could be involved in priming the newborn's immune system, driving a tolerogenic response.
PXD006472	27396978	An Alignment-Free "Metapeptide" Strategy for Metaproteomic Characterization of Microbiome Samples Using Shotgun Metagenomic Sequencing. 	Bering Strait surface water and Chukchi Sea bottom water microbiome metaproteomics	Bering Strait surface water and Chukchi Sea bottom water microbiome metaproteomics, Metaproteomics	In principle, tandem mass spectrometry can be used to detect and quantify the peptides present in a microbiome sample, enabling functional and taxonomic insight into microbiome metabolic activity. However, the phylogenetic diversity constituting a particular microbiome is often unknown, and many of the organisms present may not have assembled genomes. In ocean microbiome samples, with particularly diverse and uncultured bacterial communities, it is difficult to construct protein databases that contain the bulk of the peptides in the sample without losing detection sensitivity due to the overwhelming number of candidate peptides for each tandem mass spectrum. We describe a method for deriving "metapeptides" (short amino acid sequences that may be represented in multiple organisms) from shotgun metagenomic sequencing of microbiome samples. In two ocean microbiome samples, we constructed site-specific metapeptide databases to detect more than one and a half times as many peptides as by searching against predicted genes from an assembled metagenome and roughly three times as many peptides as by searching against the NCBI environmental proteome database. The increased peptide yield has the potential to enrich the taxonomic and functional characterization of sample metaproteomes.
PXD004120	27397507	Pre-assembled Nuclear Pores Insert into the Nuclear Envelope during Early Development. 	Pre-assembled Nuclear Pores Insert into the Nuclear Envelope During Early Development	Drosophila melanogaster, subcellular fractionation	Nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) span the nuclear envelope (NE) and mediate nucleocytoplasmic transport. In metazoan oocytes and early embryos, NPCs reside not only within the NE, but also at some endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane sheets, termed annulate lamellae (AL). Although a role for AL as NPC storage pools has been discussed, it remains controversial whether and how they contribute to the NPC density at the NE. Here, we show that AL insert into the NE as the ER feeds rapid nuclear expansion in Drosophila blastoderm embryos. We demonstrate that NPCs within AL resemble pore scaffolds that mature only upon insertion into the NE. We delineate a topological model in which NE openings are critical for AL uptake that nevertheless occurs without compromising the permeability barrier of the NE. We finally show that this unanticipated mode of pore insertion is developmentally regulated and operates prior to gastrulation.
PXD008009	27400695	A Triple Knockout (TKO) Proteomics Standard for Diagnosing Ion Interference in Isobaric Labeling Experiments. 	A Triple Knockout (TKO) Proteomics Standard for Diagnosing Ion Interference in Isobaric Labeling Experiments	Lumos, MS standard, MuiltiNotch, Orbitrap Fusion, TMT, ion interference	Isobaric labeling is a powerful strategy for quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomic investigations. A complication of such analyses has been the co-isolation of multiple analytes of similar mass-to-charge resulting in the distortion of relative protein abundance measurements across samples. When properly implemented, synchronous precursor selection and triple-stage mass spectrometry (SPS-MS3) can reduce the occurrence of this phenomenon, referred to as ion interference. However, no diagnostic tool is available currently to rapidly and accurately assess ion interference. To address this need, we developed a multiplexed tandem mass tag (TMT)-based standard, termed the triple knockout (TKO). This standard is comprised of three yeast proteomes in triplicate, each from a strain deficient in a highly abundant protein (Met6, Pfk2, or Ura2). The relative abundance patterns of these proteins, which can be inferred from dozens of peptide measurements can demonstrate ion interference in peptide quantification. We expect no signal in channels where the protein is knocked out, permitting maximum sensitivity for measurements of ion interference against a null background. Here, we emphasize the need to investigate further ion interference-generated ratio distortion and promote the TKO standard as a tool to investigate such issues. Graphical Abstract  .
PXD004133	27400835	A standardized production pipeline for high profile targets from Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 	Mycobacterium tuberculosis protein production pipeline	Mycobacterium tuberculosis, diagnostic marker, protein production	PURPOSE: Tuberculosis is still a major threat to global health. New tools and strategies to produce disease-related proteins are quintessential for the development of novel vaccines and diagnostic markers. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: To obtain recombinant proteins from Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) for use in clinical applications, a standardized procedure was developed that includes subcloning, protein expression in Mycobacterium smegmatis and protein purification using chromatography. The potential for the different protein targets to serve as diagnostic markers for tuberculosis was established using multiplex immunoassays. RESULTS: Twelve soluble proteins from Mtb, including one protein complex, were purified to near-homogeneity following recombinant expression in M. smegmatis. Protein purity was assessed both by size exclusion chromatography and MS. Multiplex serological testing of the final protein preparations showed that all but one protein displayed a clear antibody response in serum samples from 278 tuberculosis patients. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The established workflow comprises a simple, cost-effective, and scalable pipeline for production of soluble proteins from Mtb and can be used to prioritize immunogenic proteins suitable for use as diagnostic markers.
PXD004198	27402257	Secretomic analysis of extracellular vesicles originating from polyomavirus-negative and polyomavirus-positive Merkel cell carcinoma cell lines. 	Proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles derived from Merkel cell carcinoma cell lines	Merkel cell carcinoma, cancer, exosome, polyomavirus	Extracellular vesicles or exosomes constitute an evolutionarily conserved mechanism of intercellular signaling. Exosomes are gaining an increasing amount of attention due to their role in pathologies, including malignancy, their importance as prognostic and diagnostic markers, and their potential as a therapeutic tool. Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is an aggressive form of skin cancer with a poor prognosis. Because an effective systemic treatment for this cancer type is currently not available, an exosome-based therapy was proposed. However, comprehensive secretome profiling has not been performed for MCC. To help unveil the putative contribution of exosomes in MCC, we studied the protein content of MCC-derived exosomes. Since approximately 80% of all MCC cases contain Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV), the secretomes of two MCPyV-negative and two MCPyV-positive MCC cell lines were compared. We identified with high confidence 164 exosome-derived proteins common for all four cell lines that were annotated in ExoCarta and Vesiclepedia databases. These include proteins implicated in motility, metastasis and tumor progression, such as integrins and tetraspanins, intracellular signaling molecules, chaperones, proteasomal proteins, and translation factors. Additional virus-negative and virus-positive MCC cell lines should be examined to identify highly representative exosomal proteins that may provide reliable prognostic and diagnostic biomarkers, as well as targets for treatment in the future. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004198.
PXD002475	27403724	Delineation of autoantibody repertoire through differential proteogenomics in hepatitis C virus-induced cryoglobulinemia. 	HCV Cryoprecipitate LC-MS/MS with iTRAQ Quantification	Antibody, HCV, Immunoglobulin, iTRAQ	Antibodies cross-reactive to pathogens and autoantigens are considered pivotal in both infection control and accompanying autoimmunity. However, the pathogenic roles of autoantibodies largely remain elusive without a priori knowledge of disease-specific autoantigens. Here, through a novel quantitative proteogenomics approach, we demonstrated a successful identification of immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (VH) sequences highly enriched in pathological immune complex from clinical specimens obtained from a patient with hepatitis C virus-induced cryoglobulinemia (HCV-CG). Reconstructed single-domain antibodies were reactive to both HCV antigens and potentially liver-derived human proteins. Moreover, over the course of antiviral therapy, a substantial "de-evolution" of a distinct sub-repertoire was discovered, to which proteomically identified cryoprecipitation-prone autoantibodies belonged. This sub-repertoire was characterized by IGHJ6*03-derived, long, hydrophobic complementarity determining region (CDR-H3). This study provides a proof-of-concept of de novo mining of autoantibodies and corresponding autoantigen candidates in a disease-specific context in human, thus facilitating future reverse-translational research for the discovery of novel biomarkers and the development of antigen-specific immunotherapy against various autoantibody-related disorders.
PXD001002	27404005	High-throughput proteome dynamics for discovery of key proteins in sentinel species: Unsuspected vitellogenins diversity in the crustacean Gammarus fossarum. 	Egg yolk proteins G. fossarum	Amphipod, proteogenomics, reproduction, vitellogenin	In environmental science, omics-based approaches are widely used for the identification of gene products related to stress response. However, when dealing with non-model species, functional prediction of genes is challenging. Indeed, functional predictions are often obtained by sequence similarity searches and functional data from phylogenetically distant organisms, which can lead to inaccurate predictions due to quite different evolutionary scenarios. In oviparous females, vitellogenin production is vital for embryonic development, ensuring population viability. Its abnormal presence in fish male organisms is commonly employed as a biomarker of exposure to xenoestrogens, named endocrine disruptors. Here, in the freshwater amphipod Gammarus fossarum, we identified vitellogenin proteins by means of a proteome temporal dynamics analysis during oogenesis and embryogenesis. This exhaustive approach allows several functional molecular hypotheses in the oogenesis process to be drawn. Moreover, we revealed an unsuspected diversity of molecular players involved in yolk formation as eight proteins originating from different families of the large lipid transfer protein superfamily were identified as "true vitellogenins". BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: In non-model species, next generation sequencing technologies development enables quickly deciphering gene and protein sequences but accuracy of associated functional prediction remains to be established. Here, in the crustacean Gammarus fossarum, a key sentinel species in freshwater biomonitoring, we identified key molecular players involved in the female reproduction by studying the proteome dynamics of ovaries and embryos. An unsuspected diversity of vitellogenin proteins was evidenced. These proteins being vital for offspring development, their high diversity may be advantageous for the organism's reproduction. Phylogenetic analysis showed that some forms are true vitellogenin orthologs while others are included in the apolipoprotein family, a paralogous group from the vitellogenin family. Among crustaceans, Gammarus fossarum is the first documented case where diverse protein families are involved in the yolk formation process.
PXD026451	27404713	Secretome from resident cardiac stromal cells stimulates proliferation, cardiomyogenesis and angiogenesis of progenitor cells. 	Proteomics of cardiac stromal cells and dermal fibroblasts secretomes	Secretome, cardiac stromal cells, dermal fibroblasts	In the heart, tissue-derived signals play a central role on recruiting/activating stem cell sources to induce cardiac lineage specification for maintenance of tissue homeostasis and repair. Cardiac resident stromal cells (CRSCs) may play a pivotal role in cardiac repair throughout their secretome. Here, we performed the characterization of CRSCs and their secretome by analyzing the composition of their culture-derived extracellular matrix (ECM) and conditioned medium (CM) and by investigating their potential effect on adipose-derived stem cell (ADSC) and progenitor cell behavior. We confirmed that CRSCs are a heterogeneous cell population whose secretome is composed by proteins related to cellular growth, immune response and cardiovascular development and function. We also observed that CRSC secretome was unable to change the behavior of ADSCs, except for proliferation. Additionally, CM from CRSCs demonstrated the potential to drive proliferation and cardiac differentiation of H9c2 cells and also the ability to induce angiogenesis in vitro. Our data suggest that the CRSCs can be a source of important modulating signals for cardiac progenitor cell recruitment/activation.
PXD003542	27406380	A threshold of endogenous stress is required to engage cellular response to protect against mutagenesis. 	Proteomic and cellular responses against mutagenesis	endogenous stress, low doses, mutagenesis, oxidative stress, tritium	Endogenous stress represents a major source of genome instability, but is in essence difficult to apprehend. Incorporation of labeled radionuclides into DNA constitutes a tractable model to analyze cellular responses to endogenous attacks. Here we show that incorporation of [(3)H]thymidine into CHO cells generates oxidative-induced mutagenesis, but, with a peak at low doses. Proteomic analysis showed that the cellular response differs between low and high levels of endogenous stress. In particular, these results confirmed the involvement of proteins implicated in redox homeostasis and DNA damage signaling pathways. Induced-mutagenesis was abolished by the anti-oxidant N-acetyl cysteine and plateaued, at high doses, upon exposure to L-buthionine sulfoximine, which represses cellular detoxification. The [(3)H]thymidine-induced mutation spectrum revealed mostly base substitutions, exhibiting a signature specific for low doses (GC > CG and AT > CG). Consistently, the enzymatic activity of the base excision repair protein APE-1 is induced at only medium or high doses. Collectively, the data reveal that a threshold of endogenous stress must be reached to trigger cellular detoxification and DNA repair programs; below this threshold, the consequences of endogenous stress escape cellular surveillance, leading to high levels of mutagenesis. Therefore, low doses of endogenous local stress can jeopardize genome integrity more efficiently than higher doses.
PXD004105	27406709	Valosin-containing protein (VCP)-Adaptor Interactions are Exceptionally Dynamic and Subject to Differential Modulation by a VCP Inhibitor. 	VCP-adaptor interactions are exceptionally dynamic and subject to differential modulation by a VCP inhibitor	AP-MS, Orbitrap, SEC-MS, VCP/p97, crosslinking-MS, protein complex dynamics	Protein quality control (PQC) plays an important role in stemming neurodegenerative diseases and is essential for the growth of some cancers. Valosin-containing protein (VCP)/p97 plays a pivotal role in multiple PQC pathways by interacting with numerous adaptors that link VCP to specific PQC pathways and substrates and influence the post-translational modification state of substrates. However, our poor understanding of the specificity and architecture of the adaptors, and the dynamic properties of their interactions with VCP hinders our understanding of fundamental features of PQC and how modulation of VCP activity can best be exploited therapeutically. In this study we use multiple mass spectrometry-based proteomic approaches combined with biophysical studies to characterize the interaction of adaptors with VCP. Our results reveal that most VCP-adaptor interactions are characterized by rapid dynamics that in some cases are modulated by the VCP inhibitor NMS873. These findings have significant implications for both the regulation of VCP function and the impact of VCP inhibition on different VCP-adaptor complexes.
PXD003790	27412690	Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) Peptides Derived from Tumor Antigens Induced by Inhibition of DNA Methylation for Development of Drug-facilitated Immunotherapy. 	HLA peptides (LC-MSMS) induced by Decitabine in Glioblastoma cell lines	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Decitabine, Glioblastoma, HLA peptides, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP)	Treatment of cancer cells with anticancer drugs often fails to achieve complete remission. Yet, such drug treatments may induce alteration in the tumor's gene expression patterns, including those of Cancer/Testis Antigens (CTA). The degradation products of such antigens can be presented as HLA peptides on the surface of the tumor cells and be developed into anticancer immunotherapeutics. For example, the DNA methyl transferase inhibitor, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (Decitabine) has limited antitumor efficacy, yet it induces the expression of many genes, including CTAs that are normally silenced in the healthy adult tissues. In this study, the presentation of many new HLA peptides derived from CTAs and induced by Decitabine was demonstrated in three human Glioblastoma cell lines. Such presentation of CTA-derived HLA peptides can be exploited for development of new treatment modalities, combining drug treatment with anti-CTA targeted immunotherapy. The Decitabine-induced HLA peptidomes include many CTAs that are not normally detected in healthy tissues or in cancer cells, unless treated with the drug. In addition, the study included large-scale analyses of the simultaneous effects of Decitabine on the transcriptomes, proteomes and HLA peptidomes of the human Glioblastoma cells. It demonstrates the poor correlations between these three levels of gene expression, both in their total levels and in their response to the drug. The proteomics and HLA peptidomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003790 and the transcriptomics data are available via GEO with identifier GSE80137.
PXD003532	27418529	Proteomic Analysis of Loricrin Knockout Mouse Epidermis. 	Proteomic Analysis of Loricrin Knockout Mouse Epidermis IBAQ	Epidermis, Loricrin	The crosslinked envelope of the mammalian epidermal corneocyte serves as a scaffold for assembly of the lipid barrier of the epidermis. Thus, deficient envelope crosslinking by keratinocyte transglutaminase (TGM1) is a major cause of the human autosomal recessive congenital ichthyoses characterized by barrier defects. Expectations that loss of some envelope protein components would also confer an ichthyosis phenotype have been difficult to demonstrate. To help rationalize this observation, the protein profile of epidermis from loricrin knockout mice has been compared to that of wild type. Despite the mild phenotype of the knockout, some 40 proteins were incorporated into envelope material to significantly different extents compared to those of wild type. Nearly half were also incorporated to similarly altered extents into the disulfide bonded keratin network of the corneocyte. The results suggest that loss of loricrin alters their incorporation into envelopes as a consequence of protein-protein interactions during cell maturation. Mass spectrometric protein profiling revealed that keratin 1, keratin 10, and loricrin are prominent envelope components and that dozens of other proteins are also components. This finding helps rationalize the potential formation of functional envelopes, despite loss of a single component, due to the availability of many alternative transglutaminase substrates.
PXD003765	27422377	Global iTRAQ-based proteomic profiling of Toxoplasma gondii oocysts during sporulation. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of Toxoplama gondii PRU oocyst during sporulation	Toxoplasma gondii, iTRAQ, oocyst	Toxoplasma gondii is a medically and economically important protozoan parasite. However, the molecular mechanisms of its sporulation remain largely unknown. Here, we applied iTRAQ coupled with 2D LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis to investigate the proteomic expression profile of T. gondii oocysts during sporulation. Of the 2095 non-redundant proteins identified, 587 were identified as differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Based on Gene Ontology enrichment and KEGG pathway analyses the majority of these DEPs were found related to the metabolism of amino acids, carbon and energy. Protein interaction network analysis generated by STRING identified ATP-citrate lyase (ACL), GMP synthase, IMP dehydrogenase (IMPDH), poly (ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG), and bifunctional dihydrofolate reductase-thymidylate synthase (DHFR-TS) as the top five hubs. We also identified 25 parasite virulence factors that were expressed at relatively high levels in sporulated oocysts compared to non-sporulated oocysts, which might contribute to the infectivity of mature oocysts. Considering the importance of oocysts in the dissemination of toxoplasmosis these findings may help in the search of protein targets with a key role in infectiousness and ecological success of oocysts, creating new opportunities for the development of better means for disease prevention. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The development of new preventative interventions against T. gondii infection relies on an improved understanding of the proteome and chemical pathways of this parasite. To identify proteins required for the development of environmentally resistant and infective T. gondii oocysts, we compared the proteome of non-sporulated (immature) oocysts with the proteome of sporulated (mature, infective) oocysts. iTRAQ 2D-LC-MS/MS analysis revealed proteomic changes that distinguish non-sporulated from sporulated oocysts. Many of the differentially expressed proteins were involved in metabolic pathways and 25 virulence factors were identified upregulated in the sporulated oocysts. This work provides the first quantitative characterization of the proteomic variations that occur in T. gondii oocyst stage during sporulation.
PXD003931	27424784	Ectopic miR-125a Expression Induces Long-Term Repopulating Stem Cell Capacity in Mouse and Human Hematopoietic Progenitors. 	miR-125a Confers Multi-Lineage Long-Term Repopulating Stem Cell Activity to Murine and Human Hematopoietic Progenitors	hematopoiesis, low-cell input, microRNA, stem cell proteomics	Umbilical cord blood (CB) is a convenient and broadly used source of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) for allogeneic stem cell transplantation. However, limiting numbers of HSCs remain a major constraint for its clinical application. Although one feasible option would be to expand HSCs to improve therapeutic outcome, available protocols and the molecular mechanisms governing the self-renewal of HSCs are unclear. Here, we show that ectopic expression of a single microRNA (miRNA), miR-125a, in purified murine and human multipotent progenitors (MPPs) resulted in increased self-renewal and robust long-term multi-lineage repopulation in transplanted recipient mice. Using quantitative proteomics and western blot analysis, we identified a restricted set of miR-125a targets involved in conferring long-term repopulating capacity to MPPs in humans and mice. Our findings offer the innovative potential to use MPPs with enhanced self-renewal activity to augment limited sources of HSCs to improve clinical protocols.
PXD003904	27425180	193 nm Ultraviolet Photodissociation Mass Spectrometry for Phosphopeptide Characterization in the Positive and Negative Ion Modes. 	Application of 193 nm UVPD for phosphoproteomic analysis of HeLa and HCC70	HCC70, HCD, HeLa, Phosphoproteomics, UVPD	Advances in liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) have permitted phosphoproteomic analysis on a grand scale, but ongoing challenges specifically associated with confident phosphate localization continue to motivate the development of new fragmentation techniques. In the present study, ultraviolet photodissociation (UVPD) at 193 nm is evaluated for the characterization of phosphopeptides in both positive and negative ion modes. Compared to the more standard higher energy collisional dissociation (HCD), UVPD provided more extensive fragmentation with improved phosphate retention on product ions. Negative mode UVPD showed particular merit for detecting and sequencing highly acidic phosphopeptides from alpha and beta casein, but was not as robust for larger scale analysis because of lower ionization efficiencies in the negative mode. HeLa and HCC70 cell lysates were analyzed by both UVPD and HCD. While HCD identified more phosphopeptides and proteins compared to UVPD, the unique matches from UVPD analysis could be combined with the HCD data set to improve the overall depth of coverage compared to either method alone.
PXD003052	27426920	Yeast membrane proteomics using leucine metabolic labelling: Bioinformatic data processing and exemplary application to the ER-intramembrane protease Ypf1. 	yeast membrane proteomics using Leu3 labelling	ERAD, Leu3 labelling, membrane	We describe in detail the usage of leucine metabolic labelling in yeast in order to monitor quantitative proteome alterations, e.g. upon removal of a protease. Since laboratory yeast strains are typically leucine auxotroph, metabolic labelling with trideuterated leucine (d3-leucine) is a straightforward, cost-effective, and ubiquitously applicable strategy for quantitative proteomic studies, similar to the widely used arginine/lysine metabolic labelling method for mammalian cells. We showcase the usage of advanced peptide quantification using the FeatureFinderMultiplex algorithm (part of the OpenMS software package) for robust and reliable quantification. Furthermore, we present an OpenMS bioinformatics data analysis workflow that combines accurate quantification with high proteome coverage. In order to enable visualization, peptide-mapping, and sharing of quantitative proteomic data, especially for membrane-spanning and cell-surface proteins, we further developed the web-application Proteator (http://proteator.appspot.com). Due to its simplicity and robustness, we expect metabolic leucine labelling in yeast to be of great interest to the research community. As an exemplary application, we show the identification of the copper transporter Ctr1 as a putative substrate of the ER-intramembrane protease Ypf1 by yeast membrane proteomics using d3-leucine isotopic labelling.
PXD003860	27432266	Proteomic Profiling of Cardiomyocyte-Specific Cathepsin A Overexpression Links Cathepsin A to the Oxidative Stress Response. 	Impact of cathepsin A on the murine cardiac proteome	cathepsin A, transgenic mouse	Cathepsin A (CTSA) is a lysosomal carboxypeptidase present at the cell surface and secreted outside the cell. Additionally, CTSA binds to beta-galactosidase and neuraminidase 1 to protect them from degradation. CTSA has gained attention as a drug target for the treatment of cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. Here, we investigated the impact of CTSA on the murine cardiac proteome in a mouse model of cardiomyocyte-specific human CTSA overexpression using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry in conjunction with an isotopic dimethyl labeling strategy. We identified up to 2000 proteins in each of three biological replicates. Statistical analysis by linear models for microarray data (limma) found >300 significantly affected proteins (moderated p-value <=0.01), thus establishing CTSA as a key modulator of the cardiac proteome. CTSA strongly impaired the balance of the proteolytic system by upregulating several proteases such as cathepsin B, cathepsin D, and cathepsin Z while down-regulating numerous protease inhibitors. Moreover, cardiomyocyte-specific human CTSA overexpression strongly reduced the levels of numerous antioxidative stress proteins, i.e., peroxiredoxins and protein deglycase DJ-1. In vitro, using cultured rat cardiomyocytes, ectopic overexpression of CTSA resulted in accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Collectively, our proteomic and functional data strengthen an association of CTSA with the cellular oxidative stress response.
PXD003560	27432471	Quantitative proteomics identifies myoferlin as a novel regulator of A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase 12 in HeLa cells. 	Quantitative proteomics identifies myoferlin as a novel regulator of A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase 12 in HeLa cells	ADAM12, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase 12 (ADAM12) is expressed significantly higher in multiple tumors than in normal tissues and has been used as a prognostic marker for the evaluation of cancer progression. Although several ADAM12 substrates have been identified biochemically and its proteolytic function has been explored, the upstream regulators and the interacting proteins have not been systematically investigated. Here, we use immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry (MS)-based quantitative proteomic approaches to identify 28 interacting partners for the long form of ADAM12 (ADAM12-L) in HeLa cells. Proteins that regulate cell proliferation, invasion, and epithelial to mesenchymal transition are among the identified ADAM12-interacting proteins. Further biochemical experiments discover that the protein level and the stability of ADAM12 are upregulated by one of its interacting proteins, myoferlin. In addition, myoferlin also increases the proteolytic activity of ADAM12, leading to the reduction of an ADAM12 substrate, E-cadherin. This result implies that ADAM12 and its interacting proteins might converge to certain signaling pathways in the regulation of cancer cell progression. The information obtained here might be useful in the development of new strategies for modulating cell proliferation and invasion involved in the regulation between ADAM12 and its interacting partners. MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003560. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Regulation of the proliferation and invasion of cancer cells is important in cancer treatment. ADAM12 has been found to play important roles in regulating these processes and identification of its interacting partners will improve our understanding of its biological functions and provide basis for functional modulation. Through mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomic approaches, we identify the interacting partners for ADAM12 in a human cancer cell line and find many proteins that are involved in the proliferation and invasion of cancer cells. A novel regulator, myoferlin, of ADAM12 is discovered and this protein increases ADAM12 expression level, stability, and its enzymatic activity, leading to the reduction of its substrate, E-cadherin, which plays important roles in the regulation of cell adhesion and tumor metastasis. This result provides a connection for two highly expressed proteins in cancer cells and may shed light on the regulation of their biological functions in cancer progression.
PXD003669	27432653	Bacillus cereus Group-Type Strain-Specific Diagnostic Peptides. 	Identification of type strain-specific diagnostic peptides of the Bacillus cereus group	Bacillus cereus group, diagnostic peptides, type strains	The Bacillus cereus group consists of eight very closely related species and comprises both harmless and human pathogenic species such as Bacillus anthracis, Bacillus cereus, and Bacillus cytotoxicus. Numerous efforts have been undertaken to allow presumptive differentiation of B. cereus group species from one another. However, methods to rapidly and accurately distinguish these species are currently lacking. We confirmed that classical matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) biotyping cannot achieve reliable identification of each type strain. We therefore assigned type strain-specific diagnostic peptides to the B. cereus group based on comparisons of their proteomic profiles. The number of diagnostic peptides varied remarkably in a type strain-dependent manner. The accuracy of the reference database was crucial to validate candidate diagnostic peptides and led to a noteworthy reduction of verified diagnostic peptides. Diagnostic peptides ranged from one for B. weihenstephanensis to 62 for B. pseudomycoides and were associated with proteins involved in diverse biological processes, e.g. amino acid biosynthesis, cell envelope, cellular processes, energy metabolism, and transport processes. However, 45.6% of all diagnostic peptides comprised currently unclassified proteins or proteins of unknown function. In addition, a phylogenetic tree based on clustering of theoretical precursor masses deduced from in silico-generated tryptic peptides was reconstructed.
PXD002462	27432908	Defining the Protein-Protein Interaction Network of the Human Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Family. 	Human Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Interaction Network	HEK293T, PTP, TAP-MS	Protein tyrosine phosphorylation, which plays a vital role in a variety of human cellular processes, is coordinated by protein tyrosine kinases and protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs). Genomic studies provide compelling evidence that PTPs are frequently mutated in various human cancers, suggesting that they have important roles in tumor suppression. However, the cellular functions and regulatory machineries of most PTPs are still largely unknown. To gain a comprehensive understanding of the protein-protein interaction network of the human PTP family, we performed a global proteomic study. Using a Minkowski distance-based unified scoring environment (MUSE) for the data analysis, we identified 940 high confidence candidate-interacting proteins that comprise the interaction landscape of the human PTP family. Through a gene ontology analysis and functional validations, we connected the PTP family with several key signaling pathways or cellular functions whose associations were previously unclear, such as the RAS-RAF-MEK pathway, the Hippo-YAP pathway, and cytokinesis. Our study provides the first glimpse of a protein interaction network for the human PTP family, linking it to a number of crucial signaling events, and generating a useful resource for future studies of PTPs.
PXD004088	27432909	Comparative Proteomics and Functional Analysis Reveal a Role of Plasmodium falciparum Osmiophilic Bodies in Malaria Parasite Transmission. 	P falciparum Pf377 protein complex in gametocytes	P. falciparum, Pf377, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), gametocyte, malaria, osmiophilic body	An essential step in the transmission of the malaria parasite to the Anopheles vector is the transformation of the mature gametocytes into gametes in the mosquito gut, where they egress from the erythrocytes and mate to produce a zygote, which matures into a motile ookinete. Osmiophilic bodies are electron dense secretory organelles of the female gametocytes which discharge their contents during gamete formation, suggestive of a role in gamete egress. Only one protein with no functional annotation, Pfg377, is described to specifically reside in osmiophilic bodies in Plasmodium falciparum Importantly, Pfg377 defective gametocytes lack osmiophilic bodies and fail to infect mosquitoes, as confirmed here with newly produced pfg377 disrupted parasites. The unique feature of Pfg377 defective gametocytes of lacking osmiophilic bodies was here exploited to perform comparative, label free, global and affinity proteomics analyses of mutant and wild type gametocytes to identify components of these organelles. Subcellular localization studies with fluorescent reporter gene fusions and specific antibodies revealed an osmiophilic body localization for four out of five candidate gene products analyzed: the proteases PfSUB2 (subtilisin 2) and PfDPAP2 (Dipeptidyl aminopeptidase 2), the ortholog of the osmiophilic body component of the rodent malaria gametocytes PbGEST and a previously nonannotated 13 kDa protein. These results establish that osmiophilic bodies and their components are dispensable or marginally contribute (PfDPAP2) to gamete egress. Instead, this work reveals a previously unsuspected role of these organelles in P. falciparum development in the mosquito vector.
PXD004434	27435585	Identification of Oligosaccharides in Feces of Breast-fed Infants and Their Correlation with the Gut Microbial Community. 	Human milk oligosaccharides and infant fecal oligosaccharides	feces, liquid chromatography, milk, oligosaccharide	Glycans in breast milk are abundant and found as either free oligosaccharides or conjugated to proteins and lipids. Free human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs) function as prebiotics by stimulating the growth of beneficial bacteria while preventing the binding of harmful bacteria to intestinal epithelial cells. Bacteria have adapted to the glycan-rich environment of the gut by developing enzymes that catabolize glycans. The decrease in HMOs and the increase in glycan digestion products give indications of the active enzymes in the microbial population. In this study, we quantitated the disappearance of intact HMOs and characterized the glycan digestion products in the gut that are produced by the action of microbial enzymes on HMOs and glycoconjugates from breast milk. Oligosaccharides from fecal samples of exclusively breast-fed infants were extracted and profiled using nanoLC-MS. Intact HMOs were found in the fecal samples, additionally, other oligosaccharides were found corresponding to degraded HMOs and non-HMO based compounds. The latter compounds were fragments of N-glycans released through the cleavage of the linkage to the asparagine residue and through cleavage of the chitobiose core of the N-glycan. Marker gene sequencing of the fecal samples revealed bifidobacteria as the dominant inhabitants of the infant gastrointestinal tracts. A glycosidase from Bifidobacterium longum subsp. longum was then expressed to digest HMOs in vitro, which showed that the digested oligosaccharides in feces corresponded to the action of glycosidases on HMOs. Similar expression of endoglycosidases also showed that N-glycans were released by bacterial enzymes. Although bifidobacteria may dominate the gut, it is possible that specific minority species are also responsible for the major products observed in feces. Nonetheless, the enzymatic activity correlated well with the known glycosidases in the respective bacteria, suggesting a direct relationship between microbial abundances and catabolic activity.
PXD003884	27436114	Peptidomics of Acanthoscurria gomesiana spider venom reveals new toxins with potential antimicrobial activity. 	Peptidomics of Acanthoscurria gomesiana spider venom reveals new toxins with potential antimicrobial activity	Acanthoscurria gomesiana, antimicrobial peptide, peptidomics, theraphotoxin.	Acanthoscurria gomesiana is a Brazilian spider from the Theraphosidae family inhabiting regions of Southeastern Brazil. Potent antimicrobial peptides as gomesin and acanthoscurrin have been discovered from the spider hemolymph in previous works. Spider venoms are also recognized as sources of biologically active peptides, however the venom peptidome of A. gomesiana remained unexplored to date. In this work, a MS-based workflow was applied to the investigation of the spider venom peptidome. Data-independent and data-dependent LC-MS/MS acquisitions of intact peptides and of peptides submitted to multiple enzyme digestions, followed by automated chromatographic alignment, de novo analysis, database and homology searches with manual validations showed that the venom is composed by <165 features, with masses ranging from 0.4-15.8kDa. From digestions, 135 peptides were identified from 17 proteins, including three new mature peptides: U1-TRTX-Agm1a, U1-TRTX-Agm2a and U1-TRTX-Agm3a, containing 3, 4 and 3 disulfide bonds, respectively. The toxins U1-TRTX-Agm1a differed by only one amino acid from U1-TRTX-Ap1a from A. paulensis and U1-TRTX-Agm2a was derived from the genicutoxin-D1 precursor from A. geniculata. These toxins have potential applications as antimicrobial agents, as the peptide fraction of A. gomesiana showed activity against Escherichia coli, Enterobacter cloacae and Candida albicans strains. MS data are available via ProteomeXchange Consortium with identifier PXD003884. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Biological fluids of the Acanthoscurria gomesiana spider are sources of active molecules, as is the case of antimicrobial peptides and acylpolyamines found in the hemolymphs. The venom is also a potential source of toxins with pharmacological and biotechnological applications. However, to our knowledge no A. gomesiana venom toxin structure has been determined to date. Using a combination of high resolution mass spectrometry, transcriptomics and bioinformatics, we employed a workflow to fully sequence, determine the number of disulfide bonds of mature peptides and we found new potential antimicrobial peptides. This workflow is suitable for complete peptide toxin sequencing when handling limited amount of venom samples and can accelerate the discovery of peptides with potential biotechnological applications.
PXD013899	27438602	Static Clathrin Assemblies at the Peripheral Vacuole-Plasma Membrane Interface of the Parasitic Protozoan Giardia lamblia. 	The interactomes of GlPXD2 and 4 PIP-binding proteins in Giardia lamblia	PIP, clathrin, endocytosis, immunoprecipitation, lipid-binding, parasite, protist	Giardia lamblia is a parasitic protozoan that infects a wide range of vertebrate hosts including humans. Trophozoites are non-invasive but associate tightly with the enterocyte surface of the small intestine. This narrow ecological specialization entailed extensive morphological and functional adaptations during host-parasite co-evolution, including a distinctly polarized array of endocytic organelles termed peripheral vacuoles (PVs), which are confined to the dorsal cortical region exposed to the gut lumen and are in close proximity to the plasma membrane (PM). Here, we investigated the molecular consequences of these adaptations on the Giardia endocytic machinery and membrane coat complexes. Despite the absence of canonical clathrin coated vesicles in electron microscopy, Giardia possesses conserved PV-associated clathrin heavy chain (GlCHC), dynamin-related protein (GlDRP), and assembly polypeptide complex 2 (AP2) subunits, suggesting a novel function for GlCHC and its adaptors. We found that, in contrast to GFP-tagged AP2 subunits and DRP, CHC::GFP reporters have no detectable turnover in living cells, indicating fundamental differences in recruitment to the membrane and disassembly compared to previously characterized clathrin coats. Histochemical localization in electron tomography showed that these long-lived GlCHC assemblies localized at distinctive approximations between the plasma and PV membrane. A detailed protein interactome of GlCHC revealed all of the conserved factors in addition to novel or highly diverged proteins, including a putative clathrin light chain and lipid-binding proteins. Taken together, our data provide strong evidence for giardial CHC as a component of highly stable assemblies at PV-PM junctions that likely have a central role in organizing continuities between the PM and PV membranes for controlled sampling of the fluid environment. This suggests a novel function for CHC in Giardia and the extent of molecular remodeling of endocytosis in this species.
PXD003947	27444420	Looking for Missing Proteins in the Proteome of Human Spermatozoa: An Update. 	Quest for missing proteins in the human spermatozoa: an update	HPP, IHC, LC-SRM, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, fractionation, missing proteins, sperm	The Chromosome-Centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP) aims to identify "missing" proteins in the neXtProt knowledgebase. We present an in-depth proteomics analysis of the human sperm proteome to identify testis-enriched missing proteins. Using protein extraction procedures and LC-MS/MS analysis, we detected 235 proteins (PE2-PE4) for which no previous evidence of protein expression was annotated. Through LC-MS/MS and LC-PRM analysis, data mining, and immunohistochemistry, we confirmed the expression of 206 missing proteins (PE2-PE4) in line with current HPP guidelines (version 2.0). Parallel reaction monitoring acquisition and sythetic heavy labeled peptides targeted 36 <<one-hit wonder>> candidates selected based on prior peptide spectrum match assessment. 24 were validated with additional predicted and specifically targeted peptides. Evidence was found for 16 more missing proteins using immunohistochemistry on human testis sections. The expression pattern for some of these proteins was specific to the testis, and they could possibly be valuable markers with fertility assessment applications. Strong evidence was also found of four "uncertain" proteins (PE5); their status should be re-examined. We show how using a range of sample preparation techniques combined with MS-based analysis, expert knowledge, and complementary antibody-based techniques can produce data of interest to the community. All MS/MS data are available via ProteomeXchange under identifier PXD003947. In addition to contributing to the C-HPP, we hope these data will stimulate continued exploration of the sperm proteome.
PXD003285	27447594	Structural elucidation of a novel mechanism for the bacteriophage-based inhibition of the RNA degradosome. 	Structural elucidation of a novel mechanism for  bacteriophage-based inhibition of the RNA degradosome	Escherichia coli, Phage, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, RNA degradosome, X-ray crystallography, protein-RNA interactions, protein-protein interactions, KZ	In all domains of life, the catalysed degradation of RNA facilitates rapid adaptation to changing environmental conditions, while destruction of foreign RNA is an important mechanism to prevent host infection. We have identified a virus-encoded protein termed gp37/Dip, which directly binds and inhibits the RNA degradation machinery of its bacterial host. Encoded by giant phage phiKZ, this protein associates with two RNA binding sites of the RNase E component of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa RNA degradosome, occluding them from substrates and resulting in effective inhibition of RNA degradation and processing. The 2.2 Aa crystal structure reveals that this novel homo-dimeric protein has no identifiable structural homologues. Our biochemical data indicate that acidic patches on the convex outer surface bind RNase E. Through the activity of Dip, phiKZ has evolved a unique mechanism to down regulate a key metabolic process of its host to allow accumulation of viral RNA in infected cells.
PXD003640	27452035	On the Statistical Significance of Compressed Ratios in Isobaric Labeling: A Cross-Platform Comparison. 	ON THE ACCURACY, PRECISION AND STATISTICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF COMPRESSED RATIOS IN ISOBARIC LABELLING	accuracy, isobaric labelling, precision, ratio compression, statistics	Isobaric labeling is gaining popularity in proteomics due to its multiplexing capacity. However, copeptide fragmentation introduces a bias that undermines its accuracy. Several strategies have been shown to partially and, in some cases, completely solve this issue. However, it is still not clear how ratio compression affects the ability to identify a protein's change of abundance as statistically significant. Here, by using the "two proteomes" approach (E. coli lysates with fixed 2.5 ratios in the presence or absence of human lysates acting as the background interference) and manipulating isolation width values, we were able to model isobaric data with different levels of accuracy and precision in three types of mass spectrometers: LTQ Orbitrap Velos, Impact, and Q Exactive. We determined the influence of these variables on the statistical significance of the distorted ratios and compared them to the ratios measured without impurities. Our results confirm previous findings1-4 regarding the importance of optimizing acquisition parameters in each instrument in order to minimize interference without compromising precision and identification. We also show that, under these experimental conditions, the inclusion of a second replicate increases statistical sensitivity 2-3-fold and counterbalances to a large extent the issue of ratio compression.
PXD002541	27452465	The Cardiomyocyte RNA-Binding Proteome: Links to Intermediary Metabolism and Heart Disease. 	HL-1 mRNA interactome -  The Cardiomyocyte RNA-Binding Proteome: Links to Intermediary Metabolism and Heart Disease	mRNA interactome	RNA functions through the dynamic formation of complexes with RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) in all clades of life. We determined the RBP repertoire of beating cardiomyocytic HL-1 cells by jointly employing two in vivo proteomic methods, mRNA interactome capture and RBDmap. Together, these yielded 1,148 RBPs, 391 of which are shared with all other available mammalian RBP repertoires, while 393 are thus far unique to cardiomyocytes. RBDmap further identified 568 regions of RNA contact within 368 RBPs. The cardiomyocyte mRNA interactome composition reflects their unique biology. Proteins with roles in cardiovascular physiology or disease, mitochondrial function, and intermediary metabolism are all highly represented. Notably, we identified 73 metabolic enzymes as RBPs. RNA-enzyme contacts frequently involve Rossmann fold domains with examples in evidence of both, mutual exclusivity of, or compatibility between RNA binding and enzymatic function. Our findings raise the prospect of previously hidden RNA-mediated regulatory interactions among cardiomyocyte gene expression, physiology, and metabolism.
PXD002439	27452731	Approach for Identifying Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-DR Bound Peptides from Scarce Clinical Samples. 	HLA-DR peptides from human BAL and EBV-transformed B cells	BAL, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), HLA-DR peptides, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP), Sarcoidosis	Immune-mediated diseases strongly associating with human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles are likely linked to specific antigens. These antigens are presented to T cells in the form of peptides bound to HLA molecules on antigen presenting cells, e.g. dendritic cells, macrophages or B cells. The identification of HLA-DR-bound peptides presents a valuable tool to investigate the human immunopeptidome. The lung is likely a key player in the activation of potentially auto-aggressive T cells prior to entering target tissues and inducing autoimmune disease. This makes the lung of exceptional interest and presents an ideal paradigm to study the human immunopeptidome and to identify antigenic peptides.Our previous investigation of HLA-DR peptide presentation in the lung required high numbers of cells (800 x 10(6) bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cells). Because BAL from healthy nonsmokers typically contains 10-15 x 10(6) cells, there is a need for a highly sensitive approach to study immunopeptides in the lungs of individual patients and controls.In this work, we analyzed the HLA-DR immunopeptidome in the lung by an optimized methodology to identify HLA-DR-bound peptides from low cell numbers. We used an Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) immortalized B cell line and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cells obtained from patients with sarcoidosis, an inflammatory T cell driven disease mainly occurring in the lung. Specifically, membrane complexes were isolated prior to immunoprecipitation, eluted peptides were identified by nanoLC-MS/MS and processed using the in-house developed ClusterMHCII software. With the optimized procedure we were able to identify peptides from 10 x 10(6) cells, which on average correspond to 10.9 peptides/million cells in EBV-B cells and 9.4 peptides/million cells in BAL cells. This work presents an optimized approach designed to identify HLA-DR-bound peptides from low numbers of cells, enabling the investigation of the BAL immunopeptidome from individual patients and healthy controls in order to identify disease-associated peptides.
PXD000883	27453046	Comprehensive Identification of RNA-Binding Domains in Human Cells. 	RBDmap -  Comprehensive Identification of RNA-Binding Domains in Human Cells	RNA binding domain, RNA-binding proteins	Mammalian cells harbor more than a thousand RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), with half of these employing unknown modes of RNA binding. We developed RBDmap to determine the RNA-binding sites of native RBPs on a proteome-wide scale. We identified 1,174 binding sites within 529 HeLa cell RBPs, discovering numerous RNA-binding domains (RBDs). Catalytic centers or protein-protein interaction domains are in close relationship with RNA-binding sites, invoking possible effector roles of RNA in the control of protein function. Nearly half of the RNA-binding sites map to intrinsically disordered regions, uncovering unstructured domains as prevalent partners in protein-RNA interactions. RNA-binding sites represent hot spots for defined posttranslational modifications such as lysine acetylation and tyrosine phosphorylation, suggesting metabolic and signal-dependent regulation of RBP function. RBDs display a high degree of evolutionary conservation and incidence of Mendelian mutations, suggestive of important functional roles. RBDmap thus yields profound insights into native protein-RNA interactions in living cells.
PXD004584	27453442	Deep Proteome Analysis Identifies Age-Related Processes in C. elegans. 	Age-related changes in protein abundance in nematodes	Aging, C elegans, Metabolism, Peroxisome, SILAC, daf-2	Effective network analysis of protein data requires high-quality proteomic datasets. Here, we report a near doubling in coverage of the C. elegans adult proteome, identifying >11,000 proteins in total with ~9,400 proteins reproducibly detected in three biological replicates. Using quantitative mass spectrometry, we identify proteins whose abundances vary with age, revealing a concerted downregulation of proteins involved in specific metabolic pathways and upregulation of cellular stress responses with advancing age. Among these are ~30 peroxisomal proteins, including the PRX-5/PEX5 import protein. Functional experiments confirm that protein import into the peroxisome is compromised in vivo in old animals. We also studied the behavior of the set of age-variant proteins in chronologically age-matched, long-lived daf-2 insulin/IGF-1-pathway mutants. Unexpectedly, the levels of many of these age-variant proteins did not scale with extended lifespan. This indicates that, despite their youthful appearance and extended lifespans, not all aspects of aging are reset in these long-lived mutants.
PXD003737	27454319	Optimized Fragmentation Regime for Diazirine Photo-Cross-Linked Peptides. 	An optimised fragmentation regime for cross-linking/mass spectrometry	CID, Cross-linking, ETD, ETciD, EThcD, HCD	Cross-linking/mass spectrometry has evolved into a robust technology that reveals structural insights into proteins and protein complexes. We leverage a new tribrid instrument with improved fragmentation capacities in a systematic comparison to identify which fragmentation method would be best for the identification of cross-linked peptides. Specifically, we explored three fragmentation methods and two combinations: collision-induced dissociation (CID), beam-type CID (HCD), electron-transfer dissociation (ETD), ETciD, and EThcD. Trypsin-digested, SDA-cross-linked human serum albumin (HSA) served as a test sample, yielding over all methods and in triplicate analysis in total 2602 matched PSMs and 1390 linked residue pairs at 5% false discovery rate, as confirmed by the crystal structure. HCD wins in number of matched peptide-spectrum-matches (958 PSMs) and identified links (446). CID is most complementary, increasing the number of identified links by 13% (58 links). HCD wins together with EThcD in cross-link site calling precision, with approximately 62% of sites having adjacent backbone cleavages that unambiguously locate the link in both peptides, without assuming any cross-linker preference for amino acids. Overall quality of spectra, as judged by sequence coverage of both peptides, is best for EThcD for the majority of peptides. Sequence coverage might be of particular importance for complex samples, for which we propose a data dependent decision tree, else HCD is the method of choice. The mass spectrometric raw data has been deposited in PRIDE (PXD003737).
PXD003472	27454336	Analysis of Intrinsic Peptide Detectability via Integrated Label-Free and SRM-Based Absolute Quantitative Proteomics. 	S. cerevisiae DDA orbitrap-based benchmark datasets. C4PR_LIV	ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, Reference, benchmark dataset, benchmarking, coelution, hydrophobicity, machine learning, peptide detectability, peptide ionization, retention time	Quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics of complex biological samples remains challenging in part due to the variability and charge competition arising during electrospray ionization (ESI) of peptides and the subsequent transfer and detection of ions. These issues preclude direct quantification from signal intensity alone in the absence of a standard. A deeper understanding of the governing principles of peptide ionization and exploitation of the inherent ionization and detection parameters of individual peptides is thus of great value. Here, using the yeast proteome as a model system, we establish the concept of peptide F-factor as a measure of detectability, closely related to ionization efficiency. F-factor is calculated by normalizing peptide precursor ion intensity by absolute abundance of the parent protein. We investigated F-factor characteristics in different shotgun proteomics experiments, including across multiple ESI-based LC-MS platforms. We show that F-factors mirror previously observed physicochemical predictors as peptide detectability but demonstrate a nonlinear relationship between hydrophobicity and peptide detectability. Similarly, we use F-factors to show how peptide ion coelution adversely affects detectability and ionization. We suggest that F-factors have great utility for understanding peptide detectability and gas-phase ion chemistry in complex peptide mixtures, selection of surrogate peptides in targeted MS studies, and for calibration of peptide ion signal in label-free workflows. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003472.
PXD003981	27456748	Synthesis and deposition of basement membrane proteins by primary brain capillary endothelial cells in a murine model of the blood-brain barrier. 	Data in support of Synthesis and deposition of basement membrane proteins by primary brain capillary endothelial cells in a murine model of the blood-brain barrier	Blood-brain barrier, basement membrane, in vitro models, primary murine capillary endothelial cells	The brain vascular basement membrane is important for both blood-brain barrier (BBB) development, stability, and barrier integrity and the contribution hereto from brain capillary endothelial cells (BCECs), pericytes, and astrocytes of the BBB is probably significant. The aim of this study was to analyse four different in vitro models of the murine BBB for expression and possible secretion of major basement membrane proteins from murine BCECs (mBCECs). mBCECs, pericytes and glial cells (mainly astrocytes and microglia) were prepared from brains of C57BL/6 mice. The mBCECs were grown as monoculture, in co-culture with pericytes or mixed glial cells, or as a triple-culture with both pericytes and mixed glial cells. The integrity of the BBB models was validated by measures of transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER) and passive permeability to mannitol. The expression of basement membrane proteins was analysed using RT-qPCR, mass spectrometry and immunocytochemistry. Co-culturing mBCECs with pericytes, mixed glial cells, or both significantly increased the TEER compared to the monoculture, and a low passive permeability was correlated with high TEER. The mBCECs expressed all major basement membrane proteins such as laminin-411, laminin-511, collagen [alpha1(IV)]2 alpha2(IV), agrin, perlecan, and nidogen 1 and 2 in vitro. Increased expression of the laminin alpha5 subunit correlated with the addition of BBB-inducing factors (hydrocortisone, Ro 20-1724, and pCPT-cAMP), whereas increased expression of collagen IV alpha1 primarily correlated with increased levels of cAMP. In conclusion, BCECs cultured in vitro coherently form a BBB and express basement membrane proteins as a feature of maturation. Cover Image for this issue: doi: 10.1111/jnc.13789.
PXD003661	27458443	Proteomic Analysis of the Hydrogen and Carbon Monoxide Metabolism of Methanothermobacter marburgensis. 	Proteomics analysis of Methanothermobacter species adapted to growth on carbon monoxide	Bruker Daltonics maXis 4G ETD, Methanothermobacter	Hydrogenotrophic methanogenic archaea are efficient H2 utilizers, but only a few are known to be able to utilize CO. Methanothermobacter thermoautotrophicus is one of the hydrogenotrophic methanogens able to grow on CO, albeit about 100 times slower than on H2 + CO2. In this study, we show that the hydrogenotrophic methanogen Methanothermobacter marburgensis, is able to perform methanogenic growth on H2/CO2/CO and on CO as a sole substrate. To gain further insight in its carboxydotrophic metabolism, the proteome of M. marburgensis, grown on H2/CO2 and H2/CO2/CO, was analyzed. Cultures grown with H2/CO2/CO showed relative higher abundance of enzymes involved in the reductive acetyl-CoA pathway and proteins involved in redox metabolism. The data suggest that the strong reducing capacity of CO negatively affects hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis, making growth on CO as a sole substrate difficult for this type of methanogens. M. marburgensis appears to partly deal with this by up-regulating co-factor regenerating reactions and activating additional pathways allowing for formation of other products, like acetate.
PXD003293	27461979	Integrative proteomic analysis reveals reprograming tumor necrosis factor signaling in epithelial mesenchymal transition. 	Quantitative proteomics of epithelial mesenchymal transition of human primary small airway epithelial cells: part 1	LC-MS, epithelial mesenchymal transition, human primary small airway epithelial cells	The airway epithelium is a semi-impermeable barrier whose disruption by growth factor reprogramming is associated with chronic airway diseases of humans. Transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta)-induced epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays important roles in airway remodeling characteristic of idiopathic lung fibrosis, asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Inflammation of the airways leads to airway injury and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) plays an important pro-inflammatory role. Little systematic information about the effects of EMT on TNFalpha signaling is available. Using an in vitro model of TGFbeta-induced EMT in primary human small airway epithelial cells (hSAECs), we applied quantitative proteomics and phosphoprotein profiling to understand the molecular mechanism of EMT and the impact of EMT on innate inflammatory responses. We quantified 7925 proteins and 1348 phosphorylation sites by stable isotope labeling with iTRAQ technology. We found that cellular response to TNFalpha is cell state dependent and the relative TNFalpha response in mesenchymal state is highly compressed. Combined bioinformatics analyses of proteome and phosphoproteome indicate that the EMT state is associated with reprogramming of kinome, signaling cascade of upstream transcription regulators, phosphor-networks, and NF-kappaB dependent cell signaling. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Epithelial mesenchymal transition and inflammation have important implications for clinical and physiologic manifestations of chronic airway diseases such as severe asthma, COPD, and lung fibrosis. Little systematic information on the interplay between EMT and innate inflammation is available. This study combined quantitative proteomics and phosphorproteomics approach to obtain systems-level insight into the upstream transcription regulators involved in the TGFbeta-induced EMT in primary human small airway epithelial cells and to elucidate how EMT impacts on the TNFalpha signaling pathways. The proteomics and phosphoproteomics analysis indicates that many signaling pathways involved in TGFbeta-induced EMT and EMT has profound reprogramming effects on innate inflammation response.
PXD004566	27461995	Membrane-bound electron transport systems of an anammox bacterium: A complexome analysis. 	Membrane-bound electron transport systems of an anammox bacterium: a complexome analysis	Anammox, complexome profiling, electron transport system, membrane protein complexes	Electron transport, or oxidative phosphorylation, is one of the hallmarks of life. To this end, prokaryotes evolved a vast variety of protein complexes, only a small part of which have been discovered and studied. These protein complexes allow them to occupy virtually every ecological niche on Earth. Here, we applied the method of proteomics-based complexome profiling to get a better understanding of the electron transport systems of the anaerobic ammonium-oxidizing (anammox) bacteria, the N2-producing key players of the global nitrogen cycle. By this method nearly all respiratory complexes that were previously predicted from genome analysis to be involved in energy and cell carbon fixation were validated. More importantly, new and unexpected ones were discovered. We believe that complexome profiling in concert with (meta)genomics offers great opportunities to expand our knowledge on bacterial respiratory processes at a rapid and massive pace, in particular in new and thus far poorly investigated non-model and environmentally-relevant species.
PXD003526	27462366	Proteotyping of biogas plant microbiomes separates biogas plants according to process temperature and reactor type. 	Proteotyping of microbial communities reveals the correlations between the microorganisms and the process parameters	Anaerobic Digestion, Biogas, Biogas Plant, Complex Microbial Community	BACKGROUND: Methane yield and biogas productivity of biogas plants (BGPs) depend on microbial community structure and function, substrate supply, and general biogas process parameters. So far, however, relatively little is known about correlations between microbial community function and process parameters. To close this knowledge gap, microbial communities of 40 samples from 35 different industrial biogas plants were evaluated by a metaproteomics approach in this study. RESULTS: Liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (Orbitrap Elite(TM) Hybrid Ion Trap-Orbitrap Mass Spectrometer) of all 40 samples as triplicate enabled the identification of 3138 different metaproteins belonging to 162 biological processes and 75 different taxonomic orders. The respective database searches were performed against UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and seven metagenome databases. Subsequent clustering and principal component analysis of these data allowed for the identification of four main clusters associated with mesophile and thermophile process conditions, the use of upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactors and BGP feeding with sewage sludge. Observations confirm a previous phylogenetic study of the same BGP samples that was based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing by De Vrieze et al. (Water Res 75:312-323, 2015). In particular, we identified similar microbial key players of biogas processes, namely Bacillales, Enterobacteriales, Bacteriodales, Clostridiales, Rhizobiales and Thermoanaerobacteriales as well as Methanobacteriales, Methanosarcinales and Methanococcales. For the elucidation of the main biomass degradation pathways, the most abundant 1 % of metaproteins was assigned to the KEGG map 1200 representing the central carbon metabolism. Additionally, the effect of the process parameters (i) temperature, (ii) organic loading rate (OLR), (iii) total ammonia nitrogen (TAN), and (iv) sludge retention time (SRT) on these pathways was investigated. For example, high TAN correlated with hydrogenotrophic methanogens and bacterial one-carbon metabolism, indicating syntrophic acetate oxidation. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first large-scale metaproteome study of BGPs. Proteotyping of BGPs reveals general correlations between the microbial community structure and its function with process parameters. The monitoring of changes on the level of microbial key functions or even of the microbial community represents a well-directed tool for the identification of process problems and disturbances.Graphical abstractCorrelation between the different orders and process parameter, as well as principle component analysis of all investigated biogas plants based on the identified metaproteins.
PXD002386	27463037	Characterization of Receptor-Associated Protein Complex Assembly in Interleukin (IL)-2- and IL-15-Activated T-Cell Lines. 	Characterization of receptor-associated protein complex assembly in Interleukin (IL)-2- and IL-15-activated T-lymphocytes	IL-15, IL-2, interactome, phosphorylation, receptor complex assembly	It remains a paradox that IL-2 and IL-15 can differentially modulate the immune response using the same signaling receptors. We have previously dissected the phosphotyrosine-driven signaling cascades triggered by both cytokines in Kit225 T-cells, unveiling subtle differences that may contribute to their functional dichotomy. In this study, we aimed to decipher the receptor complex assembly in IL-2- and IL-15-activated T-lymphocytes that is highly orchestrated by site-specific phosphorylation events. Comparing the cytokine-induced interactome of the interleukin receptor beta and gamma subunits shared by the two cytokines, we defined the components of the early IL-2 and IL-15 receptor-associated complex discovering novel constituents. Additionally, phosphopeptide-directed analysis allowed us to detect several cytokine-dependent and -independent phosphorylation events within the activated receptor complex including novel phosphorylated sites located in the cytoplasmic region of IL-2 receptor beta subunit (IL-2Rbeta). We proved that the distinct phosphorylations induced by the cytokines serve for recruiting different types of effectors to the initial receptor/ligand complex. Overall, our study sheds new light into the initial molecular events triggered by IL-2 and IL-15 and constitutes a further step toward a better understanding of the early signaling aspects of the two closely related cytokines in T-lymphocytes.
PXD003546	27463841	Quantitative chemical proteomics profiling of de novo protein synthesis during starvation-mediated autophagy. 	Quantitative Chemical Proteomics Profiling of de novo Proteins Synthesis during Starvation-Mediated Autophagy	AHA, BONCAT, autophagy, de novo protein synthesis, iTRAQ	Autophagy is an intracellular degradation mechanism in response to nutrient starvation. Via autophagy, some nonessential cellular constituents are degraded in a lysosome-dependent manner to generate biomolecules that can be utilized for maintaining the metabolic homeostasis. Although it is known that under starvation the global protein synthesis is significantly reduced mainly due to suppression of MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin serine/threonine kinase), emerging evidence demonstrates that de novo protein synthesis is involved in the autophagic process. However, characterizing these de novo proteins has been an issue with current techniques. Here, we developed a novel method to identify newly synthesized proteins during starvation-mediated autophagy by combining bio-orthogonal noncanonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) and isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ(TM)). Using bio-orthogonal metabolic tagging, L-azidohomoalanine (AHA) was incorporated into newly synthesized proteins which were then enriched with avidin beads after a click reaction between alkyne-bearing biotin and AHA's bio-orthogonal azide moiety. The enriched proteins were subjected to iTRAQ labeling for protein identification and quantification using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Via the above approach, we identified and quantified a total of 1176 proteins and among them 711 proteins were found to meet our defined criteria as de novo synthesized proteins during starvation-mediated autophagy. The characterized functional profiles of the 711 newly synthesized proteins by bioinformatics analysis suggest their roles in ensuring the prosurvival outcome of autophagy. Finally, we performed validation assays for some selected proteins and found that knockdown of some genes has a significant impact on starvation-induced autophagy. Thus, we think that the BONCAT-iTRAQ approach is effective in the identification of newly synthesized proteins and provides useful insights to the molecular mechanisms and biological functions of autophagy.
PXD004642	27464909	Regulation of highly homologous major urinary proteins in house mice quantified with label-free proteomic methods. 	Quantification of highly homologous Major Urinary Proteins in wild house mice	MUPs, SWATH, behavioural biology, label-free	Major urinary proteins (MUPs) are highly homologous proteoforms that function in binding, transporting and releasing pheromones in house mice. The main analytical challenge for studying variation in MUPs, even for state-of-the-art proteomics techniques, is their high degree of amino acid sequence homology. In this study we used unique peptides for proteoform-specific identification. We applied different search engines (ProteinPilot(TM)vs. PEAKS(R)) and protein databases (MUP database vs. SwissProt + unreviewed MUPs), and found that proteoform identification is influenced by addressing background proteins (unregulated urinary proteins, non-MUPs) during the database search. High resolution Q-TOF mass spectrometry was used to identify and precisely quantify the regulation of MUP proteoforms in male mice that were reared in standard housing and then transferred to semi-natural enclosures (within-subject design). By using a designated MUP database we were able to distinguish 19 MUP proteoforms, with A2CEK6 (a Mup11 gene product) being the most abundant based on spectral intensities. We compared three different quantification strategies based on MS1- (from IDA and SWATH(TM) spectra) and MS2 (SWATH(TM)) data, and the results of these methods were correlated. Furthermore, three data normalization methods were compared and we found that increased statistical significance of fold-changes can be achieved by normalization based on urinary protein concentrations. We show that male mice living in semi-natural enclosures significantly up-regulated some but not all MUPs (differential regulation), e.g., A2ANT6, a Mup6 gene product, was upregulated between 9-fold (MS1) and 13-fold (MS2) using the designated MUP database. Finally, we show that 85 +/- 7% of total MS intensity can be attributed to MUP-derived peptides, which supports the assumption that MUPs are the primary proteins in mouse urine. Our results provide new tools for assessing qualitative and quantitative variation of MUPs and suggest that male mice regulate the expression of specific MUP proteoforms, depending upon social conditions.
PXD003911	27466253	Fasciola hepatica Surface Tegument: Glycoproteins at the Interface of Parasite and Host. 	Analysis of the glycoproteins present on Fasciola hepatica surface tegument	Fasciola hepatica, glycoproteins, lectin, tegument	Fasciola hepatica, commonly known as liver fluke, is a trematode that causes Fasciolosis in ruminants and humans. The outer tegumental coat of F. hepatica (FhTeg) is a complex metabolically active biological matrix that is continually exposed to the host immune system and therefore makes a good vaccine target. F. hepatica tegumental coat is highly glycosylated and helminth-derived immunogenic oligosaccharide motifs and glycoproteins are currently being investigated as novel vaccine candidates. This report presents the first systematic characterization of FhTeg glycosylation using lectin microarrays to characterize carbohydrates motifs present, and lectin histochemistry to localize these on the F. hepatica tegument. We discovered that FhTeg glycoproteins are predominantly oligomannose oligosaccharides that are expressed on the spines, suckers and tegumental coat of F. hepatica and lectin blot analysis confirmed the abundance of N- glycosylated proteins. Although some oligosaccharides are widely distributed on the fluke surface other subsets are restricted to distinct anatomical regions. We selectively enriched for FhTeg mannosylated glycoprotein subsets using lectin affinity chromatography and identified 369 proteins by mass spectrometric analysis. Among these proteins are a number of potential vaccine candidates with known immune modulatory properties including proteases, protease inhibitors, paramyosin, Venom Allergen-like II, Enolase and two proteins, nardilysin and TRIL, that have not been previously associated with F. hepatica Furthermore, we provide a comprehensive insight regarding the putative glycosylation of FhTeg components that could highlight the importance of further studies examining glycoconjugates in host-parasite interactions in the context of F. hepatica infection and the development of an effective vaccine.
PXD000063	27466366	Characterization of Gonadotrope Secretoproteome Identifies Neurosecretory Protein VGF-derived Peptide Suppression of Follicle-stimulating Hormone Gene Expression. 	iTRAQ MS of mouse LbetaT2 cells transfected with Galphas siRNA vs. scrambled siRNA	AB SCIEX TOF/TOF 5800, pituitary gonadotrope-derived LbetaT2 cells	Reproductive function is controlled by the pulsatile release of hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), which regulates the expression of the gonadotropins luteinizing hormone and FSH in pituitary gonadotropes. Paradoxically, Fshb gene expression is maximally induced at lower frequency GnRH pulses, which provide a very low average concentration of GnRH stimulation. We studied the role of secreted factors in modulating gonadotropin gene expression. Inhibition of secretion specifically disrupted gonadotropin subunit gene regulation but left early gene induction intact. We characterized the gonadotrope secretoproteome and global mRNA expression at baseline and after Galphas knockdown, which has been found to increase Fshb gene expression (1). We identified 1077 secreted proteins or peptides, 19 of which showed mRNA regulation by GnRH or/and Galphas knockdown. Among several novel secreted factors implicated in Fshb gene regulation, we focused on the neurosecretory protein VGF. Vgf mRNA, whose gene has been implicated in fertility (2), exhibited high induction by GnRH and depended on Galphas In contrast with Fshb induction, Vgf induction occurred preferentially at high GnRH pulse frequency. We hypothesized that a VGF-derived peptide might regulate Fshb gene induction. siRNA knockdown or extracellular immunoneutralization of VGF augmented Fshb mRNA induction by GnRH. GnRH stimulated the secretion of the VGF-derived peptide NERP1. NERP1 caused a concentration-dependent decrease in Fshb gene induction. These findings implicate a VGF-derived peptide in selective regulation of the Fshb gene. Our results support the concept that signaling specificity from the cell membrane GnRH receptor to the nuclear Fshb gene involves integration of intracellular signaling and exosignaling regulatory motifs.
PXD003711	27469891	Proteomic analysis of soybean root exposed to varying sizes of silver nanoparticles under flooding stress. 	Proteomics analysis of soybean root exposed to varying sizes of silver nanoparticles under flooding stress	flooding stress, root, silver nanoparticles, soybean	Silver nanoparticles (Ag-NPs) are excessively used as antibacterial agents; however, environmental interaction specifically with the plants remain uncertain. To study the size-dependent effects of Ag-NPs on soybean under flooding, a proteomic technique was used. Morphological analysis revealed that treatment with Ag-NPs of 15nm promoted soybean growth under flooding compared to 2 and 50-80nm. A total of 228 common proteins that significantly changed in abundance under flooding without and with Ag-NPs of 2, 15, and 50-80nm. Under varying sizes of Ag-NPs, number of protein synthesis related proteins decreased compared to flooding while number of amino acid synthesis related proteins were increased under Ag-NPs of 15nm. Hierarchical clustering identified the ribosomal proteins that increased under Ag-NPs of 15nm while decreased under other sizes. In silico protein-protein interaction indicated the beta ketoacyl reducatse 1 as the most interacted protein under Ag-NPs of 15nm while least interacted under other sizes. The beta ketoacyl reductase 1 was up-regulated under Ag-NPs of 15nm while its enzyme activity was decreased. These results suggest that the different sizes of Ag-NPs might affect the soybean growth under flooding by regulating the proteins related to amino acid synthesis and wax formation. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This study highlighted the response of soybean proteins towards varying sizes of Ag NPs under flooding stress using gel-free proteomic technique. The Ag NPs of 15nm improved the length of root including hypocotyl of soybean. The proteins related to protein metabolism, cell division/organization, and amino acid metabolism were differentially changed under the varying sizes of Ag NPs. The protein synthesis-related proteins were decreased while amino acid metabolism-related proteins were increased under varying sizes of Ag NPs. The ribosomal proteins were increased under Ag NPs of 15nm. The beta ketoacyl reductase 1 was identified as the most interacted protein under varying sizes of Ag NPs. The mRNA expression level of beta ketoacyl reductase was up-regulated under Ag NPs of 15nm while its activity was decreased. These results suggest that the Ag NPs of 15nm improved the soybean growth under flooding stress by increasing the proteins related to amino acid synthesis and waxes formation.
PXD004252	27470094	Modulating the selectivity of affinity absorbents to multi-phosphopeptides by a competitive substitution strategy. 	Modulating the selectivity of affinity absorbents to multi-phosphopeptides by a novel competitive substitution strategy	competitive substitution, multi-phosphopeptide enrichment, phosphoproteomics, pre-coordination	Although many affinity adsorbents have been developed for phosphopeptides enrichment, high-specifically capturing the multi-phosphopeptides is still a big challenge. Here, we investigated the mechanism of phosphate ion coordination and substitution on affinity adsorbents surfaces and modulated the selectivity of affinity adsorbents to multi-phosphopeptides based on the different capability of mono- and multi-phosphopeptides in competitively substituting the pre-coordinated phosphate ions at strong acidic condition. We demonstrated both the species of pre-coordinated phosphate ions and the substituting conditions played crucial roles in modulating the enrichment selectivity to multi-phosphopeptides, and the pre-coordinated affinity materials with relative more surfaces positive charges exhibited better enrichment efficiency due to the cooperative effect of electrostatic interaction and competitive substitution. Finally, an enrichment selectivity of 85% to multi-phosphopeptides was feasibly achieved with 66% improvement in identification numbers for complex protein sample extracted from HepG2 cells. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004252.
PXD004079	27470641	Phosphoproteome Characterization of Human Colorectal Cancer SW620 Cell-Derived Exosomes and New Phosphosite Discovery for C-HPP. 	Exosomal phosphoproteome of SW620 cell	Exosome, Human Proteome Project, Phosphoproteome, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP)	Identification of all phosphorylation forms of known proteins is a major goal of the Chromosome-Centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP). Recent studies have found that certain phosphoproteins can be encapsulated in exosomes and function as key regulators in tumor microenvironment, but no deep coverage phosphoproteome of human exosomes has been reported to date, which makes the exosome a potential source for the new phosphosite discovery. In this study, we performed highly optimized MS analyses on the exosomal and cellular proteins isolated from human colorectal cancer SW620 cells. With stringent data quality control, 313 phosphoproteins with 1091 phosphosites were confidently identified from the SW620 exosome, from which 202 new phosphosites were detected. Exosomal phosphoproteins were significantly enriched in the 11q12.1-13.5 region of chromosome 11 and had a remarkably high level of tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins (6.4%), which were functionally relevant to ephrin signaling pathway-directed cytoskeleton remodeling. In conclusion, we here report the first high-coverage phosphoproteome of human cell-secreted exosomes, which leads to the identification of new phosphosites for C-HPP. Our findings provide insights into the exosomal phosphoprotein systems that help to understand the signaling language being delivered by exosomes in cell-cell communications. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange consortium with the data set identifier PXD004079, and iProX database (accession number: IPX00076800).
PXD004283	27470911	Toll-like receptor 2 activation depends on lipopeptide shedding by bacterial surfactants. 	Toll-like receptor 2 activation depends on lipopeptide shedding by bacterial surfactants	Phenol-soluble modulins, Staphylococcus aureus, culture supernatant, exoproteome, lipopeptide, quantitative label-free proteomics	Sepsis caused by Gram-positive bacterial pathogens is a major fatal disease but its molecular basis remains elusive. Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) has been implicated in the orchestration of inflammation and sepsis but its role appears to vary for different pathogen species and clones. Accordingly, Staphylococcus aureus clinical isolates differ substantially in their capacity to activate TLR2. Here we show that strong TLR2 stimulation depends on high-level production of phenol-soluble modulin (PSM) peptides in response to the global virulence activator Agr. PSMs are required for mobilizing lipoproteins, the TLR2 agonists, from the staphylococcal cytoplasmic membrane. Notably, the course of sepsis caused by PSM-deficient S. aureus is similar in wild-type and TLR2-deficient mice, but TLR2 is required for protection of mice against PSM-producing S. aureus. Thus, a crucial role of TLR2 depends on agonist release by bacterial surfactants. Modulation of this process may lead to new therapeutic strategies against Gram-positive infections.
PXD002908	27471282	Cold acclimation is accompanied by complex responses of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins in Arabidopsis. 	Extensive proteomic approaches to identify  glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins in Arabidopsis reveal their diverse responses to cold acclimation	Apoplast, Cold acclimation, Detergent-resistant membrane, Freezing tolerance, GPI-anchored protein, Microdomain, Plasma membrane	Cold acclimation results in changes of the plasma membrane (PM) composition. The PM is considered to contain specific lipid/protein-enriched microdomains which can be extracted as detergent-resistant plasma membrane (DRM). Previous studies in animal cells have demonstrated that glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GPI-APs) can be targeted to microdomains and/or the apoplast. However, the functional significance of GPI-APs during cold acclimation in plants is not yet fully understood. In this study, we aimed to investigate the responsiveness of GPI-APs to cold acclimation treatment in Arabidopsis We isolated the PM, DRM, and apoplast fractions separately and, in addition, GPI-AP-enriched fractions were prepared from the PM preparation. Label-free quantitative shotgun proteomics identified a number of GPI-APs (163 proteins). Among them, some GPI-APs such as fasciclin-like arabinogalactan proteins and glycerophosphoryldiester phosphodiesterase-like proteins predominantly increased in PM- and GPI-AP-enriched fractions while the changes of GPI-APs in the DRM and apoplast fractions during cold acclimation were considerably different from those of other fractions. These proteins are thought to be associated with cell wall structure and properties. Therefore, this study demonstrated that each GPI-AP responded to cold acclimation in a different manner, suggesting that these changes during cold acclimation are involved in rearrangement of the extracellular matrix including the cell wall towards acquisition of freezing tolerance.
PXD004130	27474268	Co-recruitment analysis of the CBL and CBLB signalosomes in primary T cells identifies CD5 as a key regulator of TCR-induced ubiquitylation. 	Analysis of the CBL and CBLB signalosomes in primary T cells	AP-MS, CBL, CBLB, TCR, interactome, primary T cell, signalosome	T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling is essential for the function of T cells and negatively regulated by the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligases CBL and CBLB Here, we combined mouse genetics and affinity purification coupled to quantitative mass spectrometry to monitor the dynamics of the CBL and CBLB signaling complexes that assemble in normal T cells over 600 seconds of TCR stimulation. We identify most previously known CBL and CBLB interacting partners, as well as a majority of proteins that have not yet been implicated in those signaling complexes. We exploit correlations in protein association with CBL and CBLB as a function of time of TCR stimulation for predicting the occurrence of direct physical association between them. By combining co-recruitment analysis with biochemical analysis, we demonstrated that the CD5 transmembrane receptor constitutes a key scaffold for CBL- and CBLB-mediated ubiquitylation following TCR engagement. Our results offer an integrated view of the CBL and CBLB signaling complexes induced by TCR stimulation and provide a molecular basis for their negative regulatory function in normal T cells.
PXD002930	27474713	Physiological and Proteomic Responses of Continuous Cultures of Microcystis aeruginosa PCC 7806 to Changes in Iron Bioavailability and Growth Rate. 	Proteome of Microcystis aeruginosa PCC7806 in continuous growth conditions under iron stress	Iron stress, Microcystis aeruginosa, cyanobacteria, iTRAQ, microcystin	The hepatotoxin microcystin (MCYST) is produced by a variety of freshwater cyanobacterial species, including Microcystis aeruginosa Interestingly, MCYST-producing M. aeruginosa strains have been shown to outcompete their nontoxic counterparts under iron-limiting conditions. However, the reasons for this are unclear. Here we examined the proteomic response of M. aeruginosa PCC 7806 continuous cultures under different iron and growth regimes. Iron limitation was correlated with a global reduction in levels of proteins associated with energy metabolism and photosynthesis. These proteomic changes were consistent with physiological observations, including reduced chlorophyll a content and reduced cell size. While levels of MCYST biosynthesis proteins did not fluctuate during the study period, both intra- and extracellular toxin quotas were significantly higher under iron-limiting conditions. Our results support the hypothesis that intracellular MCYST plays a role in protecting the cell against oxidative stress. Further, we propose that extracellular MCYST may act as a signaling molecule, stimulating MCYST production under conditions of iron limitation and enhancing the fitness of bloom populations. IMPORTANCE: Microcystin production in water supply reservoirs is a global public health problem. Understanding the ecophysiology of hepatotoxic cyanobacteria, including their responses to the presence of key micronutrient metals such as iron, is central to managing harmful blooms. To our knowledge, this was the first study to examine proteomic and physiological changes occurring in M. aeruginosa continuous cultures under conditions of iron limitation at different growth rates.
PXD003207	27476034	A combined proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of slime secreted by the southern bottletail squid, Sepiadarium austrinum (Cephalopoda). 	Sepiadarium austrinum Slime MSMS	Cephalopod, Orbitrap, Slime, Squid	Sepiadarium austrinum, the southern bottletail squid, is a small squid that inhabits soft sediments along Australia's south-east coast. When provoked, it rapidly secretes large volumes of slime, presumably as a form of chemical defense. We analyzed the proteomic composition of this slime using tandem mass spectrometry and transcriptomics and found that it was remarkably complex with 1735 identified protein groups (FDR:0.01). To investigate the chemical defense hypothesis we performed an Artemia toxicity assay and used sequence analysis to search for toxin-like molecules. Although the slime did not appear to be toxic to Artemia we found 13 proteins in slime with the hallmarks of toxins, namely cysteine richness, short length, a signal peptide and/or homology to known toxins. These included three short (80-130AA) cysteine rich secreted proteins with no homology to proteins on the NCBI or UniProt databases. Other protein families found included, CAP, phospholipase-B, ShKT-like peptides, peptidase S10, Kunitz BPTI and DNase II. Quantitative analysis using intensity based absolute quantification (iBAQ via MaxQuant) revealed 20 highly abundant proteins, accounting for 67% of iBAQ signal, and three of these were toxin-like. No mucin homologues were found suggesting that the structure of the slime gel may be formed by an unknown mechanism. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This study is the first known instance of a slime secretion from a cephalopod to be analyzed by proteomics methods and is the first investigation of a member of the family Sepiadariidae using proteomic methods. 1735 proteins were identified with 13 of these fitting criteria established for the identification of putative toxins. The slime is dominated by 20 highly abundant proteins with secreted, cysteine rich proteins. The study highlights the importance of 'omics approaches in understanding novel organisms.
PXD003637	27477282	TAILS N-Terminomics and Proteomics Show Protein Degradation Dominates over Proteolytic Processing by Cathepsins in Pancreatic Tumors. 	TAILS proteomics of murine pancreatic tumors	ECM, Pancreatic neuroendocrine cancer, TAILS N-terminomics, cysteine cathepsins, degradation, proteases, proteolytic processing, substrate discovery	Deregulated cathepsin proteolysis occurs across numerous cancers, but in vivo substrates mediating tumorigenesis remain ill-defined. Applying 8-plex iTRAQ terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates (TAILS), a systems-level N-terminome degradomics approach, we identified cathepsin B, H, L, S, and Z in vivo substrates and cleavage sites with the use of six different cathepsin knockout genotypes in the Rip1-Tag2 mouse model of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumorigenesis. Among 1,935 proteins and 1,114 N termini identified by TAILS, stable proteolytic products were identified in wild-type tumors compared with one or more different cathepsin knockouts (17%-44% of 139 cleavages). This suggests a lack of compensation at the substrate level by other cathepsins. The majority of neo-N termini (56%-83%) for all cathepsins was consistent with protein degradation. We validated substrates, including the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 associated with the Warburg effect, the ER chaperone GRP78, and the oncoprotein prothymosin-alpha. Thus, the identification of cathepsin substrates in tumorigenesis improves the understanding of cathepsin functions in normal physiology and cancer.
PXD003016	27477394	Comparative Proteome Analysis in Schizosaccharomyces pombe Identifies Metabolic Targets to Improve Protein Production and Secretion. 	Comparative Proteome Analysis in Schizosaccharomyces pombe identifies metabolic targets to improve protein production and secretion	2D-LC MALDI MS, 5800 Proteome Analyzer, high/low pH LC, iTRAQ, isobaric labeling	Protein secretion in yeast is a complex process and its efficiency depends on a variety of parameters. We performed a comparative proteome analysis of a set of Schizosaccharomyces pombe strains producing the alpha-glucosidase maltase in increasing amounts to investigate the overall proteomic response of the cell to the burden of protein production along the various steps of protein production and secretion. Proteome analysis of these strains, utilizing an isobaric labeling/two dimensional LC-MALDI MS approach, revealed complex changes, from chaperones and secretory transport machinery to proteins controlling transcription and translation. We also found an unexpectedly high amount of changes in enzyme levels of the central carbon metabolism and a significant up-regulation of several amino acid biosyntheses. These amino acids were partially underrepresented in the cellular protein compared with the composition of the model protein. Additional feeding of these amino acids resulted in a 1.5-fold increase in protein secretion. Membrane fluidity was identified as a second bottleneck for high-level protein secretion and addition of fluconazole to the culture caused a significant decrease in ergosterol levels, whereas protein secretion could be further increased by a factor of 2.1. In summary, we show that high level protein secretion causes global changes of protein expression levels in the cell and that precursor availability and membrane composition limit protein secretion in this yeast. In this respect, comparative proteome analysis is a powerful tool to identify targets for an efficient increase of protein production and secretion in S. pombe Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD002693 and PXD003016.
PXD004163	27477696	microRNAs with AAGUGC seed motif constitute an integral part of an oncogenic signaling network. 	Proteomics of U1810 cells upon treatment with microRNAs with an AAGUGC seed motif.	HiRIEF, LC-MS, U1810, miRNA, microRNA	microRNA (miRNA) dysregulation is a common feature of cancer cells, but the complex roles of miRNAs in cancer are not fully elucidated. Here, we used functional genomics to identify oncogenic miRNAs in non-small cell lung cancer and evaluate their impact on response to epidermal growth factor (EGFR)-targeting therapy. Our data demonstrate that miRNAs with an AAGUGC motif in their seed sequence increase both cancer cell proliferation and sensitivity to EGFR inhibitors. Global transcriptomics, proteomics and target prediction resulted in the identification of several tumor suppressors involved in the G1/S transition as AAGUGC-miRNA targets. The clinical implications of our findings were evaluated by analysis of AAGUGC-miRNA expression in multiple cancer types, supporting the link between this miRNA seed family, their tumor suppressor targets and cancer cell proliferation. In conclusion, we propose the AAGUGC seed motif as an oncomotif and that oncomotif-miRNAs promote cancer cell proliferation. These findings have potential therapeutic implications, especially in selecting patients for EGFR-targeting therapy.
PXD004322	27480176	Endoplasmic Reticulum Chaperones Are Potential Active Factors in Thyroid Tumorigenesis. 	Human thyroid neoplasms LC-MS/MS analysis	thyroid	The study aimed to evaluate the proteomic changes in benign follicular adenoma versus malignant follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma. Tumor and nontumor adjacent samples were analyzed by liquid nanochromatography mass spectrometry, and protein abundance was evaluated by label-free quantification. Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction were used to validate and complement the mass spectrometry data. The results demonstrated deregulated expression of four endoplasmic reticulum chaperones (78 kDa glucose-regulated protein, endoplasmin, calnexin, protein disulfide-isomerase A4), glutathione peroxidase 3 and thyroglobulin, all of them involved in thyroid hormone synthesis pathway. The altered tissue abundance of endoplasmic reticulum chaperones in thyroid cancer was correlated with serum expression levels. The identified proteins significantly discriminate between adenoma and carcinoma in both thyroid tissue and corresponding sera. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004322.
PXD003572	27481114	The active microbial diversity drives ecosystem multifunctionality and is physiologically related to carbon availability in Mediterranean semi-arid soils. 	Soil Metaproteomics -  The active microbial diversity drives ecosystem multifunctionality and is physiologically related to carbon availability in Mediterranean semi-arid soils	Dryland, Metaproteomics, Soil	Biogeochemical processes and ecosystemic functions are mostly driven by soil microbial communities. However, most methods focus on evaluating the total microbial community and fail to discriminate its active fraction which is linked to soil functionality. Precisely, the activity of the microbial community is strongly limited by the availability of organic carbon (C) in soils under arid and semi-arid climate. Here, we provide a complementary genomic and metaproteomic approach to investigate the relationships between the diversity of the total community, the active diversity and ecosystem functionality across a dissolved organic carbon (DOC) gradient in southeast Spain. DOC correlated with the ecosystem multifunctionality index composed by soil respiration, enzyme activities (urease, alkaline phosphatase and beta-glucosidase) and microbial biomass (phospholipid fatty acids, PLFA). This study highlights that the active diversity (determined by metaprotoemics) but not the diversity of the whole microbial community (evaluated by amplicon gene sequencing) is related to the availability of organic C and it is also connected to the ecosystem multifunctionality index. We reveal that DOC shapes the activities of bacterial and fungal populations in Mediterranean semi-arid soils and determines the compartmentalization of functional niches. For instance, Rhizobales thrived at high-DOC sites probably fuelled by metabolism of one-C compounds. Moreover, the analysis of proteins involved in the transport and metabolism of carbohydrates revealed that Ascomycota and Basidiomycota occupied different nutritional niches. The functional mechanisms for niche specialization were not constant across the DOC gradient.
PXD004213	27482120	Innate immunity kinase TAK1 phosphorylates Rab1 on a hotspot for posttranslational modifications by host and pathogen. 	The innate immunity kinase TAK1 phosphorylates Rab1 on a hotspot for post-translational modifications by host and pathogen	analog specific kinase, covalent capture, kinase, kinase substrates	TGF-beta activated kinase 1 (TAK1) is a critical signaling hub responsible for translating antigen binding signals to immune receptors for the activation of the AP-1 and NF-kappaB master transcriptional programs. Despite its importance, known substrates of TAK1 are limited to kinases of the MAPK and IKK families and include no direct effectors of biochemical processes. Here, we identify over 200 substrates of TAK1 using a chemical genetic kinase strategy. We validate phosphorylation of the dynamic switch II region of GTPase Rab1, a mediator of endoplasmic reticulum to Golgi vesicular transport, at T75 to be regulated by TAK1 in vivo. TAK1 preferentially phosphorylates the inactive (GDP-bound) state of Rab1. Phosphorylation of Rab1 disrupts interaction with GDP dissociation inhibitor 1 (GDI1), but not guanine exchange factor (GEF) or GTPase-activating protein (GAP) enzymes, and is exclusive to membrane-localized Rab1, suggesting phosphorylation may stimulate Rab1 membrane association. Furthermore, we found phosphorylation of Rab1 at T75 to be essential for Rab1 function. Previous studies established that the pathogen Legionella pneumophila is capable of hijacking Rab1 function through posttranslational modifications of the switch II region. Here, we present evidence that Rab1 is regulated by the host in a similar fashion, and that the innate immunity kinase TAK1 and Legionella effectors compete to regulate Rab1 by switch II modifications during infection.
PXD001620	27486199	Phosphoproteomics to Characterize Host Response During Influenza A Virus Infection of Human Macrophages. 	Phosphoproteomic characterization of infulenza A virus infected human macrophages	influenza A virus, phosphorylation, primary human macrophages	Influenza A viruses cause infections in the human respiratory tract and give rise to annual seasonal outbreaks, as well as more rarely dreaded pandemics. Influenza A viruses become quickly resistant to the virus-directed antiviral treatments, which are the current main treatment options. A promising alternative approach is to target host cell factors that are exploited by influenza viruses. To this end, we characterized the phosphoproteome of influenza A virus infected primary human macrophages to elucidate the intracellular signaling pathways and critical host factors activated upon influenza infection. We identified 1675 phosphoproteins, 4004 phosphopeptides and 4146 nonredundant phosphosites. The phosphorylation of 1113 proteins (66%) was regulated upon infection, highlighting the importance of such global phosphoproteomic profiling in primary cells. Notably, 285 of the identified phosphorylation sites have not been previously described in publicly available phosphorylation databases, despite many published large-scale phosphoproteome studies using human and mouse cell lines. Systematic bioinformatics analysis of the phosphoproteome data indicated that the phosphorylation of proteins involved in the ubiquitin/proteasome pathway (such as TRIM22 and TRIM25) and antiviral responses (such as MAVS) changed in infected macrophages. Proteins known to play roles in small GTPase-, mitogen-activated protein kinase-, and cyclin-dependent kinase- signaling were also regulated by phosphorylation upon infection. In particular, the influenza infection had a major influence on the phosphorylation profiles of a large number of cyclin-dependent kinase substrates. Functional studies using cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors showed that the cyclin-dependent kinase activity is required for efficient viral replication and for activation of the host antiviral responses. In addition, we show that cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors protect IAV-infected mice from death. In conclusion, we provide the first comprehensive phosphoproteome characterization of influenza A virus infection in primary human macrophages, and provide evidence that cyclin-dependent kinases represent potential therapeutic targets for more effective treatment of influenza infections.
PXD004675	27490537	Drought-Induced Leaf Proteome Changes in Switchgrass Seedlings. 	Switchgrass drought-induced leaf proteomics analysis	Eight-Plex-ITRAQ, ProteoMiner, drought tolerance	Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) is a perennial crop producing deep roots and thus highly tolerant to soil water deficit conditions. However, seedling establishment in the field is very susceptible to prolonged and periodic drought stress. In this study, a "sandwich" system simulating a gradual water deletion process was developed. Switchgrass seedlings were subjected to a 20-day gradual drought treatment process when soil water tension was increased to 0.05 MPa (moderate drought stress) and leaf physiological properties had expressed significant alteration. Drought-induced changes in leaf proteomes were identified using the isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) labeling method followed by nano-scale liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (nano-LC-MS/MS) analysis. Additionally, total leaf proteins were processed using a combinatorial library of peptide ligands to enrich for lower abundance proteins. Both total proteins and those enriched samples were analyzed to increase the coverage of the quantitative proteomics analysis. A total of 7006 leaf proteins were identified, and 257 (4% of the leaf proteome) expressed a significant difference (p < 0.05, fold change <0.6 or >1.7) from the non-treated control to drought-treated conditions. These proteins are involved in the regulation of transcription and translation, cell division, cell wall modification, phyto-hormone metabolism and signaling transduction pathways, and metabolic pathways of carbohydrates, amino acids, and fatty acids. A scheme of abscisic acid (ABA)-biosynthesis and ABA responsive signal transduction pathway was reconstructed using these drought-induced significant proteins, showing systemic regulation at protein level to deploy the respective mechanism. Results from this study, in addition to revealing molecular responses to drought stress, provide a large number of proteins (candidate genes) that can be employed to improve switchgrass seedling growth and establishment under soil drought conditions (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004675).
PXD001794	27492143	Quantitative proteomic analysis exploring progression of colorectal cancer: Modulation of the serpin family. 	Modulation of Serpin family levels detected by proteomics to monitor colorectal adenoma to carcinoma progression	Biomarker, Colorectal cancer, ELISA, iTRAQ	Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a major cause of cancer related-death in developed countries. The mortality risk is correlated with the stage of CRC determined at the primary diagnosis and early diagnosis is associated with enhanced survival rate. Currently, only faecal occult blood tests are used to screen for CRC. Consequently, there is an incentive to identify specific markers of CRC. We used quantitative proteomic analysis of serum samples to characterize protein profiles in adenoma, CRC and healthy control samples. We identified 89 distinct proteins modulated between normal, colorectal adenoma and carcinoma patients. This list emphasizes proteins involved in enzyme regulator activities and in particular the serpin family. In serum samples, protein profiles of three members of the serpin family (SERPINA1, SERPINA3 and SERPINC1) were confirmed by ELISA assays. We obtained sensitivity/specificity values of 95%/95% for both SERPINA1 and SERPINC1, and 95%/55% for SERPINA3. This study supports the idea that serum proteins can discriminate adenoma and CRC patients from unaffected patients and reveals a panel of regulated proteins that might be useful for selecting patients for colonoscopy. By evaluating SERPINA1, SERPINA3 and SERPINC1, we highlight the potential role of the serpin family during the development and progression of CRC. SIGNIFICANCE: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a major cause of cancer mortality throughout the world. However, very few CRC biomarkers have satisfactory sensitivity and specificity in clinical practice. To the best of our knowledge our study is the first to profile sera proteomes between adenoma, CRC and healthy patients. We report a comprehensive list of proteins that may be used as early diagnostic biomarkers of CRC. It is noteworthy that 17% of these modulated proteins have been previously described as candidate biomarkers in CRC. Enzyme regulator activity was found to be the main molecular function among these proteins and, in particular, there was an enrichment of members of the serpin family. The subsequent verification on a new cohort by ELISA demonstrates that these serpins could be useful to discriminate healthy from colorectal carcinoma patients with a high sensitivity and specificity. The combination of these biomarkers should increase predictive powers of CRC diagnosis. The remaining candidates form a reserve for further evaluation of additional biomarkers for CRC diagnosis.
PXD002970	27492267	The N-myristoylome of Trypanosoma cruzi. 	The N-myristoylome of Trypanosoma cruzi.	Click chemistry, N-myristoylation, N-myristoyltransferase, Trypanosoma cruzi	Protein N-myristoylation is catalysed by N-myristoyltransferase (NMT), an essential and druggable target in Trypanosoma cruzi, the causative agent of Chagas' disease. Here we have employed whole cell labelling with azidomyristic acid and click chemistry to identify N-myristoylated proteins in different life cycle stages of the parasite. Only minor differences in fluorescent-labelling were observed between the dividing forms (the insect epimastigote and mammalian amastigote stages) and the non-dividing trypomastigote stage. Using a combination of label-free and stable isotope labelling of cells in culture (SILAC) based proteomic strategies in the presence and absence of the NMT inhibitor DDD85646, we identified 56 proteins enriched in at least two out of the three experimental approaches. Of these, 6 were likely to be false positives, with the remaining 50 commencing with amino acids MG at the N-terminus in one or more of the T. cruzi genomes. Most of these are proteins of unknown function (32), with the remainder (18) implicated in a diverse range of critical cellular and metabolic functions such as intracellular transport, cell signalling and protein turnover. In summary, we have established that 0.43-0.46% of the proteome is N-myristoylated in T. cruzi approaching that of other eukaryotic organisms (0.5-1.7%).
PXD004089	27494197	Comprehensive Characterization of Minichromosome Maintenance Complex (MCM) Protein Interactions Using Affinity and Proximity Purifications Coupled to Mass Spectrometry. 	Comprehensive characterization of Minichromosome Maintenance Complex (MCM) protein interactions using affinity and proximity purifications coupled to mass spectrometry.	AP-MS, BioID, MCM complex	The extensive identification of protein-protein interactions under different conditions is an important challenge to understand the cellular functions of proteins. Here we use and compare different approaches including affinity purification and purification by proximity coupled to mass spectrometry to identify protein complexes. We explore the complete interactome of the minichromosome maintenance (MCM) complex by using both approaches for all of the different MCM proteins. Overall, our analysis identified unique and shared interaction partners and proteins enriched for distinct biological processes including DNA replication, DNA repair, and cell cycle regulation. Furthermore, we mapped the changes in protein interactions of the MCM complex in response to DNA damage, identifying a new role for this complex in DNA repair. In summary, we demonstrate the complementarity of these approaches for the characterization of protein interactions within the MCM complex.
PXD003066	27498275	In-depth analysis of protein inference algorithms using multiple search engines and well-defined metrics. 	In-depth Analysis of Protein Inference Algorithms using a Workflow Framework and Well-Defined Metrics - yeast Swiss-Prot (equal to proteome) analysis	reanalysis	In mass spectrometry-based shotgun proteomics, protein identifications are usually the desired result. However, most of the analytical methods are based on the identification of reliable peptides and not the direct identification of intact proteins. Thus, assembling peptides identified from tandem mass spectra into a list of proteins, referred to as protein inference, is a critical step in proteomics research. Currently, different protein inference algorithms and tools are available for the proteomics community. Here, we evaluated five software tools for protein inference (PIA, ProteinProphet, Fido, ProteinLP, MSBayesPro) using three popular database search engines: Mascot, X!Tandem, and MS-GF+. All the algorithms were evaluated using a highly customizable KNIME workflow using four different public datasets with varying complexities (different sample preparation, species and analytical instruments). We defined a set of quality control metrics to evaluate the performance of each combination of search engines, protein inference algorithm, and parameters on each dataset. We show that the results for complex samples vary not only regarding the actual numbers of reported protein groups but also concerning the actual composition of groups. Furthermore, the robustness of reported proteins when using databases of differing complexities is strongly dependant on the applied inference algorithm. Finally, merging the identifications of multiple search engines does not necessarily increase the number of reported proteins, but does increase the number of peptides per protein and thus can generally be recommended. SIGNIFICANCE: Protein inference is one of the major challenges in MS-based proteomics nowadays. Currently, there are a vast number of protein inference algorithms and implementations available for the proteomics community. Protein assembly impacts in the final results of the research, the quantitation values and the final claims in the research manuscript. Even though protein inference is a crucial step in proteomics data analysis, a comprehensive evaluation of the many different inference methods has never been performed. Previously Journal of proteomics has published multiple studies about other benchmark of bioinformatics algorithms (PMID: 26585461; PMID: 22728601) in proteomics studies making clear the importance of those studies for the proteomics community and the journal audience. This manuscript presents a new bioinformatics solution based on the KNIME/OpenMS platform that aims at providing a fair comparison of protein inference algorithms (https://github.com/KNIME-OMICS). Six different algorithms - ProteinProphet, MSBayesPro, ProteinLP, Fido and PIA- were evaluated using the highly customizable workflow on four public datasets with varying complexities. Five popular database search engines Mascot, X!Tandem, MS-GF+ and combinations thereof were evaluated for every protein inference tool. In total >186 proteins lists were analyzed and carefully compare using three metrics for quality assessments of the protein inference results: 1) the numbers of reported proteins, 2) peptides per protein, and the 3) number of uniquely reported proteins per inference method, to address the quality of each inference method. We also examined how many proteins were reported by choosing each combination of search engines, protein inference algorithms and parameters on each dataset. The results show that using 1) PIA or Fido seems to be a good choice when studying the results of the analyzed workflow, regarding not only the reported proteins and the high-quality identifications, but also the required runtime. 2) Merging the identifications of multiple search engines gives almost always more confident results and increases the number of peptides per protein group. 3) The usage of databases containing not only the canonical, but also known isoforms of proteins has a small impact on the number of reported proteins. The detection of specific isoforms could, concerning the question behind the study, compensate for slightly shorter reports using the parsimonious reports. 4) The current workflow can be easily extended to support new algorithms and search engine combinations.
PXD003683	27498392	An early dysregulation of FAK and MEK/ERK signaling pathways precedes the beta-amyloid deposition in the olfactory bulb of APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. 	Olfactory bulb proteome characterization in APP/PS1 mice	olfactory bulb	Olfactory dysfunction is an early event of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanisms associated to AD neurodegeneration in olfactory areas are unknown. Here we used double-transgenic amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 (APPswe/PS1dE9) mice and label-free quantitative proteomics to analyze early pathological effects on the olfactory bulb (OB) during AD progression. Prior to beta-amyloid plaque formation, 9 modulated proteins were detected on 3-month-old APP/PS1 mice while 16 differential expressed proteins were detected at 6months, when beta-amyloid plaques appear, indicating a moderate imbalance in cytoskeletal rearrangement, and synaptic plasticity in APP/PS1 OBs. Moreover, beta-amyloid induced an inactivation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) together with a transient activation of MEK1/2, leading to inactivation of ERK1/2 in 6-months APP/PS1 OBs. In contrast, the analysis of human OBs revealed a late activation of FAK in advanced AD stages, whereas ERK1/2 activation was enhanced across AD staging respect to controls. This survival potential was accompanied by the inhibition of the proapototic factor BAD in the OB across AD phenotypes. Our data contribute to a better understanding of the early molecular mechanisms that are modulated in AD neurodegeneration, highlighting significant differences in the regulation of survival pathways between APP/PS1 mice and sporadic human AD. SIGNIFICANCE: Loss of smell is involved in early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD), usually preceding classic disease symptoms. However, the mechanisms governing this dysfunction are still poorly understood, losing its potential as a useful tool for clinical diagnosis. Our study characterizes potential AD-associated molecular changes in APP/PS1 mice olfactory bulb (OB) using MS-quantitative proteomics, revealing early cytoskeletal disruption and synaptic plasticity impairment. Moreover, an opposite pattern was found when comparing the activation status of specific survival pathways between APP/PS1 OBs and OBs derived from sAD subjects with different neuropathological grading. Our data reflect, in part, the progressive effect of APP overproduction and Abeta accumulation on the OB proteome during AD progression.
PXD002286	27499020	Phosphoproteome Integration Reveals Patient-Specific Networks in Prostate Cancer. 	Phospo-proteomic profiling of Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer	phosphorylation, prostate cancer	We used clinical tissue from lethal metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) patients obtained at rapid autopsy to evaluate diverse genomic, transcriptomic, and phosphoproteomic datasets for pathway analysis. Using Tied Diffusion through Interacting Events (TieDIE), we integrated differentially expressed master transcriptional regulators, functionally mutated genes, and differentially activated kinases in CRPC tissues to synthesize a robust signaling network consisting of druggable kinase pathways. Using MSigDB hallmark gene sets, six major signaling pathways with phosphorylation of several key residues were significantly enriched in CRPC tumors after incorporation of phosphoproteomic data. Individual autopsy profiles developed using these hallmarks revealed clinically relevant pathway information potentially suitable for patient stratification and targeted therapies in late stage prostate cancer. Here, we describe phosphorylation-based cancer hallmarks using integrated personalized signatures (pCHIPS) that shed light on the diversity of activated signaling pathways in metastatic CRPC while providing an integrative, pathway-based reference for drug prioritization in individual patients.
PXD010562	27499720	Quantification of angiotensin II-regulated proteins in urine of patients with polycystic and other chronic kidney diseases by selected reaction monitoring. 	Urine_AngII_proteins (Konvalinka et al. 2016)	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	BACKGROUND: Angiotensin-II (Ang II) mediates progression of autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and other chronic kidney diseases (CKD). However, markers of kidney Ang II activity are lacking. We previously defined 83 Ang II-regulated proteins in vitro, which reflected kidney Ang II activity in vivo. METHODS: In this study, we developed selected reaction monitoring (SRM) assays for quantification of Ang II-regulated proteins in urine of ADPKD and CKD patients. We demonstrated that 47 of 83 Ang II-regulated transcripts were differentially expressed in cystic compared to normal kidney tissue. We then developed SRM assays for 18 Ang II-regulated proteins overexpressed in cysts and/or secreted in urine. Methods that yielded CV <= 6 % for control proteins, and recovery ~100 % were selected. Heavy-labeled peptides corresponding to 13 identified Ang II-regulated peptides were spiked into urine samples of 17 ADPKD patients, 9 patients with CKD predicted to have high kidney Ang II activity and 11 healthy subjects. Samples were then digested and analyzed on triple-quadrupole mass spectrometer in duplicates. RESLUTS: Calibration curves demonstrated linearity (R(2) > 0.99) and within-run CVs < 9 % in the concentration range of 7/13 peptides. Peptide concentrations were normalized by urine creatinine. Deamidated peptide forms were monitored, and accounted for <15 % of the final concentrations. Urine excretion rates of proteins BST1, LAMB2, LYPA1, RHOB and TSP1 were significantly different (p < 0.05, one-way ANOVA) between patients with CKD, those with ADPKD and healthy controls. Urine protein excretion rates were highest in CKD patients and lowest in ADPKD patients. Univariate analysis demonstrated significant association between urine protein excretion rates of most proteins and disease group (p < 0.05, ANOVA) as well as sex (p < 0.05, unpaired t test). Multivariate analysis across protein concentration, age and sex demonstrated good separation between ADPKD and CKD patients. CONCLUSIONS: We have optimized methods for quantification of Ang II-regulated proteins, and we demonstrated that they reflected differences in underlying kidney disease in this pilot study. High urine excretion of Ang II-regulated proteins in CKD patients likely reflects high kidney Ang II activity. Low excretion in ADPKD appears related to lack of communication between cysts and tubules. Future studies will determine whether urine excretion rate of Ang II-regulated proteins correlates with kidney Ang II activity in larger cohorts of chronic kidney disease patients.
PXD003794	27500424	Glycoproteomic Analysis of Malignant Ovarian Cancer Ascites Fluid Identifies Unusual Glycopeptides. 	Glycomic and proteomic analyses of malignant ascites fluid were used to identify  potential metastatic biomarkers of epithelial ovarian cancer : Partial	ascites, concanavalin A, epithelial ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer is a major cause of cancer mortality among women, largely due to late diagnosis of advanced metastatic disease. More extensive molecular analysis of metastatic ovarian cancer is needed to identify post-translational modifications of proteins, especially glycosylation that is particularly associated with metastatic disease to better understand the metastatic process and identify potential therapeutic targets. Glycoproteins in ascites fluid were enriched by affinity binding to lectins (ConA or WGA) and other affinity matrices. Separate glycomic, proteomic, and glycopeptide analyses were performed. Relative abundances of different N-glycan groups and proteins were identified from ascites fluids and a serum control. Levels of biomarkers CA125, MUC1, and fibronectin were also monitored in OC ascites samples by Western blot analysis. N-Glycan analysis of ascites fluids showed the presence of large, highly fucosylated and sialylated complex and hybrid glycans, some of which were not observed in normal serum. OC ascites glycoproteins, haptoglobin, fibronectin, lumican, fibulin, hemopexin, ceruloplasmin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, and alpha-1-antichymotrypsin were more abundant in OC ascites or not present in serum control samples. Further glycopeptide analysis of OC ascites identified N- and O-glycans in clusterin, hemopexin, and fibulin glycopeptides, some of which are unusual and may be important in OC metastasis.
PXD004271	27500525	Nucleation of DNA repair factors by FOXA1 links DNA demethylation to transcriptional pioneering. 	Nucleation of DNA Repair Factors by FOXA1 Links DNA Demethylation and Transcriptional Pioneering		FOXA1 functions in epigenetic reprogramming and is described as a 'pioneer factor'. However, exactly how FOXA1 achieves these remarkable biological functions is not fully understood. Here we report that FOXA1 associates with DNA repair complexes and is required for genomic targeting of DNA polymerase beta (POLB) in human cells. Genome-wide DNA methylomes demonstrate that the FOXA1 DNA repair complex is functionally linked to DNA demethylation in a lineage-specific fashion. Depletion of FOXA1 results in localized reestablishment of methylation in a large portion of FOXA1-bound regions, and the regions with the most consistent hypermethylation exhibit the greatest loss of POLB and are represented by active promoters and enhancers. Consistently, overexpression of FOXA1 commits its binding sites to active DNA demethylation in a POLB-dependent manner. Finally, FOXA1-associated DNA demethylation is tightly coupled with estrogen receptor genomic targeting and estrogen responsiveness. Together, these results link FOXA1-associated DNA demethylation to transcriptional pioneering by FOXA1.
PXD004515	27501389	Is Transthyretin a Regulator of Ubc9 SUMOylation? 	Is transthyretin a regulator of Ubc9 SUMOylation?	SUMOylation, UFDS, Ubc9, post-translational modifications, transthyretin	Ageing and mutations of transthyretin (TTR), the thyroid hormones and retinol transporting protein lead to amyloidosis by destabilizing the structure of TTR. Because protein structure is regulated through posttranslational modifications, we investigated the Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier (SUMO)ylation of TTR. We chose the widely used Ubc9 fusion-directed SUMOylation system, which is based on a fusion of the SUMOylation substrate of interest with Ubc9, a sole SUMO conjugating enzyme. Surprisingly, despite our presumptions, we found that Ubc9 fused to TTR was SUMOylated at a unique set of lysine residues. Three unknown SUMOylation sites of Ubc9-K154, K18 and K65-were revealed by mass spectrometry (MS). The previously reported SUMOylation at K49 of Ubc9 was also observed. SUMOylation of the lysine residues of TTR fused to Ubc9 was hardly detectable. However, non-fused TTR was SUMOylated via trans-SUMOylation by Ubc9 fused to TTR. Interestingly, mutating the catalytic residue of Ubc9 fused to TTR did not result in complete loss of the SUMOylation signal, suggesting that Ubc9 linked to TTR is directly cross-SUMOylated by the SUMO-activating enzyme E1. Ubc9, TTR or fusion proteins composed of TTR and Ubc9 specifically affected the global SUMOylation of cellular proteins. TTR or Ubc9 alone increased global SUMOylation, whereas concomitant presence of TTR and Ubc9 did not further increase the amount of high-molecular weight (HMW) SUMO conjugates. Our data suggest that TTR may influence the SUMOylation of Ubc9, thereby altering signalling pathways in the cell.
PXD004212	27503897	Human Sirtuin 2 Localization, Transient Interactions, and Impact on the Proteome Point to Its Role in Intracellular Trafficking. 	AP-MS analysis of sirtuin-2 interactions and whole-cell proteome analysis in human fibroblasts	human fibroblasts	Human sirtuin 2 (SIRT2) is an NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase that primarily functions in the cytoplasm, where it can regulate alpha-tubulin acetylation levels. SIRT2 is linked to cancer progression, neurodegeneration, and infection with bacteria or viruses. However, the current knowledge about its interactions and the means through which it exerts its functions has remained limited. Here, we aimed to gain a better understanding of its cellular functions by characterizing SIRT2 subcellular localization, the identity and relative stability of its protein interactions, and its impact on the proteome of primary human fibroblasts. To assess the relative stability of SIRT2 interactions, we used immunoaffinity purification in conjunction with both label-free and metabolic labeling quantitative mass spectrometry. In addition to the expected associations with cytoskeleton proteins, including its known substrate TUBA1A, our results reveal that SIRT2 specifically interacts with proteins functioning in membrane trafficking, secretory processes, and transcriptional regulation. By quantifying their relative stability, we found most interactions to be transient, indicating a dynamic SIRT2 environment. We discover that SIRT2 localizes to the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), and that this recruitment requires an intact ER-Golgi trafficking pathway. Further expanding these findings, we used microscopy and interaction assays to establish the interaction and coregulation of SIRT2 with liprin-beta1 scaffolding protein (PPFiBP1), a protein with roles in focal adhesions disassembly. As SIRT2 functions may be accomplished via interactions, enzymatic activity, and transcriptional regulation, we next assessed the impact of SIRT2 levels on the cellular proteome. SIRT2 knockdown led to changes in the levels of proteins functioning in membrane trafficking, including some of its interaction partners. Altogether, our study expands the knowledge of SIRT2 cytoplasmic functions to define a previously unrecognized involvement in intracellular trafficking pathways, which may contribute to its roles in cellular homeostasis and human diseases.
PXD003877	27504668	Identification of Mitosis-Specific Phosphorylation in Mitotic Chromosome-Associated Proteins. 	phosphoproteome in mitotic chromosomes	mitosischromatin phosphorylation	During mitosis, phosphorylation of chromosome-associated proteins is a key regulatory mechanism. Mass spectrometry has been successfully applied to determine the complete protein composition of mitotic chromosomes, but not to identify post-translational modifications. Here, we quantitatively compared the phosphoproteome of isolated mitotic chromosomes with that of chromosomes in nonsynchronized cells. We identified 4274 total phosphorylation sites and 350 mitosis-specific phosphorylation sites in mitotic chromosome-associated proteins. Significant mitosis-specific phosphorylation in centromere/kinetochore proteins was detected, although the chromosomal association of these proteins did not change throughout the cell cycle. This mitosis-specific phosphorylation might play a key role in regulation of mitosis. Further analysis revealed strong dependency of phosphorylation dynamics on kinase consensus patterns, thus linking the identified phosphorylation sites to known key mitotic kinases. Remarkably, chromosomal axial proteins such as non-SMC subunits of condensin, TopoIIalpha, and Kif4A, together with the chromosomal periphery protein Ki67 involved in the establishment of the mitotic chromosomal structure, demonstrated high phosphorylation during mitosis. These findings suggest a novel mechanism for regulation of chromosome restructuring in mitosis via protein phosphorylation. Our study generated a large quantitative database on protein phosphorylation in mitotic and nonmitotic chromosomes, thus providing insights into the dynamics of chromatin protein phosphorylation at mitosis onset.
PXD002139	27506200	A tissue-specific protein purification approach in Caenorhabditis elegans identifies novel interaction partners of DLG-1/Discs large. 	AP-MS of tissue-specific protein complexes in C. elegans	AP-MS, BirA biotin ligase, C. elegans, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project	BACKGROUND: Affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry (AP/MS) is a widely used approach to identify protein interactions and complexes. In multicellular organisms, the accurate identification of protein complexes by AP/MS is complicated by the potential heterogeneity of complexes in different tissues. Here, we present an in vivo biotinylation-based approach for the tissue-specific purification of protein complexes from Caenorhabditis elegans. Tissue-specific biotinylation is achieved by the expression in select tissues of the bacterial biotin ligase BirA, which biotinylates proteins tagged with the Avi peptide. RESULTS: We generated N- and C-terminal tags combining GFP with the Avi peptide sequence, as well as four BirA driver lines expressing BirA ubiquitously and specifically in the seam and hyp7 epidermal cells, intestine, or neurons. We validated the ability of our approach to identify bona fide protein interactions by identifying the known LGL-1 interaction partners PAR-6 and PKC-3. Purification of the Discs large protein DLG-1 identified several candidate interaction partners, including the AAA-type ATPase ATAD-3 and the uncharacterized protein MAPH-1.1. We have identified the domains that mediate the DLG-1/ATAD-3 interaction, and show that this interaction contributes to C. elegans development. MAPH-1.1 co-purified specifically with DLG-1 purified from neurons, and shared limited homology with the microtubule-associated protein MAP1A, a known neuronal interaction partner of mammalian DLG4/PSD95. A CRISPR/Cas9-engineered GFP::MAPH-1.1 fusion was broadly expressed and co-localized with microtubules. CONCLUSIONS: The method we present here is able to purify protein complexes from specific tissues. We uncovered a series of DLG-1 interactors, and conclude that ATAD-3 is a biologically relevant interaction partner of DLG-1. Finally, we conclude that MAPH-1.1 is a microtubule-associated protein of the MAP1 family and a candidate neuron-specific interaction partner of DLG-1.
PXD002803	27506355	Direct glycan structure determination of intact N-linked glycopeptides by low-energy collision-induced dissociation tandem mass spectrometry and predicted spectral library searching. 	Direct glycan structure determination of intact N-linked glycopeptides by low-energy collision-induced association tandem mass spectrometry and predicted spectral library searching	Glycopeptide	Intact glycopeptide MS analysis to reveal site-specific protein glycosylation is an important frontier of proteomics. However, computational tools for analyzing MS/MS spectra of intact glycopeptides are still limited and not well-integrated into existing workflows. In this work, a new computational tool which combines the spectral library building/searching tool, SpectraST (Lam et al. Nat. Methods2008, 5, 873-875), and the glycopeptide fragmentation prediction tool, MassAnalyzer (Zhang et al. Anal. Chem.2010, 82, 10194-10202) for intact glycopeptide analysis has been developed. Specifically, this tool enables the determination of the glycan structure directly from low-energy collision-induced dissociation (CID) spectra of intact glycopeptides. Given a list of possible glycopeptide sequences as input, a sample-specific spectral library of MassAnalyzer-predicted spectra is built using SpectraST. Glycan identification from CID spectra is achieved by spectral library searching against this library, in which both m/z and intensity information of the possible fragmentation ions are taken into consideration for improved accuracy. We validated our method using a standard glycoprotein, human transferrin, and evaluated its potential to be used in site-specific glycosylation profiling of glycoprotein datasets from LC-MS/MS. In addition, we further applied our method to reveal, for the first time, the site-specific N-glycosylation profile of recombinant human acetylcholinesterase expressed in HEK293 cells. For maximum usability, SpectraST is developed as part of the Trans-Proteomic Pipeline (TPP), a freely available and open-source software suite for MS data analysis.
PXD004400	27507967	Characterization of Outer Membrane Proteome of Akkermansia muciniphila Reveals Sets of Novel Proteins Exposed to the Human Intestine. 	Akkermansia muciniphila proteome.	Akkermansia muciniphila, gut microbiota, outer membrane, pili, verrucomicrobia	Akkermansia muciniphila is a common member of the human gut microbiota and belongs to the Planctomycetes-Verrucomicrobia-Chlamydiae superphylum. Decreased levels of A. muciniphila have been associated with many diseases, and thus it is considered to be a beneficial resident of the intestinal mucus layer. Surface-exposed molecules produced by this organism likely play important roles in colonization and communication with other microbes and the host, but the protein composition of the outer membrane (OM) has not been characterized thus far. Herein we set out to identify and characterize A. muciniphila proteins using an integrated approach of proteomics and computational analysis. Sarkosyl extraction and sucrose density-gradient centrifugation methods were used to enrich and fractionate the OM proteome of A. muciniphila. Proteins from these fractions were identified by LC-MS/MS and candidates for OM proteins derived from the experimental approach were subjected to computational screening to verify their location in the cell. In total we identified 79 putative OM and membrane-associated extracellular proteins, and 23 of those were found to differ in abundance between cells of A. muciniphila grown on the natural substrate, mucin, and those grown on the non-mucus sugar, glucose. The identified OM proteins included highly abundant proteins involved in secretion and transport, as well as proteins predicted to take part in formation of the pili-like structures observed in A. muciniphila. The most abundant OM protein was a 95-kD protein, termed PilQ, annotated as a type IV pili secretin and predicted to be involved in the production of pili in A. muciniphila. To verify its location we purified the His-Tag labeled N-terminal domain of PilQ and generated rabbit polyclonal antibodies. Immunoelectron microscopy of thin sections immunolabeled with these antibodies demonstrated the OM localization of PilQ, testifying for its predicted function as a type IV pili secretin in A. muciniphila. As pili structures are known to be involved in the modulation of host immune responses, this provides support for the involvement of OM proteins in the host interaction of A. muciniphila. In conclusion, the characterization of A. muciniphila OM proteome provides valuable information that can be used for further functional and immunological studies.
PXD004630	27512083	On-tissue Direct Monitoring of Global Hydrogen/Deuterium Exchange by MALDI Mass Spectrometry: Tissue Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry (TDXMS). 	ON-TISSUE DIRECT MONITORING OF GLOBAL HYDROGEN/DEUTERIUM EXCHANGE BY MALDI MASS SPECTROMETRY: TDXMS	H/D exchange, In situ analysis, tissue	Hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometric (H/DXMS) methods for protein structural analysis are conventionally performed in solution. We present Tissue Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry (TDXMS), a method to directly monitor deuterium uptake on tissue, as a means to better approximate the deuterium exchange behavior of proteins in their native microenvironment. Using this method, a difference in deuterium uptake behavior was observed when the same proteins were monitored in solution and on tissue. The higher maximum deuterium uptake at equilibrium for all proteins analyzed in solution suggests a more open conformation in the absence of interacting partners normally observed on tissue. We also demonstrate a difference in the deuterium uptake behavior of a few proteins across different morphological regions of the same tissue section. Modifications of the total number of hydrogens exchanged, as well as the kinetics of exchange, were both observed. These results provide information on the implication of protein interactions with partners as well as on the conformational changes related to these interactions, and illustrate the importance of examining protein deuterium exchange behavior in the presence of its specific microenvironment directly at the level of tissues.
PXD003780	27514026	The composition and organization of Drosophila heterochromatin are heterogeneous and dynamic. 	Drosophila HP1a IP-MS	Drosophila melanogaster, heterochromatin protein 1a	Heterochromatin is enriched for specific epigenetic factors including Heterochromatin Protein 1a (HP1a), and is essential for many organismal functions. To elucidate heterochromatin organization and regulation, we purified Drosophila melanogaster HP1a interactors, and performed a genome-wide RNAi screen to identify genes that impact HP1a levels or localization. The majority of the over four hundred putative HP1a interactors and regulators identified were previously unknown. We found that 13 of 16 tested candidates (83%) are required for gene silencing, providing a substantial increase in the number of identified components that impact heterochromatin properties. Surprisingly, image analysis revealed that although some HP1a interactors and regulators are broadly distributed within the heterochromatin domain, most localize to discrete subdomains that display dynamic localization patterns during the cell cycle. We conclude that heterochromatin composition and architecture is more spatially complex and dynamic than previously suggested, and propose that a network of subdomains regulates diverse heterochromatin functions.
PXD003161	27515067	First Comprehensive Proteome Analyses of Lysine Acetylation and Succinylation in Seedling Leaves of Brachypodium distachyon L. 	Protein Lysine Acetylation of Seedling Leaf in Brachypodium distachyon L.	Brachypodium distachyon L., Leaf, Lysine Acetylation.	Protein acetylation and succinylation are the most crucial protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) involved in the regulation of plant growth and development. In this study, we present the first lysine-acetylation and lysine-succinylation proteome analysis of seedling leaves in Brachypodium distachyon L (Bd). Using high accuracy nano LC-MS/MS combined with affinity purification, we identified a total of 636 lysine-acetylated sites in 353 proteins and 605 lysine-succinylated sites in 262 proteins. These proteins participated in many biology processes, with various molecular functions. In particular, 119 proteins and 115 sites were found to be both acetylated and succinylated, simultaneously. Among the 353 acetylated proteins, 148 had acetylation orthologs in Oryza sativa L., Arabidopsis thaliana, Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, and Glycine max L. Among the 262 succinylated proteins, 170 of them were found to have homologous proteins in Oryza sativa L., Escherichia coli, Sacchayromyces cerevisiae, or Homo sapiens. Motif-X analysis of the acetylated and succinylated sites identified two new acetylated motifs (K---K and K-I-K) and twelve significantly enriched succinylated motifs for the first time, which could serve as possible binding loci for future studies in plants. Our comprehensive dataset provides a promising starting point for further functional analysis of acetylation and succinylation in Bd and other plant species.
PXD004243	27519006	Toward Automated N-Glycopeptide Identification in Glycoproteomics. 	Automated N-glycopeptide identification in glycoproteomics	Byonic, N-glycosylation, basigin, glycopeptide, glycoproteomics	Advances in software-driven glycopeptide identification have facilitated N-glycoproteomics studies reporting thousands of intact N-glycopeptides, i.e., N-glycan-conjugated peptides, but the automated identification process remains to be scrutinized. Herein, we compare the site-specific glycoprofiling efficiency of the PTM-centric search engine Byonic relative to manual expert annotation utilizing typical glycoproteomics acquisition and data analysis strategies but with a single glycoprotein, the uncharacterized multiple N-glycosylated human basigin. Detailed site-specific reference glycoprofiles of purified basigin were manually established using ion-trap CID-MS/MS and high-resolution Q-Exactive Orbitrap HCD-MS/MS of tryptic N-glycopeptides and released N-glycans. The micro- and macroheterogeneous basigin N-glycosylation was site-specifically glycoprofiled using Byonic with or without a background of complex peptides using Q-Exactive Orbitrap HCD-MS/MS. The automated glycoprofiling efficiencies were assessed against the site-specific reference glycoprofiles and target/decoy proteome databases. Within the limits of this single glycoprotein analysis, the search criteria and confidence thresholds (Byonic scores) recommended by the vendor provided high glycoprofiling accuracy and coverage (both >80%) and low peptide FDRs (<1%). The data complexity, search parameters including search space (proteome/glycome size), mass tolerance and peptide modifications, and confidence thresholds affected the automated glycoprofiling efficiency and analysis time. Correct identification of ambiguous peptide modifications (methionine oxidation/carbamidomethylation) whose mass differences coincide with several monosaccharide mass differences (Fuc/Hex/HexNAc) and of ambiguous isobaric (Hex1NeuAc1-R/Fuc1NeuGc1-R) or near-isobaric (NeuAc1-R/Fuc2-R) monosaccharide subcompositions remains challenging in automated glycoprofiling, arguing particular attention paid to N-glycopeptides displaying such "difficult-to-identify" features. This study provides valuable insights into the automated glycopeptide identification process, stimulating further developments in FDR-based glycoproteomics.
PXD003552	27519163	Quantitative proteome analysis reveals the correlation between endocytosis-associated proteins and hepatocellular carcinoma dedifferentiation. 	HCC progression	CLTC, Hepatocellular carcinoma, Liver., SCAMP3, endocytosis, label-free proteomics	The majority of poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) develop from well-differentiated tumors. Endocytosis is a cellular function which is likely to take part in this development due to its important role in regulating the abundances of vital signaling receptors. Here, we aimed to investigate the abundance of endocytosis-associated proteins in HCCs with various differentiation grades. Therefore, we analyzed 36 tissue specimens from HCC patients via LC-MS/MS-based label-free quantitative proteomics including 19 HCC tissue samples with different degrees of histological grades and corresponding non-tumorous tissue controls. As a result, 277 proteins were differentially regulated between well-differentiated tumors and controls. In moderately and poorly differentiated tumors, 278 and 1181 proteins, respectively, were significantly differentially regulated compared to non-tumorous tissue. We explored the regulated proteins based on their functions and identified thirty endocytosis-associated proteins, mostly overexpressed in poorly differentiated tumors. These included proteins that have been shown to be up-regulated in HCC like clathrin heavy chain-1 (CLTC) as well as unknown proteins, such as secretory carrier-associated membrane protein 3 (SCAMP3). The abundances of SCAMP3 and CLTC were immunohistochemically examined in tissue sections of 84 HCC patients. We demonstrate the novel association of several endocytosis-associated proteins, in particular, SCAMP3 with HCC progression.
PXD004012	27523480	Ability of the marine bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens BA3SM1 to counteract the toxicity of CdSe nanoparticles. 	Ability of the marine bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens BA3SM1 to counteract the toxicity of CdSe nanoparticles	CdSe nanoparticles, Marine bacteria, Oxidative stress, Physiological responses	In the marine environment, bacteria from estuarine and coastal sediments are among the first targets of nanoparticle pollution; it is therefore relevant to improve the knowledge of interactions between bacteria and nanoparticles. In this work, the response of the marine bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens BA3SM1 to CdSe nanocrystals (CdSe NPs) of 3nm (NP3) and 8nm (NP8) in diameter was evaluated through microscopic, physiological, biochemical and proteomic approaches. Transmission electron microscopy images showed that NP3 were able to penetrate the bacteria, while NP8 were highly concentrated around the cells, embedded in large exopolysaccharides. In our experimental conditions, both CdSe NP sizes induced a decrease in respiration during the stationary growth phase, while only NP8 caused growth retardation and a decrease in pyoverdine production. Proteomic analyses highlighted that the strain responded to CdSe NP toxicity by inducing various defence mechanisms such as cell aggregation, extracellular CdSe NP sequestration, effective protection against oxidative stress, modifications of envelope organization and properties, and cadmium export. In addition, BA3SM1 presented a biosorption capacity of 1.6x10(16)NP3/g dry weight and 1.7x10(15)NP8/g dry weight. This strain therefore appears as a promising agent for NP bioremediation processes. Proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004012. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report focussing on the effects of CdSe colloidal nanocrystals (CdSe NPs) on a marine strain of Pseudomonas fluorescens. CdSe NPs are extensively used in the industry of renewable energies and it is regrettably expected that these pollutants will sometime soon appear in the marine environment through surface runoff, urban effluents and rivers. Bacteria living in estuarine and coastal sediments will be among the first targets of these new pollutants. The pseudomonads are frequently found in these ecosystems. They are involved in several biogeochemical cycles and are known for their high resistance to pollutants. Consequently, this study focussing on the effects of CdSe NPs on the marine strain P. fluorescens BA3SM1 is highly relevant for several reasons. First, it aims at improving knowledge about the interactions between bacteria and NPs. This is fundamental to effectively use NPs against pathogenic bacteria. Secondly, in spite of CdSe NP interactions with the bacterial cells, the strain BA3SM1 can develop various strategies to counteract CdSe NP toxicity and ensure its growth. It exhibits interesting properties to sequester CdSe NPs and it retains its ability to form biofilm. The strain therefore appears as a promising agent for NP bioremediation thanks to biofiltration processes. Finally, this study shows that CdSe NPs of 8nm in diameter cause a decrease in the secretion of siderophore pyoverdine, a secondary metabolite playing a key role in microbial ecology since it drives bacterial survival and competitiveness in ecosystems. Bacteria producing effective siderophores survive better in a Fe-deficient environment where they antagonize the growth of other microbes thought iron deprivation. Furthermore, siderophores are also employed as virulence factors in human pathogenic strains such as P. aeruginosa. Consequently, this study highlights that NPs can impact the secondary metabolism of bacteria with environmental and medical implications. In addition, in this work, Data-Dependant Acquisition (DDA) provided state of the art Mass Spectrometry data by Spectral Counting and MS1 Label-Free. The combination of these two well-known proteomic techniques including manual validations strengthened the identification and quantification of regulated proteins. Moreover, numerous correlations between proteomic analyses and other observations (physiological, biochemical, microscopic) consolidated our interpretations.
PXD002172	27526785	miR-625-3p regulates oxaliplatin resistance by targeting MAP2K6-p38 signalling in human colorectal adenocarcinoma cells. 	miR-625-3p regulates oxaliplatin resistance by targeting MAP2K6-p38 signaling in human colorectal adenocarcinoma cells	kf	Oxaliplatin resistance in colorectal cancers (CRC) is a major medical problem, and predictive markers are urgently needed. Recently, miR-625-3p was reported as a promising predictive marker. Herein, we show that miR-625-3p functionally induces oxaliplatin resistance in CRC cells, and identify the signalling networks affected by miR-625-3p. We show that the p38 MAPK activator MAP2K6 is a direct target of miR-625-3p, and, accordingly, is downregulated in non-responder patients of oxaliplatin therapy. miR-625-3p-mediated resistance is reversed by anti-miR-625-3p treatment and ectopic expression of a miR-625-3p insensitive MAP2K6 variant. In addition, reduction of p38 signalling by using siRNAs, chemical inhibitors or expression of a dominant-negative MAP2K6 protein induces resistance to oxaliplatin. Transcriptome, proteome and phosphoproteome profiles confirm inactivation of MAP2K6-p38 signalling as one likely mechanism of oxaliplatin resistance. Our study shows that miR-625-3p induces oxaliplatin resistance by abrogating MAP2K6-p38-regulated apoptosis and cell cycle control networks, and corroborates the predictive power of miR-625-3p.
PXD003896	27528457	A comprehensive and scalable database search system for metaproteomics. 	HEK293 searched with UniProt Human and ComPIL	HEK293, compil, metaproteomics	BACKGROUND: Mass spectrometry-based shotgun proteomics experiments rely on accurate matching of experimental spectra against a database of protein sequences. Existing computational analysis methods are limited in the size of their sequence databases, which severely restricts the proteomic sequencing depth and functional analysis of highly complex samples. The growing amount of public high-throughput sequencing data will only exacerbate this problem. We designed a broadly applicable metaproteomic analysis method (ComPIL) that addresses protein database size limitations. RESULTS: Our approach to overcome this significant limitation in metaproteomics was to design a scalable set of sequence databases assembled for optimal library querying speeds. ComPIL was integrated with a modified version of the search engine ProLuCID (termed "Blazmass") to permit rapid matching of experimental spectra. Proof-of-principle analysis of human HEK293 lysate with a ComPIL database derived from high-quality genomic libraries was able to detect nearly all of the same peptides as a search with a human database (~500x fewer peptides in the database), with a small reduction in sensitivity. We were also able to detect proteins from the adenovirus used to immortalize these cells. We applied our method to a set of healthy human gut microbiome proteomic samples and showed a substantial increase in the number of identified peptides and proteins compared to previous metaproteomic analyses, while retaining a high degree of protein identification accuracy and allowing for a more in-depth characterization of the functional landscape of the samples. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of ComPIL with Blazmass allows proteomic searches to be performed with database sizes much larger than previously possible. These large database searches can be applied to complex meta-samples with unknown composition or proteomic samples where unexpected proteins may be identified. The protein database, proteomic search engine, and the proteomic data files for the 5 microbiome samples characterized and discussed herein are open source and available for use and additional analysis.
PXD004250	27531744	Homo- and Heterotypic Association Regulates Signaling by the SgK269/PEAK1 and SgK223 Pseudokinases. 	SgK269 Interactome -  Homo- and Heterotypic Association Regulates Signalling by the SgK269/PEAK1 and SgK223 Pseudokinases	Pseudokinase SgK269, protein-protein interaction	SgK269/PEAK1 is a pseudokinase and scaffolding protein that plays a critical role in regulating growth factor receptor signal output and is implicated in the progression of several cancers, including those of the breast, colon, and pancreas. SgK269 is structurally related to SgK223, a human pseudokinase that also functions as a scaffold but recruits a distinct repertoire of signaling proteins compared with SgK269. Structural similarities between SgK269 and SgK223 include a predicted alpha-helical region (designated CH) immediately preceding the conserved C-terminal pseudokinase (PK) domain. Structure-function analyses of SgK269 in MCF-10A mammary epithelial cells demonstrated a critical role for the CH and PK regions in promoting cell migration and Stat3 activation. Characterization of the SgK269 "interactome" by mass spectrometry-based proteomics identified SgK223 as a novel binding partner, and association of SgK269 with SgK223 in cells was dependent on the presence of the CH and PK domains of both pseudokinases. Homotypic association of SgK269 and SgK223 was also demonstrated and exhibited the same structural requirements. Further analysis using pulldowns and size-exclusion chromatography underscored the critical role of the CH region in SgK269/SgK223 association. Importantly, although SgK269 bridged SgK223 to Grb2, it was unable to activate Stat3 or efficiently enhance migration in SgK223 knock-out cells generated by CRISPR/Cas9. These results reveal previously unrecognized interplay between two oncogenic scaffolds and demonstrate a novel signaling mechanism for pseudokinases whereby homotypic and heterotypic association is used to assemble scaffolding complexes with distinct binding properties and hence qualitatively regulate signal output.
PXD004638	27531911	Pyrophosphate-Dependent ATP Formation from Acetyl Coenzyme A in Syntrophus aciditrophicus, a New Twist on ATP Formation. 	S. aciditrophicus	Syntrophus aciditrophicus, crotonate, syntrophic bacteria	Syntrophus aciditrophicus is a model syntrophic bacterium that degrades key intermediates in anaerobic decomposition, such as benzoate, cyclohexane-1-carboxylate, and certain fatty acids, to acetate when grown with hydrogen-/formate-consuming microorganisms. ATP formation coupled to acetate production is the main source for energy conservation by S. aciditrophicus However, the absence of homologs for phosphate acetyltransferase and acetate kinase in the genome of S. aciditrophicus leaves it unclear as to how ATP is formed, as most fermentative bacteria rely on these two enzymes to synthesize ATP from acetyl coenzyme A (CoA) and phosphate. Here, we combine transcriptomic, proteomic, metabolite, and enzymatic approaches to show that S. aciditrophicus uses AMP-forming, acetyl-CoA synthetase (Acs1) for ATP synthesis from acetyl-CoA. acs1 mRNA and Acs1 were abundant in transcriptomes and proteomes, respectively, of S. aciditrophicus grown in pure culture and coculture. Cell extracts of S. aciditrophicus had low or undetectable acetate kinase and phosphate acetyltransferase activities but had high acetyl-CoA synthetase activity under all growth conditions tested. Both Acs1 purified from S. aciditrophicus and recombinantly produced Acs1 catalyzed ATP and acetate formation from acetyl-CoA, AMP, and pyrophosphate. High pyrophosphate levels and a high AMP-to-ATP ratio (5.9 +/- 1.4) in S. aciditrophicus cells support the operation of Acs1 in the acetate-forming direction. Thus, S. aciditrophicus has a unique approach to conserve energy involving pyrophosphate, AMP, acetyl-CoA, and an AMP-forming, acetyl-CoA synthetase. IMPORTANCE: Bacteria use two enzymes, phosphate acetyltransferase and acetate kinase, to make ATP from acetyl-CoA, while acetate-forming archaea use a single enzyme, an ADP-forming, acetyl-CoA synthetase, to synthesize ATP and acetate from acetyl-CoA. Syntrophus aciditrophicus apparently relies on a different approach to conserve energy during acetyl-CoA metabolism, as its genome does not have homologs to the genes for phosphate acetyltransferase and acetate kinase. Here, we show that S. aciditrophicus uses an alternative approach, an AMP-forming, acetyl-CoA synthetase, to make ATP from acetyl-CoA. AMP-forming, acetyl-CoA synthetases were previously thought to function only in the activation of acetate to acetyl-CoA.
PXD004599	27532006	Comprehensive Analysis of the Membrane Phosphoproteome Regulated by Oligogalacturonides in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Comprehensive analysis of the membrane phosphoproteome regulated by oligogalacturonides in Arabidopsis thaliana	DAMPs, elicitors, innate immunity, oligogalacturonides, phosphoproteomics	Early changes in the Arabidopsis thaliana membrane phosphoproteome in response to oligogalacturonides (OGs), a class of plant damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), were analyzed by two complementary proteomic approaches. Differentially phosphorylated sites were determined through phosphopeptide enrichment followed by LC-MS/MS using label-free quantification; differentially phosphorylated proteins were identified by 2D-DIGE combined with phospho-specific fluorescent staining (phospho-DIGE). This large-scale phosphoproteome analysis of early OG-signaling enabled us to determine 100 regulated phosphosites using LC-MS/MS and 46 differential spots corresponding to 34 pdhosphoproteins using phospho-DIGE. Functional classification showed that the OG-responsive phosphoproteins include kinases, phosphatases and receptor-like kinases, heat shock proteins (HSPs), reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging enzymes, proteins related to cellular trafficking, transport, defense and signaling as well as novel candidates for a role in immunity, for which elicitor-induced phosphorylation changes have not been shown before. A comparison with previously identified elicitor-regulated phosphosites shows only a very limited overlap, uncovering the immune-related regulation of 70 phosphorylation sites and revealing novel potential players in the regulation of elicitor-dependent immunity.
PXD004690	27532682	Hydrophobic Tagging-Assisted N-Termini Enrichment for In-Depth N-Terminome Analysis. 	Hydrophobic tagging-assisted N-termini enrichment (HYTANE) for  in-depth N-terminome analysis	Jurkat, Sacchoromyces cerevisiae, caspase, n-termini	The analysis of protein N-termini is of great importance for understanding the protein function and elucidating the proteolytic processing. Herein, we develop a negative enrichment strategy, termed as hydrophobic tagging-assisted N-termini enrichment (HYTANE) to achieve a global N-terminome analysis. The HYTANE strategy showed a high efficiency in hydrophobic tagging and C18 material-assisted depletion using bovine serum albumin (BSA) as the sample. This strategy was applied to N-termini profiling from S. cerevisiae cell lysates and enabled the identification of 1096 protein N-termini, representing the largest N-terminome data set of S. cerevisiae. The identified N-terminal peptides accounted for 99% of all identified peptides, and no deficiency in acidic, histidine (His)-containing, and His-free N-terminal peptides was observed. The presented HYTANE strategy is therefore a highly selective, efficient, and unbiased strategy for the large scale N-terminome analysis. Furthermore, using the HYTANE strategy, we identified 329 cleavage sites and 291 substrates of caspases in Jurkat cells, demonstrating the great promise of HYTANE strategy for protease research. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004690.
PXD004361	27533485	HILIC and ERLIC Enrichment of Glycopeptides Derived from Breast and Brain Cancer Cells. 	HILIC and ERLIC Enrichment of Glycopeptides Derived from Breast and Brain Cancer Cells	ERLIC enrichment, HILIC enrichment, N-linked glycosylation, blood brain barrier, cancer cell lines, glycoproteomics	Aberrant glycosylation has been linked to many different cancer types. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a region of the brain that regulates the entrance of ions, diseases, toxins, and so on. However, in breast cancer metastasis, the BBB fails to prevent the crossing of the cancer cells into the brain. Here we present a study of identifying and quantifying the glycosylation of six breast and brain cancer cell lines using hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC) and electrostatic repulsion liquid chromatography (ERLIC) enrichments and LC-MS/MS analysis. Qualitative and quantitative analyses of N-linked glycosylation were performed by both enrichment techniques for individual and complementary comparison. Potential cancer glycopeptide biomarkers were identified and confirmed by chemometric and statistical evaluations. A total of 497 glycopeptides were characterized, of which 401 were common glycopeptides (80.6% overlap) identified from both enrichment techniques. HILIC enrichment yielded 320 statistically significant glycopeptides in 231BR relative to the other cell lines out of 494 unique glycopeptides, and sequential HILIC-ERLIC enrichment yielded 214 statistically significant glycopeptides in 231BR compared with the other cell lines out of 404 unique glycopeptides. The results provide the first comprehensive glycopeptide listing for these six cell lines.
PXD002883	27535140	Combined Quantification of the Global Proteome, Phosphoproteome, and Proteolytic Cleavage to Characterize Altered Platelet Functions in the Human Scott Syndrome. 	Combined assessment of global proteome, phosphoproteome and N-terminal protein cleavage to characterize altered platelet functions in human Scott syndrome	Human platelets, LC-MS, N-terminal ChaFRADIC, phosphoproteome	The Scott syndrome is a very rare and likely underdiagnosed bleeding disorder associated with mutations in the gene encoding anoctamin-6. Platelets from Scott patients are impaired in various Ca(2+)-dependent responses, including phosphatidylserine exposure, integrin closure, intracellular protein cleavage, and cytoskeleton-dependent morphological changes. Given the central role of anoctamin-6 in the platelet procoagulant response, we used quantitative proteomics to understand the underlying molecular mechanisms and the complex phenotypic changes in Scott platelets compared with control platelets. Therefore, we applied an iTRAQ-based multi-pronged strategy to quantify changes in (1) the global proteome, (2) the phosphoproteome, and (3) proteolytic events between resting and stimulated Scott and control platelets. Our data indicate a limited number of proteins with decreased (70) or increased (64) expression in Scott platelets, among those we confirmed the absence of anoctamin-6 and the strong up-regulation of aquaporin-1 by parallel reaction monitoring. The quantification of 1566 phosphopeptides revealed major differences between Scott and control platelets after stimulation with thrombin/convulxin or ionomycin. In Scott platelets, phosphorylation levels of proteins regulating cytoskeletal or signaling events were increased. Finally, we quantified 1596 N-terminal peptides in activated Scott and control platelets, 180 of which we identified as calpain-regulated, whereas a distinct set of 23 neo-N termini was caspase-regulated. In Scott platelets, calpain-induced cleavage of cytoskeleton-linked and signaling proteins was downregulated, in accordance with an increased phosphorylation state. Thus, multipronged proteomic profiling of Scott platelets provides detailed insight into their protection against detrimental Ca(2+)-dependent changes that are normally associated with phosphatidylserine exposure.
PXD001024	27535430	The endoplasmic reticulum and casein-containing vesicles contribute to milk fat globule membrane. 	The plasma membrane, casein-containing vesicles and endoplasmic reticulum are the main membrane contributors to milk fat globule membrane formation	MFGM	During lactation, mammary epithelial cells secrete huge amounts of milk from their apical side. The current view is that caseins are secreted by exocytosis, whereas milk fat globules are released by budding, enwrapped by the plasma membrane. Owing to the number and large size of milk fat globules, the membrane surface needed for their release might exceed that of the apical plasma membrane. A large-scale proteomics analysis of both cytoplasmic lipid droplets and secreted milk fat globule membranes was used to decipher the cellular origins of the milk fat globule membrane. Surprisingly, differential analysis of protein profiles of these two organelles strongly suggest that, in addition to the plasma membrane, the endoplasmic reticulum and the secretory vesicles contribute to the milk fat globule membrane. Analysis of membrane-associated and raft microdomain proteins reinforces this possibility and also points to a role for lipid rafts in milk product secretion. Our results provide evidence for a significant contribution of the endoplasmic reticulum to the milk fat globule membrane and a role for SNAREs in membrane dynamics during milk secretion. These novel aspects point to a more complex model for milk secretion than currently envisioned.
PXD004092	27535590	Deep Coverage Proteomics Identifies More Low-Abundance Missing Proteins in Human Testis Tissue with Q-Exactive HF Mass Spectrometer. 	Human_Testis_QE-HF	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP), QE-HF, Testis	Since 2012, missing proteins (MPs) investigation has been one of the critical missions of Chromosome-Centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP) through various biochemical strategies. On the basis of our previous testis MPs study, faster scanning and higher resolution mass-spectrometry-based proteomics might be conducive to MPs exploration, especially for low-abundance proteins. In this study, Q-Exactive HF (HF) was used to survey proteins from the same testis tissues separated by two separating methods (tricine- and glycine-SDS-PAGE), as previously described. A total of 8526 proteins were identified, of which more low-abundance proteins were uniquely detected in HF data but not in our previous LTQ Orbitrap Velos (Velos) reanalysis data. Further transcriptomics analysis showed that these uniquely identified proteins by HF also had lower expression at the mRNA level. Of the 81 total identified MPs, 74 and 39 proteins were listed as MPs in HF and Velos data sets, respectively. Among the above MPs, 47 proteins (43 neXtProt PE2 and 4 PE3) were ranked as confirmed MPs after verifying with the stringent spectra match and isobaric and single amino acid variants filtering. Functional investigation of these 47 MPs revealed that 11 MPs were testis-specific proteins and 7 MPs were involved in spermatogenesis process. Therefore, we concluded that higher scanning speed and resolution of HF might be factors for improving the low-abundance MP identification in future C-HPP studies. All mass-spectrometry data from this study have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004092.
PXD003666	27535802	MASP-3 is the exclusive pro-factor D activator in resting blood: the lectin and the alternative complement pathways are fundamentally linked. 	TFMI-3 plasma pull-down	Factor D, MASP-3, alternative pathway, blood, complement, directed protein evolution, inhibitor, lectin pathway	MASP-3 was discovered 15 years ago as the third mannan-binding lectin (MBL)-associated serine protease of the complement lectin pathway. Lacking any verified substrate its role remained ambiguous. MASP-3 was shown to compete with a key lectin pathway enzyme MASP-2 for MBL binding, and was therefore considered to be a negative complement regulator. Later, knock-out mice experiments suggested that MASP-1 and/or MASP-3 play important roles in complement pro-factor D (pro-FD) maturation. However, studies on a MASP-1/MASP-3-deficient human patient produced contradicting results. In normal resting blood unperturbed by ongoing coagulation or complement activation, factor D is present predominantly in its active form, suggesting that resting blood contains at least one pro-FD activating proteinase that is not a direct initiator of coagulation or complement activation. We have recently showed that all three MASPs can activate pro-FD in vitro. In resting blood, however, using our previously evolved MASP-1 and MASP-2 inhibitors we proved that neither MASP-1 nor MASP-2 activates pro-FD. Other plasma proteinases, particularly MASP-3, remained candidates for that function. For this study we evolved a specific MASP-3 inhibitor and unambiguously proved that activated MASP-3 is the exclusive pro-FD activator in resting blood, which demonstrates a fundamental link between the lectin and alternative pathways.
PXD004592	27536273	A Metaproteomic Analysis of the Response of a Freshwater Microbial Community under Nutrient Enrichment. 	A metaproteomic analysis of the response of a freshwater microbial community under nutrient enrichment	Metaproteomics, eutrophic, freshwater, metaproteomics, microbial loop, oligotrophic	Eutrophication can lead to an uncontrollable increase in algal biomass, which has repercussions for the entire microbial and pelagic community. Studies have shown how nutrient enrichment affects microbial species succession, however details regarding the impact on community functionality are rare. Here, we applied a metaproteomic approach to investigate the functional changes to algal and bacterial communities, over time, in oligotrophic and eutrophic conditions, in freshwater microcosms. Samples were taken early during algal and cyanobacterial dominance and later under bacterial dominance. 1048 proteins, from the two treatments and two timepoints, were identified and quantified by their exponentially modified protein abundance index. In oligotrophic conditions, Bacteroidetes express extracellular hydrolases and Ton-B dependent receptors to degrade and transport high molecular weight compounds captured while attached to the phycosphere. Alpha- and Beta-proteobacteria were found to capture different substrates from algal exudate (carbohydrates and amino acids, respectively) suggesting resource partitioning to avoid direct competition. In eutrophic conditions, environmental adaptation proteins from cyanobacteria suggested better resilience compared to algae in a low carbon nutrient enriched environment. This study provides insight into differences in functional microbial processes between oligo- and eutrophic conditions at different timepoints and highlights how primary producers control bacterial resources in freshwater environments. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004592.
PXD004223	27538499	The proteome of normal human retrobulbar optic nerve and sclera. 	The proteome of normal human sclera	Collagen, Eye / Human, Human Proteome Project, Myopia, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Sclera	The optic nerve is a white matter tract that conveys visual information to the brain. The sclera comprises the white, protective outer layer of the eye. A characterization of the proteome of normal human retrobulbar optic nerve and sclera may facilitate studies of the eye. We conducted a proteomic analysis of optic nerve and sclera from five adults. Proteins were fractionated using SDS-PAGE. After in-gel digestion, peptides were analyzed using LC-MS/MS on an Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer. We identified 2711 non-redundant proteins in retrobulbar optic nerve and 1945 non-redundant proteins in sclera. Optic nerve proteins included proteins expressed by oligodendrocytes (laminin, proteolipid protein, fibronectin), myelin proteins (myelin basic protein, myelin-associated glycoprotein), and paranodal structural proteins (ankyrin beta, spectrin). Sclera included 18 collagen protein chains, small leucine-rich proteoglycans (decorin, biglycan, lumican, keratocan, prolargin, fibromodulin, mimecan), non-collagenous glycoproteins (fibronectin, vitronectin, laminin), extracellular matrix proteins (thrombospondins 1-4, dystroglycan, transgelins 1-3), and integrins alpha-V, alpha-1 and 2, beta-1, -2, and -5. Twenty-one unambiguous alternative splicing protein isoforms were identified in optic nerve and ten unambiguous alternative splicing protein isoforms were identified in sclera. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD001581.
PXD003108	27542207	Chronic exposure to cigarette smoke leads to activation of p21 (RAC1)-activated kinase 6 (PAK6) in non-small cell lung cancer cells. 	p21-Activated kinase 6 (PAK6) is associated with enhanced proliferation in lung cells exposed chronically to cigarette smoke	NSCLC, PAK6, SILAC, cigarette, smoking	Epidemiological data clearly establishes cigarette smoking as one of the major cause for lung cancer worldwide. Recently, targeted therapy has become one of the most preferred modes of treatment for cancer. Though certain targeted therapies such as anti-EGFR are in clinical practice, they have shown limited success in lung cancer patients who are smokers. This demands discovery of alternative drug targets through systematic investigation of cigarette smoke-induced signaling mechanisms. To study the signaling events activated in response to cigarette smoke, we carried out SILAC-based phosphoproteomic analysis of H358 lung cancer cells chronically exposed to cigarette smoke. We identified 1,812 phosphosites, of which 278 phosphosites were hyperphosphorylated (>= 3-fold) in H358 cells chronically exposed to cigarette smoke. Our data revealed hyperphosphorylation of S560 within the conserved kinase domain of PAK6. Activation of PAK6 is associated with various processes in cancer including metastasis. Mechanistic studies revealed that inhibition of PAK6 led to reduction in cell proliferation, migration and invasion of the cigarette smoke treated cells. Further, siRNA mediated silencing of PAK6 resulted in decreased invasive abilities in a panel of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells. Consistently, mice bearing tumor xenograft showed reduced tumor growth upon treatment with PF-3758309 (group II PAK inhibitor). Immunohistochemical analysis revealed overexpression of PAK6 in 66.6% (52/78) of NSCLC cases in tissue microarrays. Taken together, our study indicates that PAK6 is a promising novel therapeutic target for NSCLC, especially in smokers.
PXD002690	27542228	MetAP1 and MetAP2 drive cell selectivity for a potent anti-cancer agent in synergy, by controlling glutathione redox state. 	Large scale profiling of the physiological impact of a potent anti-cancer agent inhibiting early protein maturation	N-myristoyltransferase, N-terminal processing, N-alpha-acetyltransferase, co-translational modifications, drug evaluation, methionine aminopeptidase	Fumagillin and its derivatives are therapeutically useful because they can decrease cancer progression. The specific molecular target of fumagillin is methionine aminopeptidase 2 (MetAP2), one of the two MetAPs present in the cytosol. MetAPs catalyze N-terminal methionine excision (NME), an essential pathway of cotranslational protein maturation. To date, it remains unclear the respective contribution of MetAP1 and MetAP2 to the NME process in vivo and why MetAP2 inhibition causes cell cycle arrest only in a subset of cells. Here, we performed a global characterization of the N-terminal methionine excision pathway and the inhibition of MetAP2 by fumagillin in a number of lines, including cancer cell lines. Large-scale N-terminus profiling in cells responsive and unresponsive to fumagillin treatment revealed that both MetAPs were required in vivo for M[VT]X-targets and, possibly, for lower-level M[G]X-targets. Interestingly, we found that the responsiveness of the cell lines to fumagillin was correlated with the ability of the cells to modulate their glutathione homeostasis. Indeed, alterations to glutathione status were observed in fumagillin-sensitive cells but not in cells unresponsive to this agent. Proteo-transcriptomic analyses revealed that both MetAP1 and MetAP2 accumulated in a cell-specific manner and that cell sensitivity to fumagillin was related to the levels of these MetAPs, particularly MetAP1. We suggest that MetAP1 levels could be routinely checked in several types of tumor and used as a prognostic marker for predicting the response to treatments inhibiting MetAP2.
PXD004514	27546612	Protein S-sulfenylation is a fleeting molecular switch that regulates non-enzymatic oxidative folding. 	S-Sulfenylation regulates non-enzymatic oxidative protein folding	human titin, post-translational modifications	The post-translational modification S-sulfenylation functions as a key sensor of oxidative stress. Yet the dynamics of sulfenic acid in proteins remains largely elusive due to its fleeting nature. Here we use single-molecule force-clamp spectroscopy and mass spectrometry to directly capture the reactivity of an individual sulfenic acid embedded within the core of a single Ig domain of the titin protein. Our results demonstrate that sulfenic acid is a crucial short-lived intermediate that dictates the protein's fate in a conformation-dependent manner. When exposed to the solution, sulfenic acid rapidly undergoes further chemical modification, leading to irreversible protein misfolding; when cryptic in the protein's microenvironment, it readily condenses with a neighbouring thiol to create a protective disulfide bond, which assists the functional folding of the protein. This mechanism for non-enzymatic oxidative folding provides a plausible explanation for redox-modulated stiffness of proteins that are physiologically exposed to mechanical forces, such as cardiac titin.
PXD004289	27550041	Site-specific glycosylation of donkey milk lactoferrin investigated by high-resolution mass spectrometry. 	Site-specific glycosylation of donkey milk lactoferrin investigated  by High Resolution Mass Spectrometry	Lactoferrin glycosylation  Donkey milk  N-glycan structures  TiO2 and HILIC enrichment  Mass spectrometry	A comprehensive monosaccharide composition of the N-glycans of donkey milk lactoferrin, isolated by ion exchange chromatography from an individual milk sample, was obtained by means of chymotryptic digestion, TiO2 and HILIC enrichment, reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography, electrospray mass spectrometry, and high collision dissociation fragmentation. The results obtained allowed identifying 26 different glycan structures, including high mannose, complex and hybrid N-glycans, linked to the protein backbone via an amide bond to asparagine residues located at the positions 137, 281 and 476. Altogether, the N-glycan structures determined revealed that most of the N-glycans identified in donkey milk lactoferrin are neutral complex/hybrid. Indeed, 10 neutral non-fucosylated complex/hybrid N-glycans and 4 neutral fucosylated complex/hybrid N-glycans were found. In addition, two high mannose N-glycans, four sialylated fucosylated complex N-glycans and six sialylated non-fucosylated complex N-glycans, one of which containing N-glycolylneuraminic acid (Neu5Gc), were found. A comparison of the monosaccharide composition of the N-glycans of donkey milk lactoferrin with respect to that of human, bovine and goat milk lactoferrin is reported. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004289.
PXD004340	27554326	Quantitative profiling of spreading-coupled protein tyrosine phosphorylation in migratory cells. 	Profiling of spreading- coupled protein tyrosine phosphorylation	ecv304, fibronectin, spreading	Protein tyrosine phosphorylation is an important mechanism that regulates cytoskeleton reorganization and cell spreading of migratory cells. A number of cytoskeletal proteins are known to be tyrosine phosphorylated (pY) in different cellular processes. However, the profile of pY proteins during different stages of cell spreading has not been available. Using immunoafffinity enrichment of pY proteins coupled with label free quantitative proteomics, we quantitatively identified 447 pY proteins in the migratory ECV-304 cells at the early spreading (adhesion) and the active spreading stages. We found that pY levels of the majority of the quantified proteins were significantly increased in the active spreading stage compared with the early spreading stage, suggesting that active cell spreading is concomitant with extra tyrosine phosphorylation. The major categories of proteins impacted by tyrosine phosphorylation are involved in cytoskeleton and focal adhesion regulation, protein translation and degradation. Our findings, for the first time, dissect the cell spreading-specific pY signals from the adhesion induced pY signals, and provide a valuable resource for the future mechanistic research regarding the regulation of cell spreading.
PXD003618	27554994	The cellular proteome is affected by a gelsolin (BbGEL1) during morphological transitions in aerobic surface versus liquid growth in the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana. 	Analyzing downstream targets of Beauveria bassiana gelsolin duing conidal development	Beauveria bassiana, Conidia, Gelsolin	The gelsolin superfamily includes seven protein members: gelsolin, villin, adseverin, CapG, advillin, supervillin and flightless I. The gelsolin proteins are actin-binding proteins that contain three or six gelsolin-like domains, and they play important roles in remodelling actin dynamics and cellular processes in eukaryotes. The entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana expresses a unique CapG protein (BbGEL1) that contains three gelsolin-like domains. BbGEL1p is associated with actin during mycelial growth and plays an important role in fungal morphological transitions under both aerobic and submerged conditions. The DeltaBbGEL1 mutant displays abnormal spore-producing structures that reduce the conidial and blastospore yields by approximately 70% and 90% respectively. The virulence of the DeltaBbGEL1 mutant is notably reduced as indicated by topical and intrahemocoel injection assays. Two comparative proteomics analyses indicated that BbGEL1 has significantly different roles in the development of conidia and blastospores, and the results revealed the potential targets of BbGEL1 in the corresponding developmental processes. Additionally, as an overlapping downstream protein of BbGEL1, the hydrophobin-like protein gene BbHyd3 is required for conidiation but has a negative role in blastospore formation. Our findings indicate that in addition to its function as an actin-interacting protein, BbGEL1 contributes to fungal morphological transitions via broad genetic pathways.
PXD004204	27555310	Comparative Community Proteomics Demonstrates the Unexpected Importance of Actinobacterial Glycoside Hydrolase Family 12 Protein for Crystalline Cellulose Hydrolysis. 	Crystalline cellulose hydrolysis in microbial communities via actinobacterial glycoside hydrolase family 12	actinobacterium, hydrolases, metaproteome	Glycoside hydrolases (GHs) are key enzymes in the depolymerization of plant-derived cellulose, a process central to the global carbon cycle and the conversion of plant biomass to fuels and chemicals. A limited number of GH families hydrolyze crystalline cellulose, often by a processive mechanism along the cellulose chain. During cultivation of thermophilic cellulolytic microbial communities, substantial differences were observed in the crystalline cellulose saccharification activities of supernatants recovered from divergent lineages. Comparative community proteomics identified a set of cellulases from a population closely related to actinobacterium Thermobispora bispora that were highly abundant in the most active consortium. Among the cellulases from T. bispora, the abundance of a GH family 12 (GH12) protein correlated most closely with the changes in crystalline cellulose hydrolysis activity. This result was surprising since GH12 proteins have been predominantly characterized as enzymes active on soluble polysaccharide substrates. Heterologous expression and biochemical characterization of the suite of T. bispora hydrolytic cellulases confirmed that the GH12 protein possessed the highest activity on multiple crystalline cellulose substrates and demonstrated that it hydrolyzes cellulose chains by a predominantly random mechanism. This work suggests that the role of GH12 proteins in crystalline cellulose hydrolysis by cellulolytic microbes should be reconsidered. IMPORTANCE: Cellulose is the most abundant organic polymer on earth, and its enzymatic hydrolysis is a key reaction in the global carbon cycle and the conversion of plant biomass to biofuels. The glycoside hydrolases that depolymerize crystalline cellulose have been primarily characterized from isolates. In this study, we demonstrate that adapting microbial consortia from compost to grow on crystalline cellulose generated communities whose soluble enzymes exhibit differential abilities to hydrolyze crystalline cellulose. Comparative proteomics of these communities identified a protein of glycoside hydrolase family 12 (GH12), a family of proteins previously observed to primarily hydrolyze soluble substrates, as a candidate that accounted for some of the differences in hydrolytic activities. Heterologous expression confirmed that the GH12 protein identified by proteomics was active on crystalline cellulose and hydrolyzed cellulose by a random mechanism, in contrast to most cellulases that act on the crystalline polymer in a processive mechanism.
PXD003074	27555370	Abundant Lysine Methylation and N-Terminal Acetylation in Sulfolobus islandicus Revealed by Bottom-Up and Top-Down Proteomics. 	Sulfolobus islandicus top-down LC-MSMS	Archaea, Orbitrap Fusion, Top-down	Protein post-translational methylation has been reported to occur in archaea, including members of the genus Sulfolobus, but has never been characterized on a proteome-wide scale. Among important Sulfolobus proteins carrying such modification are the chromatin proteins that have been described to be methylated on lysine side chains, resembling eukaryotic histones in that aspect. To get more insight into the extent of this modification and its dynamics during the different growth steps of the thermoacidophylic archaeon S. islandicus LAL14/1, we performed a global and deep proteomic analysis using a combination of high-throughput bottom-up and top-down approaches on a single high-resolution mass spectrometer. 1,931 methylation sites on 751 proteins were found by the bottom-up analysis, with methylation sites on 526 proteins monitored throughout three cell culture growth stages: early-exponential, mid-exponential, and stationary. The top-down analysis revealed 3,978 proteoforms arising from 681 proteins, including 292 methylated proteoforms, 85 of which were comprehensively characterized. Methylated proteoforms of the five chromatin proteins (Alba1, Alba2, Cren7, Sul7d1, Sul7d2) were fully characterized by a combination of bottom-up and top-down data. The top-down analysis also revealed an increase of methylation during cell growth for two chromatin proteins, which had not been evidenced by bottom-up. These results shed new light on the ubiquitous lysine methylation throughout the S. islandicus proteome. Furthermore, we found that S. islandicus proteins are frequently acetylated at the N terminus, following the removal of the N-terminal methionine. This study highlights the great value of combining bottom-up and top-down proteomics for obtaining an unprecedented level of accuracy in detecting differentially modified intact proteoforms. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD003074 and PXD004179.
PXD003788	27555448	Temporal regulation of Lsp1 O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation during apoptosis of activated B cells. 	Temporal regulation of Lsp1 O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation duringactivated Bcellsapoptosis	B cell, O-GlcNAcylation, apoptosis, phosphoproteome	Crosslinking of B-cell receptor (BCR) sets off an apoptosis programme, but the underlying pathways remain obscure. Here we decipher the molecular mechanisms bridging B-cell activation and apoptosis mediated by post-translational modification (PTM). We find that O-GlcNAcase inhibition enhances B-cell activation and apoptosis induced by BCR crosslinking. This proteome-scale analysis of the functional interplay between protein O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation in stimulated mouse primary B cells identifies 313 O-GlcNAcylation-dependent phosphosites on 224 phosphoproteins. Among these phosphoproteins, temporal regulation of the O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation of lymphocyte-specific protein-1 (Lsp1) is a key switch that triggers apoptosis in activated B cells. O-GlcNAcylation at S209 of Lsp1 is a prerequisite for the recruitment of its kinase, PKC-beta1, to induce S243 phosphorylation, leading to ERK activation and downregulation of BCL-2 and BCL-xL. Thus, we demonstrate the critical PTM interplay of Lsp1 that transmits signals for initiating apoptosis after BCR ligation.
PXD004325	27557128	Combination of Bottom-up 2D-LC-MS and Semi-top-down GelFree-LC-MS Enhances Coverage of Proteome and Low Molecular Weight Short Open Reading Frame Encoded Peptides of the Archaeon Methanosarcina mazei. 	Combination of bottom up 2D-LC-MS and intact protein separation enhances coverage of proteome and low molecular weight short open reading frame encoded peptides of the archeon Methanosarcina mazei	2D-LC, Gelfree, High pH, Methanosarcina mazei, high pH LC, top-down	The recent discovery of an increasing number of small open reading frames (sORF) creates the need for suitable analytical technologies for the comprehensive identification of the corresponding gene products. For biological and functional studies the knowledge of the entire set of proteins and sORF gene products is essential. Consequently in the present study we evaluated analytical approaches that will allow for simultaneous analysis of widest parts of the proteome together with the predicted sORF. We performed a full proteome analysis of the methane producing archaeon Methanosarcina mazei strain Goe1 cytosolic proteome using a high/low pH reversed phase LC-MS bottom-up approach. The second analytical approach was based on semi-top-down strategy, encompassing a separation at intact protein level using a GelFree system, followed by digestion and LC-MS analysis. A high overlap in identified proteins was found for both approaches yielding the most comprehensive coverage of the cytosolic proteome of this organism achieved so far. The application of the second approach in combination with an adjustment of the search criteria for database searches further led to a significant increase of sORF peptide identifications, finally allowing to detect and identify 28 sORF gene products.
PXD001806	27558259	Systems-level effects of ectopic galectin-7 reconstitution in cervical cancer and its microenvironment. 	Quantitative proteomic study of two cervical cancer cell lines upon re-expression of Galectin 7	Galectin-7, HeLa, Q-Exactive, SILAC, SiHa, cervical cancer	BACKGROUND: Galectin-7 (Gal-7) is negatively regulated in cervical cancer, and appears to be a link between the apoptotic response triggered by cancer and the anti-tumoral activity of the immune system. Our understanding of how cervical cancer cells and their molecular networks adapt in response to the expression of Gal-7 remains limited. METHODS: Meta-analysis of Gal-7 expression was conducted in three cervical cancer cohort studies and TCGA. In silico prediction and bisulfite sequencing were performed to inquire epigenetic alterations. To study the effect of Gal-7 on cervical cancer, we ectopically re-expressed it in the HeLa and SiHa cervical cancer cell lines, and analyzed their transcriptome and SILAC-based proteome. We also examined the tumor and microenvironment host cell transcriptomes after xenotransplantation into immunocompromised mice. Differences between samples were assessed with the Kruskall-Wallis, Dunn's Multiple Comparison and T tests. Kaplan-Meier and log-rank tests were used to determine overall survival. RESULTS: Gal-7 was constantly downregulated in our meta-analysis (p < 0.0001). Tumors with combined high Gal-7 and low galectin-1 expression (p = 0.0001) presented significantly better prognoses (p = 0.005). In silico and bisulfite sequencing assays showed de novo methylation in the Gal-7 promoter and first intron. Cells re-expressing Gal-7 showed a high apoptosis ratio (p < 0.05) and their xenografts displayed strong growth retardation (p < 0.001). Multiple gene modules and transcriptional regulators were modulated in response to Gal-7 reconstitution, both in cervical cancer cells and their microenvironments (FDR < 0.05 %). Most of these genes and modules were associated with tissue morphogenesis, metabolism, transport, chemokine activity, and immune response. These functional modules could exert the same effects in vitro and in vivo, even despite different compositions between HeLa and SiHa samples. CONCLUSIONS: Gal-7 re-expression affects the regulation of molecular networks in cervical cancer that are involved in diverse cancer hallmarks, such as metabolism, growth control, invasion and evasion of apoptosis. The effect of Gal-7 extends to the microenvironment, where networks involved in its configuration and in immune surveillance are particularly affected.
PXD004465	27559042	Glycoproteomics Reveals Decorin Peptides With Anti-Myostatin Activity in Human Atrial Fibrillation. 	Glycoproteomics reveals the presence of decorin peptides with anti-myostatin activity in human atrial fibrillation	Atrial fibrillation, Cardiovascular, extracellular matrix	BACKGROUND: Myocardial fibrosis is a feature of many cardiac diseases. We used proteomics to profile glycoproteins in the human cardiac extracellular matrix (ECM). METHODS: Atrial specimens were analyzed by mass spectrometry after extraction of ECM proteins and enrichment for glycoproteins or glycopeptides. RESULTS: ECM-related glycoproteins were identified in left and right atrial appendages from the same patients. Several known glycosylation sites were confirmed. In addition, putative and novel glycosylation sites were detected. On enrichment for glycoproteins, peptides of the small leucine-rich proteoglycan decorin were identified consistently in the flowthrough. Of all ECM proteins identified, decorin was found to be the most fragmented. Within its protein core, 18 different cleavage sites were identified. In contrast, less cleavage was observed for biglycan, the most closely related proteoglycan. Decorin processing differed between human ventricles and atria and was altered in disease. The C-terminus of decorin, important for the interaction with connective tissue growth factor, was detected predominantly in ventricles in comparison with atria. In contrast, atrial appendages from patients in persistent atrial fibrillation had greater levels of full-length decorin but also harbored a cleavage site that was not found in atrial appendages from patients in sinus rhythm. This cleavage site preceded the N-terminal domain of decorin that controls muscle growth by altering the binding capacity for myostatin. Myostatin expression was decreased in atrial appendages of patients with persistent atrial fibrillation and hearts of decorin null mice. A synthetic peptide corresponding to this decorin region dose-dependently inhibited the response to myostatin in cardiomyocytes and in perfused mouse hearts. CONCLUSIONS: This proteomics study is the first to analyze the human cardiac ECM. Novel processed forms of decorin protein core, uncovered in human atrial appendages, can regulate the local bioavailability of antihypertrophic and profibrotic growth factors.
PXD003909	27559607	Protein Interaction Network of Human Protein Kinase D2 Revealed by Chemical Cross-Linking/Mass Spectrometry. 	Identification of human PKD2 interaction partners from cytosolic protein fractions of HeLa cells by affinity enrichment cross-linking/MS	Affinity enrichment, Cross-linking/MS, Orbitrap Fusion, PKD2	We investigated the interaction network of human PKD2 in the cytosol and in Golgi-enriched subcellular protein fractions by an affinity enrichment strategy combined with chemical cross-linking/mass spectrometry (MS). Analysis of the subproteomes revealed the presence of distinct proteins in the cytosolic and Golgi fractions. The covalent fixation of transient or weak interactors by chemical cross-linking allowed capturing interaction partners that might otherwise disappear during conventional pull-down experiments. In total, 31 interaction partners were identified for PKD2, including glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK3B), 14-3-3 protein gamma (YWHAG), and the alpha isoform of 55 kDa regulatory subunit B of protein phosphatase 2A (PPP2R2A). Remarkably, the entire seven-subunit Arp2/3 complex (ARPC1B, ARPC2, ARPC3, ARPC4, ARPC5, ACTR3, ACTR2) as well as ARPC1A and ARPC5L, which are putative substitutes of ARPC1B and ARPC5, were identified. We provide evidence of a direct protein-protein interaction between PKD2 and Arp2/3. Our findings will pave the way for further structural and functional studies of PKD2 complexes, especially the PKD2/Arp2/3 interaction, to elucidate the role of PKD2 for transport processes at the trans-Golgi network. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD003909 (enrichment from cytosolic fractions), PXD003913 (enrichment from Golgi fractions), and PXD003917 (subcellular fractionation).
PXD003813	27560450	The arginylation branch of the N-end rule pathway positively regulates cellular autophagic flux and clearance of proteotoxic proteins. 	Human HeLa cell lince SILAC -  The arginylation branch of the N-end rule pathway positively regulates cellular autophagic flux and clearance of proteotoxic proteins	N-end rule, PCA, autophage	The N-terminal amino acid of a protein is an essential determinant of ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation in the N-end rule pathway. Using para-chloroamphetamine (PCA), a specific inhibitor of the arginylation branch of the pathway (Arg/N-end rule pathway), we identified that blocking the Arg/N-end rule pathway significantly impaired the fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes. Under ER stress, ATE1-encoded Arg-tRNA-protein transferases carry out the N-terminal arginylation of the ER heat shock protein HSPA5 that initially targets cargo proteins, along with SQSTM1, to the autophagosome. At the late stage of autophagy, however, proteasomal degradation of arginylated HSPA5 might function as a critical checkpoint for the proper progression of autophagic flux in the cells. Consistently, the inhibition of the Arg/N-end rule pathway with PCA significantly elevated levels of MAPT and huntingtin aggregates, accompanied by increased numbers of LC3 and SQSTM1 puncta. Cells treated with the Arg/N-end rule inhibitor became more sensitized to proteotoxic stress-induced cytotoxicity. SILAC-based quantitative proteomics also revealed that PCA significantly alters various biological pathways, including cellular responses to stress, nutrient, and DNA damage, which are also closely involved in modulation of autophagic responses. Thus, our results indicate that the Arg/N-end rule pathway may function to actively protect cells from detrimental effects of cellular stresses, including proteotoxic protein accumulation, by positively regulating autophagic flux.
PXD000136	27560970	hEIDI: An Intuitive Application Tool To Organize and Treat Large-Scale Proteomics Data. 	Proteomic analysis of subchloroplastic compartments	Chloroplast, LTQ-FT, sub compartments fractionation	Advances in high-throughput proteomics have led to a rapid increase in the number, size, and complexity of the associated data sets. Managing and extracting reliable information from such large series of data sets require the use of dedicated software organized in a consistent pipeline to reduce, validate, exploit, and ultimately export data. The compilation of multiple mass-spectrometry-based identification and quantification results obtained in the context of a large-scale project represents a real challenge for developers of bioinformatics solutions. In response to this challenge, we developed a dedicated software suite called hEIDI to manage and combine both identifications and semiquantitative data related to multiple LC-MS/MS analyses. This paper describes how, through a user-friendly interface, hEIDI can be used to compile analyses and retrieve lists of nonredundant protein groups. Moreover, hEIDI allows direct comparison of series of analyses, on the basis of protein groups, while ensuring consistent protein inference and also computing spectral counts. hEIDI ensures that validated results are compliant with MIAPE guidelines as all information related to samples and results is stored in appropriate databases. Thanks to the database structure, validated results generated within hEIDI can be easily exported in the PRIDE XML format for subsequent publication. hEIDI can be downloaded from http://biodev.extra.cea.fr/docs/heidi .
PXD003668	27561551	Integrative proteomic profiling of ovarian cancer cell lines reveals precursor cell associated proteins and functional status. 	Integrative proteomic profiling of ovarian cancer cell lines reveals precursor-cell associated proteins and functional status	Ovarian Cancer Proteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, machine learning	A cell line representative of human high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) should not only resemble its tumour of origin at the molecular level, but also demonstrate functional utility in pre-clinical investigations. Here, we report the integrated proteomic analysis of 26 ovarian cancer cell lines, HGSOC tumours, immortalized ovarian surface epithelial cells and fallopian tube epithelial cells via a single-run mass spectrometric workflow. The in-depth quantification of >10,000 proteins results in three distinct cell line categories: epithelial (group I), clear cell (group II) and mesenchymal (group III). We identify a 67-protein cell line signature, which separates our entire proteomic data set, as well as a confirmatory publicly available CPTAC/TCGA tumour proteome data set, into a predominantly epithelial and mesenchymal HGSOC tumour cluster. This proteomics-based epithelial/mesenchymal stratification of cell lines and human tumours indicates a possible origin of HGSOC either from the fallopian tube or from the ovarian surface epithelium.
PXD008430	27562671	A Cell-type-resolved Liver Proteome. 	Cell type resolved liver proteomics	liver	Parenchymatous organs consist of multiple cell types, primarily defined as parenchymal cells (PCs) and nonparenchymal cells (NPCs). The cellular characteristics of these organs are not well understood. Proteomic studies facilitate the resolution of the molecular details of different cell types in organs. These studies have significantly extended our knowledge about organogenesis and organ cellular composition. Here, we present an atlas of the cell-type-resolved liver proteome. In-depth proteomics identified 6000 to 8000 gene products (GPs) for each cell type and a total of 10,075 GPs for four cell types. This data set revealed features of the cellular composition of the liver: (1) hepatocytes (PCs) express the least GPs, have a unique but highly homogenous proteome pattern, and execute fundamental liver functions; (2) the division of labor among PCs and NPCs follows a model in which PCs make the main components of pathways, but NPCs trigger the pathways; and (3) crosstalk among NPCs and PCs maintains the PC phenotype. This study presents the liver proteome at cell resolution, serving as a research model for dissecting the cell type constitution and organ features at the molecular level.
PXD001808	27566455	Pulmonary sarcoidosis is associated with exosomal vitamin D-binding protein and inflammatory molecules. 	BALF exosomes	BALF, exosome, sarcoidosis	BACKGROUND: Sarcoidosis is an inflammatory granulomatous disorder characterized by accumulation of TH1-type CD4(+) T cells and immune effector cells within affected organs, most frequently the lungs. Exosomes are extracellular vesicles conveying intercellular communication with possible diagnostic and therapeutic applications. OBJECTIVES: We aimed to provide an understanding of the proinflammatory role of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) exosomes in patients with sarcoidosis and to find candidates for disease biomarkers. METHODS: We performed a mass spectrometric proteomics characterization of BALF exosomes from 15 patients with sarcoidosis and 5 healthy control subjects and verified the most interesting results with flow cytometry, ELISA, and Western blot analyses in an additional 39 patients and 22 control subjects. RESULTS: More than 690 proteins were identified in the BALF exosomes, several of which displayed significant upregulation in patients, including inflammation-associated proteins, such as leukotriene A4 hydrolase. Most of the complement-activating factors were upregulated, whereas the complement regulator CD55 was seen less in patients compared with healthy control subjects. In addition, for the first time, we detected vitamin D-binding protein in BALF exosomes, which was more abundant in patients. To evaluate exosome-associated vitamin D-binding protein as a biomarker for sarcoidosis, we investigated plasma exosomes from 23 patients and 11 healthy control subjects and found significantly higher expression in patients. CONCLUSION: Together, these data contribute to understanding the role of exosomes in lung disease and provide suggestions for highly warranted sarcoidosis biomarkers. Furthermore, the validation of an exosome-associated biomarker in the blood of patients provides novel, and less invasive, opportunities for disease diagnosis.
PXD004558	27568932	Loss of Pink1 modulates synaptic mitochondrial bioenergetics in the rat striatum prior to motor symptoms: concomitant complex I respiratory defects and increased complex II-mediated respiration. 	SWATH-MS Analysis of Striatal Synaptic Mitochondria from Pink1 KO rats	Parkinsons disease, SWATH-MS, mitochondria	PURPOSE: Mutations in PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (Pink1), a mitochondrial serine/threonine kinase, cause a recessive inherited form of Parkinson's disease (PD). Pink1 deletion in rats results in a progressive PD-like phenotype, characterized by significant motor deficits starting at 4 months of age. Despite the evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction, the pathogenic mechanism underlying disease due to Pink1-deficiency remains obscure. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Striatal synaptic mitochondria from 3-month-old Pink1-deficient rats were characterized using bioenergetic and mass spectroscopy (MS)-based proteomic analyses. RESULTS: Striatal synaptic mitochondria from Pink1-deficient rats exhibit decreased complex I-driven respiration and increased complex II-mediated respiration compared with wild-type rats. MS-based proteomics revealed 69 of the 811 quantified mitochondrial proteins were differentially expressed between Pink1-deficient rats and controls. Down-regulation of several electron carrier proteins, which shuttle electrons to reduce ubiquinone at complex III, in the Pink1-knockouts suggests disruption of the linkage between fatty acid, amino acid, and choline metabolism and the mitochondrial respiratory system. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These results suggest that complex II activity is increased to compensate for loss of electron transfer mechanisms due to reduced complex I activity and loss of electron carriers within striatal nerve terminals early during disease progression. This may contribute to the pathogenesis of PD.
PXD003547	27569743	Novel IEF Peptide Fractionation Method Reveals a Detailed Profile of N-Terminal Acetylation in Chemotherapy-Responsive and -Resistant Ovarian Cancer Cells. 	IEF fractionation OVCAR-5 cell line	IEF fractionation LC-MS/MS ovarian cancer cell line, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	Although acetylation is regarded as a common protein modification, a detailed proteome-wide profile of this post-translational modification may reveal important biological insight regarding differential acetylation of individual proteins. Here we optimized a novel peptide IEF fractionation method for use prior to LC-MS/MS analysis to obtain a more in depth coverage of N-terminally acetylated proteins from complex samples. Application of the method to the analysis of the serous ovarian cancer cell line OVCAR-5 identified 344 N-terminally acetylated proteins, 12 of which are previously unreported. The protein peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase A (PPIA) was detected in both the N-terminally acetylated and unmodified forms and was further analyzed by data-independent acquisition in carboplatin-responsive parental OVCAR-5 cells and carboplatin-resistant OVCAR-5 cells. This revealed a higher ratio of unacetylated to acetylated N-terminal PPIA in the parental compared with the carboplatin-resistant OVCAR-5 cells and a 4.1-fold increase in PPIA abundance overall in the parental cells relative to carboplatin-resistant OVCAR-5 cells (P = 0.015). In summary, the novel IEF peptide fractionation method presented here is robust, reproducible, and can be applied to the profiling of N-terminally acetylated proteins. All mass spectrometry data is available as a ProteomeXchange repository (PXD003547).
PXD003446	27570076	Soluble Oligomers of PolyQ-Expanded Huntingtin Target a Multiplicity of Key Cellular Factors. 	A Multiple Hit Model for the Diverse Pathogenic Effects Specific to Huntingtin Aggregate Stage in Cells	Huntingtons disease, Interactions	Huntington's disease is one of several neurodegenerative disorders characterized by the aggregation of polyglutamine (polyQ)-expanded mutant protein. How polyQ aggregation leads to cellular dysfunction is not well understood. Here, we analyzed aberrant protein interactions of soluble oligomers and insoluble inclusions of mutant huntingtin using in-cell single molecule fluorescence spectroscopy and quantitative proteomics. We find that the interactome of soluble oligomers is highly complex, with an enrichment of RNA-binding proteins as well as proteins functioning in ribosome biogenesis, translation, transcription, and vesicle transport. The oligomers frequently target proteins containing extended low-complexity sequences, potentially interfering with key cellular pathways. In contrast, the insoluble inclusions are less interactive and associate strongly with protein quality control components, such as Hsp40 chaperones and factors of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Our results suggest a "multiple hit" model for the pathogenic effects of mutant huntingtin, with soluble forms engaging more extensively in detrimental interactions than insoluble aggregates.
PXD011462	27575953	Identification of Organ-Enriched Protein Biomarkers of Acute Liver Injury by Targeted Quantitative Proteomics of Blood in Acetaminophen- and Carbon-Tetrachloride-Treated Mouse Models and Acetaminophen Overdose Patients. 	Biomarkers of Acute Liver Injury by SRM of Mouse Blood (Qin et al. 2016)	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Organ-enriched blood proteins, those produced primarily in one organ and secreted or exported to the blood, potentially afford a powerful and specific approach to assessing diseases in their cognate organs. We demonstrate that quantification of organ-enriched proteins in the blood offers a new strategy to find biomarkers for diagnosis and assessment of drug-induced liver injury (and presumably the assessment of other liver diseases). We used selected reaction monitoring (SRM) mass spectrometry to quantify 81 liver-enriched proteins plus three aminotransferases (ALT1, AST1, and AST2) in plasma of C57BL/6J and NOD/ShiLtJ mice exposed to acetaminophen or carbon tetrachloride. Plasma concentrations of 49 liver-enriched proteins were perturbed significantly in response to liver injury induced by one or both toxins. We validated four of these toxin-responsive proteins (ALDOB, ASS1, BHMT, and GLUD1) by Western blotting. By both assays, these four proteins constitute liver injury markers superior to currently employed markers such as ALT and AST. A similar approach was also successful in human serum where we had analyzed 66 liver-enriched proteins in acetaminophen overdose patients. Of these, 23 proteins were elevated in patients; 15 of 23 overlapped with the concentration-increased proteins in the mouse study. A combination of 5 human proteins, AGXT, ALDOB, CRP, FBP1, and MMP9, provides the best diagnostic performance to distinguish acetaminophen overdose patients from controls (sensitivity: 0.85, specificity: 0.84, accuracy: 85%). These five blood proteins are candidates for detecting acetaminophen-induced liver injury using next-generation diagnostic devices (e.g, microfluidic ELISA assays).
PXD004265	27576083	Combinatory annotation of cell membrane receptors and signalling pathways of Bombyx mori prothoracic glands. 	Proteomic analysis of Bombyx mori prothoracic glands from day 0 and day 6 of the 5th instar	Bombyx mori, ecdysteroid, proteomic analysis, prothoracic glands	The cells of prothoracic glands (PG) are the main site of synthesis and secretion of ecdysteroids, the biochemical products of cholesterol conversion to steroids that shape the morphogenic development of insects. Despite the availability of genome sequences from several insect species and the extensive knowledge of certain signalling pathways that underpin ecdysteroidogenesis, the spectrum of signalling molecules and ecdysteroidogenic cascades is still not fully comprehensive. To fill this gap and obtain the complete list of cell membrane receptors expressed in PG cells, we used combinatory bioinformatic, proteomic and transcriptomic analysis and quantitative PCR to annotate and determine the expression profiles of genes identified as putative cell membrane receptors of the model insect species, Bombyx mori, and subsequently enrich the repertoire of signalling pathways that are present in its PG cells. The genome annotation dataset we report here highlights modules and pathways that may be directly involved in ecdysteroidogenesis and aims to disseminate data and assist other researchers in the discovery of the role of such receptors and their ligands.
PXD003700	27577262	Proteome-wide analysis of arginine monomethylation reveals widespread occurrence in human cells. 	Human Arginine Methylome -  Proteome-wide analysis of arginine monomethylation reveals widespread occurrence in human cells	Human HEK293 cells	The posttranslational modification of proteins by arginine methylation is functionally important, yet the breadth of this modification is not well characterized. Using high-resolution mass spectrometry, we identified 8030 arginine methylation sites within 3300 human proteins in human embryonic kidney 293 cells, indicating that the occurrence of this modification is comparable to phosphorylation and ubiquitylation. A site-level conservation analysis revealed that arginine methylation sites are less evolutionarily conserved compared to arginines that were not identified as modified by methylation. Through quantitative proteomics and RNA interference to examine arginine methylation stoichiometry, we unexpectedly found that the protein arginine methyltransferase (PRMT) family of arginine methyltransferases catalyzed methylation independently of arginine sequence context. In contrast to the frequency of somatic mutations at arginine methylation sites throughout the proteome, we observed that somatic mutations were common at arginine methylation sites in proteins involved in mRNA splicing. Furthermore, in HeLa and U2OS cells, we found that distinct arginine methyltransferases differentially regulated the functions of the pre-mRNA splicing factor SRSF2 (serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 2) and the RNA transport ribonucleoprotein HNRNPUL1 (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U-like 1). Knocking down PRMT5 impaired the RNA binding function of SRSF2, whereas knocking down PRMT4 [also known as coactivator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1)] or PRMT1 increased the RNA binding function of HNRNPUL1. High-content single-cell imaging additionally revealed that knocking down CARM1 promoted the nuclear accumulation of SRSF2, independent of cell cycle phase. Collectively, the presented human arginine methylome provides a missing piece in the global and integrative view of cellular physiology and protein regulation.
PXD003174	27580715	Tma108, a putative M1 aminopeptidase, is a specific nascent chain-associated protein in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Tma108, a putative M1 aminopeptidase, defines specialized ribosomes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Affinity purification (AP-MS), ribosomes, yeast S. cerevisiae	The discovery of novel specific ribosome-associated factors challenges the assumption that translation relies on standardized molecular machinery. In this work, we demonstrate that Tma108, an uncharacterized translation machinery-associated factor in yeast, defines a subpopulation of cellular ribosomes specifically involved in the translation of less than 200 mRNAs encoding proteins with ATP or Zinc binding domains. Using ribonucleoparticle dissociation experiments we established that Tma108 directly interacts with the nascent protein chain. Additionally, we have shown that translation of the first 35 amino acids of Asn1, one of the Tma108 targets, is necessary and sufficient to recruit Tma108, suggesting that it is loaded early during translation. Comparative genomic analyses, molecular modeling and directed mutagenesis point to Tma108 as an original M1 metallopeptidase, which uses its putative catalytic peptide-binding pocket to bind the N-terminus of its targets. The involvement of Tma108 in co-translational regulation is attested by a drastic change in the subcellular localization of ATP2 mRNA upon Tma108 inactivation. Tma108 is a unique example of a nascent chain-associated factor with high selectivity and its study illustrates the existence of other specific translation-associated factors besides RNA binding proteins.
PXD004203	27581975	Efficiency in Complexity: Composition and Dynamic Nature of Mimivirus Replication Factories. 	Mimivirus Replication Factories	Mimivirus, viral factories	The recent discovery of multiple giant double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) viruses blurred the consensual distinction between viruses and cells due to their size, as well as to their structural and genetic complexity. A dramatic feature revealed by these viruses as well as by many positive-strand RNA viruses is their ability to rapidly form elaborate intracellular organelles, termed "viral factories," where viral progeny are continuously generated. Here we report the first isolation of viral factories at progressive postinfection time points. The isolated factories were subjected to mass spectrometry-based proteomics, bioinformatics, and imaging analyses. These analyses revealed that numerous viral proteins are present in the factories but not in mature virions, thus implying that multiple and diverse proteins are required to promote the efficiency of viral factories as "production lines" of viral progeny. Moreover, our results highlight the dynamic and highly complex nature of viral factories, provide new and general insights into viral infection, and substantiate the intriguing notion that viral factories may represent the living state of viruses. IMPORTANCE Large dsDNA viruses such as vaccinia virus and the giant mimivirus, as well as many positive-strand RNA viruses, generate elaborate cytoplasmic organelles in which the multiple and diverse transactions required for viral replication and assembly occur. These organelles, which were termed "viral factories," are attracting much interest due to the increasing realization that the rapid and continuous production of viral progeny is a direct outcome of the elaborate structure and composition of the factories, which act as efficient production lines. To get new insights into the nature and function of viral factories, we devised a method that allows, for the first time, the isolation of these organelles. Analyses of the isolated factories generated at different times postinfection by mass spectrometry-based proteomics provide new perceptions of their role and reveal the highly dynamic nature of these organelles.
PXD004722	27582265	Minimal cytosolic iron-sulfur cluster assembly machinery of Giardia intestinalis is partially associated with mitosomes. 	Incomplete cytosolic iron-sulfur cluster assembly machinery of Giardia intestinalis is partially associated with mitosomes	Giardi Intestinalis, LC MS	Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters are essential cofactors that enable proteins to transport electrons, sense signals, or catalyze chemical reactions. The maturation of dozens of Fe-S proteins in various compartments of every eukaryotic cell is driven by several assembly pathways. The ubiquitous cytosolic Fe-S cluster assembly (CIA) pathway, typically composed of eight highly conserved proteins, depends on mitochondrial Fe-S cluster assembly (ISC) machinery. Giardia intestinalis contains one of the smallest eukaryotic genomes and the mitosome, an extremely reduced mitochondrion. Because the only pathway known to be retained within this organelle is the synthesis of Fe-S clusters mediated by ISC machinery, a likely function of the mitosome is to cooperate with the CIA pathway. We investigated the cellular localization of CIA components in G. intestinalis and the origin and distribution of CIA-related components and Tah18-like proteins in other Metamonada. We show that orthologs of Tah18 and Dre2 are missing in these eukaryotes. In Giardia, all CIA components are exclusively cytosolic, with the important exception of Cia2 and two Nbp35 paralogs, which are present in the mitosomes. We propose that the dual localization of Cia2 and Nbp35 proteins in Giardia might represent a novel connection between the ISC and the CIA pathways.
PXD001181	27590702	Phosphosite-specific regulation of the oxidative-stress response of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis: a shotgun phosphoproteomic analysis. 	Phosphosite-specific regulation of the oxidative-stress response of P. brasiliensis: A Shotgun Phosphoproteomic Analysis	Paracoccidioides brasiliensis, cell proliferation, oxidative stress, phosphorylation, post-translational modification	Paracoccidioides brasiliensis, a thermally dimorphic fungus, is the causative agent of paracoccidioidomycosis, a systemic mycosis that is widespread in Latin America. This fungus is a facultative intracellular pathogen able to survive and replicate inside non-activated macrophages. Therefore, the survival of P. brasiliensis inside the host depends on the ability to adapt to oxidative stress induced by immune cells, especially alveolar macrophages. For several years, reactive oxygen species (ROS) were only associated with pathological processes. Currently, a plethora of roles for ROS in cell signaling have emerged. We have previously reported that low ROS concentrations cause cell proliferation in the human pathogenic fungus P. brasiliensis. In the present report, we investigated the influence of phosphorylation events in that process. Using a mass spectrometry-based approach, we mapped 440 phosphorylation sites in 230 P. brasiliensis proteins and showed that phosphorylation at different sites determines fungal responses to oxidative stress, which are regulated by phosphatases and kinases activities. Furthermore, we present additional evidence for a functional two-component signal transduction system in P. brasiliensis. These findings will help us to understand the phosphorylation events involved in the oxidative stress response.
PXD003983	27595565	Hemi-methylated DNA regulates DNA methylation inheritance through allosteric activation of H3 ubiquitylation by UHRF1. 	Hemi-methylated DNA regulates DNA methylation inheritance through allosteric control of H3 ubiquitylation by UHRF1	DNA methylation, RING E3 ligase, UHRF1, epigenetics, histone H3 ubiquitylation, histone post-translational modifications, ubiquitin	The epigenetic inheritance of DNA methylation requires UHRF1, a histone- and DNA-binding RING E3 ubiquitin ligase that recruits DNMT1 to sites of newly replicated DNA through ubiquitylation of histone H3. UHRF1 binds DNA with selectivity towards hemi-methylated CpGs (HeDNA); however, the contribution of HeDNA sensing to UHRF1 function remains elusive. Here, we reveal that the interaction of UHRF1 with HeDNA is required for DNA methylation but is dispensable for chromatin interaction, which is governed by reciprocal positive cooperativity between the UHRF1 histone- and DNA-binding domains. HeDNA recognition activates UHRF1 ubiquitylation towards multiple lysines on the H3 tail adjacent to the UHRF1 histone-binding site. Collectively, our studies are the first demonstrations of a DNA-protein interaction and an epigenetic modification directly regulating E3 ubiquitin ligase activity. They also define an orchestrated epigenetic control mechanism involving modifications both to histones and DNA that facilitate UHRF1 chromatin targeting, H3 ubiquitylation, and DNA methylation inheritance.
PXD001346	27596437	Identification of a novel mechanism of blood-brain communication during peripheral inflammation via choroid plexus-derived extracellular vesicles. 	Exosomal proteome from mouse CSF	CSF, exosomes, extracellular vesicles	Here, we identified release of extracellular vesicles (EVs) by the choroid plexus epithelium (CPE) as a new mechanism of blood-brain communication. Systemic inflammation induced an increase in EVs and associated pro-inflammatory miRNAs, including miR-146a and miR-155, in the CSF Interestingly, this was associated with an increase in amount of multivesicular bodies (MVBs) and exosomes per MVB in the CPE cells. Additionally, we could mimic this using LPS-stimulated primary CPE cells and choroid plexus explants. These choroid plexus-derived EVs can enter the brain parenchyma and are taken up by astrocytes and microglia, inducing miRNA target repression and inflammatory gene up-regulation. Interestingly, this could be blocked in vivo by intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of an inhibitor of exosome production. Our data show that CPE cells sense and transmit information about the peripheral inflammatory status to the central nervous system (CNS) via the release of EVs into the CSF, which transfer this pro-inflammatory message to recipient brain cells. Additionally, we revealed that blockage of EV secretion decreases brain inflammation, which opens up new avenues to treat systemic inflammatory diseases such as sepsis.
PXD004782	27596602	Stable nuclear expression of ATP8 and ATP6 genes rescues a mtDNA Complex V null mutant. 	Stable nuclear expression of ATP8 and ATP6 genes rescues a mtDNA Complex V null mutant	ATP6, Complex 5, SWATH, data independent acquisition, mitochondria	We explore the possibility of re-engineering mitochondrial genes and expressing them from the nucleus as an approach to rescue defects arising from mitochondrial DNA mutations. We have used a patient cybrid cell line with a single point mutation in the overlap region of the ATP8 and ATP6 genes of the human mitochondrial genome. These cells are null for the ATP8 protein, have significantly lowered ATP6 protein levels and no Complex V function. Nuclear expression of only the ATP8 gene with the ATP5G1 mitochondrial targeting sequence appended restored viability on Krebs cycle substrates and ATP synthesis capabilities but, failed to restore ATP hydrolysis and was insensitive to various inhibitors of oxidative phosphorylation. Co-expressing both ATP8 and ATP6 genes under similar conditions resulted in stable protein expression leading to successful integration into Complex V of the oxidative phosphorylation machinery. Tests for ATP hydrolysis / synthesis, oxygen consumption, glycolytic metabolism and viability all indicate a significant functional rescue of the mutant phenotype (including re-assembly of Complex V) following stable co-expression of ATP8 and ATP6 Thus, we report the stable allotopic expression, import and function of two mitochondria encoded genes, ATP8 and ATP6, resulting in simultaneous rescue of the loss of both mitochondrial proteins.
PXD004090	27599463	An iTRAQ characterisation of the role of TolC during electron transfer from Shewanella oneidensis MR-1. 	Quantitative proteome of Shewanella oneidensis MR-1	Microbial fuel cell (MFC) biolms, Shewanella oneidensis MR-1, iTRAQ, membrane proteins	Anodophilic bacteria have the ability to generate electricity in microbial fuel cells (MFCs) by extracellular electron transfer to the anode. We investigated the anode-specific responses of Shewanella oneidensis MR-1, an exoelectroactive Gammaproteobacterium, using for the first time iTRAQ and 2D-LC MS/MS driven membrane proteomics to compare protein abundances in S. oneidensis when generating power in MFCs, and growing in a continuous culture. The regulated dataset produced was enriched in membrane proteins. Proteins shown to be more abundant in anaerobic electroactive anodic cells included efflux pump TolC and an uncharacterised tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) protein, whilst the TonB2 system and associated uncharacterised proteins such as TtpC2 and DUF3450 were more abundant in microaerobic planktonic cells. In order to validate the iTRAQ data, the functional role for TolC was examined using a deltaTolC knockout mutant of S. oneidensis. Possible roles for the uncharacterised proteins were identified using comparative bioinformatics. We demonstrate that employing an insoluble extracellular electron acceptor requires multiple proteins involved in cell surface properties. All MS and processed data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004090.
PXD000910	27600695	Phosphoproteomics analyses show subnetwork systems in T-cell receptor signaling. 	Thymocyte quantitation test   .	Thymocyte	A key issue in the study of signal transduction is how multiple signaling pathways are systematically integrated into the cell. We have now performed multiple phosphoproteomics analyses focused on the dynamics of the T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling network and its subsystem mediated by the Ca(2+) signaling pathway. Integration of these phosphoproteomics data sets and extraction of components of the TCR signaling network dependent on Ca(2+) signaling showed unexpected phosphorylation kinetics for candidate substrates of the Ca(2+) -dependent phosphatase calcineurin (CN) during TCR stimulation. Detailed characterization of the TCR-induced phosphorylation of a novel CN substrate, Itpkb, showed that phosphorylation of this protein is regulated by both CN and the mitogen-activated protein kinase Erk in a competitive manner. Phosphorylation of additional CN substrates was also found to be regulated by Erk and CN in a similar manner. The combination of multiple phosphoproteomics approaches thus showed two major subsystems mediated by Erk and CN in the TCR signaling network, with these subsystems regulating the phosphorylation of a group of proteins in a competitive manner.
PXD003613	27601597	Comprehensive Proteome Profiling of Platelet Identified a Protein Profile Predictive of Responses to An Antiplatelet Agent Sarpogrelate. 	Comprehensive proteome profiling of platelet identified a protein profile predictive of responses to an antiplatelet agent sarpogrelate.	Antiplatelet agents, and drug responses., platelet proteomes	Sarpogrelate is an antiplatelet agent widely used to treat arterial occlusive diseases. Evaluation of platelet aggregation is essential to monitor therapeutic effects of sarpogrelate. Currently, no molecular signatures are available to evaluate platelet aggregation. Here, we performed comprehensive proteome profiling of platelets collected from 18 subjects before and after sarpogrelate administration using LC-MS/MS analysis coupled with extensive fractionation. Of 5423 proteins detected, we identified 499 proteins affected by sarpogrelate and found that they strongly represented cellular processes related to platelet activation and aggregation, including cell activation, coagulation, and vesicle-mediated transports. Based on the network model of the proteins involved in these processes, we selected three proteins (cut-like homeobox 1; coagulation factor XIII, B polypeptide; and peptidylprolyl isomerase D) that reflect the platelet aggregation-related processes after confirming their alterations by sarpogrelate in independent samples using Western blotting. Our proteomic approach provided a protein profile predictive of therapeutic effects of sarpogrelate.
PXD004423	27601599	Comprehensive Proteomic Analysis of Human Milk-derived Extracellular Vesicles Unveils a Novel Functional Proteome Distinct from Other Milk Components. 	milk-derived extracellular vesicles UHPLC-MS	Human milk, LC-MS, milk proteome, vesicles	Breast milk contains several macromolecular components with distinctive functions, whereby milk fat globules and casein micelles mainly provide nutrition to the newborn, and whey contains molecules that can stimulate the newborn's developing immune system and gastrointestinal tract. Although extracellular vesicles (EV) have been identified in breast milk, their physiological function and composition has not been addressed in detail. EV are submicron sized vehicles released by cells for intercellular communication via selectively incorporated lipids, nucleic acids, and proteins. Because of the difficulty in separating EV from other milk components, an in-depth analysis of the proteome of human milk-derived EV is lacking. In this study, an extensive LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis was performed of EV that had been purified from breast milk of seven individual donors using a recently established, optimized density-gradient-based EV isolation protocol. A total of 1963 proteins were identified in milk-derived EV, including EV-associated proteins like CD9, Annexin A5, and Flotillin-1, with a remarkable overlap between the different donors. Interestingly, 198 of the identified proteins are not present in the human EV database Vesiclepedia, indicating that milk-derived EV harbor proteins not yet identified in EV of different origin. Similarly, the proteome of milk-derived EV was compared with that of other milk components. For this, data from 38 published milk proteomic studies were combined in order to construct the total milk proteome, which consists of 2698 unique proteins. Remarkably, 633 proteins identified in milk-derived EV have not yet been identified in human milk to date. Interestingly, these novel proteins include proteins involved in regulation of cell growth and controlling inflammatory signaling pathways, suggesting that milk-derived EVs could support the newborn's developing gastrointestinal tract and immune system. Overall, this study provides an expansion of the whole milk proteome and illustrates that milk-derived EV are macromolecular components with a unique functional proteome.
PXD003402	27602264	Vegemite Beer: yeast extract spreads as nutrient supplements to promote fermentation. 	Vegemite Beer -  Vegemite Beer: yeast extract spreads as nutrient supplements to promote fermentation	Marmite, Vegemite, fermentation	Vegemite is an iconic Australian food spread made from spent brewers' yeast extract, which has been reported to be used as an ingredient in illegal home brewing. In this study, we tested the utility of Vegemite and the similar spread Marmite in promoting fermentation. We could not culture microorganisms from either Vegemite or Marmite, consistent with these food-grade spreads being essentially sterile. To test if the addition of Vegemite or Marmite could assist in fermentation when additional viable yeast was also present, solutions containing glucose and a range of concentrations of either Vegemite or Marmite were inoculated with brewers' yeast. No fermentation occurred in any condition without addition of extra brewer's yeast. Fermentation did not occur when yeast was inoculated into solutions containing only glucose, but progressed efficiently with when Vegemite or Marmite was also added. Gas Chromatography confirmed that ethanol was present at ~3% v/v post-fermentation in all samples which contained glucose, Vegemite or Marmite, and brewers' yeast. Trace amounts of methanol were also detected. Mass spectrometry proteomics identified abundant intracellular yeast proteins and barley proteins in Vegemite and Marmite, and abundant secreted yeast proteins from actively growing yeast in those samples to which extra brewers' yeast had been added. We estimate that the real-world cost of home brewed "Vegemite Beer" would be very low. Our results show that Vegemite or other yeast extract spreads could provide cheap and readily available sources of nutrient supplementation to increase the efficiency of fermentation in home brewing or other settings.
PXD003450	27602567	Towards a Proteomic Catalogue and Differential Annotation of Salivary Gland Proteins in Blood Fed Malaria Vector Anopheles culicifacies by Mass Spectrometry. 	Anopheles culicifacies species A salivary gland  proteome	1D electrophoresis, Anopheles culicifacies, salivary gland	In order to understand the importance of functional proteins in mosquito behavior, following blood meal, a baseline proteomic dataset is essential for providing insights into the physiology of blood feeding. Therefore, in this study as first step, in solution and 1-D electrophoresis digestion approach combined with tandem mass spectrometry (nano LC-MS/MS) and computational bioinformatics for data mining was used to prepare a baseline proteomic catalogue of salivary gland proteins of sugar fed An. culicifacies mosquitoes. A total of 106 proteins were identified and analyzed by SEQUEST algorithm against mosquito protein database from Uniprot/NCBI. Importantly, D7r1, D7r2, D7r4, salivary apyrase, anti-platelet protein, calreticulin, antigen 5 family proteins were identified and grouped on the basis of biological and functional roles. Secondly, differential protein expression and annotations between salivary glands of sugar fed vs blood fed mosquitoes was analyzed using 2-Delectrophoresis combined with MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. The alterations in the differential expression of total 38 proteins was observed out of which 29 proteins like beclin-1, phosphorylating proteins, heme oxygenase 1, ferritin, apoptotic proteins, coagulation and immunity like, serine proteases, serpins, c-type lectin and protein in regulation of blood feeding behavior were found to be up regulated while 9 proteins related to blood feeding, juvenile hormone epoxide hydrolase ii, odorant binding proteins and energy metabolic enzymes were found to be down regulated. To our knowledge, this study provides a first time baseline proteomic dataset and functional annotations of An. culicifacies salivary gland proteins that may be involved during the blood feeding. Identification of differential salivary proteins between sugar fed and blood fed mosquitoes and their plausible role may provide insights into the physiological processes associated with feeding behavior and sporozoite transmission during the process of blood feeding.
PXD000646	27604546	Biosynthesis and Regulation of Wheat Amylose and Amylopectin from Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Characterization of Granule-binding Proteins. 	Wheat leaf phosphoproteome under drought stress	bread wheat, drought stress, phosphoproteome, phosphorylation status	Waxy starch has an important influence on the qualities of breads. Generally, grain weight and yield in waxy wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) are significantly lower than in bread wheat. In this study, we performed the first proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of starch granule-binding proteins by comparing the waxy wheat cultivar Shannong 119 and the bread wheat cultivar Nongda 5181. These results indicate that reduced amylose content does not affect amylopectin synthesis, but it causes significant reduction of total starch biosynthesis, grain size, weight and grain yield. Two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis identified 40 differentially expressed protein (DEP) spots in waxy and non-waxy wheats, which belonged mainly to starch synthase (SS) I, SS IIa and granule-bound SS I. Most DEPs involved in amylopectin synthesis showed a similar expression pattern during grain development, suggesting relatively independent amylose and amylopectin synthesis pathways. Phosphoproteome analysis of starch granule-binding proteins, using TiO2 microcolumns and LC-MS/MS, showed that the total number of phosphoproteins and their phosphorylation levels in ND5181 were significantly higher than in SN119, but proteins controlling amylopectin synthesis had similar phosphorylation levels. Our results revealed the lack of amylose did not affect the expression and phosphorylation of the starch granule-binding proteins involved in amylopectin biosynthesis.
PXD004668	27604873	Conservation of miRNA-mediated silencing mechanisms across 600 million years of animal evolution. 	Interactome of Nematostella GW182 in HEK293 cells	AP-MS, GW182, HEK293	Our current knowledge about the mechanisms of miRNA silencing is restricted to few lineages such as vertebrates, arthropods, nematodes and land plants. miRNA-mediated silencing in bilaterian animals is dependent on the proteins of the GW182 family. Here, we dissect the function of GW182 protein in the cnidarian Nematostella, separated by 600 million years from other Metazoa. Using cultured human cells, we show that Nematostella GW182 recruits the CCR4-NOT deadenylation complexes via its tryptophan-containing motifs, thereby inhibiting translation and promoting mRNA decay. Further, similarly to bilaterians, GW182 in Nematostella is recruited to the miRNA repression complex via interaction with Argonaute proteins, and functions downstream to repress mRNA. Thus, our work suggests that this mechanism of miRNA-mediated silencing was already active in the last common ancestor of Cnidaria and Bilateria.
PXD002231	27606320	Fluoxetine Treatment Rescues Energy Metabolism Pathway Alterations in a Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Mouse Model. 	PTSD mouse brain proteome -  Fluoxetine Treatment Rescues Energy Metabolism Pathway Alterations in a Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Mouse Model	PTSD, brain	Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a prevalent psychiatric disorder. Several studies have attempted to characterize molecular alterations associated with PTSD, but most findings were limited to the investigation of specific cellular markers in the periphery or defined brain regions. In the current study, we aimed to unravel affected molecular pathways/mechanisms in the fear circuitry associated with PTSD. We interrogated a foot shock-induced PTSD mouse model by integrating proteomics and metabolomics profiling data. Alterations at the proteome level were analyzed using in vivo (15)N metabolic labeling combined with mass spectrometry in the prelimbic cortex (PrL), anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), basolateral amygdala, central nucleus of the amygdala and CA1 of the hippocampus between shocked and nonshocked (control) mice, with and without fluoxetine treatment. In silico pathway analyses revealed an upregulation of the citric acid cycle pathway in PrL, and downregulation in ACC and nucleus accumbens (NAc). Chronic fluoxetine treatment prevented decreased citric acid cycle activity in NAc and ACC and ameliorated conditioned fear response in shocked mice. Our results shed light on the role of energy metabolism in PTSD pathogenesis and suggest potential therapy through mitochondrial targeting.
PXD002424	27609124	Exosomal proteome analysis of cerebrospinal fluid detects biosignatures of neuromyelitis optica and multiple sclerosis. 	Human cerebrospinal fluid exosome, LC-MSMS	Cerebrospinal fluid, exosome, multiple sclerosis, neuromyelitis optica	Quantitative proteomic analysis of exosomes isolated from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of neuromyelitis optica (NMO) patients detected signature proteins differentiating NMO from multiple sclerosis (MS) and idiopathic longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis. Exosomes with good yields were obtained using ultracentrifugation from pooled CSF assisted by chemokine-based clustering strategy, which improved target molecule identification by providing amplified fold change values. 442 significant proteins generated a list of signature molecules of diseases validated primarily by the identification of known markers such as glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and fibronectin specific to NMO and MS respectively. MetaCore pathway analysis of significant proteins supported the involvement of these proteins in disease progression via neurological pathway. Expression levels of target molecules from orthogonal label-free quantification employing quadrupole-Orbitrap hybrid mass spectrometry were in good agreement with those from Western blotting. Additional investigation of GFAP and fibronectin as representative disease molecules revealed their presence in intact exosomes as detected by flow cytometry. This comprehensive study suggests that the exosomal proteomic analysis of CSF can be applied to the identification and characterization of inflammatory disorders of the central nervous system.
PXD004813	27613546	The effects of proteasomal inhibition on synaptic proteostasis. 	Dependence of Synaptic Protein Degradation on Proteasomal Function	Degradation, Synaptic Protein	Synaptic function crucially depends on uninterrupted synthesis and degradation of synaptic proteins. While much has been learned on synaptic protein synthesis, little is known on the routes by which synaptic proteins are degraded. Here we systematically studied how inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) affects the degradation rates of thousands of neuronal and synaptic proteins. We identified a group of proteins, including several proteins related to glutamate receptor trafficking, whose degradation rates were significantly slowed by UPS inhibition. Unexpectedly, however, degradation rates of most synaptic proteins were not significantly affected. Interestingly, many of the differential effects of UPS inhibition were readily explained by a quantitative framework that considered known metabolic turnover rates for the same proteins. In contrast to the limited effects on protein degradation, UPS inhibition profoundly and preferentially suppressed the synthesis of a large number of synaptic proteins. Our findings point to the importance of the UPS in the degradation of certain synaptic proteins, yet indicate that under basal conditions most synaptic proteins might be degraded through alternative pathways.
PXD004883	27613851	The Proteasome Acts as a Hub for Plant Immunity and Is Targeted by Pseudomonas Type III Effectors. 	The proteasome acts as a hub for local and systemic plant immunity in Arabidopsis thaliana and constitutes a virulence target of Pseudomonas syringae type-III effector proteins	Pseudomonas	Recent evidence suggests that the ubiquitin-proteasome system is involved in several aspects of plant immunity and that a range of plant pathogens subvert the ubiquitin-proteasome system to enhance their virulence. Here, we show that proteasome activity is strongly induced during basal defense in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Mutant lines of the proteasome subunits RPT2a and RPN12a support increased bacterial growth of virulent Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000 (Pst) and Pseudomonas syringae pv maculicola ES4326. Both proteasome subunits are required for pathogen-associated molecular pattern-triggered immunity responses. Analysis of bacterial growth after a secondary infection of systemic leaves revealed that the establishment of systemic acquired resistance (SAR) is impaired in proteasome mutants, suggesting that the proteasome also plays an important role in defense priming and SAR In addition, we show that Pst inhibits proteasome activity in a type III secretion-dependent manner. A screen for type III effector proteins from Pst for their ability to interfere with proteasome activity revealed HopM1, HopAO1, HopA1, and HopG1 as putative proteasome inhibitors. Biochemical characterization of HopM1 by mass spectrometry indicates that HopM1 interacts with several E3 ubiquitin ligases and proteasome subunits. This supports the hypothesis that HopM1 associates with the proteasome, leading to its inhibition. Thus, the proteasome is an essential component of pathogen-associated molecular pattern-triggered immunity and SAR, which is targeted by multiple bacterial effectors.
PXD004557	27617430	Glycan shield and epitope masking of a coronavirus spike protein observed by cryo-electron microscopy. 	HCOV-NL63 spike protein glycopeptides	EThcD, glycopeptide, virus	The threat of a major coronavirus pandemic urges the development of strategies to combat these pathogens. Human coronavirus NL63 (HCoV-NL63) is an alpha-coronavirus that can cause severe lower-respiratory-tract infections requiring hospitalization. We report here the 3.4-Aa-resolution cryo-EM reconstruction of the HCoV-NL63 coronavirus spike glycoprotein trimer, which mediates entry into host cells and is the main target of neutralizing antibodies during infection. The map resolves the extensive glycan shield obstructing the protein surface and, in combination with mass spectrometry, provides a structural framework to understand the accessibility to antibodies. The structure reveals the complete architecture of the fusion machinery including the triggering loop and the C-terminal domains, which contribute to anchoring the trimer to the viral membrane. Our data further suggest that HCoV-NL63 and other coronaviruses use molecular trickery, based on epitope masking with glycans and activating conformational changes, to evade the immune system of infected hosts.
PXD004670	27618962	Insight into Enzymatic Degradation of Corn, Wheat, and Soybean Cell Wall Cellulose Using Quantitative Secretome Analysis of Aspergillus fumigatus. 	Insight into enzymatic degradation of corn, wheat, and soybean cell wall cellulose using quantitative secretome analysis of Aspergillus fumigatus	Aspergillus fumigatus, forage, iTRAQ,secretome, lignocellulolytic proteins, lignocelluloses	Lignocelluloses contained in animal forage cannot be digested by pigs or poultry with 100% efficiency. On contrary, Aspergillus fumigatus, a saprophytic filamentous fungus, is known to harbor 263 glycoside hydrolase encoding genes, suggesting that A. fumigatus is an efficient lignocellulose degrader. Hence the present study uses corn, wheat, or soybean as a sole carbon source to culture A. fumigatus under animal physiological condition to understand how cellulolytic enzymes work together to achieve an efficient degradation of lignocellulose. Our results showed that A. fumigatus produced different sets of enzymes to degrade lignocelluloses derived from corn, wheat, or soybean cell wall. In addition, the cellulolytic enzymes produced by A. fumigatus were stable under acidic condition or at higher temperatures. Using isobaric tags for a relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) approach, a total of ~600 extracellular proteins were identified and quantified, in which ~50 proteins were involved in lignocellulolysis, including cellulases, hemicellulases, lignin-degrading enzymes, and some hypothetical proteins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004670. On the basis of quantitative iTRAQ results, 14 genes were selected for further confirmation by RT-PCR. Taken together, our results indicated that the expression and regulation of lignocellulolytic proteins in the secretome of A. fumigatus were dependent on both nature and complexity of cellulose, thus suggesting that a different enzyme system is required for degradation of different lignocelluloses derived from plant cells. Although A. fumigatus is a pathogenic fungus and cannot be directly used as an enzyme source, as an efficient lignocellulose degrader its strategy to synergistically degrade various lignocelluloses with different enzymes can be used to design enzyme combination for optimal digestion and absorption of corn, wheat, or soybean that are used as forage of pig and poultry.
PXD004756	27621269	TDP-43 loss of function inhibits endosomal trafficking and alters trophic signaling in neurons. 	TDP-43 loss of function inhibits endosomal trafficking and alters trophic signaling in neurons	ALS, ErbB4, FTLD, TDP-43, recycling endosomes	Nuclear clearance of TDP-43 into cytoplasmic aggregates is a key driver of neurodegeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), but the mechanisms are unclear. Here, we show that TDP-43 knockdown specifically reduces the number and motility of RAB11-positive recycling endosomes in dendrites, while TDP-43 overexpression has the opposite effect. This is associated with delayed transferrin recycling in TDP-43-knockdown neurons and decreased beta2-transferrin levels in patient CSF Whole proteome quantification identified the upregulation of the ESCRT component VPS4B upon TDP-43 knockdown in neurons. Luciferase reporter assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation suggest that TDP-43 represses VPS4B transcription. Preventing VPS4B upregulation or expression of its functional antagonist ALIX restores trafficking of recycling endosomes. Proteomic analysis revealed the broad reduction in surface expression of key receptors upon TDP-43 knockdown, including ErbB4, the neuregulin 1 receptor. TDP-43 knockdown delays the surface delivery of ErbB4. ErbB4 overexpression, but not neuregulin 1 stimulation, prevents dendrite loss upon TDP-43 knockdown. Thus, impaired recycling of ErbB4 and other receptors to the cell surface may contribute to TDP-43-induced neurodegeneration by blocking trophic signaling.
PXD003929	27621311	Identification and Characterization of MCM3 as a Kelch-like ECH-associated Protein 1 (KEAP1) Substrate. 	Identification and Characterization of MCM3 as a KEAP1 Substrate	APMS, Di-Gly, HEK293T, SILAC, label free quantification	KEAP1 is a substrate adaptor protein for a CUL3-based E3 ubiquitin ligase. Ubiquitylation and degradation of the antioxidant transcription factor NRF2 is considered the primary function of KEAP1; however, few other KEAP1 substrates have been identified. Because KEAP1 is altered in a number of human pathologies and has been proposed as a potential therapeutic target therein, we sought to better understand KEAP1 through systematic identification of its substrates. Toward this goal, we combined parallel affinity capture proteomics and candidate-based approaches. Substrate-trapping proteomics yielded NRF2 and the related transcription factor NRF1 as KEAP1 substrates. Our targeted investigation of KEAP1-interacting proteins revealed MCM3, an essential subunit of the replicative DNA helicase, as a new substrate. We show that MCM3 is ubiquitylated by the KEAP1-CUL3-RBX1 complex in cells and in vitro Using ubiquitin remnant profiling, we identify the sites of KEAP1-dependent ubiquitylation in MCM3, and these sites are on predicted exposed surfaces of the MCM2-7 complex. Unexpectedly, we determined that KEAP1 does not regulate total MCM3 protein stability or subcellular localization. Our analysis of a KEAP1 targeting motif in MCM3 suggests that MCM3 is a point of direct contact between KEAP1 and the MCM hexamer. Moreover, KEAP1 associates with chromatin in a cell cycle-dependent fashion with kinetics similar to the MCM2-7 complex. KEAP1 is thus poised to affect MCM2-7 dynamics or function rather than MCM3 abundance. Together, these data establish new functions for KEAP1 within the nucleus and identify MCM3 as a novel substrate of the KEAP1-CUL3-RBX1 E3 ligase.
PXD001507	27624304	Molecular Profiling of Phagocytic Immune Cells in Anopheles gambiae Reveals Integral Roles for Hemocytes in Mosquito Innate Immunity. 	Proteogenomic analysis of Anopheles gambiae phagocytic hemocyte populations reveals an anticipatory innate immune response in the absence of pathogen challenge	Innate immunity, hemocyte, malaria, mosquito, phagocytosis	The innate immune response is highly conserved across all eukaryotes and has been studied in great detail in several model organisms. Hemocytes, the primary immune cell population in mosquitoes, are important components of the mosquito innate immune response, yet critical aspects of their biology have remained uncharacterized. Using a novel method of enrichment, we isolated phagocytic granulocytes and quantified their proteomes by mass spectrometry. The data demonstrate that phagocytosis, blood-feeding, and Plasmodium falciparum infection promote dramatic shifts in the proteomic profiles of An. gambiae granulocyte populations. Of interest, large numbers of immune proteins were induced in response to blood feeding alone, suggesting that granulocytes have an integral role in priming the mosquito immune system for pathogen challenge. In addition, we identify several granulocyte proteins with putative roles as membrane receptors, cell signaling, or immune components that when silenced, have either positive or negative effects on malaria parasite survival. Integrating existing hemocyte transcriptional profiles, we also compare differences in hemocyte transcript and protein expression to provide new insight into hemocyte gene regulation and discuss the potential that post-transcriptional regulation may be an important component of hemocyte gene expression. These data represent a significant advancement in mosquito hemocyte biology, providing the first comprehensive proteomic profiling of mosquito phagocytic granulocytes during homeostasis blood-feeding, and pathogen challenge. Together, these findings extend current knowledge to further illustrate the importance of hemocytes in shaping mosquito innate immunity and their principal role in defining malaria parasite survival in the mosquito host.
PXD002466	27625594	Implication of Genetic Deletion of Wdr13 in Mice: Mild Anxiety, Better Performance in Spatial Memory Task, with Upregulation of Multiple Synaptic Proteins. 	Wdr13-/0 compared to wild-type mice hippocampus and pre-frontal cortex iTRAQ proteomics	Wdr13-/0, hippocampus, iTRAQ, mice, pre-frontal cortex	WDR13 expresses from the X chromosome and has a highly conserved coding sequence. There have been multiple associations of WDR13 with memory. However, its detailed function in context of brain and behavior remains unknown. We characterized the behavioral phenotype of 2 month old male mice lacking the homolog of WDR13 gene (Wdr13 (-/0)). Taking cue from analysis of its expression in the brain, we chose hippocampus for molecular studies to delineate its function. Wdr13 (-/0) mice spent less time in the central area of the open field test (OFT) and with the novel object in novel object recognition test (NOR) as compared to the wild-type. However, these mice didn't show any significant changes in total time spent in arms or in frequency of arm entries in elevated plus maze (EPM). In the absence of Wdr13, there was a significant upregulation of synaptic proteins, viz., SYN1, RAB3A, CAMK2A etc. accompanied with increased spine density of hippocampal CA1 neurons and better spatial memory in mice as measured by increased time spent in the target quadrant of Morris water maze (MWM) during probe test. Parallel study from our lab has established c-JUN, ER alpha/beta, and HDAC 1,3,7 as interacting partners of WDR13. WDR13 represses transcription from AP1 (c-JUN responsive) and Estrogen Receptor Element (ERE) promoters. We hypothesized that absence of Wdr13 would result in de-regulated expression of a number of genes including multiple synaptic genes leading to the observed phenotype. Knocking down Wdr13 in Neuro2a cell lines led to increased transcripts of Camk2a and Nrxn2 consistent with in-vivo results. Summarily, our data provides functional evidence for the role of Wdr13 in brain.
PXD004666	27626371	Accessory subunits are integral for assembly and function of human mitochondrial complex I. 	Accessory subunits are integral for assembly and function of human mitochondrial complex I	AP-MS, LC-MS, SILAC, crispr, hek293t, mitochondria, nadh, oxphos, talen	Complex I (NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase) is the first enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain and is composed of 45 subunits in humans, making it one of the largest known multi-subunit membrane protein complexes. Complex I exists in supercomplex forms with respiratory chain complexes III and IV, which are together required for the generation of a transmembrane proton gradient used for the synthesis of ATP. Complex I is also a major source of damaging reactive oxygen species and its dysfunction is associated with mitochondrial disease, Parkinson's disease and ageing. Bacterial and human complex I share 14 core subunits that are essential for enzymatic function; however, the role and necessity of the remaining 31 human accessory subunits is unclear. The incorporation of accessory subunits into the complex increases the cellular energetic cost and has necessitated the involvement of numerous assembly factors for complex I biogenesis. Here we use gene editing to generate human knockout cell lines for each accessory subunit. We show that 25 subunits are strictly required for assembly of a functional complex and 1 subunit is essential for cell viability. Quantitative proteomic analysis of cell lines revealed that loss of each subunit affects the stability of other subunits residing in the same structural module. Analysis of proteomic changes after the loss of specific modules revealed that ATP5SL and DMAC1 are required for assembly of the distal portion of the complex I membrane arm. Our results demonstrate the broad importance of accessory subunits in the structure and function of human complex I. Coupling gene-editing technology with proteomics represents a powerful tool for dissecting large multi-subunit complexes and enables the study of complex dysfunction at a cellular level.
PXD004762	27626656	Hepatitis B Virus X Protein Promotes Degradation of SMC5/6 to Enhance HBV Replication. 	Identification of substrates of the CRL4-HBx E3 ubiquitin ligase	CRL4, Cullin, HBV, HBx, MLN4924, substrate, ubiquitylation	The hepatitis B virus (HBV) regulatory protein X (HBx) activates gene expression from the HBV covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) genome. Interaction of HBx with the DDB1-CUL4-ROC1 (CRL4) E3 ligase is critical for this function. Using substrate-trapping proteomics, we identified the structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) complex proteins SMC5 and SMC6 as CRL4(HBx) substrates. HBx expression and HBV infection degraded the SMC5/6 complex in human hepatocytes in vitro and in humanized mice in vivo. HBx targets SMC5/6 for ubiquitylation by the CRL4(HBx) E3 ligase and subsequent degradation by the proteasome. Using a minicircle HBV (mcHBV) reporter system with HBx-dependent activity, we demonstrate that SMC5/6 knockdown, or inhibition with a dominant-negative SMC6, enhance HBx null mcHBV-Gluc gene expression. Furthermore, SMC5/6 knockdown rescued HBx-deficient HBV replication in human hepatocytes. These results indicate that a primary function of HBx is to degrade SMC5/6, which restricts HBV replication by inhibiting HBV gene expression.
PXD004678	27626665	Proteomics of Human Dendritic Cell Subsets Reveals Subset-Specific Surface Markers and Differential Inflammasome Function. 	Proteomics of human dendritic cell subsets	BDCA3+, CD16+ monocytes, CD1c+ myeloid DCs, Dendritic cells, LFQ, MS/MS (LC-MS/MS), Plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs)	Dendritic cells (DCs) play a key role in orchestrating adaptive immune responses. In human blood, three distinct subsets exist: plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs) and BDCA3+ and CD1c+ myeloid DCs. In addition, a DC-like CD16+ monocyte has been reported. Although RNA-expression profiles have been previously compared, protein expression data may provide a different picture. Here, we exploited label-free quantitative mass spectrometry to compare and identify differences in primary human DC subset proteins. Moreover, we integrated these proteomic data with existing mRNA data to derive robust cell-specific expression signatures with more than 400 differentially expressed proteins between subsets, forming a solid basis for investigation of subset-specific functions. We illustrated this by extracting subset identification markers and by demonstrating that pDCs lack caspase-1 and only express low levels of other inflammasome-related proteins. In accordance, pDCs were incapable of interleukin (IL)-1beta secretion in response to ATP.
PXD002317	27626670	FOXO/DAF-16 Activation Slows Down Turnover of the Majority of Proteins in C. elegans. 	wt vs daf-2 C. elegans protein turnover	C. elegans, N15, turnover	Most aging hypotheses assume the accumulation of damage, resulting in gradual physiological decline and, ultimately, death. Avoiding protein damage accumulation by enhanced turnover should slow down the aging process and extend the lifespan. However, lowering translational efficiency extends rather than shortens the lifespan in C. elegans. We studied turnover of individual proteins in the long-lived daf-2 mutant by combining SILeNCe (stable isotope labeling by nitrogen in Caenorhabditiselegans) and mass spectrometry. Intriguingly, the majority of proteins displayed prolonged half-lives in daf-2, whereas others remained unchanged, signifying that longevity is not supported by high protein turnover. This slowdown was most prominent for translation-related and mitochondrial proteins. In contrast, the high turnover of lysosomal hydrolases and very low turnover of cytoskeletal proteins remained largely unchanged. The slowdown of protein dynamics and decreased abundance of the translational machinery may point to the importance of anabolic attenuation in lifespan extension, as suggested by the hyperfunction theory.
PXD001608	27627584	Proteome Analysis of Rheumatoid Arthritis Gut Mucosa. 	Human colon biopsies (healthy and Ulcerative Colitis) LC-MS/MS	LC-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, Q Exactive, biopsies, colitis, colon, control, healthy, machine learning, ulcerative	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an inflammatory joint disease leading to cartilage damage and ultimately impaired joint function. To gain new insight into the systemic immune manifestations of RA, we characterized the colon mucosa proteome from 11 RA-patients and 10 healthy controls. The biopsies were extracted by colonoscopy and analyzed by label-free quantitative proteomics, enabling the quantitation of 5366 proteins. The abundance of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) was statistically significantly increased in RA-patient biopsies compared with controls and correlated with the administered dosage of methotrexate (MTX), the most frequently prescribed immunosuppressive drug for RA. Additionally, our data suggest that treatment with Leflunomide, a common alternative to MTX, increases DHFR. The findings were supported by immunohistochemistry with confocal microscopy, which furthermore demonstrated that DHFR was located in the cytosol of the intestinal epithelial and interstitial cells. Finally, we identified 223 citrullinated peptides from 121 proteins. Three of the peptides were unique to RA. The list of citrullinated proteins was enriched in extracellular and membrane proteins and included known targets of anticitrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs). Our findings support that the colon mucosa could trigger the production of ACPAs, which could contribute to the onset of RA. The MS data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD001608 and PXD003082.
PXD004087	27629805	Progranulin overexpression in sensory neurons attenuates neuropathic pain in mice: Role of autophagy. 	Protein expression in the prefrontal cortex of aged mice with progranulin deficiency or neuronal progranulin overexpression	ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, cortex, machine learning, mice, neurodegeneration, progranulin	Peripheral or central nerve injury is a frequent cause of chronic pain and the mechanisms are not fully understood. Using newly generated transgenic mice we show that progranulin overexpression in sensory neurons attenuates neuropathic pain after sciatic nerve injury and accelerates nerve healing. A yeast-2-hybrid screen revealed putative interactions of progranulin with autophagy-related proteins, ATG12 and ATG4b. This was supported by colocalization and proteomic studies showing regulations of ATG13 and ATG4b and other members of the autophagy network, lysosomal proteins and proteins involved in endocytosis. The association of progranulin with the autophagic pathway was functionally confirmed in primary sensory neurons. Autophagy and survival were impaired in progranulin-deficient neurons and improved in progranulin overexpressing neurons. Nerve injury in vivo caused an accumulation of LC3b-EGFP positive bodies in neurons of the dorsal root ganglia and nerves suggesting an impairment of autophagic flux. Overexpression of progranulin in these neurons was associated with a reduction of the stress marker ATF3, fewer protein aggregates in the injured nerve and enhanced stump healing. At the behavioral level, further inhibition of the autophagic flux by hydroxychloroquine intensified cold and heat nociception after sciatic nerve injury and offset the pain protection provided by progranulin. We infer that progranulin may assist in removal of protein waste and thereby helps to resolve neuropathic pain after nerve injury.
PXD004158	27630166	Quantitative Mass Spectrometry To Study Inflammatory Cartilage Degradation and Resulting Interactions with the Complement System. 	Interaction between bovine IL-1-stimulated cartilage and human serum, LC-MS/MS	IL-1, bovine cartilage, human serum	Joint diseases are often characterized by inflammatory processes that result in pathological changes in joint tissues, including cartilage degradation and release of components into the synovial fluid. The complement system plays a central role in promoting the inflammation. Because several cartilage proteins are known to interact with complement, causing either activation or inhibition of the system, we aimed to investigate these interactions comprehensively. Bovine cartilage explants were cultured with IL-1alpha to induce cartilage degradation, followed by incubation with human serum. Label-free selected reaction monitoring mass spectrometry was used to specifically quantify complement proteins interacting with the cartilage explant. In parallel, the time-dependent degradation of cartilage was detected using mass spectrometry analysis (liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry). Complement proteins resulting from activation of the classical, alternative, and terminal pathways were detected on IL-1alpha-stimulated cartilage at time points when clear alterations in extracellular matrix composition had occurred. Increased levels of the complement activation product C4d, as detected by ELISA in serum after incubation with IL-1alpha-stimulated cartilage, confirmed the selected reaction monitoring results indicating complement activation. Further, typical activated (cleaved) C3 fragments were detected by Western blotting in extracts of IL-1alpha-stimulated cartilage. No complement activation was triggered by cartilage cultured in the absence of IL-1alpha. Components released from IL-1alpha-stimulated cartilage during culture had an inhibitory effect on complement activation. These were released after a longer incubation period with IL-1alpha and may represent a feedback reaction to cartilage-triggered complement activation observed after a shorter incubation period.
PXD003553	27630193	Distinct biological events generated by ECM proteolysis by two homologous collagenases. 	Distinct Combinatorial Cascade of Events Generated by ECM Proteolysis Dictates Cell Behavior	ECM, metalloproteinase	It is well established that the expression profiles of multiple and possibly redundant matrix-remodeling proteases (e.g., collagenases) differ strongly in health, disease, and development. Although enzymatic redundancy might be inferred from their close similarity in structure, their in vivo activity can lead to extremely diverse tissue-remodeling outcomes. We observed that proteolysis of collagen-rich natural extracellular matrix (ECM), performed uniquely by individual homologous proteases, leads to distinct events that eventually affect overall ECM morphology, viscoelastic properties, and molecular composition. We revealed striking differences in the motility and signaling patterns, morphology, and gene-expression profiles of cells interacting with natural collagen-rich ECM degraded by different collagenases. Thus, in contrast to previous notions, matrix-remodeling systems are not redundant and give rise to precise ECM-cell crosstalk. Because ECM proteolysis is an abundant biochemical process that is critical for tissue homoeostasis, these results improve our fundamental understanding its complexity and its impact on cell behavior.
PXD004882	27631493	Loss of the Greatwall Kinase Weakens the Spindle Assembly Checkpoint. 	Greatwall kinase regulates SAC by controlling phosphorylation and activity of MPS1	Greatwall kinase/Mastl/cyclin-dependent kinase/knockout mice/Cdk1/MPS1/SAC	The Greatwall kinase/Mastl is an essential gene that indirectly inhibits the phosphatase activity toward mitotic Cdk1 substrates. Here we show that although Mastl knockout (MastlNULL) MEFs enter mitosis, they progress through mitosis without completing cytokinesis despite the presence of misaligned chromosomes, which causes chromosome segregation defects. Furthermore, we uncover the requirement of Mastl for robust spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) maintenance since the duration of mitotic arrest caused by microtubule poisons in MastlNULL MEFs is shortened, which correlates with premature disappearance of the essential SAC protein Mad1 at the kinetochores. Notably, MastlNULL MEFs display reduced phosphorylation of a number of proteins in mitosis, which include the essential SAC kinase MPS1. We further demonstrate that Mastl is required for multi-site phosphorylation of MPS1 as well as robust MPS1 kinase activity in mitosis. In contrast, treatment of MastlNULL cells with the phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid (OKA) rescues the defects in MPS1 kinase activity, mislocalization of phospho-MPS1 as well as Mad1 at the kinetochore, and premature SAC silencing. Moreover, using in vitro dephosphorylation assays, we demonstrate that Mastl promotes persistent MPS1 phosphorylation by inhibiting PP2A/B55-mediated MPS1 dephosphorylation rather than affecting Cdk1 kinase activity. Our findings establish a key regulatory function of the Greatwall kinase/Mastl->PP2A/B55 pathway in preventing premature SAC silencing.
PXD004750	27633059	Phenotypic, histological and proteomic analyses reveal multiple differences associated with chloroplast development in yellow and variegated variants from Camellia sinensis. 	Proteomic analysis in leaf color variants and CKs from Camellia sinensis	Proteomic analysis, Tea plant, leaf color variations	Leaf colour variation is observed in several plants. We obtained two types of branches with yellow and variegated leaves from Camellia sinensis. To reveal the mechanisms that underlie the leaf colour variations, combined morphological, histological, ionomic and proteomic analyses were performed using leaves from abnormal branches (variants) and normal branches (CKs). The measurement of the CIE-Lab coordinates showed that the brightness and yellowness of the variants were more intense than the CKs. When chloroplast profiles were analysed, HY1 (branch with yellow leaves) and HY2 (branch with variegated leaves) displayed abnormal chloroplast structures and a reduced number and size compared with the CKs, indicating that the abnormal chloroplast development might be tightly linked to the leaf colour variations. Moreover, the concentration of elemental minerals was different between the variants and the CKs. Furthermore, DEPs (differentially expressed proteins) were identified in the variants and the CKs by a quantitative proteomics analysis using the label-free approach. The DEPs were significantly involved in photosynthesis and included PSI, PSII, cytochrome b6/f complex, photosynthetic electron transport, LHC and F-type ATPase. Our results suggested that a decrease in the abundance of photosynthetic proteins might be associated with the changes of leaf colours in tea plants.
PXD004462	27634302	Dynamic Protein Interactions of the Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 during Differentiation of Pluripotent Cells. 	Dynamic protein interactions of the Polycomb Repressive Complex 2	Polycomb Reprssor Complex 2, protein interactions	Polycomb proteins assemble to form complexes with important roles in epigenetic regulation. The Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) modulates the di- and tri-methylation of lysine 27 on histone H3, each of which are associated with gene repression. Although three subunits, EZH1/2, SUZ12, and EED, form the catalytic core of PRC2, a wider group of proteins associate with low stoichiometry. This raises the question of whether dynamic variation of the PRC2 interactome results in alternative forms of the complex during differentiation. Here we compared the physical interactions of PRC2 in undifferentiated and differentiated states of NTERA2 pluripotent embryonic carcinoma cells. Label-free quantitative proteomics was used to assess endogenous immunoprecipitation of the EZH2 and SUZ12 subunits of PRC2. A high stringency data set reflecting the endogenous state of PRC2 was produced that included all previously reported core and associated PRC2 components, and several novel interacting proteins. Comparison of the interactomes obtained in undifferentiated and differentiated cells revealed candidate proteins that were enriched in complexes isolated from one of the two states. For example, SALL4 and ZNF281 associate with PRC2 in pluripotent cells, whereas PCL1 and SMAD3 preferentially associate with PRC2 in differentiating cells. Analysis of the mRNA and protein levels of these factors revealed that their association with PRC2 correlated with their cell state-specific expression. Taken together, we propose that dynamic changes to the PRC2 interactome during differentiation may contribute to directing its activity during cell fate transitions.
PXD002918	27634466	Progressive muscle proteome changes in a clinically relevant pig model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. 	Analysis of skeletal muscle from a tailored pig model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy	DMD, PIG, model organism, muscle	Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is caused by genetic deficiency of dystrophin and characterized by massive structural and functional changes of skeletal muscle tissue, leading to terminal muscle failure. We recently generated a novel genetically engineered pig model reflecting pathological hallmarks of human DMD better than the widely used mdx mouse. To get insight into the hierarchy of molecular derangements during DMD progression, we performed a proteome analysis of biceps femoris muscle samples from 2-day-old and 3-month-old DMD and wild-type (WT) pigs. The extent of proteome changes in DMD vs. WT muscle increased markedly with age, reflecting progression of the pathological changes. In 3-month-old DMD muscle, proteins related to muscle repair such as vimentin, nestin, desmin and tenascin C were found to be increased, whereas a large number of respiratory chain proteins were decreased in abundance in DMD muscle, indicating serious disturbances in aerobic energy production and a reduction of functional muscle tissue. The combination of proteome data for fiber type specific myosin heavy chain proteins and immunohistochemistry showed preferential degeneration of fast-twitch fiber types in DMD muscle. The stage-specific proteome changes detected in this large animal model of clinically severe muscular dystrophy provide novel molecular readouts for future treatment trials.
PXD003190	27638212	Palaeoproteomic evidence identifies archaic hominins associated with the Chatelperronian at the Grotte du Renne. 	COL1 database samples for the Late Pleistocene of Western Eurasia	Mammalia, Q-Exactive Hybrid Quadrupole-Orbitrap MS, de novo collagen sequencing	In Western Europe, the Middle to Upper Paleolithic transition is associated with the disappearance of Neandertals and the spread of anatomically modern humans (AMHs). Current chronological, behavioral, and biological models of this transitional period hinge on the Chatelperronian technocomplex. At the site of the Grotte du Renne, Arcy-sur-Cure, morphological Neandertal specimens are not directly dated but are contextually associated with the Chatelperronian, which contains bone points and beads. The association between Neandertals and this "transitional" assemblage has been controversial because of the lack either of a direct hominin radiocarbon date or of molecular confirmation of the Neandertal affiliation. Here we provide further evidence for a Neandertal-Chatelperronian association at the Grotte du Renne through biomolecular and chronological analysis. We identified 28 additional hominin specimens through zooarchaeology by mass spectrometry (ZooMS) screening of morphologically uninformative bone specimens from Chatelperronian layers at the Grotte du Renne. Next, we obtain an ancient hominin bone proteome through liquid chromatography-MS/MS analysis and error-tolerant amino acid sequence analysis. Analysis of this palaeoproteome allows us to provide phylogenetic and physiological information on these ancient hominin specimens. We distinguish Late Pleistocene clades within the genus Homo based on ancient protein evidence through the identification of an archaic-derived amino acid sequence for the collagen type X, alpha-1 (COL10alpha1) protein. We support this by obtaining ancient mtDNA sequences, which indicate a Neandertal ancestry for these specimens. Direct accelerator mass spectometry radiocarbon dating and Bayesian modeling confirm that the hominin specimens date to the Chatelperronian at the Grotte du Renne.
PXD004246	27640904	Intelligent Mixing of Proteomes for Elimination of False Positives in Affinity Purification-Mass Spectrometry. 	iMixPro: intelligent Mixing of Proteomes for elimination of false positives in affinity purification-mass spectrometry	human overexpression cell lines AP-MS SILAC	Protein complexes are essential in all organizational and functional aspects of the cell. Different strategies currently exist for analyzing such protein complexes by mass spectrometry, including affinity purification (AP-MS) and proximal labeling-based strategies. However, the high sensitivity of current mass spectrometers typically results in extensive protein lists mainly consisting of nonspecifically copurified proteins. Finding the true positive interactors in these lists remains highly challenging. Here, we report a powerful design based on differential labeling with stable isotopes combined with nonequal mixing of control and experimental samples to discover bona fide interaction partners in AP-MS experiments. We apply this intelligent mixing of proteomes (iMixPro) concept to overexpression experiments for RAF1, RNF41, and TANK and also to engineered cell lines expressing epitope-tagged endogenous PTPN14, JIP3, and IQGAP1. For all baits, we confirmed known interactions and found a number of novel interactions. The results for RNF41 and TANK were compared to a classical affinity purification experiment, which demonstrated the efficiency and specificity of the iMixPro approach.
PXD003925	27641956	A Portrait of the Human Organelle Proteome In Space and Time during Cytomegalovirus Infection. 	Spatial and temporal proteomic of HCMV-infected cells	HCMV spatial organelle temporal cytomegalovirus fibroblasts	The organelles within a eukaryotic host are manipulated by viruses to support successful virus replication and spread of infection, yet the global impact of viral infection on host organelles is poorly understood. Integrating microscopy, subcellular fractionation, mass spectrometry, and functional analyses, we conducted a cell-wide study of organelles in primary fibroblasts throughout the time course of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection. We used label-free and isobaric-labeling proteomics to characterize nearly 4,000 host and 100 viral proteins, then classified their specific subcellular locations over time using machine learning. We observed a global reorganization of proteins across the secretory pathway, plasma membrane, and mitochondria, including reorganization and processing of lysosomal proteins into distinct subpopulations and translocations of individual proteins between organelles at specific time points. We also demonstrate that MYO18A, an unconventional myosin that translocates from the plasma membrane to the viral assembly complex, is necessary for efficient HCMV replication. This study provides a comprehensive resource for understanding host and virus biology during HCMV pathogenesis.
PXD001598	27642553	Elevation of glycoprotein nonmetastatic melanoma protein B in type 1 Gaucher disease patients and mouse models. 	Elevated gpNMB in type 1 Gaucher disease patients	Biomarker, Gaucher Disease, LCMSE, gpNMB	Gaucher disease is caused by inherited deficiency of lysosomal glucocerebrosidase. Proteome analysis of laser-dissected splenic Gaucher cells revealed increased amounts of glycoprotein nonmetastatic melanoma protein B (gpNMB). Plasma gpNMB was also elevated, correlating with chitotriosidase and CCL18, which are established markers for human Gaucher cells. In Gaucher mice, gpNMB is also produced by Gaucher cells. Correction of glucocerebrosidase deficiency in mice by gene transfer or pharmacological substrate reduction reverses gpNMB abnormalities. In conclusion, gpNMB acts as a marker for glucosylceramide-laden macrophages in man and mouse and gpNMB should be considered as candidate biomarker for Gaucher disease in treatment monitoring.
PXD004171	27642623	Hepatic SILAC proteomic data from PANDER transgenic model. 	Proteomic Evaluation of PANDER TG Mice	FAM3B, LIVER, PANDER, SILAC	This article contains raw and processed data related to research published in "Quantitative Proteomic Profiling Reveals Hepatic Lipogenesis and Liver X Receptor Activation in the PANDER Transgenic Model" (M.G. Athanason, W.A. Ratliff, D. Chaput, C.B. MarElia, M.N. Kuehl, S.M., Jr. Stevens, B.R. Burkhardt (2016)) [1], and was generated by "spike-in" SILAC-based proteomic analysis of livers obtained from the PANcreatic-Derived factor (PANDER) transgenic mouse (PANTG) under various metabolic conditions [1]. The mass spectrometry output of the PANTG and wild-type B6SJLF mice liver tissue and resulting proteome search from MaxQuant 1.2.2.5 employing the Andromeda search algorithm against the UniprotKB reference database for Mus musculus has been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium (http://www.proteomexchange.org) via the PRIDE partner repository with dataset identifiers PRIDE: PXD004171 and doi:10.6019/PXD004171. Protein ratio values representing PANTG/wild-type obtained by MaxQuant analysis were input into the Perseus processing suite to determine statistical significance using the Significance A outlier test (p<0.05). Differentially expressed proteins using this approach were input into Ingenuity Pathway Analysis to determined altered pathways and upstream regulators that were altered in PANTG mice.
PXD003880	27642655	Xilmass: A New Approach toward the Identification of Cross-Linked Peptides. 	Xilmass: a new approach towards the identification of cross-linked peptides	DSS, calmodulin, cross-linking, the actin-binding domain (ABD) of plectin	Chemical cross-linking coupled with mass spectrometry plays an important role in unravelling protein interactions, especially weak and transient ones. Moreover, cross-linking complements several structural determination approaches such as cryo-EM. Although several computational approaches are available for the annotation of spectra obtained from cross-linked peptides, there remains room for improvement. Here, we present Xilmass, a novel algorithm to identify cross-linked peptides that introduces two new concepts: (i) the cross-linked peptides are represented in the search database such that the cross-linking sites are explicitly encoded, and (ii) the scoring function derived from the Andromeda algorithm was adapted to score against a theoretical tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) spectrum that contains the peaks from all possible fragment ions of a cross-linked peptide pair. The performance of Xilmass was evaluated against the recently published Kojak and the popular pLink algorithms on a calmodulin-plectin complex data set, as well as three additional, published data sets. The results show that Xilmass typically had the highest number of identified distinct cross-linked sites and also the highest number of predicted cross-linked sites.
PXD003634	27643528	Up-to-Date Workflow for Plant (Phospho)proteomics Identifies Differential Drought-Responsive Phosphorylation Events in Maize Leaves. 	An up to date workflow for plant (phospho)proteomics	Maize, phosphoproteomics	Protein phosphorylation is one of the most common post-translational modifications (PTMs), which can regulate protein activity and localization as well as protein-protein interactions in numerous cellular processes. Phosphopeptide enrichment techniques enable plant researchers to acquire insight into phosphorylation-controlled signaling networks in various plant species. Most phosphoproteome analyses of plant samples still involve stable isotope labeling, peptide fractionation, and demand a lot of mass spectrometry (MS) time. Here, we present a simple workflow to probe, map, and catalogue plant phosphoproteomes, requiring relatively low amounts of starting material, no labeling, no fractionation, and no excessive analysis time. Following optimization of the different experimental steps on Arabidopsis thaliana samples, we transferred our workflow to maize, a major monocot crop, to study signaling upon drought stress. In addition, we included normalization to protein abundance to identify true phosphorylation changes. Overall, we identified a set of new phosphosites in both Arabidopsis thaliana and maize, some of which are differentially phosphorylated upon drought. All data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003634, but to provide easy access to our model plant and crop data sets, we created an online database, Plant PTM Viewer ( bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/webtools/ptm_viewer/ ), where all phosphosites identified in our study can be consulted.
PXD010563	27644981	Protein turnover measurement using selected reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (SRM-MS). 	UoL_turnover_SRM (Holman et al. 2016)	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Protein turnover represents an important mechanism in the functioning of cells, with deregulated synthesis and degradation of proteins implicated in many diseased states. Therefore, proteomics strategies to measure turnover rates with high confidence are of vital importance to understanding many biological processes. In this study, the more widely used approach of non-targeted precursor ion signal intensity (MS1) quantification is compared with selected reaction monitoring (SRM), a data acquisition strategy that records data for specific peptides, to determine if improved quantitative data would be obtained using a targeted quantification approach. Using mouse liver as a model system, turnover measurement of four tricarboxylic acid cycle proteins was performed using both MS1 and SRM quantification strategies. SRM outperformed MS1 in terms of sensitivity and selectivity of measurement, allowing more confident determination of protein turnover rates. SRM data are acquired using cheaper and more widely available tandem quadrupole mass spectrometers, making the approach accessible to a larger number of researchers than MS1 quantification, which is best performed on high mass resolution instruments. SRM acquisition is ideally suited to focused studies where the turnover of tens of proteins is measured, making it applicable in determining the dynamics of proteins complexes and complete metabolic pathways.This article is part of the themed issue 'Quantitative mass spectrometry'.
PXD004274	27644984	Comparative Ploidy Proteomics of Candida albicans Biofilms Unraveled the Role of the AHP1 Gene in the Biofilm Persistence Against Amphotericin B. 	Comparative ploidy proteomics of Candida albicans biofilms unraveled the role of AHP1 in the biofilm persistence against amphotericin B	AHP1, Candida albicans, antifungals, biofilms	Candida albicans is a major fungal pathogen causing lethal infections in immunocompromised patients. C. albicans forms antifungal tolerant biofilms contributing significantly to therapeutic failure. The recently established haploid C. albicans biofilm model provides a new toolbox to uncover the mechanism governing the higher antifungal tolerance of biofilms. Here, we comprehensively examined the proteomics and antifungal susceptibility of standard diploid (SC5314 and BWP17) and stable haploid (GZY792 and GZY803) strains of C. albicans biofilms. Subsequent downstream analyses identified alkyl hydroperoxide reductase 1 (AHP1) as a critical determinant of C. albicans biofilm's tolerance of amphotericin B. At 32 mug/ml of amphotericin B, GZY803 haploid biofilms showed 0.1% of persister population as compared with 1% of the diploid biofilms. AHP1 expression was found to be lower in GZY803 biofilms, and AHP1 overexpression in GZY803 restored the percentage of persister population. Consistently, deleting AHP1 in the diploid strain BWP17 caused a similar increase in amphotericin B susceptibility. AHP1 expression was also positively correlated with the antioxidant potential. Furthermore, C. albicans ira2Delta/Delta biofilms were susceptible to amphotericin B and had a diminished antioxidant capacity. Interestingly, AHP1 overexpression in the ira2Delta/Delta strain restored the antioxidant potential and enhanced the persister population against amphotericin B, and shutting down the AHP1 expression in ira2Delta/Delta biofilms reversed the effect. In conclusion, we provide evidence that the AHP1 gene critically determines the amphotericin B tolerance of C. albicans biofilms possibly by maintaining the persisters' antioxidant capacity. This finding will open up new avenues for developing therapies targeting the persister population of C. albicans biofilms. The mass spectrometry proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004274.
PXD003870	27647348	The scaffolding function of the RLTPR protein explains its essential role for CD28 co-stimulation in mouse and human T cells. 	Interactomics of the RLTPR protein explain its essential role for costimulation via CD28	RLTPR	The RLTPR cytosolic protein, also known as CARMIL2, is essential for CD28 co-stimulation in mice, but its importance in human T cells and mode of action remain elusive. Here, using affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry analysis, we showed that RLTPR acts as a scaffold, bridging CD28 to the CARD11/CARMA1 cytosolic adaptor and to the NF-kappaB signaling pathway, and identified proteins not found before within the CD28 signaling pathway. We further demonstrated that RLTPR is essential for CD28 co-stimulation in human T cells and that its noncanonical pleckstrin-homology domain, leucine-rich repeat domain, and proline-rich region were mandatory for that task. Although RLTPR is thought to function as an actin-uncapping protein, this property was dispensable for CD28 co-stimulation in both mouse and human. Our findings suggest that the scaffolding role of RLTPR predominates during CD28 co-stimulation and underpins the similar function of RLTPR in human and mouse T cells. Along that line, the lack of functional RLTPR molecules impeded the differentiation toward Th1 and Th17 fates of both human and mouse CD4(+) T cells. RLTPR was also expressed in both human and mouse B cells. In the mouse, RLTPR did not play, however, any detectable role in BCR-mediated signaling and T cell-independent B cell responses.
PXD004036	27650186	Antimicrobial peptide exposure selects for Staphylococcus aureus resistance to human defence peptides. 	Antimicrobial resistance of Staphylococcus aureus by quantitative proteomics with TMT-labelling	Orbitrap Fusion, Staphylococcus aureus, TMT, antimicobial resistance, antimicrobial peptide, high-pH reverse-phase fractionation	BACKGROUND: The clinical development of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) is currently under evaluation to combat the rapid increase in MDR bacterial pathogens. However, many AMPs closely resemble components of the human innate immune system and the ramifications of prolonged bacterial exposure to AMPs are not fully understood. OBJECTIVES: We show that in vitro serial passage of a clinical USA300 MRSA strain in a host-mimicking environment containing host-derived AMPs results in the selection of stable AMP resistance. METHODS: Serial passage experiments were conducted using steadily increasing concentrations of LL-37, PR-39 or wheat germ histones. WGS and proteomic analysis by MS were used to identify the molecular mechanism associated with increased tolerance of AMPs. AMP-resistant mutants were characterized by measuring in vitro fitness, AMP and antibiotic susceptibility, and virulence in a mouse model of sepsis. RESULTS: AMP-resistant Staphylococcus aureus mutants often displayed little to no fitness cost and caused invasive disease in mice. Further, this phenotype coincided with diminished susceptibility to both clinically prescribed antibiotics and human defence peptides. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that therapeutic use of AMPs could select for virulent mutants with cross-resistance to human innate immunity as well as antibiotic therapy. Thus, therapeutic use of AMPs and the implications of cross-resistance need to be carefully monitored and evaluated.
PXD004707	27653686	Quantitative Lipid Droplet Proteome Analysis Identifies Annexin A3 as a Cofactor for HCV Particle Production. 	Quantitative Lipid Droplet Proteome Analysis Identifies Annexin A3 as a Cofactor for HCV Particle Production	HCV, Lipid Droplets, SILAC, quantitative proteomics	Lipid droplets are vital to hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection as the putative sites of virion assembly, but morphogenesis and egress of virions remain ill defined. We performed quantitative lipid droplet proteome analysis of HCV-infected cells to identify co-factors of that process. Our results demonstrate that HCV disconnects lipid droplets from their metabolic function. Annexin A3 (ANXA3), a protein enriched in lipid droplet fractions, strongly impacted HCV replication and was characterized further: ANXA3 is recruited to lipid-rich fractions in HCV-infected cells by the viral core and NS5A proteins. ANXA3 knockdown does not affect HCV RNA replication but severely impairs virion production with lower specific infectivity and higher density of secreted virions. ANXA3 is essential for the interaction of viral envelope E2 with apolipoprotein E (ApoE) and for trafficking, but not lipidation, of ApoE in HCV-infected cells. Thus, we identified ANXA3 as a regulator of HCV maturation and egress.
PXD001968	27655400	Bacterial persistence is an active sigmaS stress response to metabolic flux limitation. 	Bacterial persistence	E. coli, antibiotic resistance	While persisters are a health threat due to their transient antibiotic tolerance, little is known about their phenotype and what actually causes persistence. Using a new method for persister generation and high-throughput methods, we comprehensively mapped the molecular phenotype of Escherichia coli during the entry and in the state of persistence in nutrient-rich conditions. The persister proteome is characterized by sigma(S)-mediated stress response and a shift to catabolism, a proteome that starved cells tried to but could not reach due to absence of a carbon and energy source. Metabolism of persisters is geared toward energy production, with depleted metabolite pools. We developed and experimentally verified a model, in which persistence is established through a system-level feedback: Strong perturbations of metabolic homeostasis cause metabolic fluxes to collapse, prohibiting adjustments toward restoring homeostasis. This vicious cycle is stabilized and modulated by high ppGpp levels, toxin/anti-toxin systems, and the sigma(S)-mediated stress response. Our system-level model consistently integrates past findings with our new data, thereby providing an important basis for future research on persisters.
PXD004899	27661452	Profiling of adhesive-related genes in the freshwater cnidarian Hydra magnipapillata by transcriptomics and proteomics. 	Proteomic profiling of ectodermal basal disc cells secretion of Hydra	Hydra, basal disc, bioadhesion	The differentiated ectodermal basal disc cells of the freshwater cnidarian Hydra secrete proteinaceous glue to temporarily attach themselves to underwater surfaces. Using transcriptome sequencing and a basal disc-specific RNA-seq combined with in situ hybridisation a highly specific set of candidate adhesive genes was identified. A de novo transcriptome assembly of 55,849 transcripts (>200 bp) was generated using paired-end and single reads from Illumina libraries constructed from different polyp conditions. Differential transcriptomics and spatial gene expression analysis by in situ hybridisation allowed the identification of 40 transcripts exclusively expressed in the ectodermal basal disc cells. Comparisons after mass spectrometry analysis of the adhesive secretion showed a total of 21 transcripts to be basal disc specific and eventually secreted through basal disc cells. This is the first study to survey adhesion-related genes in Hydra. The candidate list presented in this study provides a platform for unravelling the molecular mechanism of underwater adhesion of Hydra.
PXD004426	27663739	O-fucosylated glycoproteins form assemblies in close proximity to the nuclear pore complexes of Toxoplasma gondii. 	O-fucosylated glycoproteins of Toxoplasma gondii	AAL, LC MS/MS, affinity purification, fucose, lectin, nucleus, toxoplasma gondii	Toxoplasma gondii is an intracellular parasite that causes disseminated infections in fetuses and immunocompromised individuals. Although gene regulation is important for parasite differentiation and pathogenesis, little is known about protein organization in the nucleus. Here we show that the fucose-binding Aleuria aurantia lectin (AAL) binds to numerous punctate structures in the nuclei of tachyzoites, bradyzoites, and sporozoites but not oocysts. AAL also binds to Hammondia and Neospora nuclei but not to more distantly related apicomplexans. Analyses of the AAL-enriched fraction indicate that AAL binds O-linked fucose added to Ser/Thr residues present in or adjacent to Ser-rich domains (SRDs). Sixty-nine Ser-rich proteins were reproducibly enriched with AAL, including nucleoporins, mRNA-processing enzymes, and cell-signaling proteins. Two endogenous SRDs-containing proteins and an SRD-YFP fusion localize with AAL to the nuclear membrane. Superresolution microscopy showed that the majority of the AAL signal localizes in proximity to nuclear pore complexes. Host cells modify secreted proteins with O-fucose; here we describe the O-fucosylation pathway in the nucleocytosol of a eukaryote. Furthermore, these results suggest O-fucosylation is a mechanism by which proteins involved in gene expression accumulate near the NPC.
PXD002421	27666543	The lncRNA landscape of breast cancer reveals a role for DSCAM-AS1 in breast cancer progression. 	lncRNA pulldown	MCF7, lncRNA, pulldown	Molecular classification of cancers into subtypes has resulted in an advance in our understanding of tumour biology and treatment response across multiple tumour types. However, to date, cancer profiling has largely focused on protein-coding genes, which comprise <1% of the genome. Here we leverage a compendium of 58,648 long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) to subtype 947 breast cancer samples. We show that lncRNA-based profiling categorizes breast tumours by their known molecular subtypes in breast cancer. We identify a cohort of breast cancer-associated and oestrogen-regulated lncRNAs, and investigate the role of the top prioritized oestrogen receptor (ER)-regulated lncRNA, DSCAM-AS1. We demonstrate that DSCAM-AS1 mediates tumour progression and tamoxifen resistance and identify hnRNPL as an interacting protein involved in the mechanism of DSCAM-AS1 action. By highlighting the role of DSCAM-AS1 in breast cancer biology and treatment resistance, this study provides insight into the potential clinical implications of lncRNAs in breast cancer.
PXD004628	27667366	Highly Multiplexed Quantitative Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Ubiquitylomes. 	Highly Multiplexed Quantitative Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Ubiquitylomes	10-plex TMT, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos Tribrid Mass Spectrometer, Ubiquitin, bortezomib, mithocondria	System-wide quantitative analysis of ubiquitylomes has proven to be a valuable tool for elucidating targets and mechanisms of the ubiquitin-driven signaling systems, as well as gaining insights into neurodegenerative diseases and cancer. Current mass spectrometry methods for ubiquitylome detection require large amounts of starting material and rely on stochastic data collection to increase replicate analyses. We describe a method compatible with cell line and tissue samples for large-scale quantification of 5,000-9,000 ubiquitylation forms across ten samples simultaneously. Using this method, we reveal site-specific ubiquitylation in mammalian brain and liver tissues, as well as in cancer cells undergoing proteasome inhibition. To demonstrate the power of the approach for signal-dependent ubiquitylation, we examined protein and ubiquitylation dynamics for mitochondria undergoing PARKIN- and PINK1-dependent mitophagy. This analysis revealed the largest collection of PARKIN- and PINK1-dependent ubiquitylation targets to date in a single experiment, and it also revealed a subset of proteins recruited to the mitochondria during mitophagy.
PXD004967	27667588	Proteomic Analysis of Non-depleted Serum Proteins from Bottlenose Dolphins Uncovers a High Vanin-1 Phenotype. 	Proteomic Analysis of Non-depleted Serum Proteins from a Pig and Human compared to Dolphin	Sus scrofa, Tursiops truncatus, Vanin-1	Targeted approaches have been widely used to help explain physiological adaptations, but few studies have used non-targeted omics approaches to explore differences between diving marine mammals and terrestrial mammals. A rank comparison of undepleted serum proteins from common bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) and pooled normal human serum led to the discovery of 11 proteins that appeared exclusive to dolphin serum. Compared to the comprehensive human plasma proteome, 5 of 11 serum proteins had a differential rank greater than 200. One of these proteins, Vanin-1, was quantified using parallel reaction monitoring in dolphins under human care and free-ranging dolphins. Dolphin serum Vanin-1 ranged between 31-106 mug/ml, which is 20-1000 times higher than concentrations reported for healthy humans. Serum Vanin-1 was also higher in dolphins under human care compared to free-ranging dolphins (64 +/- 16 vs. 47 +/- 12 mug/ml P < 0.05). Vanin-1 levels positively correlated with liver enzymes AST and ALT, and negatively correlated with white blood cell counts and fibrinogen in free-ranging dolphins. Major differences exist in the circulating blood proteome of the bottlenose dolphin compared to terrestrial mammals and exploration of these differences in bottlenose dolphins and other marine mammals may identify veiled protective strategies to counter physiological stress.
PXD004952	27667719	Ska3 Ensures Timely Mitotic Progression by Interacting Directly With Microtubules and Ska1 Microtubule Binding Domain. 	Ska3-microtubule interactions -  Ska3 Ensures Timely Mitotic Progression by Interacting Directly With Microtubules and Ska1 Microtubule Binding Domain	Ska complex, microtubule	The establishment of physical attachment between the kinetochore and dynamic spindle microtubules, which undergo cycles of polymerization and depolymerization generating straight and curved microtubule structures, is essential for accurate chromosome segregation. The Ndc80 and Ska complexes are the major microtubule-binding factors of the kinetochore responsible for maintaining chromosome-microtubule coupling during chromosome segregation. We previously showed that the Ska1 subunit of the Ska complex binds dynamic microtubules using multiple contact sites in a mode that allows conformation-independent binding. Here, we show that the Ska3 subunit is required to modulate the microtubule binding capability of the Ska complex (i) by directly interacting with tubulin monomers and (ii) indirectly by interacting with tubulin contacting regions of Ska1 suggesting an allosteric regulation. Perturbing either the Ska3-microtubule interaction or the Ska3-Ska1 interactions negatively influences microtubule binding by the Ska complex in vitro and affects the timely onset of anaphase in cells. Thus, Ska3 employs additional modulatory elements within the Ska complex to ensure robust kinetochore-microtubule attachments and timely progression of mitosis.
PXD004923	27668839	Proteomic and genomic characterization of a yeast model for Ogden syndrome. 	Proteomic and genomic characterization of a yeast model for Ogden Syndrome	Ogden Syndrome	Naa10 is an N(alpha) -terminal acetyltransferase that, in a complex with its auxiliary subunit Naa15, co-translationally acetylates the alpha-amino group of newly synthetized proteins as they emerge from the ribosome. Roughly 40-50% of the human proteome is acetylated by Naa10, rendering this an enzyme one of the most broad substrate ranges known. Recently, we reported an X-linked disorder of infancy, Ogden syndrome, in two families harbouring a c.109 T > C (p.Ser37Pro) variant in NAA10. In the present study we performed in-depth characterization of a yeast model of Ogden syndrome. Stress tests and proteomic analyses suggest that the S37P mutation disrupts Naa10 function and reduces cellular fitness during heat shock, possibly owing to dysregulation of chaperone expression and accumulation. Microarray and RNA-seq revealed a pseudo-diploid gene expression profile in DeltaNaa10 cells, probably responsible for a mating defect. In conclusion, the data presented here further support the disruptive nature of the S37P/Ogden mutation and identify affected cellular processes potentially contributing to the severe phenotype seen in Ogden syndrome. Data are available via GEO under identifier GSE86482 or with ProteomeXchange under identifier PXD004923. (c) 2016 The Authors. Yeast published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
PXD000849	27669760	Combined Antibody/Lectin Enrichment Identifies Extensive Changes in the O-GlcNAc Sub-proteome upon Oxidative Stress. 	Combined Antibody/Lectin-Enrichment Identifies Extensive Changes in the O-GlcNAc Subproteome Upon Oxidative Stress	O-GlcNAc, Oxidative stress, SILAC, affinity chromatography	O-Linked N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosamine (O-GlcNAc) is a dynamic post-translational modification that modifies and regulates over 3000 nuclear, cytoplasmic, and mitochondrial proteins. Upon exposure to stress and injury, cells and tissues increase the O-GlcNAc modification, or O-GlcNAcylation, of numerous proteins promoting the cellular stress response and thus survival. The aim of this study was to identify proteins that are differentially O-GlcNAcylated upon acute oxidative stress (H2O2) to provide insight into the mechanisms by which O-GlcNAc promotes survival. We achieved this goal by employing Stable Isotope Labeling of Amino Acids in Cell Culture (SILAC) and a novel "G5-lectibody" immunoprecipitation strategy that combines four O-GlcNAc-specific antibodies (CTD110.6, RL2, HGAC39, and HGAC85) and the lectin WGA. Using the G5-lectibody column in combination with basic reversed phase chromatography and C18 RPLC-MS/MS, 990 proteins were identified and quantified. Hundreds of proteins that were identified demonstrated increased (>250) or decreased (>110) association with the G5-lectibody column upon oxidative stress, of which we validated the O-GlcNAcylation status of 24 proteins. Analysis of proteins with altered glycosylation suggests that stress-induced changes in O-GlcNAcylation cluster into pathways known to regulate the cell's response to injury and include protein folding, transcriptional regulation, epigenetics, and proteins involved in RNA biogenesis. Together, these data suggest that stress-induced O-GlcNAcylation regulates numerous and diverse cellular pathways to promote cell and tissue survival.
PXD004569	27670688	Simultaneous Proteomic Discovery and Targeted Monitoring using Liquid Chromatography, Ion Mobility Spectrometry, and Mass Spectrometry. 	Liquid Chromatography Ion Mobility Mass Spectrometry analysis of CPTAC Comparator Reference sample CompRef P6	IMS, ion mobility	Current proteomic approaches include both broad discovery measurements and quantitative targeted analyses. In many cases, discovery measurements are initially used to identify potentially important proteins (e.g. candidate biomarkers) and then targeted studies are employed to quantify a limited number of selected proteins. Both approaches, however, suffer from limitations. Discovery measurements aim to sample the whole proteome but have lower sensitivity, accuracy, and quantitation precision than targeted approaches, whereas targeted measurements are significantly more sensitive but only sample a limited portion of the proteome. Herein, we describe a new approach that performs both discovery and targeted monitoring (DTM) in a single analysis by combining liquid chromatography, ion mobility spectrometry and mass spectrometry (LC-IMS-MS). In DTM, heavy labeled target peptides are spiked into tryptic digests and both the labeled and unlabeled peptides are detected using LC-IMS-MS instrumentation. Compared with the broad LC-MS discovery measurements, DTM yields greater peptide/protein coverage and detects lower abundance species. DTM also achieved detection limits similar to selected reaction monitoring (SRM) indicating its potential for combined high quality discovery and targeted analyses, which is a significant step toward the convergence of discovery and targeted approaches.
PXD004681	27671103	Probing the global kinome and phosphoproteome in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii via sequential enrichment and quantitative proteomics. 	Probing the global kinome and phosphoproteome in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii via sequential enrichment and quantitative proteomics	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Kinome, Phosphoproteomics, Quantitative label-free proteomics	The identification of dynamic protein phosphorylation events is critical for understanding kinase/phosphatase-regulated signaling pathways. To date, protein phosphorylation and kinase expression have been examined independently in photosynthetic organisms. Here we present a method to study the global kinome and phosphoproteome in tandem in a model photosynthetic organism, the alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (Chlamydomonas), using mass spectrometry-based label-free proteomics. A dual enrichment strategy targets intact protein kinases via capture on immobilized multiplexed inhibitor beads with subsequent proteolytic digestion of unbound proteins and peptide-based phosphorylation enrichment. To increase depth of coverage, both data-dependent and data-independent (via SWATH, Sequential Windowed Acquisition of All Theoretical Fragment Ion Mass Spectra) mass spectrometric acquisitions were performed to obtain a more than 50% increase in coverage of the enriched Chlamydomonas kinome over coverage found with no enrichment. The quantitative phosphoproteomic dataset yielded 2250 phosphopeptides and 1314 localized phosphosites with excellent reproducibility across biological replicates (90% of quantified sites with coefficient of variation below 11%). This approach enables simultaneous investigation of kinases and phosphorylation events at the global level to facilitate understanding of kinase networks and their influence in cell signaling events.
PXD004039	27671352	The impact of sequence database choice on metaproteomic results in gut microbiota studies. 	Sequence database choice significantly affects taxonomic and functional metaproteomic results in gut microbiota studies	bioinformatics, gut microbiota, metagenomics, metaproteomics	BACKGROUND: Elucidating the role of gut microbiota in physiological and pathological processes has recently emerged as a key research aim in life sciences. In this respect, metaproteomics, the study of the whole protein complement of a microbial community, can provide a unique contribution by revealing which functions are actually being expressed by specific microbial taxa. However, its wide application to gut microbiota research has been hindered by challenges in data analysis, especially related to the choice of the proper sequence databases for protein identification. RESULTS: Here, we present a systematic investigation of variables concerning database construction and annotation and evaluate their impact on human and mouse gut metaproteomic results. We found that both publicly available and experimental metagenomic databases lead to the identification of unique peptide assortments, suggesting parallel database searches as a mean to gain more complete information. In particular, the contribution of experimental metagenomic databases was revealed to be mandatory when dealing with mouse samples. Moreover, the use of a "merged" database, containing all metagenomic sequences from the population under study, was found to be generally preferable over the use of sample-matched databases. We also observed that taxonomic and functional results are strongly database-dependent, in particular when analyzing the mouse gut microbiota. As a striking example, the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio varied up to tenfold depending on the database used. Finally, assembling reads into longer contigs provided significant advantages in terms of functional annotation yields. CONCLUSIONS: This study contributes to identify host- and database-specific biases which need to be taken into account in a metaproteomic experiment, providing meaningful insights on how to design gut microbiota studies and to perform metaproteomic data analysis. In particular, the use of multiple databases and annotation tools has to be encouraged, even though this requires appropriate bioinformatic resources.
PXD003360	27671629	Grad-seq guides the discovery of ProQ as a major small RNA-binding protein. 	Biochemical partitioning of RNA collectives  reveals ProQ as a global RNA chaperone in bacteria	Salmonella enterica, ncRNA	The functional annotation of transcriptomes and identification of noncoding RNA (ncRNA) classes has been greatly facilitated by the advent of next-generation RNA sequencing which, by reading the nucleotide order of transcripts, theoretically allows the rapid profiling of all transcripts in a cell. However, primary sequence per se is a poor predictor of function, as ncRNAs dramatically vary in length and structure and often lack identifiable motifs. Therefore, to visualize an informative RNA landscape of organisms with potentially new RNA biology that are emerging from microbiome and environmental studies requires the use of more functionally relevant criteria. One such criterion is the association of RNAs with functionally important cognate RNA-binding proteins. Here we analyze the full ensemble of cellular RNAs using gradient profiling by sequencing (Grad-seq) in the bacterial pathogen Salmonella enterica, partitioning its coding and noncoding transcripts based on their network of RNA-protein interactions. In addition to capturing established RNA classes based on their biochemical profiles, the Grad-seq approach enabled the discovery of an overlooked large collective of structured small RNAs that form stable complexes with the conserved protein ProQ. We show that ProQ is an abundant RNA-binding protein with a wide range of ligands and a global influence on Salmonella gene expression. Given its generic ability to chart a functional RNA landscape irrespective of transcript length and sequence diversity, Grad-seq promises to define functional RNA classes and major RNA-binding proteins in both model species and genetically intractable organisms.
PXD003690	27672084	Impact of Moderate Temperature Changes on Neisseria meningitidis Adhesion Phenotypes and Proteome. 	Impact of moderate temperature changes on Neisseria meningitidis adhesive phenotypes and proteome	Meningococcus, adhesion, biofilm, sigma E, temperature	Neisseria meningitidis, the meningococcus, bears the potential to cause life-threatening invasive diseases, but it usually colonizes the nasopharynx without causing any symptoms. Within the nasopharynx, Neisseria meningitidis must face temperature changes depending on the ambient air temperature. Indeed, the nasopharyngeal temperature can be substantially lower than 37degreesC, the temperature commonly used in experimental settings. Here, we compared the levels of meningococcal biofilm formation, autoaggregation, and cellular adherence at 32degreesC and 37degreesC and found a clear increase in all these phenotypes at 32degreesC suggestive of a stronger in vivo colonization capability at this temperature. A comparative proteome analysis approach revealed differential protein expression levels between 32degreesC and 37degreesC, predominantly affecting the bacterial envelope. A total of 375 proteins were detected. Use of database annotation or the PSORTb algorithm predicted 49 of those proteins to be localized in the outer membrane, 21 in either the inner or outer membrane, 35 in the periplasm, 56 in the inner membrane, and 208 in the cytosol; for 6 proteins, no annotation or prediction was available. Temperature-dependent regulation of protein expression was seen particularly in the periplasm as well as in the outer and inner membranes. Neisserial heparin binding antigen (NHBA), NMB1030, and adhesin complex protein (ACP) showed the strongest upregulation at 32degreesC and were partially responsible for the observed temperature-dependent phenotypes. Screening of different global regulators of Neisseria meningitidis suggested that the extracytoplasmic sigma factor sigma(E) might be involved in temperature-dependent biofilm formation. In conclusion, subtle temperature changes trigger adaptation events promoting mucosal colonization by meningococci.
PXD004319	27672500	Metaproteomics of saliva identifies human protein markers specific for individuals with periodontitis and dental caries compared to orally healthy controls. 	Metaproteomic profiling of saliva in subjects with periodontitis, dental caries and orally healthy controls	Metaproteomics, Q exactive HF, Saliva	BACKGROUND: The composition of the salivary microbiota has been reported to differentiate between patients with periodontitis, dental caries and orally healthy individuals. To identify characteristics of diseased and healthy saliva we thus wanted to compare saliva metaproteomes from patients with periodontitis and dental caries to healthy individuals. METHODS: Stimulated saliva samples were collected from 10 patients with periodontitis, 10 patients with dental caries and 10 orally healthy individuals. The proteins in the saliva samples were subjected to denaturing buffer and digested enzymatically with LysC and trypsin. The resulting peptide mixtures were cleaned up by solid-phase extraction and separated online with 2 h gradients by nano-scale C18 reversed-phase chromatography connected to a mass spectrometer through an electrospray source. The eluting peptides were analyzed on a tandem mass spectrometer operated in data-dependent acquisition mode. RESULTS: We identified a total of 35,664 unique peptides from 4,161 different proteins, of which 1,946 and 2,090 were of bacterial and human origin, respectively. The human protein profiles displayed significant overexpression of the complement system and inflammatory markers in periodontitis and dental caries compared to healthy controls. Bacterial proteome profiles and functional annotation were very similar in health and disease. CONCLUSIONS: Overexpression of proteins related to the complement system and inflammation seems to correlate with oral disease status. Similar bacterial proteomes in healthy and diseased individuals suggests that the salivary microbiota predominantly thrives in a planktonic state expressing no disease-associated characteristics of metabolic activity.
PXD003215	27677936	A method for whole protein isolation from human cranial bone. 	A Novel Method for Isolating Whole Protein from Human Cranial Bone	Cranial Bone, Extraction, Method, Protein, Q-Exactive, Whole Protein	The presence of the dense hydroxyapatite matrix within human bone limits the applicability of conventional protocols for protein extraction. This has hindered the complete and accurate characterization of the human bone proteome thus far, leaving many bone-related disorders poorly understood. We sought to refine an existing method of protein extraction from mouse bone to extract whole proteins of varying molecular weights from human cranial bone. Whole protein was extracted from human cranial suture by mechanically processing samples using a method that limits protein degradation by minimizing heat introduction to proteins. The presence of whole protein was confirmed by western blotting. Mass spectrometry was used to sequence peptides and identify isolated proteins. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003215. Extracted proteins were characterized as both intra- and extracellular and had molecular weights ranging from 9.4 to 629 kDa. High correlation scores among suture protein spectral counts support the reproducibility of the method. Ontology analytics revealed proteins of myriad functions including mediators of metabolic processes and cell organelles. These results demonstrate a reproducible method for isolation of whole protein from human cranial bone, representing a large range of molecular weights, origins and functions.
PXD004419	27683036	Proteomic analysis uncovers common effects of IFN-gamma and IL-27 on the HLA class I antigen presentation machinery in human cancer cells. 	Proteomic analysis uncovers common effects of IFN-gamma and IL-27 on antigen presentation  machinery components in human cancer cells	APM, HLA class I, IFN-gamma, IL-27, antigen presentation machinery., interferon gamma, interleukin-27, proteomic analysis	IL-27, a member of the IL-12-family of cytokines, has shown anti-tumor activity in several pre-clinical models due to anti-proliferative, anti-angiogenic and immune-enhancing effects. On the other hand, IL-27 demonstrated immune regulatory activities and inhibition of auto-immunity in mouse models. Also, we reported that IL-27, similar to IFN-gamma, induces the expression of IL-18BP, IDO and PD-L1 immune regulatory molecules in human cancer cells. Here, a proteomic analysis reveals that IL-27 and IFN-gamma display a broad overlap of functions on human ovarian cancer cells. Indeed, among 990 proteins modulated by either cytokine treatment in SKOV3 cells, 814 showed a concordant modulation by both cytokines, while a smaller number (176) were differentially modulated. The most up-regulated proteins were common to both IFN-gamma and IL-27. In addition, functional analysis of IL-27-regulated protein networks highlighted pathways of interferon signaling and regulation, antigen presentation, protection from natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity, regulation of protein polyubiquitination and proteasome, aminoacid catabolism and regulation of viral protein levels.Importantly, we found that IL-27 induced HLA class I molecule expression in human cancer cells of different histotypes, including tumor cells showing very low expression. IL-27 failed only in a cancer cell line bearing a homozygous deletion in the B2M gene. Altogether, these data point out to a broad set of activities shared by IL-27 and IFN-gamma, which are dependent on the common activation of the STAT1 pathway. These data add further explanation to the anti-tumor activity of IL-27 and also to its dual role in immune regulation.
PXD004575	27685442	Detection of candidate biomarkers of prostate cancer progression in serum: a depletion-free 3D LC/MS quantitative proteomics pilot study. 	Serum proteomics in prostate cancer patients vs. healthy and benign prostate hyperplasia	LC/MS, prostate cancer, serum proteomics	BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most common male cancer in the United Kingdom and we aimed to identify clinically relevant biomarkers corresponding to stage progression of the disease. METHODS: We used enhanced proteomic profiling of PCa progression using iTRAQ 3D LC mass spectrometry on high-quality serum samples to identify biomarkers of PCa. RESULTS: We identified >1000 proteins. Following specific inclusion/exclusion criteria we targeted seven proteins of which two were validated by ELISA and six potentially interacted forming an 'interactome' with only a single protein linking each marker. This network also includes accepted cancer markers, such as TNF, STAT3, NF-kappaB and IL6. CONCLUSIONS: Our linked and interrelated biomarker network highlights the potential utility of six of our seven markers as a panel for diagnosing PCa and, critically, in determining the stage of the disease. Our validation analysis of the MS-identified proteins found that SAA alongside KLK3 may improve categorisation of PCa than by KLK3 alone, and that TSR1, although not significant in this model, might also be a clinically relevant biomarker.
PXD004245	27686526	Proteome-wide identification of the endogenous ADP-ribosylome of mammalian cells and tissue. 	ADP-ribosylation site analysis	Human cell culture and maouse liver tissue	Although protein ADP-ribosylation is involved in diverse biological processes, it has remained a challenge to identify ADP-ribose acceptor sites. Here, we present an experimental workflow for sensitive and unbiased analysis of endogenous ADP-ribosylation sites, capable of detecting more than 900 modification sites in mammalian cells and mouse liver. In cells, we demonstrate that Lys residues, besides Glu, Asp and Arg residues, are the dominant in vivo targets of ADP-ribosylation during oxidative stress. In normal liver tissue, we find Arg residues to be the predominant modification site. The cellular distribution and biological processes that involve ADP-ribosylated proteins are different in cultured cells and liver tissue, in the latter of which the majority of sites were found to be in cytosolic and mitochondrial protein networks primarily associated with metabolism. Collectively, we describe a robust methodology for the assessment of the role of ADP-ribosylation and ADP-ribosyltransferases in physiological and pathological states.
PXD004187	27690223	Temporal proteomic analysis of HIV infection reveals remodelling of the host phosphoproteome by lentiviral Vif variants. 	Temporal proteomic analysis of HIV-Infection Reveals Remodelling of the Cellular Phosphoproteome by Phylogenetically Diverse Lentiviral Vif Variants	HIV, TMT, temporal, whole cell proteome	Viruses manipulate host factors to enhance their replication and evade cellular restriction. We used multiplex tandem mass tag (TMT)-based whole cell proteomics to perform a comprehensive time course analysis of >6500 viral and cellular proteins during HIV infection. To enable specific functional predictions, we categorized cellular proteins regulated by HIV according to their patterns of temporal expression. We focussed on proteins depleted with similar kinetics to APOBEC3C, and found the viral accessory protein Vif to be necessary and sufficient for CUL5-dependent proteasomal degradation of all members of the B56 family of regulatory subunits of the key cellular phosphatase PP2A (PPP2R5A-E). Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of HIV-infected cells confirmed Vif-dependent hyperphosphorylation of >200 cellular proteins, particularly substrates of the aurora kinases. The ability of Vif to target PPP2R5 subunits is found in primate and non-primate lentiviral lineages, and remodeling of the cellular phosphoproteome is therefore a second ancient and conserved Vif function.
PXD003354	27690452	Quantitative Protein Sulfenic Acid Analysis Identifies Platelet Releasate-Induced Activation of Integrin beta2 on Monocytes via NADPH Oxidase. 	Quantification of sulfenic acid modifications on an atherosclerotic model-1	atheroscelrosis, biotin switch assay, sulfenic acid	Physiological stimuli such as thrombin, or pathological stimuli such as lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), activate platelets. The activated platelets bind to monocytes through P-selectin-PSGL-1 interactions but also release the contents of their granules, commonly called "platelet releasate". It is known that monocytes in contact with platelet releasate produce reactive oxygen species (ROS). Reversible cysteine oxidation by ROS is considered to be a potential regulator of protein function. In a previous study, we used THP-1 monocytic cells exposed to LPA- or thrombin-induced platelet releasate and a modified biotin switch assay to unravel the biological processes that are influenced by reversible cysteine oxidation. To gain a better understanding of the redox regulation of monocytes in atherosclerosis, we have now altered the modified biotin switch to selectively quantify protein sulfenic acid, a subpopulation of reversible cysteine oxidation. Using arsenite as reducing agent in the modified biotin switch assay, we were able to quantify 1161 proteins, in which more than 100 sulfenic acid sites were identified. Bioinformatics analysis of the quantified sulfenic acid sites highlighted the relevant, previously missed biological process of monocyte transendothelial migration, which included integrin beta2. Flow cytometry validated the activation of LFA-1 (alphaLbeta2) and Mac-1 (alphaMbeta2), two subfamilies of integrin beta2 complexes, on human primary monocytes following platelet releasate treatment. The activation of LFA-1 was mediated by ROS from NADPH oxidase (NOX) activation. Production of ROS and activation of LFA-1 in human primary monocytes were independent of P-selectin-PSGL-1 interaction. Our results proved the modified biotin switch assay to be a powerful tool with the ability to reveal new regulatory mechanisms and identify new therapeutic targets.
PXD000930	27694331	A Role for Human N-alpha Acetyltransferase 30 (Naa30) in Maintaining Mitochondrial Integrity. 	Naa30 is critically involved in maintaining mitochondrial and Golgi integrity	Golgi, Mitochondria, N-terminal COFRADIC, Naa30	N-terminal acetylation (Nt-acetylation) by N-terminal acetyltransferases (NATs) is one of the most common protein modifications in eukaryotes. The NatC complex represents one of three major NATs of which the substrate profile remains largely unexplored. Here, we defined the in vivo human NatC Nt-acetylome on a proteome-wide scale by combining knockdown of its catalytic subunit Naa30 with positional proteomics. We identified 46 human NatC substrates, expanding our current knowledge on the substrate repertoire of NatC which now includes proteins harboring Met-Leu, Met-Ile, Met-Phe, Met-Trp, Met-Val, Met-Met, Met-His and Met-Lys N termini. Upon Naa30 depletion the expression levels of several organellar proteins were found reduced, in particular mitochondrial proteins, some of which were found to be NatC substrates. Interestingly, knockdown of Naa30 induced the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and fragmentation of mitochondria. In conclusion, NatC Nt-acetylates a large variety of proteins and is essential for mitochondrial integrity and function.
PXD004117	27694941	Extracellular IL-33 cytokine, but not endogenous nuclear IL-33, regulates protein expression in endothelial cells. 	Proteomic analysis of the extracellular and intracellular role of IL-33 in primary human endothelial cells	HUVEC, IL-33, cytokine, endothelial cells, fractionation, inflammation, shotgun	IL-33 is a nuclear cytokine from the IL-1 family that plays important roles in health and disease. Extracellular IL-33 activates a growing number of target cells, including group 2 innate lymphoid cells, mast cells and regulatory T cells, but it remains unclear whether intracellular nuclear IL-33 has additional functions in the nucleus. Here, we used a global proteomic approach based on high-resolution mass spectrometry to compare the extracellular and intracellular roles of IL-33 in primary human endothelial cells, a major source of IL-33 protein in human tissues. We found that exogenous extracellular IL-33 cytokine induced expression of a distinct set of proteins associated with inflammatory responses in endothelial cells. In contrast, knockdown of endogenous nuclear IL-33 expression using two independent RNA silencing strategies had no reproducible effect on the endothelial cell proteome. These results suggest that IL-33 acts as a cytokine but not as a nuclear factor regulating gene expression in endothelial cells.
PXD004135	27694946	A proteinaceous organic matrix regulates carbonate mineral production in the marine teleost intestine. 	Gulf toadfish intestinal fluid and intestinal CaCO3 matrix proteome	Biomineral, CaCO3, Gulf toadfish, Intestine, Opsanus beta	Marine teleost fish produce CaCO3 in their intestine as part of their osmoregulatory strategy. This precipitation is critical for rehydration and survival of the largest vertebrate group on earth, yet the molecular mechanisms that regulate this reaction are unknown. Here, we isolate and characterize an organic matrix associated with the intestinal precipitates produced by Gulf toadfish (Opsanus beta). Toadfish precipitates were purified using two different methods, and the associated organic matrix was extracted. Greater than 150 proteins were identified in the isolated matrix by mass spectrometry and subsequent database searching using an O. beta transcriptomic sequence library produced here. Many of the identified proteins were enriched in the matrix compared to the intestinal fluid, and three showed no substantial homology to any previously characterized protein in the NCBI database. To test the functionality of the isolated matrix, a micro-modified in vitro calcification assay was designed, which revealed that low concentrations of isolated matrix substantially promoted CaCO3 production, where high concentrations showed an inhibitory effect. High concentrations of matrix also decreased the incorporation of magnesium into the forming mineral, potentially providing an explanation for the variability in magnesium content observed in precipitates produced by different fish species.
PXD004302	27695962	Isotope-targeted glycoproteomics (IsoTaG) analysis of sialylated N- and O-glycopeptides on an Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid using azido and alkynyl sugars. 	Characterization of sialylated N- and O-glycopeptides from complex proteomes on an Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid mass spectrometer by Isotope Targeted Glycoproteomics (IsoTaG). Application to azido and alkynyl sugars	glycoproteomics, metabolic labeling, tissue culture	Protein glycosylation is a post-translational modification (PTM) responsible for many aspects of proteomic diversity and biological regulation. Assignment of intact glycan structures to specific protein attachment sites is a critical step towards elucidating the function encoded in the glycome. Previously, we developed isotope-targeted glycoproteomics (IsoTaG) as a mass-independent mass spectrometry method to characterize azide-labeled intact glycopeptides from complex proteomes. Here, we extend the IsoTaG approach with the use of alkynyl sugars as metabolic labels and employ new probes in analysis of the sialylated glycoproteome from PC-3 cells. Using an Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid mass spectrometer, we identified 699 intact glycopeptides from 192 glycoproteins. These intact glycopeptides represent a total of eight sialylated glycan structures across 126 N- and 576 O-glycopeptides. IsoTaG is therefore an effective platform for identification of intact glycopeptides labeled by alkynyl or azido sugars and will facilitate further studies of the glycoproteome.
PXD003455	27696471	Global proteomic analysis of lysine acetylation in zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos. 	Zebrafish embryo Kac -  Global proteomic analysis of lysine acetylation in zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos	Lysine acetylation, PTMs, Zebrafish, embryos	Lysine acetylation is an important post-translational modification (PTM). Since the development of MS-based proteomics technology, important roles of lysine acetylation beyond histones have focused on chromatin remodeling during the cell cycle and regulation of nuclear transport, metabolism, and translation. Zebrafish (Danio rerio) is a widely used vertebrate model in genetics and biologic studies. Although studies in several mammalian species have been performed, the mechanism of lysine acetylation in D. rerio embryos is incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the global acetylome in D. rerio embryos by using an MS-based proteomics approach. We identified 351 acetylated peptides and 377 nonredundant acetylation sites on 189 lysine-acetylated proteins in 5-day postfertilization (hpf) embryos of D. rerio. Among lysine-acetylated peptides, 40.2% indicated three motifs: (ac)KxxxK, (ac)KxxxxK, and Lx(ac)K. Of 190 acetylated proteins, 81 (42.6%) were mainly distributed in the cytoplasm. Gene ontology enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses showed that lysine acetylation in D. rerio was enriched in metabolic pathways. Additionally, 17 of 30 acetylated ribosomal proteins were evolutionarily conserved between zebrafish and humans. Our results indicate that acetyllysine might have regulatory effects on ribosomal proteins involved in protein biosynthesis.
PXD004280	27696881	Quantitative Secretome Analysis of Activated Jurkat Cells Using Click Chemistry-Based Enrichment of Secreted Glycoproteins. 	Quantitative Secretome Analysis of Activated Jurkat Cells	Jurkat, Secretome, T cell model, quantitative label-free LC-MS/MS	Quantitative secretome analyses are a high-performance tool for the discovery of physiological and pathophysiological changes in cellular processes. However, serum supplements in cell culture media limit secretome analyses, but serum depletion often leads to cell starvation and consequently biased results. To overcome these limiting factors, we investigated a model of T cell activation (Jurkat cells) and performed an approach for the selective enrichment of secreted proteins from conditioned medium utilizing metabolic marking of newly synthesized glycoproteins. Marked glycoproteins were labeled via bioorthogonal click chemistry and isolated by affinity purification. We assessed two labeling compounds conjugated with either biotin or desthiobiotin and the respective secretome fractions. 356 proteins were quantified using the biotin probe and 463 using desthiobiotin. 59 proteins were found differentially abundant (adjusted p-value <=0.05, absolute fold change >=1.5) between inactive and activated T cells using the biotin method and 86 using the desthiobiotin approach, with 31 mutual proteins cross-verified by independent experiments. Moreover, we analyzed the cellular proteome of the same model to demonstrate the benefit of secretome analyses and provide comprehensive data sets of both. 336 proteins (61.3%) were quantified exclusively in the secretome. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004280.
PXD002094	27697834	Tumor macrophages are pivotal constructors of tumor collagenous matrix. 	Tumor-Associated Macrophages Promote Colorectal Tumor Development Through Remodeling of Its Extracellular Matrix	Colorectal cancer, Extracellular matrix, Murine CRC model, Tumor microenvironment, Tumor-associated macrophages	Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) promote tumor development, invasion, and dissemination by various mechanisms. In this study, using an orthotopic colorectal cancer (CRC) model, we found that monocyte-derived TAMs advance tumor development by the remodeling of its extracellular matrix (ECM) composition and structure. Unbiased transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of (a) TAM-abundant and -deficient tumor tissues and (b) sorted tumor-associated and -resident colonic macrophage subpopulations defined a distinct TAM-induced ECM molecular signature composed of an ensemble of matricellular proteins and remodeling enzymes they provide to the tumor microenvironment. Remarkably, many of these ECM proteins are specifically increased in human CRC versus healthy colon. Specifically, we demonstrate that although differentiating into TAMs, monocytes up-regulate matrix-remodeling programs associated with the synthesis and assembly of collagenous ECM, specifically collagen types I, VI, and XIV. This finding was further established by advanced imaging showing that TAMs instruct the deposition, cross-linking, and linearization of collagen fibers during tumor development, especially at areas of tumor invasiveness. Finally, we show that cancer-associated fibroblasts are significantly outnumbered by TAMs in this model and that their expression of collagen XIV and I is reduced by TAM deficiency. Here, we outline a novel TAM protumoral function associated with building of the collagenous ECM niche.
PXD004747	27698423	Deubiquitinase activity is required for the proteasomal degradation of misfolded cytosolic proteins upon heat-stress. 	Deubiquitinase activity is required for the degradation of misfolded cytosolic proteins upon heat-stress	Deubiquitinase, cytosolic protein quality control, heat stress	Elimination of misfolded proteins is crucial for proteostasis and to prevent proteinopathies. Nedd4/Rsp5 emerged as a major E3-ligase involved in multiple quality control pathways that target misfolded plasma membrane proteins, aggregated polypeptides and cytosolic heat-induced misfolded proteins for degradation. It remained unclear how in one case cytosolic heat-induced Rsp5 substrates are destined for proteasomal degradation, whereas other Rsp5 quality control substrates are otherwise directed to lysosomal degradation. Here we find that Ubp2 and Ubp3 deubiquitinases are required for the proteasomal degradation of cytosolic misfolded proteins targeted by Rsp5 after heat-shock (HS). The two deubiquitinases associate more with Rsp5 upon heat-stress to prevent the assembly of K63-linked ubiquitin on Rsp5 heat-induced substrates. This activity was required to promote the K48-mediated proteasomal degradation of Rsp5 HS-induced substrates. Our results indicate that ubiquitin chain editing is key to the cytosolic protein quality control under stress conditions.
PXD004761	27698474	Structure of ubiquitylated-Rpn10 provides insight into its autoregulation mechanism. 	Ubiquitylated-Rpn10	RPN10, Ubiquitin	Ubiquitin receptors decode ubiquitin signals into many cellular responses. Ubiquitin receptors also undergo coupled monoubiquitylation, and rapid deubiquitylation has hampered the characterization of the ubiquitylated state. Using bacteria that express a ubiquitylation apparatus, we purified and determined the crystal structure of the proteasomal ubiquitin-receptor Rpn10 in its ubiquitylated state. The structure shows a novel ubiquitin-binding patch that directs K84 ubiquitylation. Superimposition of ubiquitylated-Rpn10 onto electron-microscopy models of proteasomes indicates that the Rpn10-conjugated ubiquitin clashes with Rpn9, suggesting that ubiquitylation might be involved in releasing Rpn10 from the proteasome. Indeed, ubiquitylation on immobilized proteasomes dissociates the modified Rpn10 from the complex, while unmodified Rpn10 mainly remains associated. In vivo experiments indicate that contrary to wild type, Rpn10-K84R is stably associated with the proteasomal subunit Rpn9. Similarly Rpn10, but not ubiquitylated-Rpn10, binds Rpn9 in vitro. Thus we suggest that ubiquitylation functions to dissociate modified ubiquitin receptors from their targets, a function that promotes cyclic activity of ubiquitin receptors.
PXD004156	27699805	A protein extraction method for low protein concentration solutions compatible with the proteomic analysis of rubber particles. 	An efficient method for protein extraction from low protein concentration solutions compatible with the proteomic analysis of latex-producing organelles	plant proteomics, protein extraction method, rubber particle, washing solution	The extraction of high-purity proteins from the washing solution (WS) of rubber particles (also termed latex-producing organelles) from laticifer cells in rubber tree for proteomic analysis is challenging due to the low concentration of proteins in the WS. Recent studies have revealed that proteins in the WS might play crucial roles in natural rubber biosynthesis. To further examine the involvement of these proteins in natural rubber biosynthesis, we designed an efficiency method to extract high-purity WS proteins. We improved our current borax and phenol-based method by adding reextraction steps with phenol (REP) to improve the yield from low protein concentration samples. With this new method, we extracted WS proteins that were suitable for proteomics. Indeed, compared to the original borax and phenol-based method, the REP method improved both the quality and quantity of isolated proteins. By repeatedly extracting from low protein concentration solutions using the same small amount of phenol, the REP method yielded enough protein of sufficiently high-quality from starting samples containing less than 0.02 mg of proteins per milliliter. This method was successfully applied to extract the rubber particle proteins from the WS of natural rubber latex samples. The REP-extracted WS proteins were resolved by 2DE, and 28 proteins were positively identified by MS. This method has the potential to become widely used for the extraction of proteins from low protein concentration solutions for proteomic analysis.
PXD020529	27701404	A multicenter study benchmarks software tools for label-free proteome quantification. 	Chemical and Random Additive Noise Elimination (CRANE) - case_study - multicenter_dataset	Baseline Noise, Chemical Noise, DIA, Denoise, Random Noise	Consistent and accurate quantification of proteins by mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics depends on the performance of instruments, acquisition methods and data analysis software. In collaboration with the software developers, we evaluated OpenSWATH, SWATH 2.0, Skyline, Spectronaut and DIA-Umpire, five of the most widely used software methods for processing data from sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment-ion spectra (SWATH)-MS, which uses data-independent acquisition (DIA) for label-free protein quantification. We analyzed high-complexity test data sets from hybrid proteome samples of defined quantitative composition acquired on two different MS instruments using different SWATH isolation-window setups. For consistent evaluation, we developed LFQbench, an R package, to calculate metrics of precision and accuracy in label-free quantitative MS and report the identification performance, robustness and specificity of each software tool. Our reference data sets enabled developers to improve their software tools. After optimization, all tools provided highly convergent identification and reliable quantification performance, underscoring their robustness for label-free quantitative proteomics.
PXD003645	27701473	Flagellin FliC Phosphorylation Affects Type 2 Protease Secretion and Biofilm Dispersal in Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1. 	Flagellin (FliC) phosphorylation affects Type 2 protease secretion and biofilm dispersal in Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1	Flagellin, phosphorylation	Protein phosphorylation has a major role in controlling the life-cycle and infection stages of bacteria. Proteome-wide occurrence of S/T/Y phosphorylation has been reported for many prokaryotic systems. Previously, we reported the phosphoproteome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Pseudomonas putida. In this study, we show the role of S/T phosphorylation of one motility protein, FliC, in regulating multiple surface-associated phenomena of P. aeruginosa PAO1. This is the first report of occurrence of phosphorylation in the flagellar protein, flagellin FliC in its highly conserved N-terminal NDO domain across several Gram negative bacteria. This phosphorylation is likely a well-regulated phenomenon as it is growth phase dependent in planktonic cells. The absence of phosphorylation in the conserved T27 and S28 residues of FliC, interestingly, did not affect swimming motility, but affected the secretome of type 2 secretion system (T2SS) and biofilm formation of PAO1. FliC phosphomutants had increased levels and activities of type 2 secretome proteins. The secretion efficiency of T2SS machinery is associated with flagellin phosphorylation. FliC phosphomutants also formed reduced biofilms at 24 h under static conditions and had delayed biofilm dispersal under dynamic flow conditions, respectively. The levels of type 2 secretome and biofilm formation under static conditions had an inverse correlation. Hence, increase in type 2 secretome levels was accompanied by reduced biofilm formation in the FliC phosphomutants. As T2SS is involved in nutrient acquisition and biofilm dispersal during survival and spread of P. aeruginosa, we propose that FliC phosphorylation has a role in ecological adaptation of this opportunistic environmental pathogen. Altogether, we found a system of phosphorylation that affects key surface related processes such as proteases secretion by T2SS, biofilm formation and dispersal.
PXD004866	27701823	Differential proteomic analysis of the metabolic network of the marine sulfate-reducer Desulfobacterium autotrophicum HRM2. 	Desulfobacterium autotrophicum HRM2 shotgun analysis	D. autotrophicum HRM2, sulfate-reducing bacterium	The marine sulfate-reducing bacterium Desulfobacterium autotrophicum HRM2 belongs to the deltaproteobacterial family Desulfobacteraceae and stands out for its capacity of facultative chemolithoautotrophic growth (next to heterotrophy). Here, proteomics-driven metabolic reconstruction was based on a combination of 2D-DIGE, shotgun proteomics, and analysis of the membrane protein enriched fraction applied to eight different substrate adaptation conditions (seven aliphatic compounds plus H2 /CO2 ). In total, 1344 different proteins were identified (~27% of the 4947 genome-predicted), from which a complex metabolic network was reconstructed consisting of 136 proteins (124 detected; ~91%). Peripheral degradation routes for organic substrates feed directly or via the methylmalonyl-CoA pathway into the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway (WLP) for terminal oxidation to CO2 . Chemolithoautotrophic growth apparently involves the periplasmic [Ni/Fe/Se]-containing hydrogenase HysAB (H2 oxidation), the reductively operating WLP (CO2 fixation), and classical gluconeogenesis. Diverse soluble proteins (e.g., Hdr, Etf) probably establish a fine balanced cytoplasmic electron transfer network connecting individual catabolic reactions with the membrane menaquinone pool. In addition, multiple membrane protein complexes (Nqr, Qmo, Qrc, Rnf1, Rnf2, and Tmc) provide ample routes for interacting with the reducing equivalent pool and delivering electrons to dissimilatory sulfate reduction (both localized in the cytoplasm). Overall, this study contributes to the molecular understanding of the habitat-relevant Desulfobacteraceae.
PXD004529	27703004	Quantitative Proteomics of the SMAD (Suppressor of Mothers against Decapentaplegic) Transcription Factor Family Identifies Importin 5 as a Bone Morphogenic Protein Receptor SMAD-specific Importin. 	Quantitative proteomics of the SMAD transcription factor family reveals IPO5 as a BMP Receptor-SMAD specific importin	SMAD transcription factor, nuclear translocation, transcription regulation	Gene-specific transcription factors (GSTFs) control gene transcription by DNA binding and specific protein complex recruitment, which regulates promoter accessibility for transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II. Mutations in the GSTFs Suppressor of Mothers Against Decapentaplegic 2 (SMAD2) and SMAD4 are frequently associated with colon and rectal carcinomas. These proteins play an important role in bone morphogenic protein (BMP) and transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) signaling pathways controlling cell fate and proliferation. To study the protein interactome of the SMAD protein family we generated a quantitative proteomics pipeline that allows for inducible expression of GFP-tagged SMAD proteins followed by affinity purification and quantitative mass spectrometry analysis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004529. The nuclear importin IPO5 was identified as a novel interacting protein of SMAD1. Overexpression of IPO5 in various cell lines specifically increases nuclear localization of BMP receptor-activated SMADs (R-SMADs) confirming a functional relationship between IPO5 and BMP but not TGF-beta R-SMADs. Finally, we provide evidence that variation in length of the lysine stretch of the nuclear localization sequence is a determinant for importin specificity.
PXD003022	27703040	The Salivary Protein Repertoire of the Polyphagous Spider Mite Tetranychus urticae: A Quest for Effectors. 	Tetranychus urticae secretome	Tetranichus urticae, secretome	The two-spotted spider mite Tetranychus urticae is an extremely polyphagous crop pest. Alongside an unparalleled detoxification potential for plant secondary metabolites, it has recently been shown that spider mites can attenuate or even suppress plant defenses. Salivary constituents, notably effectors, have been proposed to play an important role in manipulating plant defenses and might determine the outcome of plant-mite interactions. Here, the proteomic composition of saliva from T. urticae lines adapted to various host plants-bean, maize, soy, and tomato-was analyzed using a custom-developed feeding assay coupled with nano-LC tandem mass spectrometry. About 90 putative T. urticae salivary proteins were identified. Many are of unknown function, and in numerous cases belonging to multimembered gene families. RNAseq expression analysis revealed that many genes coding for these salivary proteins were highly expressed in the proterosoma, the mite body region that includes the salivary glands. A subset of genes encoding putative salivary proteins was selected for whole-mount in situ hybridization, and were found to be expressed in the anterior and dorsal podocephalic glands. Strikingly, host plant dependent expression was evident for putative salivary proteins, and was further studied in detail by micro-array based genome-wide expression profiling. This meta-analysis revealed for the first time the salivary protein repertoire of a phytophagous chelicerate. The availability of this salivary proteome will assist in unraveling the molecular interface between phytophagous mites and their host plants, and may ultimately facilitate the development of mite-resistant crops. Furthermore, the technique used in this study is a time- and resource-efficient method to examine the salivary protein composition of other small arthropods for which saliva or salivary glands cannot be isolated easily.
PXD004659	27705800	PAXX Is an Accessory c-NHEJ Factor that Associates with Ku70 and Has Overlapping Functions with XLF. 	PAXX is an accessory c-NHEJ factor that associates with Ku70 and has overlapping functions with XLF	DNA double-strand break, Genomic instability, Non-homologous end joining, V(D)J  recombination, micro-homology mediated end joining	In mammalian cells, classical non-homologous end joining (c-NHEJ) is critical for DNA double-strand break repair induced by ionizing radiation and during V(D)J recombination in developing B and T lymphocytes. Recently, PAXX was identified as a c-NHEJ core component. We report here that PAXX-deficient cells exhibit a cellular phenotype uncharacteristic of a deficiency in c-NHEJ core components. PAXX-deficient cells display normal sensitivity to radiomimetic drugs, are proficient in transient V(D)J recombination assays, and do not shift toward higher micro-homology usage in plasmid repair assays. Although PAXX-deficient cells lack c-NHEJ phenotypes, PAXX forms a stable ternary complex with Ku bound to DNA. Formation of this complex involves an interaction with Ku70 and requires a bare DNA extension for stability. Moreover, the relatively weak Ku-dependent stimulation of LIG4/XRCC4 activity by PAXX is unmasked by XLF ablation. Thus, PAXX plays an accessory role during c-NHEJ that is largely overlapped by XLF's function.
PXD003969	27708245	Chronic low-dose-rate ionising radiation affects the hippocampal phosphoproteome in the ApoE-/- Alzheimer's mouse model. 	Chronic low-dose ionising radiation rates affect the hippocampal phospho-proteome of synaptogenesis in an ApoE-/--Alzheimer mouse model over 300 days of exposure	CREB, Synaptic plasticity, dendritic spine, hippocampus, phospho-proteomics, synapse	Accruing data indicate that radiation-induced consequences resemble pathologies of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's. The aim of this study was to elucidate the effect on hippocampus of chronic low-dose-rate radiation exposure (1 mGy/day or 20 mGy/day) given over 300 days with cumulative doses of 0.3 Gy and 6.0 Gy, respectively. ApoE deficient mutant C57Bl/6 mouse was used as an Alzheimer's model. Using mass spectrometry, a marked alteration in the phosphoproteome was found at both dose rates. The radiation-induced changes in the phosphoproteome were associated with the control of synaptic plasticity, calcium-dependent signalling and brain metabolism. An inhibition of CREB signalling was found at both dose rates whereas Rac1-Cofilin signalling was found activated only at the lower dose rate. Similarly, the reduction in the number of activated microglia in the molecular layer of hippocampus that paralleled with reduced levels of TNFalpha expression and lipid peroxidation was significant only at the lower dose rate. Adult neurogenesis, investigated by Ki67, GFAP and NeuN staining, and cell death (activated caspase-3) were not influenced at any dose or dose rate. This study shows that several molecular targets induced by chronic low-dose-rate radiation overlap with those of Alzheimer's pathology. It may suggest that ionising radiation functions as a contributing risk factor to this neurodegenerative disease.
PXD004205	27708557	Plasma degradome affected by variable storage of human blood. 	Plasma Biomarker Profile Altered Through Variable Blood Storage	Blood, Degradome, Plasma	BACKGROUND: The successful application of-omics technologies in the discovery of novel biomarkers and targets of therapeutic interventions is facilitated by large collections of well curated clinical samples stored in bio banks. Mining the plasma proteome holds promise to improve our understanding of disease mechanisms and may represent a source of biomarkers. However, a major confounding factor for defining disease-specific proteomic signatures in plasma is the variation in handling and processing of clinical samples leading to protein degradation. To address this, we defined a plasma proteolytic signature (degradome) reflecting pre-analytical variability in blood samples that remained at ambient temperature for different time periods after collection and prior to processing. METHODS: We obtained EDTA blood samples from five healthy volunteers (n = 5), and blood tubes remained at ambient temperature for 30 min, 8, 24 and 48 h prior to centrifugation and isolation of plasma. Naturally occurred peptides derived from plasma samples were compared by label-free quantitative LC-MS/MS. To profile protein degradation, we analysed pooled plasma samples at T = 30 min and 48 h using PROTOMAP analysis. The proteolytic pattern of selected protein candidates was further validated by immunoblotting. RESULTS: A total of 820 plasma proteins were surveyed by PROTOMAP, and for 4 % of these, marked degradation was observed. We show distinct proteolysis patterns for talin-1, coagulation factor XI, complement protein C1r, C3, C4 and thrombospondin, and several proteins including S100A8, A9, annexin A1, profiling-1 and platelet glycoprotein V are enriched after 48 h blood storage at ambient temperature. In particular, thrombospondin protein levels increased after 8 h and proteolytic fragments appeared after 24 h storage time. CONCLUSIONS: The overall impact of blood storage at ambient temperature for variable times on the plasma proteome and degradome is relatively minor, but in some cases can cause a potential bias in identifying and assigning relevant proteomic markers. The observed effects on the plasma proteome and degradome are predominantly triggered by limited leucocyte and platelet cell activation due to blood handling and storage. The baseline plasma degradome signature presented here can help filtering candidate protein markers relevant for clinical biomarker studies.
PXD004906	27711157	Multisite Phosphorylation of NuMA-Related LIN-5 Controls Mitotic Spindle Positioning in C. elegans. 	Multisite phosphorylation of NuMA-related LIN-5 controls mitotic spindle positioning in C. elegans	LIN5, phosphorylation, spindle	During cell division, the mitotic spindle segregates replicated chromosomes to opposite poles of the cell, while the position of the spindle determines the plane of cleavage. Spindle positioning and chromosome segregation depend on pulling forces on microtubules extending from the centrosomes to the cell cortex. Critical in pulling force generation is the cortical anchoring of cytoplasmic dynein by a conserved ternary complex of Galpha, GPR-1/2, and LIN-5 proteins in C. elegans (Galpha-LGN-NuMA in mammals). Previously, we showed that the polarity kinase PKC-3 phosphorylates LIN-5 to control spindle positioning in early C. elegans embryos. Here, we investigate whether additional LIN-5 phosphorylations regulate cortical pulling forces, making use of targeted alteration of in vivo phosphorylated residues by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genetic engineering. Four distinct in vivo phosphorylated LIN-5 residues were found to have critical functions in spindle positioning. Two of these residues form part of a 30 amino acid binding site for GPR-1, which we identified by reverse two-hybrid screening. We provide evidence for a dual-kinase mechanism, involving GSK3 phosphorylation of S659 followed by phosphorylation of S662 by casein kinase 1. These LIN-5 phosphorylations promote LIN-5-GPR-1/2 interaction and contribute to cortical pulling forces. The other two critical residues, T168 and T181, form part of a cyclin-dependent kinase consensus site and are phosphorylated by CDK1-cyclin B in vitro. We applied a novel strategy to characterize early embryonic defects in lethal T168,T181 knockin substitution mutants, and provide evidence for sequential LIN-5 N-terminal phosphorylation and dephosphorylation in dynein recruitment. Our data support that phosphorylation of multiple LIN-5 domains by different kinases contributes to a mechanism for spatiotemporal control of spindle positioning and chromosome segregation.
PXD003444	27712078	Extracellular Proteome and Citrullinome of the Oral Pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis. 	The Extracellular Proteome and Citrullinome of the Oral Pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis	Porphyromonas gingivalis, citrullination, exoproteome, periodontitis, rheumatoid arthritis	Porphyromonas gingivalis is an oral pathogen associated with the inflammatory disease periodontitis. Periodontitis and P. gingivalis have been associated with rheumatoid arthritis. One of the hallmarks of rheumatoid arthritis is the loss of tolerance against citrullinated proteins. Citrullination is a post-translational modification of arginine residues, leading to a change in structure and function of the respective protein. This modification, which is catalyzed by peptidylarginine deiminases (PADs), plays a role in several physiological processes in the human body. Interestingly, P. gingivalis secretes a citrullinating enzyme, known as P. gingivalis PAD (PPAD), which targets bacterial and human proteins. Because the extent of P. gingivalis protein citrullination by PPAD was not yet known, the present study was aimed at identifying the extracellular proteome and citrullinome of P. gingivalis. To this end, extracellular proteins of two reference strains, two PPAD-deficient mutants, and three clinical isolates of P. gingivalis were analyzed by mass spectrometry. The results uncovered substantial heterogeneity in the extracellular proteome and citrullinome of P. gingivalis, especially in relation to the extracellular detection of typical cytoplasmic proteins. In contrast, the major virulence factors of P. gingivalis were identified in all investigated isolates, although their citrullination was shown to vary. This may be related to post-translational processing of the PPAD enzyme. Altogether, our findings focus attention on the possible roles of 6 to 25 potentially citrullinated proteins, especially the gingipain RgpA, in periodontitis and rheumatoid arthritis.
PXD003726	27713568	Characterisation of the immune compounds in koala milk using a combined transcriptomic and proteomic approach. 	Characterisation of the immune compounds in koala milk using a combined transcriptomic and proteomic approach	Koala milk, marsupials, nanoLC, transcriptomic	Production of milk is a key characteristic of mammals, but the features of lactation vary greatly between monotreme, marsupial and eutherian mammals. Marsupials have a short gestation followed by a long lactation period, and milk constituents vary greatly across lactation. Marsupials are born immunologically naive and rely on their mother's milk for immunological protection. Koalas (Phascolarctos cinereus) are an iconic Australian species that are increasingly threatened by disease. Here we use a mammary transcriptome, two milk proteomes and the koala genome to comprehensively characterise the protein components of koala milk across lactation, with a focus on immune constituents. The most abundant proteins were well-characterised milk proteins, including beta-lactoglobulin and lactotransferrin. In the mammary transcriptome, 851 immune transcripts were expressed, including immunoglobulins and complement components. We identified many abundant antimicrobial peptides, as well as novel proteins with potential antimicrobial roles. We discovered that marsupial VELP is an ortholog of eutherian Glycam1, and likely has an antimicrobial function in milk. We also identified highly-abundant koala endogenous-retrovirus sequences, identifying a potential transmission route from mother to young. Characterising the immune components of milk is key to understanding protection of marsupial young, and the novel immune compounds identified may have applications in clinical research.
PXD003607	27713570	Quantitative Profiling of Single Formalin Fixed Tumour Sections: proteomics for translational research. 	Ovarian Cancer Proteomics of FFPE Tissue	Clear Cell, Endometrioid, Orbitrap Fusion, Ovarian Cancer, Ovary, Serous, Tandem Mass Tags	Although re-sequencing of gene panels and mRNA expression profiling are now firmly established in clinical laboratories, in-depth proteome analysis has remained a niche technology, better suited for studying model systems rather than challenging materials such as clinical trial samples. To address this limitation, we have developed a novel and optimized platform called SP3-Clinical Tissue Proteomics (SP3-CTP) for in-depth proteome profiling of practical quantities of tumour tissues, including formalin fixed and paraffin embedded (FFPE). Using single 10 mum scrolls of clinical tumour blocks, we performed in-depth quantitative analyses of individual sections from ovarian tumours covering the high-grade serous, clear cell, and endometrioid histotypes. This examination enabled the generation of a novel high-resolution proteome map of ovarian cancer histotypes from clinical tissues. Comparison of the obtained proteome data with large-scale genome and transcriptome analyses validated the observed proteome biology for previously validated hallmarks of this disease, and also identified novel protein features. A tissue microarray analysis validated cystathionine gamma-lyase (CTH) as a novel clear cell carcinoma feature with potential clinical relevance. In addition to providing a milestone in the understanding of ovarian cancer biology, these results show that in-depth proteomic analysis of clinically annotated FFPE materials can be effectively used as a biomarker discovery tool and perhaps ultimately as a diagnostic approach.
PXD004332	27714013	Characterization of human pineal gland proteome. 	Characterization of human pineal gland proteome	Gland, Pineal, Tissue	The pineal gland is a neuroendocrine gland located at the center of the brain. It is known to regulate various physiological functions in the body through secretion of the neurohormone melatonin. Comprehensive characterization of the human pineal gland proteome has not been undertaken to date. We employed a high-resolution mass spectrometry-based approach to characterize the proteome of the human pineal gland. A total of 5874 proteins were identified from the human pineal gland in this study. Of these, 5820 proteins were identified from the human pineal gland for the first time. Interestingly, 1136 proteins from the human pineal gland were found to contain a signal peptide domain, which indicates the secretory nature of these proteins. An unbiased global proteomic profile of this biomedically important organ should benefit molecular research to unravel the role of the pineal gland in neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD004018	27714937	PlasmoSEP: Predicting surface-exposed proteins on the malaria parasite using semisupervised self-training and expert-annotated data. 	Surface Proteomics of Plasmodium yoelii Salivary Gland Sporozoites	Malaria, cross-linking, sporozoites	Accurate and comprehensive identification of surface-exposed proteins (SEPs) in parasites is a key step in developing novel subunit vaccines. However, the reliability of MS-based high-throughput methods for proteome-wide mapping of SEPs continues to be limited due to high rates of false positives (i.e., proteins mistakenly identified as surface exposed) as well as false negatives (i.e., SEPs not detected due to low expression or other technical limitations). We propose a framework called PlasmoSEP for the reliable identification of SEPs using a novel semisupervised learning algorithm that combines SEPs identified by high-throughput experiments and expert annotation of high-throughput data to augment labeled data for training a predictive model. Our experiments using high-throughput data from the Plasmodium falciparum surface-exposed proteome provide several novel high-confidence predictions of SEPs in P. falciparum and also confirm expert annotations for several others. Furthermore, PlasmoSEP predicts that 25 of 37 experimentally identified SEPs in Plasmodium yoelii salivary gland sporozoites are likely to be SEPs. Finally, PlasmoSEP predicts several novel SEPs in P. yoelii and Plasmodium vivax malaria parasites that can be validated for further vaccine studies. Our computational framework can be easily adapted to improve the interpretation of data from high-throughput studies.
PXD003854	27717283	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of yeast reveal the global cellular response to sphingolipid depletion. 	Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Analyses of Yeast Reveal the Global Cellular Response to Sphingolipid Depletion	QExactive HF, phosphoproteomics, sphingolipid depletion	Sphingolipids are essential components of eukaryotic cells with important functions in membrane biology and cellular signaling. Their levels are tightly controlled and coordinated with the abundance of other membrane lipids. How sphingolipid homeostasis is achieved is not yet well understood. Studies performed primarily in yeast showed that the phosphorylation states of several enzymes and regulators of sphingolipid synthesis are important, although a global understanding for such regulation is lacking. Here, we used high-resolution MS-based proteomics and phosphoproteomics to analyze the cellular response to sphingolipid synthesis inhibition. Our dataset reveals that changes in protein phosphorylation, rather than protein abundance, dominate the response to blocking sphingolipid synthesis. We identified Ypk signaling as a pathway likely to be activated under these conditions, and we identified potential Ypk1 target proteins. Our data provide a rich resource for on-going mechanistic studies of key elements of the cellular response to the depletion of sphingolipid levels and the maintenance of sphingolipid homeostasis. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003854 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD003854).
PXD003923	27717466	Characterization of the Arabidopsis thaliana 2-Cys peroxiredoxin interactome. 	Identification of A. thaliana 2-Cys peroxiredoxins interacting proteins	A. thaliana, interactome, nanoLC-MS/MS, peroxiredoxins	Peroxiredoxins are ubiquitous thiol-dependent peroxidases for which chaperone and signaling roles have been reported in various types of organisms in recent years. In plants, the peroxidase function of the two typical plastidial 2-Cys peroxiredoxins (2-Cys PRX A and B) has been highlighted while the other functions, particularly in ROS-dependent signaling pathways, are still elusive notably due to the lack of knowledge of interacting partners. Using an ex vivo approach based on co-immunoprecipitation of leaf extracts from Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type and mutant plants lacking 2-Cys PRX expression followed by mass spectrometry-based proteomics, 158 proteins were found associated with 2-Cys PRXs. Already known partners like thioredoxin-related electron donors (Chloroplastic Drought-induced Stress Protein of 32kDa, Atypical Cysteine Histidine-rich Thioredoxin 2) and enzymes involved in chlorophyll synthesis (Protochlorophyllide OxidoReductase B) or carbon metabolism (Fructose-1,6-BisPhosphatase) were identified, validating the relevance of the approach. Bioinformatic and bibliographic analyses allowed the functional classification of the identified proteins and revealed that more than 40% are localized in plastids. The possible roles of plant 2-Cys PRXs in redox signaling pathways are discussed in relation with the functions of the potential partners notably those involved in redox homeostasis, carbon and amino acid metabolisms as well as chlorophyll biosynthesis.
PXD003671	27717896	Proteomic and physiological analyses of wheat seeds exposed to copper and iron nanoparticles. 	Proteomic and physiological analyses of seeds of wheat varieties under copper and iron nanoparticles exposure	copper nanoparticles, iron nanoparticles, seed, wheat	To elucidate the role of Cu and Fe NPs on the yield of wheat varieties, a gel-free proteomic technique was used. NPs were synthesized and characterized through zeta potential, EDX, and SEM. Spike length, number of grains per spike, and 1000 grain weight were increased in wheat varieties treated with 25ppm Cu and Fe NPs. On treatment with 25ppm Cu and Fe NPs, a total of 58, 121, and 25 proteins were changed in abundance in wheat seeds of galaxy-13, Pakistan-13, and NARC-11, respectively. In galaxy-13, exposure to Cu NPs increased proteins involved in starch degradation and glycolysis. Furthermore, the number of proteins related to starch degradation, glycolysis, and tricarboxylic acid cycle was increased in galaxy-13 on Fe NPs exposure. Proteins related to glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid cycle was increased in Pakistan-13 and NARC-11 by Fe NPs exposure. The sugar content and SOD activity was increased in wheat seeds treated with Cu and Fe NPs. The Cu content was increased at 25ppm Cu NPs exposure in seeds of wheat varieties. These results suggest that Cu NPs improved stress tolerance in wheat varieties by mediating the process of starch degradation, glycolysis, and tricarboxylic acid cycle through NPs uptake.
PXD005321	27718298	Changes in the detergent-insoluble brain proteome linked to amyloid and tau in Alzheimer's Disease progression. 	Alzheimer Disease (AD) and AD model detergent insoluble proteomes	DQUAN, in house XIC quantitation, in-gel digestion, neurodegeneration	Despite a key role of amyloid-beta (Abeta) in Alzheimer's disease (AD), mechanisms that link Abeta plaques to tau neurofibrillary tangles and cognitive decline still remain poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to quantify proteins in the sarkosyl-insoluble brain proteome correlated with Abeta and tau insolubility in the asymptomatic phase of AD (AsymAD) and through mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and symptomatic AD. Employing label-free mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we quantified 2711 sarkosyl-insoluble proteins across the prefrontal cortex from 35 individual cases representing control, AsymAD, MCI and AD. Significant enrichment of Abeta and tau in AD was observed, which correlated with neuropathological measurements of plaque and tau tangle density, respectively. Pairwise correlation coefficients were also determined for all quantified proteins to Abeta and tau, across the 35 cases. Notably, six of the ten most correlated proteins to Abeta were U1 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (U1 snRNPs). Three of these U1 snRNPs (U1A, SmD and U1-70K) also correlated with tau consistent with their association with tangle pathology in AD. Thus, proteins that cross-correlate with both Abeta and tau, including specific U1 snRNPs, may have potential mechanistic roles in linking Abeta plaques to tau tangle pathology during AD progression.
PXD002885	27718312	Extracting histones for the specific purpose of label-free MS. 	Histone datasets for evaluation of histone extraction protocols	extraction protocols, histone, label-free MS, targeted and untargeted analysis	Extracting histones from cells is the first step in studies that aim to characterize histones and their post-translational modifications (hPTMs) with MS. In the last decade, label-free quantification is more frequently being used for MS-based histone characterization. However, many histone extraction protocols were not specifically designed for label-free MS. While label-free quantification has its advantages, it is also very susceptible to technical variation. Here, we adjust an established histone extraction protocol according to general label-free MS guidelines with a specific focus on minimizing sample handling. These protocols are first evaluated using SDS-PAGE. Hereafter, a selection of extraction protocols was used in a complete histone workflow for label-free MS. All protocols display nearly identical relative quantification of hPTMs. We thus show that, depending on the cell type under investigation and at the cost of some additional contaminating proteins, minimizing sample handling can be done during histone isolation. This allows analyzing bigger sample batches, leads to reduced technical variation and minimizes the chance of in vitro alterations to the hPTM snapshot. Overall, these results allow researchers to determine the best protocol depending on the resources and goal of their specific study. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002885.
PXD002667	27718580	Comparative proteomics implicates a role for multiple secretion systems in electrode-respiring Geobacter sulfurreducens biofilms. 	Geobacter sulfurreducens biofilm iTRAQ analysis	5600, Geobacter sulfurreducens, iTRAQ	Geobacter sulfurreducens is a dissimilatory metal-reducing bacterium capable of forming thick electron-conducting biofilms on solid electrodes. Here, we employ for the first time comparative proteomics to identify key physiological changes involved in G. sulfurreducens adaptation from fumarate-respiring planktonic cells to electron-conducting biofilms. Increased levels of proteins involved in outer membrane biogenesis, cell motility and secretion are expressed in biofilms. Of particular importance to the electron-conducting biofilms are proteins associated with secretion systems of Type I, II, V and Type IV pili. Furthermore, enzymes involved in lipopolysaccharide and peptidoglycan biosynthesis show increased levels of expression in electron-conducting biofilms compared to planktonic cells. These observations point to similarities in long-range electron transfer mechanisms between G. sulfurreducens and Shewanella oneidensis, while highlighting the wider significance of secretion systems beyond that of Type IV pili identified to date in the adaptation of G. sulfurreducens to electrode respiration.
PXD004929	27720452	Kinetic Analysis of Protein Stability Reveals Age-Dependent Degradation. 	NIH 3T3 AHA p-c, SILAC p-c, inhibitor, and enrichment control experiments	SILAC, aneuploidy, azidohomoalanine, degradation	Do young and old protein molecules have the same probability to be degraded? We addressed this question using metabolic pulse-chase labeling and quantitative mass spectrometry to obtain degradation profiles for thousands of proteins. We find that >10% of proteins are degraded non-exponentially. Specifically, proteins are less stable in the first few hours of their life and stabilize with age. Degradation profiles are conserved and similar in two cell types. Many non-exponentially degraded (NED) proteins are subunits of complexes that are produced in super-stoichiometric amounts relative to their exponentially degraded (ED) counterparts. Within complexes, NED proteins have larger interaction interfaces and assemble earlier than ED subunits. Amplifying genes encoding NED proteins increases their initial degradation. Consistently, decay profiles can predict protein level attenuation in aneuploid cells. Together, our data show that non-exponential degradation is common, conserved, and has important consequences for complex formation and regulation of protein abundance.
PXD004000	27720645	SONAR Discovers RNA-Binding Proteins from Analysis of Large-Scale Protein-Protein Interactomes. 	MudPIT analyses of the proteins co-purified with Halo-tagged Human HNRNP proteins from HEK293T cells with and without RNAse	Halo Tag, MudPIT, RNA binding protein, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein	RNA metabolism is controlled by an expanding, yet incomplete, catalog of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), many of which lack characterized RNA binding domains. Approaches to expand the RBP repertoire to discover non-canonical RBPs are currently needed. Here, HaloTag fusion pull down of 12 nuclear and cytoplasmic RBPs followed by quantitative mass spectrometry (MS) demonstrates that proteins interacting with multiple RBPs in an RNA-dependent manner are enriched for RBPs. This motivated SONAR, a computational approach that predicts RNA binding activity by analyzing large-scale affinity precipitation-MS protein-protein interactomes. Without relying on sequence or structure information, SONAR identifies 1,923 human, 489 fly, and 745 yeast RBPs, including over 100 human candidate RBPs that contain zinc finger domains. Enhanced CLIP confirms RNA binding activity and identifies transcriptome-wide RNA binding sites for SONAR-predicted RBPs, revealing unexpected RNA binding activity for disease-relevant proteins and DNA binding proteins.
PXD003529	27723717	Activation of the ATR kinase by the RPA-binding protein ETAA1. 	Activation of the ATR kinase by the RPA-binding protein ETAA1	CHROMASS, DNA damage response, DSB repair	Activation of the ATR kinase following perturbations to DNA replication relies on a complex mechanism involving ATR recruitment to RPA-coated single-stranded DNA via its binding partner ATRIP and stimulation of ATR kinase activity by TopBP1. Here, we discovered an independent ATR activation pathway in vertebrates, mediated by the uncharacterized protein ETAA1 (Ewing's tumour-associated antigen 1). Human ETAA1 accumulates at DNA damage sites via dual RPA-binding motifs and promotes replication fork progression and integrity, ATR signalling and cell survival after genotoxic insults. Mechanistically, this requires a conserved domain in ETAA1 that potently and directly stimulates ATR kinase activity independently of TopBP1. Simultaneous loss of ETAA1 and TopBP1 gives rise to synthetic lethality characterized by massive genome instability and abrogation of ATR-dependent signalling. Our findings demonstrate that parallel TopBP1- and ETAA1-mediated pathways underlie ATR activation and that their combined action is essential for coping with replication stress.
PXD004913	27723745	C9ORF72 interaction with cofilin modulates actin dynamics in motor neurons. 	C9ORF72 interaction with cofilin modulates actin dynamics in motoneurons	ALS, C9ORF72, FTLD, cofilin	Intronic hexanucleotide expansions in C9ORF72 are common in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia, but it is unknown whether loss of function, toxicity by the expanded RNA or dipeptides from non-ATG-initiated translation are responsible for the pathophysiology. We determined the interactome of C9ORF72 in motor neurons and found that C9ORF72 was present in a complex with cofilin and other actin binding proteins. Phosphorylation of cofilin was enhanced in C9ORF72-depleted motor neurons, in patient-derived lymphoblastoid cells, induced pluripotent stem cell-derived motor neurons and post-mortem brain samples from ALS patients. C9ORF72 modulates the activity of the small GTPases Arf6 and Rac1, resulting in enhanced activity of LIM-kinases 1 and 2 (LIMK1/2). This results in reduced axonal actin dynamics in C9ORF72-depleted motor neurons. Dominant negative Arf6 rescues this defect, suggesting that C9ORF72 acts as a modulator of small GTPases in a pathway that regulates axonal actin dynamics.
PXD005462	27723750	Serine is a new target residue for endogenous ADP-ribosylation on histones. 	Histone ADP Ribosylation -  Serine is a new target residue for endogenous ADP-ribosylation on histones	ADP Ribosylation, ADPR, Histones, serine	ADP-ribosylation (ADPr) is a biologically and clinically important post-translational modification, but little is known about the amino acids it targets on cellular proteins. Here we present a proteomic approach for direct in vivo identification and quantification of ADPr sites on histones. We have identified 12 unique ADPr sites in human osteosarcoma cells and report serine ADPr as a new type of histone mark that responds to DNA damage.
PXD003791	27723761	Integrated multi-omics of the human gut microbiome in a case study of familial type 1 diabetes. 	MuSt multiomics -  Integrated multi-omics of the human gut microbiome in a case study of familial type 1 diabetes	Human microbiome, faecal, families, gastrointestinal, type 1 diabetes	The gastrointestinal microbiome is a complex ecosystem with functions that shape human health. Studying the relationship between taxonomic alterations and functional repercussions linked to disease remains challenging. Here, we present an integrative approach to resolve the taxonomic and functional attributes of gastrointestinal microbiota at the metagenomic, metatranscriptomic and metaproteomic levels. We apply our methods to samples from four families with multiple cases of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). Analysis of intra- and inter-individual variation demonstrates that family membership has a pronounced effect on the structural and functional composition of the gastrointestinal microbiome. In the context of T1DM, consistent taxonomic differences were absent across families, but certain human exocrine pancreatic proteins were found at lower levels. The associated microbial functional signatures were linked to metabolic traits in distinct taxa. The methodologies and results provide a foundation for future large-scale integrated multi-omic analyses of the gastrointestinal microbiome in the context of host-microbe interactions in human health and disease.
PXD004424	27723984	Proteomic and Bioinformatic Characterization of Extracellular Vesicles Released from Human Macrophages upon Influenza A Virus Infection. 	Proteomic and bioinformatic characterization of extracellular vesicles released from human primary macrophages upon influenza A infection	Extracellular vesicle, Influenza A, human primary macrophages	Influenza A viruses (IAVs) are aggressive pathogens that cause acute respiratory diseases and annual epidemics in humans. Host defense against IAV infection is initiated by macrophages, which are the principal effector cells of the innate immune system. We have previously shown that IAV infection of human macrophages is associated with robust secretion of proteins via conventional and unconventional protein release pathways. Here we have characterized unconventional, extracellular vesicle (EV)-mediated protein secretion in human macrophages during IAV infection using proteomics, bioinformatics, and functional studies. We demonstrate that at 9 h postinfection a robust EV-mediated protein secretion takes place. We identified 2359 human proteins from EVs of IAV-infected macrophages compared with 1448 proteins identified from EVs of control cells. Bioinformatic analysis shows that many proteins involved in translation, like components of spliceosome machinery and the ribosome, are secreted in EVs in response to IAV infection. Our data also shows that EVs derived from IAV-infected macrophages contain fatty acid-binding proteins, antiviral cytokines, copper metabolism Murr-1 domain proteins, and autophagy-related proteins. In addition, our data suggest that secretory autophagy plays a role in activating EV-mediated protein secretion during IAV infection.
PXD004033	27725814	Monitoring Perinatal Gut Microbiota in Mouse Models by Mass Spectrometry Approaches: Parental Genetic Background and Breastfeeding Effects. 	Metaproteomic Monitoring of Perinatal Mouse Gut Microbiota	Mouse Gut Microbiota (MGM), metaproteomics	At birth, contact with external stimuli, such as nutrients derived from food, is necessary to modulate the symbiotic balance between commensal and pathogenic bacteria, protect against bacterial dysbiosis, and initiate the development of the mucosal immune response. Among a variety of different feeding patterns, breastfeeding represents the best modality. In fact, the capacity of breast milk to modulate the composition of infants' gut microbiota leads to beneficial effects on their health. In this study, we used newborn mice as a model to evaluate the effect of parental genetic background (i.e., IgA-producing mice and IgA-deficient mice) and feeding modulation (i.e., maternal feeding and cross-feeding) on the onset and shaping of gut microbiota after birth. To investigate these topics, we used either a culturomic approach that employed Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry (MS), or bottom-up Liquid Chromatography, with subsequent MSMS shotgun metaproteomic analysis that compared and assembled results of the two techniques. We found that the microbial community was enriched by lactic acid bacteria when pups were breastfed by wild-type (WT) mothers, while IgA-deficient milk led to an increase in the opportunistic bacterial pathogen (OBP) population. Cross-feeding results suggested that IgA supplementation promoted the exclusion of some OBPs and the temporary appearance of beneficial species in pups fed by WT foster mothers. Our results show that both techniques yield a picture of microbiota from different angles and with varying depths. In particular, our metaproteomic pipeline was found to be a reliable tool in the description of microbiota. Data from these studies are available via ProteomeXchange, with identifier PXD004033.
PXD003051	27726376	Immunogenic HLA-DR-Presented Self-Peptides Identified Directly from Clinical Samples of Synovial Tissue, Synovial Fluid, or Peripheral Blood in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis or Lyme Arthritis. 	Identification of In Vivo HLA-DR-Presented Self-Peptides (T Cell Epitopes) in Synovial Tissue, Synovial Fluid and Peripheral Blood in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis or Lyme Arthritis	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP), peripheral blo, synovial fluid, synovial tissue	Human leukocyte antigen-antigen D related (HLA-DR) molecules are highly expressed in synovial tissue (ST), the target of the immune response in chronic inflammatory forms of arthritis. Here, we used LC-MS/MS to identify HLA-DR-presented self-peptides in cells taken directly from clinical samples: ST, synovial fluid mononuclear cells (SFMC), or peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from five patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and eight with Lyme arthritis (LA). We identified 1593 non-redundant HLA-DR-presented peptides, derived from 870 source proteins. A total of 67% of the peptides identified in SFMC and 55% of those found in PBMC were found in ST, but analysis of SFMC/PBMC also revealed new antigen-presented peptides. Peptides were synthesized and examined for reactivity with the patients' PBMC. To date, three autoantigens in RA and four novel autoantigens in LA, presented in ST and/or PBMC, were shown to be targets of T- and B-cell responses in these diseases; ongoing analyses may add to this list. Thus, immunoprecipitation and LC-MS/MS can now identify hundreds of HLA-DR-presented self-peptides from individual patients' tissues or fluids with mixed cell populations. Importantly, identification of HLA-DR-presented peptides from SFMC or PBMC allows testing of more patients, including those early in the disease. Direct analysis of clinical samples facilitates identification of novel immunogenic T-cell epitopes.
PXD003362	27727249	microRNA-140 Inhibits Inflammation and Stimulates Chondrogenesis in a Model of Interleukin 1beta-induced Osteoarthritis. 	microRNA-140 inhibits inflammation and stimulates chondrogenesis in a model of IL1beta-induced osteoarthritis	IL1B, articular cartilage, inflammation, microRNA-140, osteoarthritis	Osteoarthritis is a serious disease of articular cartilage. The pathogenic factors contributing to this disorder are inflammation, extracellular matrix degradation and failure to rebuild the articular cartilage. Preclinical studies suggest that microRNA-140 may play a protective role in osteoarthritis development, but little is known about the mechanism by which this occurs. Here we present the results of forced expression of microRNA-140 in an in vitro model of osteoarthritis, evaluated by global proteomics analysis. We show that inflammation was reduced through the altered levels of multiple proteins involved in the nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells 1 pathway. microRNA-140 upregulated many of the components involved in the synthesis of hyaline extracellular matrix and reduced the levels of aggrecanases and syndecan 4, thus potentially both increasing cartilage repair and reducing cartilage breakdown. These results show how forced expression of microRNA-140 is likely to counteract all three pathogenic processes, and support the idea that intra-articular injection of microRNA-140 may benefit patients suffering from early osteoarthritis.
PXD003663	27727459	Sex-specific vitamin D effects on blood coagulation among overweight adults. 	Serum proteomics reveals a sexually dimorphic effect of vitamin D status correction on proteins of the blood coagulation pathway among overweight adults	Vitamin D, blood coagulation, serum proteomics, sexual dimorphism	BACKGROUND: Overweight adults are at increased risk for cardiovascular disease and vitamin D deficiency, whereas an important feature to vitamin D physiology is its sex dependence. The aim of this study was to examine whether vitamin D status improvement exerts a sexually dimorphic effect on serum proteins associated with cardiovascular risk among overweight adults. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Unprocessed serum from age- and BMI-matched men (n = 26) and premenopausal women (n = 24) with vitamin D deficiency and after they achieved sufficiency through a 12-month nutritional intervention was analysed using our previously published depletion-free quantitative proteomics method. Key findings were verified with ELISA. Differentially expressed proteins were subjected to in silico bioinformatics assessment using principal component analysis, hierarchical clustering and Metacore((TM)) pathway analysis. All mass spectrometry proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange (identifier: PXD003663). RESULTS: A total of 282 proteins were differentially expressed after the intervention between men and women (P-value <= 0.05), in which the blood coagulation pathway was significantly enriched. In agreement with the proteomics findings, ELISA measurements showed vitamin K-dependent protein C, von Willebrand factor, fibrinogen gamma chain and multimerin-1 proteins, of relevance to blood coagulation, to be differentially affected (P-value <= 0.05) between sexes after vitamin D status correction. CONCLUSIONS: This study identified novel protein-level molecular indicators on the sexually dimorphic effect of vitamin D status correction associated with blood coagulation among overweight adults. These sex-mediated vitamin D effects should be factored in the design and interpretation of vitamin D observational and interventional studies testing cardiometabolic outcomes.
PXD004395	27731504	Global mapping of rat plasma proteins with a native proteomic approach using nondenaturing micro 2DE and quantitative LC-MS/MS. 	Global mapping of rat plasma proteins with a native proteomic approach using nondenaturing micro 2DE and label-free quantitative LC-MS/MS	Adult male rat plasma proteome, Global mapping, Label-free quantitative LC-MSE, Native proteomics, Nondenaturing micro 2DE	Plasma samples from adult male rats were separated by nondenaturing micro 2DE and a reference gel was selected, on which 136 CBB-stained spots were numbered and subjected to in-gel digestion and quantitative LC-MS/MS. The analysis provided the assignment of 1-25 (average eight) non-redundant proteins in each spot and totally 199 proteins were assigned in the 136 spots. About 40% of the proteins were detected in more than one spot and 15% in more than ten spots. We speculate this complexity arose from multiple causes, including protein heterogeneity, overlapping of protein locations and formation of protein complexes. Consequently, such results could not be appropriately presented as a conventional 2DE map, i.e. a list or a gel pattern with one or a few proteins annotated to each spot. Therefore, the LC-MS/MS quantity data was used to reconstruct the gel distribution of each protein and a library containing 199 native protein maps was established for rat plasma. Since proteins that formed a complex would migrate together during the nondenaturing 2DE and thus show similar gel distributions, correlation analysis was attempted for similarity comparison between the maps. The protein pairs showing high correlation coefficients included some well-known complexes, suggesting the promising application of native protein mapping for interaction analysis. With the importance of rat as the most commonly used laboratory animal in biomedical research, we expect this work would facilitate relevant studies by providing not only a reference library of rat plasma protein maps but a means for functional and interaction analysis.
PXD003380	27732836	NAD(+) Replenishment Improves Lifespan and Healthspan in Ataxia Telangiectasia Models via Mitophagy and DNA Repair. 	Restoration of defective nuclear-mitochondrial DNA damage signaling suppresses neuropathology and extends healthspan in Ataxia telangiectasia across species	Aging, C.elegans, liquid chromatography	Ataxia telangiectasia (A-T) is a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by progressive neurodegeneration and cerebellar ataxia. A-T is causally linked to defects in ATM, a master regulator of the response to and repair of DNA double-strand breaks. The molecular basis of cerebellar atrophy and neurodegeneration in A-T patients is unclear. Here we report and examine the significance of increased PARylation, low NAD(+), and mitochondrial dysfunction in ATM-deficient neurons, mice, and worms. Treatments that replenish intracellular NAD(+) reduce the severity of A-T neuropathology, normalize neuromuscular function, delay memory loss, and extend lifespan in both animal models. Mechanistically, treatments that increase intracellular NAD(+) also stimulate neuronal DNA repair and improve mitochondrial quality via mitophagy. This work links two major theories on aging, DNA damage accumulation, and mitochondrial dysfunction through nuclear DNA damage-induced nuclear-mitochondrial signaling, and demonstrates that they are important pathophysiological determinants in premature aging of A-T, pointing to therapeutic interventions.
PXD003856	27732854	ZMYND8 Co-localizes with NuRD on Target Genes and Regulates Poly(ADP-Ribose)-Dependent Recruitment of GATAD2A/NuRD to Sites of DNA Damage. 	ZMYND8 co-localizes with NuRD on target genes and regulates poly-ADP-ribose dependent recruitment of GATAD2A/NuRD to sites of DNA damage	GFP-affinity purification, LFQ, NuRD, SILAC, ZMYND8, epigenetics	NuRD (nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase) is a versatile multi-protein complex with roles in transcription regulation and the DNA damage response. Here, we show that ZMYND8 bridges NuRD to a number of putative DNA-binding zinc finger proteins. The MYND domain of ZMYND8 directly interacts with PPPLPhi motifs in the NuRD subunit GATAD2A. Both GATAD2A and GATAD2B exclusively form homodimers and define mutually exclusive NuRD subcomplexes. ZMYND8 and NuRD share a large number of genome-wide binding sites, mostly active promoters and enhancers. Depletion of ZMYND8 does not affect NuRD occupancy genome-wide and only slightly affects expression of NuRD/ZMYND8 target genes. In contrast, the MYND domain in ZMYND8 facilitates the rapid, poly(ADP-ribose)-dependent recruitment of GATAD2A/NuRD to sites of DNA damage to promote repair by homologous recombination. Thus, these results show that a specific substoichiometric interaction with a NuRD subunit paralogue provides unique functionality to distinct NuRD subcomplexes.
PXD004125	27733515	Importance of Translocon Subunit Tic56 for rRNA Processing and Chloroplast Ribosome Assembly. 	Mass spectrometry based quantitative proteome analyses for the import mutants ppi2 and tic56-1 as well as for spectinomycin treated Arabidopsis thalian plants	HDMSE, Hi3 quantification, Shotgun proteomics, TOC-TIC-import machinery, plastid, plastidic translation, ppi2, quantitative mass spectrometry, spectinomycin, tic56-1	Toc159-containing complexes at the outer chloroplast envelope membrane form stable supercomplexes with a 1-MD translocon at the inner chloroplast envelope membrane of which Tic56 is one essential subunit. While the single mutants tic56-1 and ppi2 (toc159) have an albino phenotype and are able to grow heterotrophically, we find the double mutant to be embryo lethal. Comprehensive quantitative proteome profiling with both single mutants in combination with GeneChip analyses identified a posttranscriptional defect in the accumulation of plastid ribosomal proteins and diminished expression of plastid encoded proteins. In the tic56-1 mutant, the assembly of functional ribosomes is furthermore hampered by a processing defect of the plastid 23S rRNA. Spectinomycin-treatment of wild-type plants phenocopies the molecular phenotype of plastid proteome accumulation in tic56-1 and to a smaller degree also ppi2 plastids, suggesting that a defect in plastid translation is largely responsible for the phenotype of both import mutants. Import experiments with the tic56-3 mutant revealed no significant defect in the import of small ribosomal protein 16 in the absence of full-length Tic56, suggesting that the defect in ribosome assembly in tic56-1 may be independent of a function of Tic56 in protein import. Our data establish a previously unknown link between plastid protein import, the processing of plastid rRNAs, and the assembly of plastid ribosomes and provide further knowledge on the function of the translocon components and the molecular basis for their albino phenotype.
PXD004871	27736644	Extracellular Matrix Proteolysis by MT1-MMP Contributes to Influenza-Related Tissue Damage and Mortality. 	Dysregulated Proteolysis of Extracellular Matrix Proteins Regulates Influenza and Pneumonia Co-infection Associated Mortality	Extracellular Matrix Proteins, Influenza, Pneumonia	Mounting an effective immune response, while also protecting tissue integrity, is critical for host survival. We used a combined genomic and proteomic approach to investigate the role of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteolysis in achieving this balance in the lung during influenza virus infection. We identified the membrane-tethered matrix metalloprotease MT1-MMP as a prominent host-ECM-remodeling collagenase in influenza infection. Selective inhibition of MT1-MMP protected the tissue from infection-related structural and compositional tissue damage. MT1-MMP inhibition did not significantly alter the immune response or cytokine expression. The available flu therapeutic Oseltamivir did not prevent lung ECM damage and was less effective than anti-MT1-MMP in influenza virus Streptococcus pneumoniae coinfection paradigms. Combination therapy of Oseltamivir with anti-MT1-MMP showed a strong synergistic effect and resulted in complete recovery of infected mice. This study highlights the importance of tissue resilience in surviving infection and the potential of such host-pathogen therapy combinations for respiratory infections.
PXD004914	27737933	The membrane scaffold SLP2 anchors a proteolytic hub in mitochondria containing PARL and the i-AAA protease YME1L. 	HELA cells PARL Immunoprecipitation	FLAG-IP, HELA, PARL	The SPFH (stomatin, prohibitin, flotillin, HflC/K) superfamily is composed of scaffold proteins that form ring-like structures and locally specify the protein-lipid composition in a variety of cellular membranes. Stomatin-like protein 2 (SLP2) is a member of this superfamily that localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane (IM) where it acts as a membrane organizer. Here, we report that SLP2 anchors a large protease complex composed of the rhomboid protease PARL and the i-AAA protease YME1L, which we term the SPY complex (for SLP2-PARL-YME1L). Association with SLP2 in the SPY complex regulates PARL-mediated processing of PTEN-induced kinase PINK1 and the phosphatase PGAM5 in mitochondria. Moreover, SLP2 inhibits the stress-activated peptidase OMA1, which can bind to SLP2 and cleaves PGAM5 in depolarized mitochondria. SLP2 restricts OMA1-mediated processing of the dynamin-like GTPase OPA1 allowing stress-induced mitochondrial hyperfusion under starvation conditions. Together, our results reveal an important role of SLP2 membrane scaffolds for the spatial organization of IM proteases regulating mitochondrial dynamics, quality control, and cell survival.
PXD003935	27738094	Robust Label-free, Quantitative Profiling of Circulating Plasma Microparticle (MP) Associated Proteins. 	Profiling of Human Circulating Plasma Microparticle Associated Proteins by DDA and DIA	Microparticles, Plasma, Relative Quantification	Cells of the vascular system release spherical vesicles, called microparticles, in the size range of 0.1-1 mum induced by a variety of stress factors resulting in variable concentrations between health and disease. Furthermore, microparticles have intercellular communication/signaling properties and interfere with inflammation and coagulation pathways. Today's most used analytical technology for microparticle characterization, flow cytometry, is lacking sensitivity and specificity, which might have led to the publication of contradicting results in the past.We propose the use of nano-liquid chromatography two-stage mass spectrometry as a nonbiased tool for quantitative MP proteome analysis.For this, we developed an improved microparticle isolation protocol and quantified the microparticle protein composition of twelve healthy volunteers with a label-free, data-dependent and independent proteomics approach on a quadrupole orbitrap instrument.Using aliquots of 250 mul platelet-free plasma from one individual donor, we achieved excellent reproducibility with an interassay coefficient of variation of 2.7 +/- 1.7% (mean +/- 1 standard deviation) on individual peptide intensities across 27 acquisitions performed over a period of 3.5 months. We show that the microparticle proteome between twelve healthy volunteers were remarkably similar, and that it is clearly distinguishable from whole cell and platelet lysates. We propose the use of the proteome profile shown in this work as a quality criterion for microparticle purity in proteomics studies. Furthermore, one freeze thaw cycle damaged the microparticle integrity, articulated by a loss of cytoplasm proteins, encompassing a specific set of proteins involved in regulating dynamic structures of the cytoskeleton, and thrombin activation leading to MP clotting. On the other hand, plasma membrane protein composition was unaffected. Finally, we show that multiplexed data-independent acquisition can be used for relative quantification of target proteins using Skyline software. Mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange (identifier PXD003935) and panoramaweb.org (https://panoramaweb.org/labkey/N1OHMk.url).
PXD003719	27739254	The Caveolin-3 G56S sequence variant of unknown significance: Muscle biopsy findings and functional cell biological analysis. 	The ambiguous Caveolin-3 G55S sequence variant: Muscle biopsy findings and cell biological analysis	Caveolin-3, LGMD1D, RCMH, proteome profile of muscle cells	PURPOSE: In the era of next-generation sequencing, we are increasingly confronted with sequence variants of unknown significance. This phenomenon is also known for variations in Caveolin-3 and can complicate the molecular diagnosis of the disease. Here, we aimed to study the ambiguous character of the G56S Caveolin-3 variant. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A comprehensive approach combining genetic and morphological studies of muscle derived from carriers of the G56S Caveolin-3 variant were carried out and linked to biochemical assays (including phosphoblot studies and proteome profiling) and morphological investigations of cultured myoblasts. RESULTS: Muscles showed moderate chronic myopathic changes in all carriers of the variant. Myogenic RCMH cells expressing the G56S Caveolin-3 protein presented irregular Caveolin-3 deposits within the Golgi in addition to a regular localization of the protein to the plasma membrane. This result was associated with abnormal findings on the ultra-structural level. Phosphoblot studies revealed that G56S affects EGFR-signaling. Proteomic profiling demonstrated alterations in levels of physiologically relevant proteins which are indicative for antagonization of G56S Caveolin-3 expression. Remarkably, some proteomic alterations were enhanced by osmotic/mechanical stress. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Our studies suggest that G56S might influence the manifestation of myopathic changes upon the presence of additional cellular stress burden. Results of our studies moreover improve the current understanding of (genetic) causes of myopathic disorders classified as caveolinopathies.
PXD002841	27742679	Dinitrogenase-Driven Photobiological Hydrogen Production Combats Oxidative Stress in Cyanothece sp. Strain ATCC 51142. 	Dinitrogenase functionality in Cyanothece 51142 during nutrient limitation	dinitrogenase, electron valve, nutrient	Photobiologically synthesized hydrogen (H2) gas is carbon neutral to produce and clean to combust, making it an ideal biofuel. Cyanothece sp. strain ATCC 51142 is a cyanobacterium capable of performing simultaneous oxygenic photosynthesis and H2 production, a highly perplexing phenomenon because H2 evolving enzymes are O2 sensitive. We employed a system-level in vivo chemoproteomic profiling approach to explore the cellular dynamics of protein thiol redox and how thiol redox mediates the function of the dinitrogenase NifHDK, an enzyme complex capable of aerobic hydrogenase activity. We found that NifHDK responds to intracellular redox conditions and may act as an emergency electron valve to prevent harmful reactive oxygen species formation in concert with other cell strategies for maintaining redox homeostasis. These results provide new insight into cellular redox dynamics useful for advancing photolytic bioenergy technology and reveal a new understanding for the biological function of NifHDK. IMPORTANCE: Here, we demonstrate that high levels of hydrogen synthesis can be induced as a protection mechanism against oxidative stress via the dinitrogenase enzyme complex in Cyanothece sp. strain ATCC 51142. This is a previously unknown feature of cyanobacterial dinitrogenase, and we anticipate that it may represent a strategy to exploit cyanobacteria for efficient and scalable hydrogen production. We utilized a chemoproteomic approach to capture the in situ dynamics of reductant partitioning within the cell, revealing proteins and reactive thiols that may be involved in redox sensing and signaling. Additionally, this method is widely applicable across biological systems to achieve a greater understanding of how cells navigate their environment and how redox chemistry can be utilized to alter metabolism and achieve homeostasis.
PXD003968	27742740	Immunoseroproteomic Profiling in African American Men with Prostate Cancer: Evidence for an Autoantibody Response to Glycolysis and Plasminogen-Associated Proteins. 	Immunoseroproteomic profiling in prostate cancer	Prostate cancer, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), autoantibodies, glycoslysis, plasminogen, tumor-associated antigens	African American (AA) men suffer from a disproportionately high incidence and mortality of prostate cancer (PCa) compared with other racial/ethnic groups. Despite these disparities, African American men are underrepresented in clinical trials and in studies on PCa biology and biomarker discovery. We used immunoseroproteomics to profile antitumor autoantibody responses in AA and European American (EA) men with PCa, and explored differences in these responses. This minimally invasive approach detects autoantibodies to tumor-associated antigens that could serve as clinical biomarkers and immunotherapeutic agents. Sera from AA and EA men with PCa were probed by immunoblotting against PC3 cell proteins, with AA sera showing stronger immunoreactivity. Mass spectrometry analysis of immunoreactive protein spots revealed that several AA sera contained autoantibodies to a number of proteins associated with both the glycolysis and plasminogen pathways, particularly to alpha-enolase (ENO1). The proteomic data is deposited in ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003968. Analysis of sera from 340 racially diverse men by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) showed higher frequency of anti-ENO1 autoantibodies in PCa sera compared with control sera. We observed differences between AA-PCa and EA-PCa patients in their immunoreactivity against ENO1. Although EA-PCa sera reacted with higher frequency against purified ENO1 in ELISA and recognized by immunoblotting the endogenous cellular ENO1 across a panel of prostate cell lines, AA-PCa sera reacted weakly against this protein by ELISA but recognized it by immunoblotting preferentially in metastatic cell lines. These race-related differences in immunoreactivity to ENO1 could not be accounted by differential autoantibody recognition of phosphoepitopes within this antigen. Proteomic analysis revealed differences in the posttranslational modification profiles of ENO1 variants differentially recognized by AA-PCa and EA-PCa sera. These intriguing results suggest the possibility of race-related differences in the antitumor autoantibody response in PCa, and have implications for defining novel biological determinants of PCa health disparities.
PXD004810	27742792	Global phosphoproteomic profiling reveals perturbed signaling in a mouse model of dilated cardiomyopathy. 	Global phosphoproteomic profiling reveals perturbed signaling in a  mouse model of dilated cardiomyopathy	Notch, dialted cardiomyopathy, heart failure, phosphoproteomics, signaling pathways	Phospholamban (PLN) plays a central role in Ca(2+) homeostasis in cardiac myocytes through regulation of the sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase 2A (SERCA2A) Ca(2+) pump. An inherited mutation converting arginine residue 9 in PLN to cysteine (R9C) results in dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) in humans and transgenic mice, but the downstream signaling defects leading to decompensation and heart failure are poorly understood. Here we used precision mass spectrometry to study the global phosphorylation dynamics of 1,887 cardiac phosphoproteins in early affected heart tissue in a transgenic R9C mouse model of DCM compared with wild-type littermates. Dysregulated phosphorylation sites were quantified after affinity capture and identification of 3,908 phosphopeptides from fractionated whole-heart homogenates. Global statistical enrichment analysis of the differential phosphoprotein patterns revealed selective perturbation of signaling pathways regulating cardiovascular activity in early stages of DCM. Strikingly, dysregulated signaling through the Notch-1 receptor, recently linked to cardiomyogenesis and embryonic cardiac stem cell development and differentiation but never directly implicated in DCM before, was a prominently perturbed pathway. We verified alterations in Notch-1 downstream components in early symptomatic R9C transgenic mouse cardiomyocytes compared with wild type by immunoblot analysis and confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. These data reveal unexpected connections between stress-regulated cell signaling networks, specific protein kinases, and downstream effectors essential for proper cardiac function.
PXD003212	27744090	The Cytoskeleton of Parabasalian Parasites Comprises Proteins that Share Properties Common to Intermediate Filament Proteins. 	The Trichomonas PACK proteome	LC-MS, Tetratrichomonas gallinarum, cytoskeleton, evolution	Certain protist lineages bear cytoskeletal structures that are germane to them and define their individual group. Trichomonadida are excavate parasites united by a unique cytoskeletal framework, which includes tubulin-based structures such as the pelta and axostyle, but also other filaments such as the striated costa whose protein composition remains unknown. We determined the proteome of the detergent-resistant cytoskeleton of Tetratrichomonas gallinarum. 203 proteins with homology to Trichomonas vaginalis were identified, which contain significantly more long coiled-coil regions than control protein sets. Five candidates were shown to associate with previously described cytoskeletal structures including the costa and the expression of a single T. vaginalis protein in T. gallinarum induced the formation of accumulated, striated filaments. Our data suggests that filament-forming proteins of protists other than actin and tubulin share common structural properties with metazoan intermediate filament proteins, while not being homologous. These filament-forming proteins might have evolved many times independently in eukaryotes, or simultaneously in a common ancestor but with different evolutionary trajectories downstream in different phyla. The broad variety of filament-forming proteins uncovered, and with no homologs outside of the Trichomonadida, once more highlights the diverse nature of eukaryotic proteins with the ability to form unique cytoskeletal filaments.
PXD004567	27746046	High-Throughput Proteomics Reveals the Unicellular Roots of Animal Phosphosignaling and Cell Differentiation. 	High-throughput Proteomics Reveals the Unicellular Roots of Animal Phosphosignaling and Cell Differentiation	capsaspora, metazoa	Cell-specific regulation of protein levels and activity is essential for the distribution of functions among multiple cell types in animals. The finding that many genes involved in these regulatory processes have a premetazoan origin raises the intriguing possibility that the mechanisms required for spatially regulated cell differentiation evolved prior to the appearance of animals. Here, we use high-throughput proteomics in Capsaspora owczarzaki, a close unicellular relative of animals, to characterize the dynamic proteome and phosphoproteome profiles of three temporally distinct cell types in this premetazoan species. We show that life-cycle transitions are linked to extensive proteome and phosphoproteome remodeling and that they affect key genes involved in animal multicellularity, such as transcription factors and tyrosine kinases. The observation of shared features between Capsaspora and metazoans indicates that elaborate and conserved phosphosignaling and proteome regulation supported temporal cell-type differentiation in the unicellular ancestor of animals.
PXD003522	27748408	Dynamic Phosphoproteome Analysis of Seedling Leaves in Brachypodium distachyon L. Reveals Central Phosphorylated Proteins Involved in the Drought Stress Response. 	Comparative Phosphoproteome Analysis of Seedling Leaves in Brachypodium distachyon. under Different Drought Conditions	BrachypodiumdistachyonL., bioinformatics, drought stress, phosphorylation proteins, seeding leaves, signal transduction	Drought stress is a major abiotic stress affecting plant growth and development. In this study, we performed the first dynamic phosphoproteome analysis of Brachypodium distachyon L. seedling leaves under drought stress for different times. A total of 4924 phosphopeptides, contained 6362 phosphosites belonging to 2748 phosphoproteins. Rigorous standards were imposed to screen 484 phosphorylation sites, representing 442 unique phosphoproteins. Comparative analyses revealed significant changes in phosphorylation levels at 0, 6, and 24 h under drought stress. The most phosphorylated proteins and the highest phosphorylation level occurred at 6 h. Venn analysis showed that the up-regulated phosphopeptides at 6 h were almost two-fold those at 24 h. Motif-X analysis identified the six motifs: [sP], [Rxxs], [LxRxxs], [sxD], [sF], and [TP], among which [LxRxxs] was also previously identified in B. distachyon. Results from molecular function and protein-protein interaction analyses suggested that phosphoproteins mainly participate in signal transduction, gene expression, drought response and defense, photosynthesis and energy metabolism, and material transmembrane transport. These phosphoproteins, which showed significant changes in phosphorylation levels, play important roles in signal transduction and material transmembrane transport in response to drought conditions. Our results provide new insights into the molecular mechanism of this plant's abiotic stress response through phosphorylation modification.
PXD004129	27748445	Dynamics of the mouse brain cortical synaptic proteome during postnatal brain development. 	Dynamics of the mouse brain cortical synaptic proteome during postnatal brain development	cortex, development, postnatal	Development of the brain involves the formation and maturation of numerous synapses. This process requires prominent changes of the synaptic proteome and potentially involves thousands of different proteins at every synapse. To date the proteome analysis of synapse development has been studied sparsely. Here, we analyzed the cortical synaptic membrane proteome of juvenile postnatal days 9 (P9), P15, P21, P27, adolescent (P35) and different adult ages P70, P140 and P280 of C57Bl6/J mice. Using a quantitative proteomics workflow we quantified 1560 proteins of which 696 showed statistically significant differences over time. Synaptic proteins generally showed increased levels during maturation, whereas proteins involved in protein synthesis generally decreased in abundance. In several cases, proteins from a single functional molecular entity, e.g., subunits of the NMDA receptor, showed differences in their temporal regulation, which may reflect specific synaptic development features of connectivity, strength and plasticity. SNARE proteins, Snap 29/47 and Stx 7/8/12, showed higher expression in immature animals. Finally, we evaluated the function of Cxadr that showed high expression levels at P9 and a fast decline in expression during neuronal development. Knock down of the expression of Cxadr in cultured primary mouse neurons revealed a significant decrease in synapse density.
PXD003841	27749015	Benchmarking sample preparation/digestion protocols reveals tube-gel being a fast and repeatable method for quantitative proteomics. 	Tube-gel digestion: a fast and reproducible sample preparation protocol for label-free quantitative proteomics of complex biological samples	Label-free quantitative proteomics, liquid digestion, sample preparation, stacking gel, tube-gel	Sample preparation, typically by in-solution or in-gel approaches, has a strong influence on the accuracy and robustness of quantitative proteomics workflows. The major benefit of in-gel procedures is their compatibility with detergents (such as SDS) for protein solubilization. However, SDS-PAGE is a time-consuming approach. Tube-gel (TG) preparation circumvents this drawback as it involves directly trapping the sample in a polyacrylamide gel matrix without electrophoresis. We report here the first global label-free quantitative comparison between TG, stacking gel (SG), and basic liquid digestion (LD). A series of UPS1 standard mixtures (at 0.5, 1, 2.5, 5, 10, and 25 fmol) were spiked in a complex yeast lysate background. TG preparation allowed more yeast proteins to be identified than did the SG and LD approaches, with mean numbers of 1979, 1788, and 1323 proteins identified, respectively. Furthermore, the TG method proved equivalent to SG and superior to LD in terms of the repeatability of the subsequent experiments, with mean CV for yeast protein label-free quantifications of 7, 9, and 10%. Finally, known variant UPS1 proteins were successfully detected in the TG-prepared sample within a complex background with high sensitivity. All the data from this study are accessible on ProteomeXchange (PXD003841).
PXD005038	27749816	Thermophilic archaea activate butane via alkyl-coenzyme M formation. 	BOX1 proteome -  Thermophilic archaea activate butane via alkyl-coenzyme M formation	Anaerobic, Butane, Degradation	The anaerobic formation and oxidation of methane involve unique enzymatic mechanisms and cofactors, all of which are believed to be specific for C1-compounds. Here we show that an anaerobic thermophilic enrichment culture composed of dense consortia of archaea and bacteria apparently uses partly similar pathways to oxidize the C4 hydrocarbon butane. The archaea, proposed genus 'Candidatus Syntrophoarchaeum', show the characteristic autofluorescence of methanogens, and contain highly expressed genes encoding enzymes similar to methyl-coenzyme M reductase. We detect butyl-coenzyme M, indicating archaeal butane activation analogous to the first step in anaerobic methane oxidation. In addition, Ca. Syntrophoarchaeum expresses the genes encoding beta-oxidation enzymes, carbon monoxide dehydrogenase and reversible C1 methanogenesis enzymes. This allows for the complete oxidation of butane. Reducing equivalents are seemingly channelled to HotSeep-1, a thermophilic sulfate-reducing partner bacterium known from the anaerobic oxidation of methane. Genes encoding 16S rRNA and methyl-coenzyme M reductase similar to those identifying Ca. Syntrophoarchaeum were repeatedly retrieved from marine subsurface sediments, suggesting that the presented activation mechanism is naturally widespread in the anaerobic oxidation of short-chain hydrocarbons.
PXD003305	27749819	Arginine phosphorylation marks proteins for degradation by a Clp protease. 	Bacillus subtilis ClpP degradome	ClpP, phosphoarginine, protein degradation	Protein turnover is a tightly controlled process that is crucial for the removal of aberrant polypeptides and for cellular signalling. Whereas ubiquitin marks eukaryotic proteins for proteasomal degradation, a general tagging system for the equivalent bacterial Clp proteases is not known. Here we describe the targeting mechanism of the ClpC-ClpP proteolytic complex from Bacillus subtilis. Quantitative affinity proteomics using a ClpP-trapping mutant show that proteins phosphorylated on arginine residues are selectively targeted to ClpC-ClpP. In vitro reconstitution experiments demonstrate that arginine phosphorylation by the McsB kinase is required and sufficient for the degradation of substrate proteins. The docking site for phosphoarginine is located in the amino-terminal domain of the ClpC ATPase, as resolved at high resolution in a co-crystal structure. Together, our data demonstrate that phosphoarginine functions as a bona fide degradation tag for the ClpC-ClpP protease. This system, which is widely distributed across Gram-positive bacteria, is functionally analogous to the eukaryotic ubiquitin-proteasome system.
PXD003961	27749824	Translocon component Sec62 acts in endoplasmic reticulum turnover during stress recovery. 	Sec62 regulates ER-phagy during recovery from ER stress	ER stress, ERAD, autophagy, endoplasmic reticulum, label-free quantitation	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a site of protein biogenesis in eukaryotic cells. Perturbing ER homeostasis activates stress programs collectively called the unfolded protein response (UPR). The UPR enhances production of ER-resident chaperones and enzymes to reduce the burden of misfolded proteins. On resolution of ER stress, ill-defined, selective autophagic programs remove excess ER components. Here we identify Sec62, a constituent of the translocon complex regulating protein import in the mammalian ER, as an ER-resident autophagy receptor. Sec62 intervenes during recovery from ER stress to selectively deliver ER components to the autolysosomal system for clearance in a series of events that we name recovER-phagy. Sec62 contains a conserved LC3-interacting region in the C-terminal cytosolic domain that is required for its function in recovER-phagy, but is dispensable for its function in the protein translocation machinery. Our results identify Sec62 as a critical molecular component in maintenance and recovery of ER homeostasis.
PXD003196	27757071	N-glycosylation proteome enrichment analysis in kidney reveals differences between diabetic mouse models. 	N-glyco STZ mouse kidney	N-glyco proteome, N-glycosylation, STZ, diabetes, diabetic nephropathy, kidney, mass spectropmetry	BACKGROUND: Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a late complication in both type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and T2DM. Already at an early stage of DN morphological changes occur at the cell surface and in the extracellular matrix where the majority of the proteins carry N-linked glycosylations. These glycosylated proteins are highly important in cell adhesion and cell-matrix processes but not much is known about how they change in DN or whether the distinct etiology of T1DM and T2DM could have an effect on their abundances. METHOD: We enriched for the N-glycosylated kidney proteome in db/db mice dosed with insulin or vehicle, in streptozotocin-induced (STZ) diabetic mice and healthy control mice dosed with vehicle. Glycopeptides were analyzed with label-free shotgun mass spectrometry and differential protein abundances identified in both mouse models were compared using multivariate analyses. RESULTS: The majority of the N-glycosylated proteins were similarly regulated in both mouse models. However, distinct differences between the two mouse models were for example seen for integrin-beta1, a protein expressed mainly in the glomeruli which abundance was increased in the STZ diabetic mice while decreased in the db/db mice and for the sodium/glucose cotransporter-1, mainly expressed in the proximal tubules which abundance was increased in the db/db mice but decreased in the STZ diabetic mice. Insulin had an effect on the level of both glomerular and tubular proteins in the db/db mice. It decreased the abundance of G-protein coupled receptor-116 and of tyrosine-protein phosphatase non-receptor type substrate-1 away from the level in the healthy control mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our finding of differences in the N-glycosylation protein profiles in the db/db and STZ mouse models suggest that the etiology of DN could give rise to variations in the cell adhesion and cell-matrix composition in T1DM and T2DM. Thus, N-glycosylated protein differences could be a clue to dissimilarities in T1DM and T2DM at later stages of DN. Furthermore, we observed insulin specific regulation of N-glycosylated proteins both in the direction of and away from the abundances in healthy control mice.
PXD004974	27757169	Proteomic and metabolomic analyses reveal metabolic responses to 3-hydroxypropionic acid synthesized internally in cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. 	Proteomic analyses reveal metabolic responses to 3-hydroxypropionic acid synthesized internally in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803	3-HP, Synechocystis	BACKGROUND: 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is an important platform chemical with a wide range of applications. In our previous study, the biosynthetic pathway of 3-HP was constructed and optimized in cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, which led to 3-HP production directly from CO2 at a level of 837.18 mg L(-1) (348.8 mg/g dry cell weight). As the production and accumulation of 3-HP in cells affect cellular metabolism, a better understanding of cellular responses to 3-HP synthesized internally in Synechocystis will be important for further increasing 3-HP productivity in cyanobacterial chassis. RESULTS: Using a engineered 3-HP-producing SM strain, in this study, the cellular responses to 3-HP internally produced were first determined using a quantitative iTRAQ-LC-MS/MS proteomics approach and a LC-MS-based targeted metabolomics. A total of 2264 unique proteins were identified, which represented about 63 % of all predicted protein in Synechocystis in the proteomic analysis; meanwhile intracellular abundance of 24 key metabolites was determined by a comparative metabolomic analysis of the 3-HP-producing strain SM and wild type. Among all identified proteins, 204 proteins were found up-regulated and 123 proteins were found down-regulated, respectively. The proteins related to oxidative phosphorylation, photosynthesis, ribosome, central carbon metabolism, two-component systems and ABC-type transporters were up-regulated, along with the abundance of 14 metabolites related to central metabolism. The results suggested that the supply of ATP and NADPH was increased significantly, and the precursor malonyl-CoA and acetyl-CoA may also be supplemented when 3-HP was produced at a high level in Synechocystis. Confirmation of proteomic and metabolomic results with RT-qPCR and gene-overexpression strains of selected genes was also conducted, and the overexpression of three transporter genes putatively involved in cobalt/nickel, manganese and phosphate transporting (i.e., sll0385, sll1598 and sll0679) could lead to an increased 3-HP production in Synechocystis. CONCLUSIONS: The integrative analysis of up-regulated proteome and metabolome data showed that to ensure the high-efficient production of 3-HP and the normal growth of Synechocystis, multiple aspects of cells metabolism including energy, reducing power supply, central carbon metabolism, the stress responses and protein synthesis were enhanced in Synechocystis. The study provides an important basis for further engineering cyanobacteria for high 3-HP production.
PXD002206	27757297	Novel non-canonical role of STAT1 in Natural Killer cell cytotoxicity. 	Novel non-canonical role of STAT1 in Natural Killer cell cytotoxicity	F-actin, immunological synapse, interactome, vesicle	STAT1 is an important regulator of NK cell maturation and cytotoxicity. Although the consequences of Stat1-deficiency have been described in detail the underlying molecular functions of STAT1 in NK cells are only partially understood. Here, we describe a novel non-canonical role of STAT1 that was unmasked in NK cells expressing a Stat1-Y701F mutant. This mutation prevents JAK-dependent phosphorylation, subsequent nuclear translocation and cytokine-induced transcriptional activity as verified by RNA-seq analysis. As expected Stat1-Y701F mice displayed impaired NK cell maturation comparable to Stat1-/- animals. In contrast Stat1-Y701F NK cells exerted a significantly enhanced cytotoxicity in vitro and in vivo compared to Stat1-/- NK cells in the absence of detectable transcriptional activity. We thus investigated the STAT1 interactome using primary NK cells derived from Stat1ind mice that inducibly express a FLAG-tagged STAT1. Mass spectrometry revealed that STAT1 directly binds proteins involved in cell junction formation and proteins associated to membrane or membrane-bound vesicles. In line, immunofluorescence studies uncovered the recruitment of STAT1 to the target-cell interphase during NK cell killing. This led us to propose a novel function for STAT1 at the immunological synapse in NK cells regulating tumor surveillance and cytotoxicity.
PXD001948	27759936	Mass spectrometric analysis of synaptosomal membrane preparations for the determination of brain receptors, transporters and channels. 	Analysis of pre-and postsynaptic brain receptors, transporters and channels by mass spectrometry	membrane, postsynaptic, presynaptic, receptors, transporters and channels	The molecular composition of synaptic signal transduction machineries shapes synaptic neurotransmission. The repertoire of receptors, transporters and channels (RTCs) comprises major signaling events in the brain. RTCs are conventionally studied by candidate immunohistochemistry and biochemistry, which are low throughput with resolution greatly affected by available immunoreagents and membrane interference. Therefore, a comprehensive resource of synaptic brain RTCs is still lacking. In particular, studies on the detergent-soluble synaptosomal fraction, known to contain transporters and channels, are limited. We, therefore, performed sub-synaptosomal fractionation of rat cerebral cortex, followed by trypsin/chymotrypsin sequential digestion of a detergent-soluble synaptosomal fraction and a postsynaptic density preparation, stable-isotope tryptic peptide labeling and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry. Based on the current study, a total of 4784 synaptic proteins were submitted to the ProteomExchange database (PXD001948), including 274 receptors, 394 transporters/channels and 1377 transmembrane proteins. Function-based classification assigned 1781 proteins as probable drug targets with 834 directly linked to brain disorders. The analytical approach identified 499 RTCs that are not listed in the largest, curated database for synaptosomal proteins (SynProt). This is a threefold RTC increase over all other data collected to date. Taken together, we present a protein discovery resource that can serve as a benchmark for future molecular interrogation of synaptic connectivity.
PXD003805	27760159	Variations of Phosphorous Accessibility Causing Changes in Microbiome Functions in the Gastrointestinal Tract of Chickens. 	Metaproteome of chicken gastrointestinal tract microbiota	metaproteome, microbiota	The chicken gastrointestinal tract (GIT) harbours a complex microbial community, involved in several physiological processes such as host immunomodulation and feed digestion. For the first time, the present study analysed dietary effects on the protein inventory of the microbiome in crop and ceca of broilers. We performed quantitative label-free metaproteomics by using 1-D-gel electrophoresis coupled with LC-MS/MS to identify the structural and functional changes triggered by diets supplied with varying amount of mineral phosphorous (P) and microbial phytase (MP). Phylogenetic assessment based on label-free quantification (LFQ) values of the proteins identified Lactobacillaceae as the major family in the crop section regardless of the diet, whereas proteins belonging to the family Veillonellaceae increased with the P supplementation. Within the ceca section, proteins of Bacteroidaceae were more abundant in the P-supplied diets, whereas proteins of Eubacteriaceae decreased with the P-addition. Proteins of the Ruminococcaceae increased with the amount of MP while proteins of Lactobacillaceae were more abundant in the MP-lacking diets. Classification of the identified proteins indicated a thriving microbial community in the case of P and MP supplementation, and stressed microbial community when no P and MP were supplied. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003805.
PXD004745	27760309	Lsd1 Ablation Triggers Metabolic Reprogramming of Brown Adipose Tissue. 	LSD1 complexes -  Lsd1 Ablation Triggers Metabolic Reprogramming of Brown Adipose Tissue	AP-MS, LSD1, adipose tissue	Previous work indicated that lysine-specific demethylase 1 (Lsd1) can positively regulate the oxidative and thermogenic capacities of white and beige adipocytes. Here we investigate the role of Lsd1 in brown adipose tissue (BAT) and find that BAT-selective Lsd1 ablation induces a shift from oxidative to glycolytic metabolism. This shift is associated with downregulation of BAT-specific and upregulation of white adipose tissue (WAT)-selective gene expression. This results in the accumulation of di- and triacylglycerides and culminates in a profound whitening of BAT in aged Lsd1-deficient mice. Further studies show that Lsd1 maintains BAT properties via a dual role. It activates BAT-selective gene expression in concert with the transcription factor Nrf1 and represses WAT-selective genes through recruitment of the CoREST complex. In conclusion, our data uncover Lsd1 as a key regulator of gene expression and metabolic function in BAT.
PXD004609	27761102	Proteome profiling reveals insights into cold-tolerant growth in sea buckthorn. 	Proteome profiling reveals key insights about the mechanisms under low-temperature stress in sea buckthorn	Antioxidative systems, DIGE, Hippophae rhamnoides, Low temperature, Photosynthesis, Post-translational Modification	BACKGROUND: Low temperature is one of the crucial environmental factors limiting the productivity and distribution of plants. Sea buckthorn (Hippophae rhamnoides L.), a well recognized multipurpose plant species, live successfully in in cold desert regions. But their molecular mechanisms underlying cold tolerance are not well understood. METHODS: Physiological and biochemical responses to low-temperature stress were studied in seedlings of sea buckthorn. Differentially expressed protein spots were analyzed using multiplexing fluorescent two-dimensional fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) coupled with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) time-of-flight/time-of-flight (TOF/TOF) mass spectrometry (MS), the concentration of phytohormone was measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and a spectrophotometric assay was used to measure enzymatic reactions. RESULTS: With the increase of cold stress intensity, the photosynthesis rate, transpiration rate, stomatal conductance in leaves and contents of abscisic acid (ABA) and indole acetic acid (IAA) in roots decreased significantly; however, water-use efficiency, ABA and zeatin riboside in leaves increased significantly, while cell membrane permeability, malondialdehyde and IAA in leaves increased at 7 d and then decreased at 14 d. DIGE and MS/MS analysis identified 32 of 39 differentially expressed protein spots under low-temperature stress, and their functions were mainly involved in metabolism, photosynthesis, signal transduction, antioxidative systems and post-translational modification. CONCLUSION: The changed protein abundance and corresponding physiological-biochemical response shed light on the molecular mechanisms related to cold tolerance in cold-tolerant plants and provide key candidate proteins for genetic improvement of plants.
PXD004051	27761513	Insulin stimulated MCF7 breast cancer cells: Proteome dataset. 	Insulin stimulated MCF7 breast cancer cells	2D-SCX/RPLC, Breast cancer, MS/MS, cell line	The proteome data provided in this article were acquired from MCF7 breast cancer cells stimulated with insulin, and were generated by using a 2D-SCX (strong cation exchange)/RPLC (reversed phase liquid chromatography) separation protocol followed by tandem mass spectrometry (MS) detection. To facilitate data re-processing by more advanced search engines and the extraction of additional information from already existing files, both raw and processed data are provided. The sample preparation, data acquisition and processing protocols are described in detail. The raw data relate to work published in "Proteome profile of the MCF7 cancer cell line: a mass spectrometric evaluation" (Sarvaiya et al., 2006) [1] and are made available through the PRIDE (PRoteomics IDEntifications)/ProteomeXchange public repository with identifier PRIDE: PXD004051 ("2016 update of the PRIDE database and tools" (Vizcaino et al., 2016) [2]).
PXD004814	27762138	Model System-Guided Protein Interaction Mapping for Virus Isolated from Phloem Tissue. 	PLRV co-immunoprecipitation from Solanum tuberosum	Luteoviridae, Potato leafroll virus, Solanum tuberosum, co-immunoprecipitation, host-pathogen interactions, phloem-limited, polerovirus	Phloem localization of plant viruses is advantageous for acquisition by sap-sucking vectors but hampers host-virus protein interaction studies. In this study, Potato leafroll virus (PLRV)-host protein complexes were isolated from systemically infected potato, a natural host of the virus. Comparing two different co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) support matrices coupled to mass spectrometry (MS), we identified 44 potato proteins and one viral protein (P1) specifically associated with virus isolated from infected phloem. An additional 142 proteins interact in complex with virus at varying degrees of confidence. Greater than 80% of these proteins were previously found to form high confidence interactions with PLRV isolated from the model host Nicotiana benthamiana. Bioinformatics revealed that these proteins are enriched for functions related to plasmodesmata, organelle membrane transport, translation, and mRNA processing. Our results show that model system proteomics experiments are extremely valuable for understanding protein interactions regulating infection in recalcitrant pathogens such as phloem-limited viruses.
PXD002776	27762562	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals the Dynamics of Protein Phosphorylation in Human Bronchial Epithelial Cells during Internalization, Phagosomal Escape, and Intracellular Replication of Staphylococcus aureus. 	Phosphoproteome of airway epithelial cell in response to infection with Staphylococcus aureus	Airway Epithelium, Infection, Staphylococcus aureus	Internalization of Staphylococcus aureus by nonprofessional phagocytic cells is a major suspected cause of persistent and difficult-to-treat infections, including pneumonia. In this study, we established an infection model with 16HBE14o- human bronchial epithelial cells and demonstrated internalization, escape from phagosomal clearance, and intracellular replication of S. aureus HG001 within the first 4 h postinfection. We used quantitative phosphoproteomics to identify characteristic signaling networks in the host at different infection stages. Although we found only minor changes in protein abundance, the infection was accompanied by highly dynamic alterations in phosphorylation events primarily in proteins that are associated with pathways of cytoskeleton dynamics, cell-cell and cell-matrix contacts, vesicle trafficking, autophagy, and GTPase signaling. Analyses of host protein kinases by kinase-substrate mapping, active regulatory site immunoblotting, and prediction algorithms highlighted known and novel host kinases with putative critical roles in S. aureus infection-accompanied signaling including FAK, PKA, PKC, and CDK. Targeted pharmacological inhibition of these kinases resulted in a significant reduction of intracellular S. aureus cells. The current study constitutes a valuable resource for better understanding the infection-relevant molecular pathomechanisms of airway cells and for developing novel host-centric anti-infective strategies for treating S. aureus infections.
PXD003978	27762666	Different Donors Mesenchymal Stromal Cells Secretomes Reveal Heterogeneous Profile of Relevance for Therapeutic Use. 	Mesenchymal Stromal Cells: What are the secrets of their secretome?	Mesenchymal stromal cells, secretome	Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a lethal X-linked disorder caused by null mutations in the dystrophin gene. Although the primary defect is the deficiency of muscle dystrophin, secondary events, including chronic inflammation, fibrosis, and muscle regeneration failure are thought to actively contribute to disease progression. Despite several advances, there is still no effective therapy for DMD. Therefore, the potential regenerative capacities, and immune-privileged properties of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), have been the focus of intense investigation in different animal models aiming the treatment of these disorders. However, these studies have shown different outcomes according to the sources from which MSCs were obtained, which raise the question whether stem cells from distinct sources have comparable clinical effects. Here, we analyzed the protein content of the secretome of MSCs, isolated from three different sources (adipose tissue, skeletal muscle, and uterine tubes), obtained from five donors and evaluated their in vitro properties when cocultured with DMD myoblasts. All MSC lineages showed pathways enrichment related to protein metabolic process, oxidation-reduction process, cell proliferation, and regulation of apoptosis. We found that MSCs secretome proteins and their effect in vitro vary significantly according to the tissue and donors, including opposite effects in apoptosis assay, indicating the importance of characterizing MSC secretome profile before its use in animal and clinical trials. Despite the individual differences a pool of conditioned media from all MSCs lineages was able to delay apoptosis and enhance migration when in contact with DMD myoblasts.
PXD005018	27764789	Proteomic analysis reveals diverse proline hydroxylation-mediated oxygen-sensing cellular pathways in cancer cells. 	LCMS analysis of Hela cells -  Proteomic analysis reveals diverse proline hydroxylation-mediated oxygen-sensing cellular pathways in cancer cells	LCMS, PTM, short-gun	Proline hydroxylation is a critical cellular mechanism regulating oxygen-response pathways in tumor initiation and progression. Yet, its substrate diversity and functions remain largely unknown. Here, we report a system-wide analysis to characterize proline hydroxylation substrates in cancer cells using an immunoaffinity-purification assisted proteomics strategy. We identified 562 sites from 272 proteins in HeLa cells. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that proline hydroxylation substrates are significantly enriched with mRNA processing and stress-response cellular pathways with canonical and diverse flanking sequence motifs. Structural analysis indicates a significant enrichment of proline hydroxylation participating in the secondary structure of substrate proteins. Our study identified and validated Brd4, a key transcription factor, as a novel proline hydroxylation substrate. Functional analysis showed that the inhibition of proline hydroxylation pathway significantly reduced the proline hydroxylation abundance on Brd4 and affected Brd4-mediated transcriptional activity as well as cell proliferation in AML leukemia cells. Taken together, our study identified a broad regulatory role of proline hydroxylation in cellular oxygen-sensing pathways and revealed potentially new targets that dynamically respond to hypoxia microenvironment in tumor cells.
PXD004725	27765818	Time-resolved Analysis of Proteome Dynamics by Tandem Mass Tags and Stable Isotope Labeling in Cell Culture (TMT-SILAC) Hyperplexing. 	Time-resolved analysis of proteome dynamics by TMT-SILAC hyperplexing	SILAC, TMT, TMT-SILAC, human primary fibroblasts, hyperplexing, protein degrdation, protein synthesis, proteome dynamics	Recent advances in mass spectrometry have enabled system-wide analyses of protein turnover. By globally quantifying the kinetics of protein clearance and synthesis, these methodologies can provide important insights into the regulation of the proteome under varying cellular and environmental conditions. To facilitate such analyses, we have employed a methodology that combines metabolic isotopic labeling (Stable Isotope Labeling in Cell Culture - SILAC) with isobaric tagging (Tandem Mass Tags - TMT) for analysis of multiplexed samples. The fractional labeling of multiple time-points can be measured in a single mass spectrometry run, providing temporally resolved measurements of protein turnover kinetics. To demonstrate the feasibility of the approach, we simultaneously measured the kinetics of protein clearance and accumulation for more than 3000 proteins in dividing and quiescent human fibroblasts and verified the accuracy of the measurements by comparison to established non-multiplexed approaches. The results indicate that upon reaching quiescence, fibroblasts compensate for lack of cellular growth by globally downregulating protein synthesis and upregulating protein degradation. The described methodology significantly reduces the cost and complexity of temporally-resolved dynamic proteomic experiments and improves the precision of proteome-wide turnover data.
PXD004112	27768280	Chemical Proteomics and Structural Biology Define EPHA2 Inhibition by Clinical Kinase Drugs. 	Defining the landscape of EPHA2 Inhibition by Clinical Kinase Inhibitors	EPHA2 co-crystals, chemical proteomics, drug protein interactions, residue categorization, selectivity profiling	The receptor tyrosine kinase EPHA2 (Ephrin type-A receptor 2) plays important roles in oncogenesis, metastasis, and treatment resistance, yet therapeutic targeting, drug discovery, or investigation of EPHA2 biology is hampered by the lack of appropriate inhibitors and structural information. Here, we used chemical proteomics to survey 235 clinical kinase inhibitors for their kinase selectivity and identified 24 drugs with submicromolar affinities for EPHA2. NMR-based conformational dynamics together with nine new cocrystal structures delineated drug-EPHA2 interactions in full detail. The combination of selectivity profiling, structure determination, and kinome wide sequence alignment allowed the development of a classification system in which amino acids in the drug binding site of EPHA2 are categorized into key, scaffold, potency, and selectivity residues. This scheme should be generally applicable in kinase drug discovery, and we anticipate that the provided information will greatly facilitate the development of selective EPHA2 inhibitors in particular and the repurposing of clinical kinase inhibitors in general.
PXD002066	27769112	Quantitative Proteomics Illuminates a Functional Interaction between mDia2 and the Proteasome. 	Quantitative Proteomics Illuminates A Functional Interaction Between Mouse Homolog Of Diaphanous 2 (mDia2) And The Proteasome	HeLa, mDia2, proteasome, ubiquitin	Formin mDia2 is a cytoskeleton-regulatory protein that switches reversibly between a closed, autoinhibited and an open, active conformation. Although the open conformation of mDia2 induces actin assembly thereby controlling many cellular processes, mDia2 possesses also actin-independent and conformation-insensitive scaffolding roles related to microtubules and p53, respectively. Thus, we hypothesize that mDia2 may have other unappreciated functions and regulatory modes. Here we identify and validate proteasome and Ubiquitin as mDia2-interacting partners using stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture-based quantitative proteomics and biochemistry, respectively. Although mDia2 is ubiquitinated, binds ubiquitinated proteins and free Ubiquitin, it is not a proteasome substrate. Surprisingly, knockdown of mDia2 increases the activity of the proteasome in vitro, whereas mDia2 overexpression has opposite effects only when it adopts the open conformation and cannot induce actin assembly. Consistently, a combination of candidate and unbiased proteome-wide analyses indicates that mDia2 regulates the cellular levels of proteasome substrate beta-catenin and a number of ubiquitinated actin-regulatory proteins. Hence, these findings add more complexity to the mDia2 activity cycle by showing that the open conformation may control actin dynamics also through actin-independent regulation of the proteasome.
PXD003798	27773674	Expanding the Circuitry of Pluripotency by Selective Isolation of Chromatin-Associated Proteins. 	Studying the core circuitry of pluripotency by selective isolation of chromatin-associated proteins	Chromatin, SICAP, mouse embryonic stem cell	Maintenance of pluripotency is regulated by a network of transcription factors coordinated by Oct4, Sox2, and Nanog (OSN), yet a systematic investigation of the composition and dynamics of the OSN protein network specifically on chromatin is still missing. Here we have developed a method combining ChIP with selective isolation of chromatin-associated proteins (SICAP) followed by mass spectrometry to identify chromatin-bound partners of a protein of interest. ChIP-SICAP in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) identified over 400 proteins associating with OSN, including several whose interaction depends on the pluripotent state. Trim24, a previously unrecognized protein in the network, converges with OSN on multiple enhancers and suppresses the expression of developmental genes while activating cell cycle genes. Consistently, Trim24 significantly improved efficiency of cellular reprogramming, demonstrating its direct functionality in establishing pluripotency. Collectively, ChIP-SICAP provides a powerful tool to decode chromatin protein composition, further enhanced by its integrative capacity to perform ChIP-seq.
PXD004278	27773927	MZH29 is a novel potent inhibitor that overcomes drug resistance FLT3 mutations in acute myeloid leukemia. 	MZH29 is a novel potent FLT3 tyrosine kinase inhibitor with activity of overcoming drug resistant mutations in AML	AML, drug resistance, mv4-11, tyrosine kinases inhibitor	More than one-third of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) harbor aberrant mutations in Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3). Among them, the internal tandem duplication (ITD) mutation predicts poor prognosis. MZH29 is a novel FLT3 inhibitor synthesized in our laboratory that showed that cellular and kinase assays sustained inhibitory effects on wild-type and mutant FLT3, including the FLT3-ITD, FLT3-D835H/Y/V and FLT3-K663Q mutants. More importantly, MZH29 retained its potent inhibitory effect against the FLT3-ITD/F691L mutation, a drug resistance mutation against the well-known FLT3 inhibitor, AC220. MZH29 is a type II FLT3 inhibitor that tolerated the F691L mutation in molecular docking studies. Oral administration of 10 mg/kg MZH29 caused complete tumor regression and extended survival in a mouse model of AML with less toxicity. Subsequent proteomics study revealed less proteome perturbation in the MZH29-treated group than in the AC220-treated group. MZH29 demonstrates potential and potent novel FLT3 inhibitory effects for the treatment of AML.
PXD004958	27775574	Proteome and Peptidome of Vipera berus berus Venom. 	Proteome and peptidome of Vipera berus berus venom	Vipera berus berus, cytotoxicity, peptidome, venom	Snake venom is a rich source of peptides and proteins with a wide range of actions. Many of the venom components are currently being tested for their usefulness in the treatment of many diseases ranging from neurological and cardiovascular to cancer. It is also important to constantly search for new proteins and peptides with properties not yet described. The venom of Vipera berus berus has hemolytic, proteolytic and cytotoxic properties, but its exact composition and the factors responsible for these properties are not known. Therefore, an attempt was made to identify proteins and peptides derived from this species venom by using high resolution two-dimensional electrophoresis and MALDI ToF/ToF mass spectrometry. A total of 11 protein classes have been identified mainly proteases but also l-amino acid oxidases, C-type lectin like proteins, cysteine-rich venom proteins and phospholipases A2 and 4 peptides of molecular weight less than 1500 Da. Most of the identified proteins are responsible for the highly hemotoxic properties of the venom. Presence of venom phospholipases A2 and l-amino acid oxidases cause moderate neuro-, myo- and cytotoxicity. All successfully identified peptides belong to the bradykinin-potentiating peptides family. The mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004958.
PXD004536	27775707	Chemosynthetic symbionts of marine invertebrate animals are capable of nitrogen fixation. 	Proteomics of Candidatus Thiodiazotropha endoloripes, the chemosynthetic symbiont of the lucinid clam Loripes lucinalis from the Bay of Fetovaia	1D-LC, chemosynthetic symbiosis, metaproteome, metaproteomics, nitrogenase	Chemosynthetic symbioses are partnerships between invertebrate animals and chemosynthetic bacteria. The latter are the primary producers, providing most of the organic carbon needed for the animal host's nutrition. We sequenced genomes of the chemosynthetic symbionts from the lucinid bivalve Loripes lucinalis and the stilbonematid nematode Laxus oneistus. The symbionts of both host species encoded nitrogen fixation genes. This is remarkable as no marine chemosynthetic symbiont was previously known to be capable of nitrogen fixation. We detected nitrogenase expression by the symbionts of lucinid clams at the transcriptomic and proteomic level. Mean stable nitrogen isotope values of Loripes lucinalis were within the range expected for fixed atmospheric nitrogen, further suggesting active nitrogen fixation by the symbionts. The ability to fix nitrogen may be widespread among chemosynthetic symbioses in oligotrophic habitats, where nitrogen availability often limits primary productivity.
PXD004875	27779380	Quantitative Chemical Proteomic Profiling of Ubiquitin Specific Proteases in Intact Cancer Cells. 	Quantitative Chemical Proteomic Profiling of Ubiquitin Specific Proteases in Intact Cancer Cells	ABPP, Chemical proteomics, Ubiquitin	Deubiquitinating enzymes play an important role in a plethora of therapeutically relevant processes and are emerging as pioneering drug targets. Herein, we present a novel probe, Ubiquitin Specific Protease (USP) inhibitor, alongside an alkyne-tagged activity-based probe analogue. Activity-based proteome profiling identified 12 USPs, including USP4, USP16, and USP33, as inhibitor targets using submicromolar probe concentrations. This represents the first intact cell activity-based profiling of deubiquitinating enzymes. Further analysis demonstrated functional inhibition of USP33 and identified a synergistic relationship in combination with ATR inhibition, consistent with USP4 inhibition.
PXD003630	27780359	Insights into the Response of Soybean Mitochondrial Proteins to Various Sizes of Aluminum Oxide Nanoparticles under Flooding Stress. 	Insights into the response of soybean mitochondrial proteins initiated by varying sizes of aluminum oxide nanoparticles under flooding stress	aluminum oxide nanoparticles, flooding stress, mitochondria, root, soybean	Rapid developments in nanotechnology have led to the increasing use of nanoparticles (NPs) in the agricultural sector. For possible interactions between NPs and crops under flooding stress to be investigated, the molecular mechanisms in soybeans affected by exposure to various sizes of Al2O3 NPs were analyzed using a proteomic technique. In plants exposed to 30-60 nm Al2O3 NPs, the length of the root including hypocotyl was increased, and proteins related to glycolysis were suppressed. Exposure to 30-60 nm Al2O3 NPs mediated the scavenging activity of cells by regulating the ascorbate/glutathione pathway. Hierarchical clustering analysis indicated that ribosomal proteins were also increased upon exposure to flooding-stressed plants with 30-60 nm Al2O3 NPs. Mitochondrion was the target organelle of Al2O3 NPs under flooding-stress conditions. Mitochondrial proteomic analysis revealed that the abundance of voltage-dependent anion channel protein was increased upon exposure to flooding-stressed soybeans with 135 nm Al2O3 NPs, indicating the permeability of the mitochondrial membrane was increased. Furthermore, isocitrate dehydrogenase was increased upon exposure of plants to 5 nm Al2O3 NPs under flooding conditions. These results suggest that Al2O3 NPs of various sizes affect mitochondrial proteins under flooding stress by regulating membrane permeability and tricarboxylic acid cycle activity.
PXD004556	27784645	Polyphemus, Odysseus and the ovine milk proteome. 	Sheep's Milk: a deep exploration of the low-abundance proteome	combinatorial peptide ligand libraries, low-abundance proteins, orbitrap tribrid mass spectrometer, ovine milk proteome	In the last years the amount of ovine milk production, mainly used to formulate a wide range of different and exclusive dairy products often categorized as gourmet food, has been progressively increasing. Taking also into account that sheep milk (SM) also appears to be potentially less allergenic than cow's one, an in-depth information about its protein composition is essential to improve the comprehension of its potential benefits for human consumption. The present work reports the results of an in-depth characterization of SM whey proteome, carried out by coupling the CPLL technology with SDS-PAGE and high resolution UPLC-nESI MS/MS analysis. This approach allowed the identification of 718 different protein components, 644 of which are from unique genes. Particularly, this identification has expanded literature data about sheep whey proteome by 193 novel proteins previously undetected, many of which are involved in the defence/immunity mechanisms or in the nutrient delivery system. A comparative analysis of SM proteome known to date with cow's milk proteome, evidenced that while about 29% of SM proteins are also present in CM, 71% of the identified components appear to be unique of SM proteome and include a heterogeneous group of components which seem to have health-promoting benefits. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier <PXD004556>.
PXD005488	27784696	Serine/threonine phosphatases and aquaporin-2 regulation in renal collecting duct. 	Serine/threonine phosphatases and aquaporin-2 regulation in renal collecting duct	collecting duct, kidney, systems biology, vasopressin	Phosphorylation of the aquaporin-2 (AQP2) water channel at four COOH-terminal serines plays a central role in the regulation of water permeability of the renal collecting duct. The level of phosphorylation at these sites is determined by a balance between phosphorylation by protein kinases and dephosphorylation by phosphatases. The phosphatases that dephosphorylate AQP2 have not been identified. Here, we use large-scale data integration techniques to identify serine-threonine phosphatases likely to interact with AQP2 in renal collecting duct principal cells. As a first step, we have created a comprehensive list of 38 S/T phosphatase catalytic subunits present in the mammalian genome. Then we used Bayes' theorem to integrate available information from large-scale data sets from proteomic and transcriptomic studies to rank the known S/T phosphatases with regard to the likelihood that they interact with AQP2 in renal collecting duct cells. To broaden the analysis, we have generated new proteomic data (LC-MS/MS) identifying 4538 distinct proteins including 22 S/T phosphatases in cytoplasmic fractions from native inner medullary collecting duct cells from rats. The official gene symbols corresponding to the top-ranked phosphatases (common names in parentheses) were: Ppp1cb (PP1-beta), Ppm1g (PP2C), Ppp1ca (PP1-alpha), Ppp3ca (PP2-B or calcineurin), Ppp2ca (PP2A-alpha), Ppp1cc (PP1-gamma), Ppp2cb (PP2A-beta), Ppp6c (PP6C), and Ppp5c (PP5). This ranking correlates well with results of prior reductionist studies of ion and water channels in renal collecting duct cells.
PXD003883	27784728	Quantitative Protein Profiling of Chlamydia trachomatis Growth Forms Reveals Defense Strategies Against Tryptophan Starvation. 	Protein profiling of Chlamydia trachomatis growth forms	ARB, Chlamydia trachomatis, EB, RB	Chlamydia trachomatis is one of the most common sexually transmitted bacterial pathogens in humans. The infection is often asymptomatic and can lead to chronic manifestations. The infectious elementary body and the replicating reticulate body are the two growth forms in the normal developmental cycle. Under the influence of interferon-gamma, the normal cycle is disrupted because of tryptophan degradation, leading to a third persistent form, the aberrant reticulate body.For the genital strain C. trachomatis D/UW-3/CX we established a quantitative, label-free proteomic approach, and identified in total 655 out of 903 (73%) predicted proteins, allowing the first quantitative comparison of all three growth forms. Inclusion membrane proteins and proteins involved in translation were more abundant in the reticulate body (RB)(1) and aberrant reticulate body (ARB) forms, whereas proteins of the type III Secretion System and the cell envelope were more abundant in the elementary body (EB) form, reflecting the need for these proteins to establish infection and for host interactions.In the interferon-gamma induced ARB proteome, the tryptophan synthase subunits were identified as biomarkers with a strong increase from less than 0.05% to 9% of the total protein content, reflecting an inherent defense strategy for the pathogen to escape interferon-gamma mediated immune pressure. Furthermore, the total tryptophan content in the ARB form was 1.9-fold lower compared with the EB form, and we demonstrate that modulation of the protein repertoire toward lower abundance of proteins with high tryptophan content, is a mechanism which contributes to establish and maintain chlamydial persistence. Thus, quantitative proteomics provides insights in the Chlamydia defense mechanisms to escape interferon-gamma mediated immune pressure.
PXD004126	27788355	Now, More Than Ever, Proteomics Needs Better Chromatography. 	Proteomics needs better chromatography	Fusion Lumos, shotgun	From plant research to biomedicine, proteome analysis plays a critical role in many areas of biological inquiry. Steady improvement in mass spectrometer (MS) technology has transformed the speed and depth of proteome analysis. Proteomes of simple organisms can now be sequenced to near completion in just over an hour. Comparable coverage of mammalian proteomes, however, still requires hours or even days of analysis. Here we ask why current technology fails to achieve comprehensive and rapid analysis of the more complex mammalian proteomes. We propose that further advancements in MS technology alone are unlikely to solve this problem and suggest that concomitant improvements in peptide separation technology will be critical.
PXD004473	27790212	The Influence of Sporulation Conditions on the Spore Coat Protein Composition of Bacillus subtilis Spores. 	The influence of sporulation medium on the spore coat protein composition of Bacillus subtilis spores.	Bacillus, quantitative proteomics, spores, sporulation medium	Spores are of high interest to the food and health sectors because of their extreme resistance to harsh conditions, especially against heat. Earlier research has shown that spores prepared on solid agar plates have a higher heat resistance than those prepared under a liquid medium condition. It has also been shown that the more mature a spore is, the higher is its heat resistance most likely mediated, at least in part, by the progressive cross-linking of coat proteins. The current study for the first time assesses, at the proteomic level, the effect of two commonly used sporulation conditions on spore protein presence. (14)N spores prepared on solid Schaeffer's-glucose (SG) agar plates and (15)N metabolically labeled spores prepared in shake flasks containing 3-(N-morpholino) propane sulfonic acid (MOPS) buffered defined liquid medium differ in their coat protein composition as revealed by LC-FT-MS/MS analyses. The former condition mimics the industrial settings while the latter conditions mimic the routine laboratory environment wherein spores are developed. As seen previously in many studies, the spores prepared on the solid agar plates show a higher thermal resistance than the spores prepared under liquid culture conditions. The (14)N:(15)N isotopic ratio of the 1:1 mixture of the spore suspensions exposes that most of the identified inner coat and crust proteins are significantly more abundant while most of the outer coat proteins are significantly less abundant for the spores prepared on solid SG agar plates relative to the spores prepared in the liquid MOPS buffered defined medium. Sporulation condition-specific differences and variation in isotopic ratios between the tryptic peptides of expected cross-linked proteins suggest that the coat protein cross-linking may also be condition specific. Since the core dipicolinic acid content is found to be similar in both the spore populations, it appears that the difference in wet heat resistance is connected to the differences in the coat protein composition and assembly. Corroborating the proteomic analyses, electron microscopy analyses show a significantly thinner outer coat layer of the spores cultured on the solid agar medium.
PXD003937	27790916	Irradiation of Epithelial Carcinoma Cells Upregulates Calcium-Binding Proteins That Promote Survival under Hypoxic Conditions. 	Gamma ray irradiation of epithelial carcinoma cells under hypoxic conditions	calcium signaling pathway, cancer, hypoxia, iTRAQ, radiotherapy	Hypoxia is thought to promote tumor radio-resistance via effects on gene expression in cancer cells that modulate their metabolism, proliferation, and DNA repair pathways to enhance survival. Here we demonstrate for the first time that under hypoxic condition A431 epithelial carcinoma cells exhibit increased viability when exposed to low-dose gamma-irradiation, indicating that radiotherapy can promote tumor cell survival when oxygen supply is limited. When assessed using iTRAQ quantitative proteomics and Western blotting, irradiated tumor cells were observed to significantly up-regulate the expression of calcium-binding proteins CALM1, CALU, and RCN1, suggesting important roles for these mediators in promoting tumor cell survival during hypoxia. Accordingly, shRNA-knockdown of CALM1, CALU, and RCN1 expression reduced hypoxic tumor cell resistance to low-dose radiation and increased apoptosis. These data indicate that gamma-irradiation of hypoxic tumor cells induces up-regulation of calcium-binding proteins that promote cancer cell survival and may limit the efficacy of radiotherapy in the clinic.
PXD004931	27791479	Two distinct extracellular RNA signatures released by a single cell type identified by microarray and next-generation sequencing. 	Two distinct extracellular protein signatures released by a single cell type identified by LC-MS/MS	Exosome	Cells secrete extracellular RNA (exRNA) to their surrounding environment and exRNA has been found in many body fluids such as blood, breast milk and cerebrospinal fluid. However, there are conflicting results regarding the nature of exRNA. Here, we have separated 2 distinct exRNA profiles released by mast cells, here termed high-density (HD) and low-density (LD) exRNA. The exRNA in both fractions was characterized by microarray and next-generation sequencing. Both exRNA fractions contained mRNA and miRNA, and the mRNAs in the LD exRNA correlated closely with the cellular mRNA, whereas the HD mRNA did not. Furthermore, the HD exRNA was enriched in lincRNA, antisense RNA, vault RNA, snoRNA, and snRNA with little or no evidence of full-length 18S and 28S rRNA. The LD exRNA was enriched in mitochondrial rRNA, mitochondrial tRNA, tRNA, piRNA, Y RNA, and full-length 18S and 28S rRNA. The proteomes of the HD and LD exRNA-containing fractions were determined with LC-MS/MS and analyzed with Gene Ontology term finder, which showed that both proteomes were associated with the term extracellular vesicles and electron microscopy suggests that at least a part of the exRNA is associated with exosome-like extracellular vesicles. Additionally, the proteins in the HD fractions tended to be associated with the nucleus and ribosomes, whereas the LD fraction proteome tended to be associated with the mitochondrion. We show that the 2 exRNA signatures released by a single cell type can be separated by floatation on a density gradient. These results show that cells can release multiple types of exRNA with substantial differences in RNA species content. This is important for any future studies determining the nature and function of exRNA released from different cells under different conditions.
PXD006120	27793636	Extracellular matrix downregulation in the Drosophila heart preserves contractile function and improves lifespan. 	Extracellular matrix downregulation in the Drosophila heart preserves contractile function and improves lifespan	Aging, Basement membrane, Drosophila, Extracellular matrix, Laminin A	Aging is associated with extensive remodeling of the heart, including basement membrane (BM) components that surround cardiomyocytes. Remodeling is thought to impair cardiac mechanotransduction, but the contribution of specific BM components to age-related lateral communication between cardiomyocytes is unclear. Using a genetically tractable, rapidly aging model with sufficient cardiac genetic homology and morphology, e.g. Drosophila melanogaster, we observed differential regulation of BM collagens between laboratory strains, correlating with changes in muscle physiology leading to cardiac dysfunction. Therefore, we sought to understand the extent to which BM proteins modulate contractile function during aging. Cardiac-restricted knockdown of ECM genes Pericardin, Laminin A, and Viking in Drosophila prevented age-associated heart tube restriction and increased contractility, even under viscous load. Most notably, reduction of Laminin A expression correlated with an overall preservation of contractile velocity with age and extension of organismal lifespan. Global heterozygous knockdown confirmed these data, which provides new evidence of a direct link between BM homeostasis, contractility, and maintenance of lifespan.
PXD003162	27794502	Surveying the Oligomeric State of Arabidopsis thaliana Chloroplasts. 	Shotgun Proteomics of BN-PAGE-Resolved Chloroplasts	Chloroplast, Native Gel, Native Molecular Weight, Oligomeric State, Protein Complex	Blue native-PAGE (BN-PAGE) resolves protein complexes in their native state. When combined with immunoblotting, it can be used to identify the presence of high molecular weight complexes at high resolution for any protein, given a suitable antibody. To identify proteins in high molecular weight complexes on a large scale and to bypass the requirement for specific antibodies, we applied a tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) approach to BN-PAGE-resolved chloroplasts. Fractionation of the gel into six bands allowed identification and label-free quantification of 1000 chloroplast proteins with native molecular weight separation. Significantly, this approach achieves a depth of identification comparable with traditional shotgun proteomic analyses of chloroplasts, indicating much of the known chloroplast proteome is amenable to MS/MS identification under our fractionation scheme. By limiting the number of fractionation bands to six, we facilitate scaled-up comparative analyses, as we demonstrate with the reticulata chloroplast mutant displaying a reticulated leaf phenotype. Our comparative proteomics approach identified a candidate interacting protein of RETICULATA as well as effects on lipid remodeling proteins, amino acid metabolic enzymes, and plastid division machinery. We additionally highlight selected proteins from each sub-compartment of the chloroplast that provide novel insight on known or hypothesized protein complexes to further illustrate the utility of this approach. Our results demonstrate the high sensitivity and reproducibility of this technique, which is anticipated to be widely adaptable to other sub-cellular compartments.
PXD005210	27794609	Large-Scale Analysis of Breast Cancer-Related Conformational Changes in Proteins Using Limited Proteolysis. 	Large-Scale Analysis of Breast Cancer-Related Conformational Changes in Proteins using Limited Proteolysis	MCF-10A, MCF-7, SILAC, limited proteolysis, protein folding	Conformational changes in proteins can lead to disease. Thus, methods for identifying conformational changes in proteins can further improve our understanding and facilitate detection of disease states. Here we combine limited proteolysis (LiP) with Stable Isotope Labeling with Amino Acids in Cell Culture (SILAC) to characterize breast cancer-related conformational changes in proteins on the proteomic scale. Studied here are the conformational properties of proteins in two cell culture models of breast cancer, including the MCF-10A and MCF-7 cell lines. The SILAC-LiP approach described here identified ~200 proteins with cell-line-dependent conformational changes, as determined by their differential susceptibility to proteolytic digestion using the nonspecific protease, proteinase K. The protease susceptibility profiles of the proteins in these cell lines were compared to thermodynamic stability and expression level profiles previously generated for proteins in these same breast cancer cell lines. The comparisons revealed that there was little overlap between the proteins with protease susceptibility changes and the proteins with thermodynamic stability and/or expression level changes. Thus, the large-scale conformational analysis described here provides unique insight into the molecular basis of the breast cancer phenotypes in this study.
PXD004007	27794612	Phosphoproteome Profiling Reveals Molecular Mechanisms of Growth-Factor-Mediated Kinase Inhibitor Resistance in EGFR-Overexpressing Cancer Cells. 	Phosphoproteome profiling reveals molecular mechanisms of growth factor mediated kinase inhibitor resistance in cancer cells	Gefitinib resistance	Although substantial progress has been made regarding the use of molecularly targeted cancer therapies, resistance almost invariably develops and presents a major clinical challenge. The tumor microenvironment can rescue cancer cells from kinase inhibitors by growth-factor-mediated induction of pro-survival pathways. Here we show that epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibition by Gefitinib is counteracted by growth factors, notably FGF2, and we assessed the global molecular consequences of this resistance at the proteome and phosphoproteome level in A431 cells. Tandem mass tag peptide labeling and quantitative mass spectrometry allowed the identification and quantification of 22 000 phosphopeptides and 8800 proteins in biological triplicates without missing values. The data show that FGF2 protects the cells from the antiproliferative effect of Gefitinib and largely prevents reprogramming of the proteome and phosphoproteome. Simultaneous EGFR/FGFR or EGFR/GSG2 (Haspin) inhibition overcomes this resistance, and the phosphoproteomic experiments further prioritized the RAS/MEK/ERK as well as the PI3K/mTOR axis for combination treatment. Consequently, the MEK inhibitor Trametinib prevented FGF2-mediated survival of EGFR inhibitor-resistant cells when used in combination with Gefitinib. Surprisingly, the PI3K/mTOR inhibitor Omipalisib reversed resistance mediated by all four growth factors tested, making it an interesting candidate for mitigating the effects of the tumor microenvironment.
PXD003901	27796094	Analysis of the Biotechnological Potential of a Lentinus crinitus Isolate in the Light of Its Secretome. 	20160330_Lentinus crinitus Secretome	2D-PAGE, Lentinus, secretome	Analysis of fungal secretomes is a prospection tool for the discovery of new catalysts with biotechnological applications. Since enzyme secretion is strongly modulated by environmental factors, evaluation of growth conditions is of utmost importance to achieve optimal enzyme production. In this work, a nonsequenced wood-rotting fungus, Lentinus crinitus, was used for secretome analysis by enzymatic assays and a proteomics approach. Enzyme production was assessed after the fungus was cultured in seven different carbon sources and three nitrogen-containing compounds. The biomass yields and secreted protein arrays differed drastically among growing conditions. A mixture of secreted extracts derived from solid and liquid cultures was inspected by shotgun mass spectrometry and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) prior to analysis via LC-MS/MS. Proteins were identified using mass spectrometry (MS)-driven BLAST. The spectrum of secreted proteins comprised CAZymes, oxidase/reductases, proteases, and lipase/esterases. Although preseparation by 2-DE improved the number of identifications (162) compared with the shotgun approach (98 identifications), the two strategies revealed similar protein patterns. Culture media with reduced water content stimulated the expression of oxidases/reductases, while hydrolases were induced during submerged fermentation. The diversity of proteins observed within both the CAZyme and oxidoreductase groups revealed in this fungus a powerful arsenal of enzymes dedicated to the breakdown and consumption of lignocellulose.
PXD020942	27796300	PARP9 and PARP14 cross-regulate macrophage activation via STAT1 ADP-ribosylation. 	Context-enriched interactome powered by proteomics helps the identification of novel regulators of macrophage activation	THP-1 cells, TMT, macrophages	Despite the global impact of macrophage activation in vascular disease, the underlying mechanisms remain obscure. Here we show, with global proteomic analysis of macrophage cell lines treated with either IFNgamma or IL-4, that PARP9 and PARP14 regulate macrophage activation. In primary macrophages, PARP9 and PARP14 have opposing roles in macrophage activation. PARP14 silencing induces pro-inflammatory genes and STAT1 phosphorylation in M(IFNgamma) cells, whereas it suppresses anti-inflammatory gene expression and STAT6 phosphorylation in M(IL-4) cells. PARP9 silencing suppresses pro-inflammatory genes and STAT1 phosphorylation in M(IFNgamma) cells. PARP14 induces ADP-ribosylation of STAT1, which is suppressed by PARP9. Mutations at these ADP-ribosylation sites lead to increased phosphorylation. Network analysis links PARP9-PARP14 with human coronary artery disease. PARP14 deficiency in haematopoietic cells accelerates the development and inflammatory burden of acute and chronic arterial lesions in mice. These findings suggest that PARP9 and PARP14 cross-regulate macrophage activation.
PXD004669	27796307	KAT2A/KAT2B-targeted acetylome reveals a role for PLK4 acetylation in preventing centrosome amplification. 	Human KAT2A/B-acetylome MudPIT	KAT2A(GCN5), KAT2B (PCAF), PLK4, acetylation, centrosome duplication, non-histone targets	Lysine acetylation is a widespread post-translational modification regulating various biological processes. To characterize cellular functions of the human lysine acetyltransferases KAT2A (GCN5) and KAT2B (PCAF), we determined their acetylome by shotgun proteomics. One of the newly identified KAT2A/2B substrate is polo-like kinase 4 (PLK4), a key regulator of centrosome duplication. We demonstrate that KAT2A/2B acetylate the PLK4 kinase domain on residues K45 and K46. Molecular dynamics modelling suggests that K45/K46 acetylation impairs kinase activity by shifting the kinase to an inactive conformation. Accordingly, PLK4 activity is reduced upon in vitro acetylation of its kinase domain. Moreover, the overexpression of the PLK4 K45R/K46R mutant in cells does not lead to centrosome overamplification, as observed with wild-type PLK4. We also find that impairing KAT2A/2B-acetyltransferase activity results in diminished phosphorylation of PLK4 and in excess centrosome numbers in cells. Overall, our study identifies the global human KAT2A/2B acetylome and uncovers that KAT2A/2B acetylation of PLK4 prevents centrosome amplification.
PXD002132	27796319	A dual specificity kinase, DYRK1A, as a potential therapeutic target for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. 	DYRK1A, a potential therapeutic target for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma	Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, dual specificity kinases, phosphoproteomics	Despite advances in clinical management, 5-year survival rate in patients with late-stage head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) has not improved significantly over the past decade. Targeted therapies have emerged as one of the most promising approaches to treat several malignancies. Though tyrosine phosphorylation accounts for a minority of total phosphorylation, it is critical for activation of signaling pathways and plays a significant role in driving cancers. To identify activated tyrosine kinase signaling pathways in HNSCC, we compared the phosphotyrosine profiles of a panel of HNSCC cell lines to a normal oral keratinocyte cell line. Dual-specificity tyrosine-(Y)-phosphorylation regulated kinase 1A (DYRK1A) was one of the kinases hyperphosphorylated at Tyr-321 in all HNSCC cell lines. Inhibition of DYRK1A resulted in an increased apoptosis and decrease in invasion and colony formation ability of HNSCC cell lines. Further, administration of the small molecular inhibitor against DYRK1A in mice bearing HNSCC xenograft tumors induced regression of tumor growth. Immunohistochemical labeling of DYRK1A in primary tumor tissues using tissue microarrays revealed strong to moderate staining of DYRK1A in 97.5% (39/40) of HNSCC tissues analyzed. Taken together our results suggest that DYRK1A could be a novel therapeutic target in HNSCC.
PXD002935	27797820	CLPP coordinates mitoribosomal assembly through the regulation of ERAL1 levels. 	Mouse heart mitochondria LC-MS/MS	Heart Mouse Mitochondria Clpp Clpx	Despite being one of the most studied proteases in bacteria, very little is known about the role of ClpXP in mitochondria. We now present evidence that mammalian CLPP has an essential role in determining the rate of mitochondrial protein synthesis by regulating the level of mitoribosome assembly. Through a proteomic approach and the use of a catalytically inactive CLPP, we produced the first comprehensive list of possible mammalian ClpXP substrates involved in the regulation of mitochondrial translation, oxidative phosphorylation, and a number of metabolic pathways. We further show that the defect in mitoribosomal assembly is a consequence of the accumulation of ERAL1, a putative 12S rRNA chaperone, and novel ClpXP substrate. The presented data suggest that the timely removal of ERAL1 from the small ribosomal subunit is essential for the efficient maturation of the mitoribosome and a normal rate of mitochondrial translation.
PXD004267	27797852	PARylation of the forkhead-associated domain protein DAWDLE regulates plant immunity. 	Identification of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation targets reveals a role of DAWDLE in Arabidopsis immunity	Arabdopsis immunity, DAWDLE, Human Proteome Project, Poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Protein poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation (PARylation) primarily catalyzed by poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARPs) plays a crucial role in controlling various cellular responses. However, PARylation targets and their functions remain largely elusive. Here, we deployed an Arabidopsis protein microarray coupled with in vitro PARylation assays to globally identify PARylation targets in plants. Consistent with the essential role of PARylation in plant immunity, the forkhead-associated (FHA) domain protein DAWDLE (DDL), one of PARP2 targets, positively regulates plant defense to both adapted and non-adapted pathogens. Arabidopsis PARP2 interacts with and PARylates DDL, which was enhanced upon treatment of bacterial flagellin. Mass spectrometry and mutagenesis analysis identified multiple PARylation sites of DDL by PARP2. Genetic complementation assays indicate that DDL PARylation is required for its function in plant immunity. In contrast, DDL PARylation appears to be dispensable for its previously reported function in plant development partially mediated by the regulation of microRNA biogenesis. Our study uncovers many previously unknown PARylation targets and points to the distinct functions of DDL in plant immunity and development mediated by protein PARylation and small RNA biogenesis, respectively.
PXD004167	27799293	Global Dynamic Proteome Study of a Pellicle-forming Acinetobacter baumannii Strain. 	Pellicule proteome in Acinetobacter baumannii	Acinetobacter baumannii, label-free, pellicle	For several decades, many bacteria, among which A. baumannii, have shown their ability to colonize the upper surface of static liquids, forming a biofilm at the air-liquid interface named pellicle. Despite the ubiquity of these pellicles in both natural and artificial environments, few studies have investigated this biofilm type. The present data set provides the first description of the whole proteome of A. baumannii cells grown as pellicle, using a label-free mass spectrometry approach. Results are in accord with the general findings reporting that sessile bacteria are far more resistant to detrimental conditions than their planktonic counterparts, by the accumulation of stress proteins. The present investigation also confirmed previous studies suggesting a correlation between the pellicle forming ability and the bacterial virulence. Indeed, we showed the up-regulation of numerous virulence factors during the pellicle growth, e.g. phospholipases, adhesion factors, as well as those of the GacAS Two-Component System (TCS) and Type 6 Secretion System (T6SS). We also highlighted that Bam and Tam systems, both related to the OM insertion machinery, play a critical role during pellicle biogenesis. Moreover, sessile bacteria activate several pathways, e.g. iron, magnesium, phosphate pathways, which allows for increasing the panel of nutrient sources.
PXD002612	27799870	Proteomic profiling of lung adenocarcinoma indicates heightened DNA repair, antioxidant mechanisms and identifies LASP1 as a potential negative predictor of survival. 	LC7 Proteomic Analysis of Matched Control and NSCLC Lung Adenocarcinoma Tissue.	Lung Adenocarcinoma, Tissue	BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer mortality in the United States. Non-small cell lung cancer accounts for 85% of all lung cancers for which adenocarcinoma is the most common histological type. Management of lung cancer is hindered by high false-positive rates due to difficulty resolving between benign and malignant tumors. Better molecular analysis comparing malignant and non-malignant tissues will provide important evidence of the underlying biology contributing to tumorigenesis. METHODS: We utilized a proteomics approach to analyze 38 malignant and non-malignant paired tissue samples obtained from current or former smokers with early stage (Stage IA/IB) lung adenocarcinoma. Statistical mixed effects modeling and orthogonal partial least squares discriminant analysis were used to identify key cancer-associated perturbations in the adenocarcinoma proteome. Identified proteins were subsequently assessed against clinicopathological variables. RESULTS: Top cancer-associated protein alterations were characterized by: (1) elevations in APEX1, HYOU1 and PDIA4, indicative of increased DNA repair machinery and heightened anti-oxidant defense mechanisms; (2) increased LRPPRC, STOML2, COPG1 and EPRS, suggesting altered tumor metabolism and inflammation; (3) reductions in SPTB, SPTA1 and ANK1 implying dysregulation of membrane integrity; and (4) decreased SLCA41 suggesting altered pH regulation. Increased protein levels of HYOU1, EPRS and LASP1 in NSCLC adenocarcinoma was independently validated by tissue microarray immunohistochemistry. Immunohistochemistry for HYOU1 and EPRS indicated AUCs of 0.952 and 0.841, respectively, for classifying tissue as malignant. Increased LASP1 correlated with poor overall survival (HR 3.66 per unit increase; CI 1.37-9.78; p = 0.01). CONCLUSION: These results reveal distinct proteomic changes associated with early stage lung adenocarcinoma that may be useful prognostic indicators and therapeutic targets.
PXD003489	27801591	Detection of Proteome Changes in Human Colon Cancer Induced by Cell Surface Binding of Growth-Inhibitory Human Galectin-4 Using Quantitative SILAC-Based Proteomics. 	SILAC-based proteomic profiling of the human colon cancer cell line LS 180 in response to exogenous galectin-4	Colon cancer, Galectin-4, LS 180, SILAC	Endogenous lectins have the capacity to translate glycan-encoded information on the cell surface into effects on cell growth. As test cases to examine changes in protein presence associated with tumor growth inhibition, we applied SILAC-based proteomics on human colon carcinoma cells treated with galectin-4 (Gal-4). The five tested lines-LS 180, Vaco 432, Colo 205, CX 1, and HCT 116-responded with differentiation and reduced proliferation to Gal-4 binding. In proteomic analysis (mass spectral data deposited with PRIDE, PXD003489), 2654 proteins were quantified, of which 190 were down-regulated and 115 were up-regulated (>2-fold). 1D annotation analysis of the results indicated down-regulation of DNA replication-associated processes, while protein presence for secretory and transport functions appeared increased. The strongest induction was found for CALB2 (calretinin; ~24-fold), TGM2 (protein-glutamine gamma-glutamyltransferase 2; ~11-fold), S100A3 (~10-fold), and GSN (gelsolin; 9.5-fold), and the most pronounced decreases were seen for CDKN2A (tumor suppressor ARF; ~6-fold), EPCAM (epithelial cell adhesion molecule; ~6-fold), UBE2C (ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 C; ~5-fold), KIF2C (kinesin-like protein KIF2C; 5-fold), and LMNB1 (lamin-B1; ~5-fold). The presence of the common proliferation marker Ki-67 was diminished about 4-fold. By tracing significant alterations of protein expression likely relevant for the observed phenotypic effects, the capacity of a galectin to affect the proteome of human colon cancer cells at multiple sites is revealed.
PXD011639	27801908	Metabolic and physiological interdependencies in the Bathymodiolus azoricus symbiosis. 	Host-symbiont proteomes of Bathymodiolus thermophilus	Bathymodiolus, host, hydrothermal vent, symbiont, symbiosis	The hydrothermal vent mussel Bathymodiolus azoricus lives in an intimate symbiosis with two types of chemosynthetic Gammaproteobacteria in its gills: a sulfur oxidizer and a methane oxidizer. Despite numerous investigations over the last decades, the degree of interdependence between the three symbiotic partners, their individual metabolic contributions, as well as the mechanism of carbon transfer from the symbionts to the host are poorly understood. We used a combination of proteomics and genomics to investigate the physiology and metabolism of the individual symbiotic partners. Our study revealed that key metabolic functions are most likely accomplished jointly by B. azoricus and its symbionts: (1) CO2 is pre-concentrated by the host for carbon fixation by the sulfur-oxidizing symbiont, and (2) the host replenishes essential biosynthetic TCA cycle intermediates for the sulfur-oxidizing symbiont. In return (3), the sulfur oxidizer may compensate for the host's putative deficiency in amino acid and cofactor biosynthesis. We also identified numerous 'symbiosis-specific' host proteins by comparing symbiont-containing and symbiont-free host tissues and symbiont fractions. These proteins included a large complement of host digestive enzymes in the gill that are likely involved in symbiont digestion and carbon transfer from the symbionts to the host.
PXD004451	27802388	Identification of MHC-Bound Peptides from Dendritic Cells Infected with Salmonella enterica Strain SL1344: Implications for a Nontyphoidal Salmonella Vaccine. 	Dendritic cells infected with Salmonella enterica	antigens, typhoid fever, vaccine development	Worldwide Salmonella enterica infections result in substantial morbidity and mortality and are the major cause of infant bacteremia in Sub-Saharan Africa. Diseases caused by Salmonella are treatable with antibiotics, but successful antibiotic treatment has become difficult due to antimicrobial resistance and collateral effects on the microbiome. An effective vaccine together with public health efforts may be a better strategy to control these infections. Protective immunity against Salmonella depends primarily on CD4 T-cell-mediated immune responses; therefore, identifying relevant T-cell antigens is necessary for Salmonella vaccine development. We previously used a dendritic-cell-based immunoproteomics approach in our laboratory to identify T-cell antigens. The testing of these antigens as vaccine candidates against Chlamydia infection in mice yielded positive results. We applied this technology in the present study by infecting murine bone-marrow-derived dendritic cells from C57BL/6 mice with Salmonella enterica strain SL1344, followed by immunoaffinity isolation of MHC class I and II molecules and elution of bound peptides. The sequences of the peptides were identified using tandem mass spectrometry. We identified 87 MHC class-II- and 23 MHC class-I-binding Salmonella-derived peptides. Four of the 12 highest scoring class-II-binding Salmonella peptides stimulated IFN-gamma production by CD4(+) T cells from the spleens of mice with persistent Salmonella infection. We conclude that antigens identified by MHC immunoproteomics will be useful for Salmonella immunobiology studies and are potential Salmonella vaccine candidates. Data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier PXD004451.
PXD000921	27802913	Proteomic analysis of human saliva: An approach to find the marker protein for ovulation. 	Analysis of low molecular weight protein profile in whole saliva with special reference to ovulation	cystatin, ovulation, protein, saliva	Human saliva contains numerous molecules that play a variety of roles. Among them there are proteins which serve as biomarkers of various physiological and/or pathological conditions. Compared to other body fluids, saliva is the most convenient material for investigations, and especially for monitoring the disease conditions. Presently, there is an increasing need to develop a noninvasive method to identify the time of ovulation in humans to ensure successful fertilization, and for evolving strategies for family planning. The present investigation has been an attempt to identify one or more proteins in the human saliva that would be an indicator(s) of ovulation. SDS-PAGE of salivary proteins showed seven prominent bands during the different phases of the menstrual cycle. Particularly, the 14.5kDa band was highly expressed during the ovulatory phase. Eleven proteins were identified in this band of which ten were highly specific to the ovulatory phase. Among those proteins the intense expression of Cystatin-S was validated using immunoblot analysis (p<0.05). The functional annotation of salivary proteins revealed a high percentage of proteins that engage in binding and regulatory activities. The present results indicate that salivary proteins, particularly those present during the ovulatory phase, might be used as biomarkers for impending ovulation.
PXD004320	27803950	Multi-OMIC profiling of survival and metabolic signaling networks in cells subjected to photodynamic therapy. 	Phosphoproteomics of PDT treated SK-ChA-1 cells	PDT	Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is an established palliative treatment for perihilar cholangiocarcinoma that is clinically promising. However, tumors tend to regrow after PDT, which may result from the PDT-induced activation of survival pathways in sublethally afflicted tumor cells. In this study, tumor-comprising cells (i.e., vascular endothelial cells, macrophages, perihilar cholangiocarcinoma cells, and EGFR-overexpressing epidermoid cancer cells) were treated with the photosensitizer zinc phthalocyanine that was encapsulated in cationic liposomes (ZPCLs). The post-PDT survival pathways and metabolism were studied following sublethal (LC50) and supralethal (LC90) PDT. Sublethal PDT induced survival signaling in perihilar cholangiocarcinoma (SK-ChA-1) cells via mainly HIF-1-, NF-kB-, AP-1-, and heat shock factor (HSF)-mediated pathways. In contrast, supralethal PDT damage was associated with a dampened survival response. PDT-subjected SK-ChA-1 cells downregulated proteins associated with EGFR signaling, particularly at LC90. PDT also affected various components of glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid cycle as well as metabolites involved in redox signaling. In conclusion, sublethal PDT activates multiple pathways in tumor-associated cell types that transcriptionally regulate cell survival, proliferation, energy metabolism, detoxification, inflammation/angiogenesis, and metastasis. Accordingly, tumor cells sublethally afflicted by PDT are a major therapeutic culprit. Our multi-omic analysis further unveiled multiple druggable targets for pharmacological co-intervention.
PXD005160	27804984	The Seminal fluid proteome of the polyandrous Red junglefowl offers insights into the molecular basis of fertility, reproductive ageing and domestication. 	Seminal fluid proteome of the polyandrous Red junglefowl	domestication, fertility, red junglefowl, reproductive ageing, seminal fluid	Seminal fluid proteins (SFPs) are emerging as fundamental contributors to sexual selection given their role in post-mating reproductive events, particularly in polyandrous species where the ejaculates of different males compete for fertilisation. SFP identification however remains taxonomically limited and little is known about avian SFPs, despite extensive work on sexual selection in birds. We characterize the SF proteome of the polyandrous Red junglefowl, Gallus gallus, the wild species that gave rise to the domestic chicken. We identify 1,141 SFPs, including proteins involved in immunity and antimicrobial defences, sperm maturation, and fertilisation, revealing a functionally complex SF proteome. This includes a predominant contribution of blood plasma proteins that is conserved with human SF. By comparing the proteome of young and old males with fast or slow sperm velocity in a balanced design, we identify proteins associated with ageing and sperm velocity, and show that old males that retain high sperm velocity have distinct proteome characteristics. SFP comparisons with domestic chickens revealed both qualitative and quantitative differences likely associated with domestication and artificial selection. Collectively, these results shed light onto the functional complexity of avian SF, and provide a platform for molecular studies of fertility, reproductive ageing, and domestication.
PXD005040	27806287	Lipids Reprogram Metabolism to Become a Major Carbon Source for Histone Acetylation. 	Lipids reprogram cellular metabolism to become a major carbon source for histone acetylation.	Histone acetylation, lipid	Cells integrate nutrient sensing and metabolism to coordinate proper cellular responses to a particular nutrient source. For example, glucose drives a gene expression program characterized by activating genes involved in its metabolism, in part by increasing glucose-derived histone acetylation. Here, we find that lipid-derived acetyl-CoA is a major source of carbon for histone acetylation. Using (13)C-carbon tracing combined with acetyl-proteomics, we show that up to 90% of acetylation on certain histone lysines can be derived from fatty acid carbon, even in the presence of excess glucose. By repressing both glucose and glutamine metabolism, fatty acid oxidation reprograms cellular metabolism, leading to increased lipid-derived acetyl-CoA. Gene expression profiling of octanoate-treated hepatocytes shows a pattern of upregulated lipid metabolic genes, demonstrating a specific transcriptional response to lipid. These studies expand the landscape of nutrient sensing and uncover how lipids and metabolism are integrated by epigenetic events that control gene expression.
PXD005055	27806300	Role of CTGF in Sensitivity to Hyperthermia in Ovarian and Uterine Cancers. 	Molecular determinants of tumor response to hyperthermia	TMT, hyperthermia	Even though hyperthermia is a promising treatment for cancer, the relationship between specific temperatures and clinical benefits and predictors of sensitivity of cancer to hyperthermia is poorly understood. Ovarian and uterine tumors have diverse hyperthermia sensitivities. Integrative analyses of the specific gene signatures and the differences in response to hyperthermia between hyperthermia-sensitive and -resistant cancer cells identified CTGF as a key regulator of sensitivity. CTGF silencing sensitized resistant cells to hyperthermia. CTGF small interfering RNA (siRNA) treatment also sensitized resistant cancers to localized hyperthermia induced by copper sulfide nanoparticles and near-infrared laser in orthotopic ovarian cancer models. CTGF silencing aggravated energy stress induced by hyperthermia and enhanced apoptosis of hyperthermia-resistant cancers.
PXD003308	27806443	Application of the half decimal place rule to increase the peptide identification rate. 	Half decimal place rule       .	DDA, HDPR, mass defect	RATIONALE: Many MS2 spectra in bottom-up proteomics experiments remain unassigned. To improve proteome coverage, we applied the half decimal place rule (HDPR) to remove non-peptidic molecules. The HDPR considers the ratio of the digits after the decimal point to the full molecular mass and results in a relatively small permitted mass window for most peptides. METHODS: First, the HDPR mass filter was calculated for the human and other proteomes. Subsequently, the HDPR was applied to three technical replicates of an in-solution tryptic digest of HeLa cells which were analysed by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) using a quadrupole-orbitrap mass spectrometer (Q Exactive). In addition, the same sample was analysed three times with a fixed exclusion list. The exclusion list was based on only choosing doubly charged ions for fragmentation. RESULTS: The peptide spectrum match (PSM) rate increased by 2-4% applying HDPR filters from 0.1-0.25 Da and 75-150 ppm, respectively. Excluding all MS2 events by applying an HDPR filter of doubly charged ions, we were able to improve PSMs by 0.9% and the PSM rate by 2.5%. CONCLUSIONS: An algorithm to filter precursors based on the HDPR was established to improve the targeting of the acquisition of MS2 spectra in data-dependent acquisition (DDA) experiments. According to our data, a total gain of PSMs of 1-5% might be achievable if the HPDR filter would already be applied during MS data acquisition. Copyright (c) 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
PXD003916	27807047	Candida albicans Is Resistant to Polyglutamine Aggregation and Toxicity. 	Candida albicans is resistant to polyglutamine aggregation and toxicity	Candida albicans, aggregation, polyQ proteins, toxicity	Disruption of protein quality control can be detrimental, having toxic effects on single cell organisms and contributing to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's in humans. Here, we examined the effects of polyglutamine (polyQ) aggregation in a major fungal pathogen of humans, Candida albicans, with the goal of identifying new approaches to disable this fungus. However, we discovered that expression of polyQ stretches up to 230Q had no effect on C. albicans ability to grow and withstand proteotoxic stress. Bioinformatics analysis demonstrates that C. albicans has a similarly glutamine-rich proteome to the unicellular fungus Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which exhibits polyQ toxicity with as few as 72Q. Surprisingly, global transcriptional profiles indicated no significant change upon induction of up to 230Q. Proteomic analysis highlighted two key interactors of 230Q, Sis1 and Sgt2; however, loss of either protein had no additional effect on C. albicans toxicity. Our data suggest that C. albicans has evolved powerful mechanisms to overcome the toxicity associated with aggregation-prone proteins, providing a unique model for studying polyQ-associated diseases.
PXD011492	27807068	In Silico Analysis Validates Proteomic Findings of Formalin-fixed Paraffin Embedded Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma Tissue. 	In Silico Analysis Validates Proteomic Findings of Formalin-fixed Paraffin Embedded Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma Tissue	Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, formalin-fixed paraffin embedded, label-free mass spectrometry, laser capture microdissection	BACKGROUND: Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is a common type of skin cancer but there are no comprehensive proteomic studies on this entity. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We employed liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) using formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) cSCC material to study the tumor and normal skin tissue proteomes. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) was used to interpret the role of altered proteins in cSCC pathophysiology. Results were validated using the Human Protein Atlas and Oncomine database in silico. RESULTS: Of 1,310 unique proteins identified, expression of an average of 144 and 88 proteins were significantly (p<0.05) increased and decreased, respectively, in the tumor samples compared to their normal counterparts. IPA analysis revealed disruptions in proteins associated with cell proliferation, apoptosis, and migration. In silico analysis confirmed that proteins corresponding to 12 antibodies, and genes corresponding to 18 proteins were differentially expressed between the two categories, validating our proteomic measurements. CONCLUSION: Label-free MS-based proteomics is useful for analyzing FFPE cSCC tissues.
PXD005457	27810942	Proteomes and Ubiquitylomes Analysis Reveals the Involvement of Ubiquitination in Protein Degradation in Petunias. 	Proteomes and Ubiquitylomes Analysis Reveals the Involvement of Ubiquitination in Protein Degradation	Ethylene, Petunia, Protein degradation, Senescence, Ubiquitination	Petal senescence is a complex programmed process. It has been demonstrated previously that treatment with ethylene, a plant hormone involved in senescence, can extensively alter transcriptome and proteome profiles in plants. However, little is known regarding the impact of ethylene on posttranslational modification (PTM) or the association between PTM and the proteome. Protein degradation is one of the hallmarks of senescence, and ubiquitination, a major PTM in eukaryotes, plays important roles in protein degradation. In this study, we first obtained reference petunia (Petunia hybrida) transcriptome data via RNA sequencing. Next, we quantitatively investigated the petunia proteome and ubiquitylome and the association between them in petunia corollas following ethylene treatment. In total, 51,799 unigenes, 3,606 proteins, and 2,270 ubiquitination sites were quantified 16 h after ethylene treatment. Treatment with ethylene resulted in 14,448 down-regulated and 6,303 up-regulated unigenes (absolute log2 fold change > 1 and false discovery rate < 0.001), 284 down-regulated and 233 up-regulated proteins, and 320 up-regulated and 127 down-regulated ubiquitination sites using a 1.5-fold threshold (P < 0.05), indicating that global ubiquitination levels increase during ethylene-mediated corolla senescence in petunia. Several putative ubiquitin ligases were up-regulated at the protein and transcription levels. Our results showed that the global proteome and ubiquitylome were negatively correlated and that ubiquitination could be involved in the degradation of proteins during ethylene-mediated corolla senescence in petunia. Ethylene regulates hormone signaling transduction pathways at both the protein and ubiquitination levels in petunia corollas. In addition, our results revealed that ethylene increases the ubiquitination levels of proteins involved in endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation.
PXD004935	27811184	Coupling an EML4-ALK-centric interactome with RNA interference identifies sensitizers to ALK inhibitors. 	The EML4-ALK Interactome in Lung Cancer	EML4-ALK, Interactome, Lung Cancer	Patients with lung cancers harboring anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene fusions benefit from treatment with ALK inhibitors, but acquired resistance inevitably arises. A better understanding of proximal ALK signaling mechanisms may identify sensitizers to ALK inhibitors that disrupt the balance between prosurvival and proapoptotic effector signals. Using affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry in an ALK fusion lung cancer cell line (H3122), we generated an ALK signaling network and investigated signaling activity using tyrosine phosphoproteomics. We identified a network of 464 proteins composed of subnetworks with differential response to ALK inhibitors. A small hairpin RNA screen targeting 407 proteins in this network revealed 64 and 9 proteins that when knocked down sensitized cells to crizotinib and alectinib, respectively. Among these, knocking down fibroblast growth factor receptor substrate 2 (FRS2) or coiled-coil and C2 domain-containing protein 1A (CC2D1A), both scaffolding proteins, sensitized multiple ALK fusion cell lines to the ALK inhibitors crizotinib and alectinib. Collectively, our data set provides a resource that enhances our understanding of signaling and drug resistance networks consequent to ALK fusions and identifies potential targets to improve the efficacy of ALK inhibitors in patients.
PXD003875	27813080	Protein content and functional characteristics of serum-purified exosomes from patients with colorectal cancer revealed by quantitative proteomics. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of exosomes purified from serum of patients with colorectal cancer	colorectal, exosome	Tumor cells of colorectal cancer (CRC) release exosomes into the circulation. These exosomes can mediate communication between cells and affect various tumor-related processes in their target cells. We present a quantitative proteomics analysis of the exosomes purified from serum of patients with CRC and normal volunteers; data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003875. We identified 918 proteins with an overlap of 725 Gene IDs in the Exocarta proteins list. Compared with the serum-purified exosomes (SPEs) of normal volunteers, we found 36 proteins upregulated and 22 proteins downregulated in the SPEs of CRC patients. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that upregulated proteins are involved in processes that modulate the pretumorigenic microenvironment for metastasis. In contrast, differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) that play critical roles in tumor growth and cell survival were principally downregulated. Our study demonstrates that SPEs of CRC patients play a pivotal role in promoting the tumor invasiveness, but have minimal influence on putative alterations in tumor survival or proliferation. According to bioinformatics analysis, we speculate that the protein contents of exosomes might be associated with whether they are involved in premetastatic niche establishment or growth and survival of metastatic tumor cells. This information will be helpful in elucidating the pathophysiological functions of tumor-derived exosomes, and aid in the development of CRC diagnostics and therapeutics.
PXD004538	27815274	Quantitative Metaproteomics Highlight the Metabolic Contributions of Uncultured Phylotypes in a Thermophilic Anaerobic Digester. 	Quantitative metaproteomics highlight the metabolic contributions of uncultured phylotypes in a thermophilic anaerobic digester	SAOB, Wood Ljungdal pathway, biogas reactor, metaproteomics	In this study, we used multiple meta-omic approaches to characterize the microbial community and the active metabolic pathways of a stable industrial biogas reactor with food waste as the dominant feedstock, operating at thermophilic temperatures (60degreesC) and elevated levels of free ammonia (367 mg/liter NH3-N). The microbial community was strongly dominated (76% of all 16S rRNA amplicon sequences) by populations closely related to the proteolytic bacterium Coprothermobacter proteolyticus. Multiple Coprothermobacter-affiliated strains were detected, introducing an additional level of complexity seldom explored in biogas studies. Genome reconstructions provided metabolic insight into the microbes that performed biomass deconstruction and fermentation, including the deeply branching phyla Dictyoglomi and Planctomycetes and the candidate phylum "Atribacteria" These biomass degraders were complemented by a synergistic network of microorganisms that convert key fermentation intermediates (fatty acids) via syntrophic interactions with hydrogenotrophic methanogens to ultimately produce methane. Interpretation of the proteomics data also suggested activity of a Methanosaeta phylotype acclimatized to high ammonia levels. In particular, we report multiple novel phylotypes proposed as syntrophic acetate oxidizers, which also exert expression of enzymes needed for both the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway and beta-oxidation of fatty acids to acetyl coenzyme A. Such an arrangement differs from known syntrophic oxidizing bacteria and presents an interesting hypothesis for future studies. Collectively, these findings provide increased insight into active metabolic roles of uncultured phylotypes and presents new synergistic relationships, both of which may contribute to the stability of the biogas reactor. IMPORTANCE: Biogas production through anaerobic digestion of organic waste provides an attractive source of renewable energy and a sustainable waste management strategy. A comprehensive understanding of the microbial community that drives anaerobic digesters is essential to ensure stable and efficient energy production. Here, we characterize the intricate microbial networks and metabolic pathways in a thermophilic biogas reactor. We discuss the impact of frequently encountered microbial populations as well as the metabolism of newly discovered novel phylotypes that seem to play distinct roles within key microbial stages of anaerobic digestion in this stable high-temperature system. In particular, we draft a metabolic scenario whereby multiple uncultured syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria are capable of syntrophically oxidizing acetate as well as longer-chain fatty acids (via the beta-oxidation and Wood-Ljundahl pathways) to hydrogen and carbon dioxide, which methanogens subsequently convert to methane.
PXD004898	27815530	Cross-linking reveals laminin coiled-coil architecture. 	Cross-linking of mouse laminin 111	cross linking, extra cellular matrix, laminin	Laminin, an ~800-kDa heterotrimeric protein, is a major functional component of the extracellular matrix, contributing to tissue development and maintenance. The unique architecture of laminin is not currently amenable to determination at high resolution, as its flexible and narrow segments complicate both crystallization and single-particle reconstruction by electron microscopy. Therefore, we used cross-linking and MS, evaluated using computational methods, to address key questions regarding laminin quaternary structure. This approach was particularly well suited to the ~750-Aa coiled coil that mediates trimer assembly, and our results support revision of the subunit order typically presented in laminin schematics. Furthermore, information on the subunit register in the coiled coil and cross-links to downstream domains provide insights into the self-assembly required for interaction with other extracellular matrix and cell surface proteins.
PXD003818	27818260	Nuclear Proteomics Uncovers Diurnal Regulatory Landscapes in Mouse Liver. 	Diurnal regulatory landscape of the mouse liver nucleus	circadian rythms, liver, nucleus, orbitrap	Diurnal oscillations of gene expression controlled by the circadian clock and its connected feeding rhythm enable organisms to coordinate their physiologies with daily environmental cycles. While available techniques yielded crucial insights into regulation at the transcriptional level, much less is known about temporally controlled functions within the nucleus and their regulation at the protein level. Here, we quantified the temporal nuclear accumulation of proteins and phosphoproteins from mouse liver by SILAC proteomics. We identified around 5,000 nuclear proteins, over 500 of which showed a diurnal accumulation. Parallel analysis of the nuclear phosphoproteome enabled the inference of the temporal activity of kinases accounting for rhythmic phosphorylation. Many identified rhythmic proteins were parts of nuclear complexes involved in transcriptional regulation, ribosome biogenesis, DNA repair, and the cell cycle and its potentially associated diurnal rhythm of hepatocyte polyploidy. Taken together, these findings provide unprecedented insights into the diurnal regulatory landscape of the mouse liver nucleus.
PXD003580	27818347	Evaluation of the Tobacco Heating System 2.2. Part 7: Systems toxicological assessment of a mentholated version revealed reduced cellular and molecular exposure effects compared with mentholated and non-mentholated cigarette smoke. 	Systems toxicological assessment of the mentholated Tobacco Heating System 2.2 product revealed reduced cellular and molecular exposure effects compared to cigarette smoke [quantitative proteomics of lung tissue]	iTRAQ, rat inhalation study, reduced risk tobacco product, systems toxicology	Modified risk tobacco products (MRTPs) are being developed with the aim of reducing smoking-related health risks. The Tobacco Heating System 2.2 (THS2.2) is a candidate MRTP that uses the heat-not-burn principle. Here, systems toxicology approaches were engaged to assess the respiratory effects of mentholated THS2.2 (THS2.2M) in a 90-day rat inhalation study (OECD test guideline 413). The standard endpoints were complemented by transcriptomics and quantitative proteomics analyses of respiratory nasal epithelium and lung tissue and by lipidomics analysis of lung tissue. The adaptive response of the respiratory nasal epithelium to conventional cigarette smoke (CS) included squamous cell metaplasia and an inflammatory response, with high correspondence between the molecular and histopathological results. In contrast to CS exposure, the adaptive tissue and molecular changes to THS2.2M aerosol exposure were much weaker and were limited mostly to the highest THS2.2M concentration in female rats. In the lung, CS exposure induced an inflammatory response, triggered cellular stress responses, and affected sphingolipid metabolism. These responses were not observed or were much lower after THS2.2M aerosol exposure. Overall, this system toxicology analysis complements and reconfirms the results from classical toxicological endpoints and further suggests potentially reduced health risks of THS2.2M.
PXD004912	27820601	SCAI promotes DNA double-strand break repair in distinct chromosomal contexts. 	SCAI promotes DNA double-strand break repair in distinct chromosomal contexts	APMS, DNA repair	DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are highly cytotoxic DNA lesions, whose accurate repair by non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) or homologous recombination (HR) is crucial for genome integrity and is strongly influenced by the local chromatin environment. Here, we identify SCAI (suppressor of cancer cell invasion) as a 53BP1-interacting chromatin-associated protein that promotes the functionality of several DSB repair pathways in mammalian cells. SCAI undergoes prominent enrichment at DSB sites through dual mechanisms involving 53BP1-dependent recruitment to DSB-surrounding chromatin and 53BP1-independent accumulation at resected DSBs. Cells lacking SCAI display reduced DSB repair capacity, hypersensitivity to DSB-inflicting agents and genome instability. We demonstrate that SCAI is a mediator of 53BP1-dependent repair of heterochromatin-associated DSBs, facilitating ATM kinase signalling at DSBs in repressive chromatin environments. Moreover, we establish an important role of SCAI in meiotic recombination, as SCAI deficiency in mice leads to germ cell loss and subfertility associated with impaired retention of the DMC1 recombinase on meiotic chromosomes. Collectively, our findings uncover SCAI as a physiologically important component of both NHEJ- and HR-mediated pathways that potentiates DSB repair efficiency in specific chromatin contexts.
PXD001481	27821049	Large scale analysis of amino acid substitutions in bacterial proteomics. 	H.pylori, N.gonorrhoeae, E.coli LC-MS/MS	E.coli LC-MS/MS, H.pylori, N.gonorrhoeae	BACKGROUND: Proteomics of bacterial pathogens is a developing field exploring microbial physiology, gene expression and the complex interactions between bacteria and their hosts. One of the complications in proteomic approach is micro- and macro-heterogeneity of bacterial species, which makes it impossible to build a comprehensive database of bacterial genomes for identification, while most of the existing algorithms rely largely on genomic data. RESULTS: Here we present a large scale study of identification of single amino acid polymorphisms between bacterial strains. An ad hoc method was developed based on MS/MS spectra comparison without the support of a genomic database. Whole-genome sequencing was used to validate the accuracy of polymorphism detection. Several approaches presented earlier to the proteomics community as useful for polymorphism detection were tested on isolates of Helicobacter pylori, Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Escherichia coli. CONCLUSION: The developed method represents a perspective approach in the field of bacterial proteomics allowing to identify hundreds of peptides with novel SAPs from a single proteome.
PXD003031	27821475	Asc1p/RACK1 Connects Ribosomes to Eukaryotic Phosphosignaling. 	Phosphorylation of Asc1p and Asc1p-dependent phospho-proteome	Asc1p, RACK1, SILAC, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, phosphorylation, signal transduction, translation	WD40 repeat proteins fold into characteristic beta-propeller structures and control signaling circuits during cellular adaptation processes within eukaryotes. The RACK1 protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Asc1p, consists exclusively of a single seven-bladed beta-propeller that operates from the ribosomal base at the head region of the 40S subunit. Here we show that the R38D K40E ribosomal binding-compromised variant (Asc1DEp) is severely destabilized through mutation of phosphosite T143 to a dephosphorylation-mimicking alanine, probably through proteasomal degradation, leading to asc1(-) phenotypes. Phosphosite Y250 contributes to resistance to translational inhibitors but does not influence Asc1DEp stability. Beyond its own phosphorylation at T143, Y250, and other sites, Asc1p heavily influences the phosphorylation of as many as 90 proteins at 120 sites. Many of these proteins are regulators of fundamental processes ranging from mRNA translation to protein transport and turnover, cytoskeleton organization, and cellular signaling. Our data expose Asc1p/RACK1 as a key factor in phosphosignaling and manifest it as a control point at the head of the ribosomal 40S subunit itself regulated through posttranslational modification.
PXD003672	27822545	Proteome Remodeling in Response to Sulfur Limitation in "Candidatus Pelagibacter ubique". 	Proteome Remodeling in Response to Sulfur Limitation in Candidatus Pelagibacter ubique	SAR11, marine, sulfur	The alphaproteobacterium "Candidatus Pelagibacter ubique" strain HTCC1062 and most other members of the SAR11 clade lack genes for assimilatory sulfate reduction, making them dependent on organosulfur compounds that occur naturally in seawater. To investigate how these cells adapt to sulfur limitation, batch cultures were grown in defined medium containing either limiting or nonlimiting amounts of dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) as the sole sulfur source. Protein and mRNA expression were measured before, during, and after the transition from exponential growth to stationary phase. Two distinct responses were observed, one as DMSP became exhausted and another as the cells acclimated to a sulfur-limited environment. The first response was characterized by increased transcription and translation of all "Ca. Pelagibacter ubique" genes downstream from the previously confirmed S-adenosyl methionine (SAM) riboswitches bhmT, mmuM, and metY. The proteins encoded by these genes were up to 33 times more abundant as DMSP became limiting. Their predicted function is to shunt all available sulfur to methionine. The secondary response, observed during sulfur-limited stationary phase, was a 6- to 10-fold increase in the transcription of the heme c shuttle-encoding gene ccmC and two small genes of unknown function (SAR11_1163 and SAR11_1164). This bacterium's strategy for coping with sulfur stress appears to be intracellular redistribution to support methionine biosynthesis rather than increasing organosulfur import. Many of the genes and SAM riboswitches involved in this response are located in a hypervariable genome region (HVR). One of these HVR genes, ordL, is located downstream from a conserved motif that evidence suggests is a novel riboswitch. IMPORTANCE "Ca. Pelagibacter ubique" is a key driver of marine biogeochemistry cycles and a model for understanding how minimal genomes evolved in free-living anucleate organisms. This study explores the unusual sulfur acquisition strategy that has evolved in these cells, which lack assimilatory sulfate reduction and instead rely on reduced sulfur compounds found in oxic marine environments to meet their cellular quotas. Our findings demonstrate that the sulfur acquisition systems are constitutively expressed but the enzymatic steps leading to the essential sulfur-containing amino acid methionine are regulated by a unique array of riboswitches and genes, many of which are encoded in a rapidly evolving genome region. These findings support mounting evidence that streamlined cells have evolved regulatory mechanisms that minimize transcriptional switching and, unexpectedly, localize essential sulfur acquisition genes in a genome region normally associated with adaption to environmental variation.
PXD004512	27822555	Novel Syntrophic Populations Dominate an Ammonia-Tolerant Methanogenic Microbiome. 	Novel syntrophic populations dominate an ammonia-tolerant methanogenic microbiome	SAOB, biogas reactor, metaproteomics	Biogas reactors operating with protein-rich substrates have high methane potential and industrial value; however, they are highly susceptible to process failure because of the accumulation of ammonia. High ammonia levels cause a decline in acetate-utilizing methanogens and instead promote the conversion of acetate via a two-step mechanism involving syntrophic acetate oxidation (SAO) to H2 and CO2, followed by hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis. Despite the key role of syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria (SAOB), only a few culturable representatives have been characterized. Here we show that the microbiome of a commercial, ammonia-tolerant biogas reactor harbors a deeply branched, uncultured phylotype (unFirm_1) accounting for approximately 5% of the 16S rRNA gene inventory and sharing 88% 16S rRNA gene identity with its closest characterized relative. Reconstructed genome and quantitative metaproteomic analyses imply unFirm_1's metabolic dominance and SAO capabilities, whereby the key enzymes required for acetate oxidation are among the most highly detected in the reactor microbiome. While culturable SAOB were identified in genomic analyses of the reactor, their limited proteomic representation suggests that unFirm_1 plays an important role in channeling acetate toward methane. Notably, unFirm_1-like populations were found in other high-ammonia biogas installations, conjecturing a broader importance for this novel clade of SAOB in anaerobic fermentations. IMPORTANCE The microbial production of methane or "biogas" is an attractive renewable energy technology that can recycle organic waste into biofuel. Biogas reactors operating with protein-rich substrates such as household municipal or agricultural wastes have significant industrial and societal value; however, they are highly unstable and frequently collapse due to the accumulation of ammonia. We report the discovery of a novel uncultured phylotype (unFirm_1) that is highly detectable in metaproteomic data generated from an ammonia-tolerant commercial reactor. Importantly, unFirm_1 is proposed to perform a key metabolic step in biogas microbiomes, whereby it syntrophically oxidizes acetate to hydrogen and carbon dioxide, which methanogens then covert to methane. Only very few culturable syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria have been described, and all were detected at low in situ levels compared to unFirm_1. Broader comparisons produced the hypothesis that unFirm_1 is a key mediator toward the successful long-term stable operation of biogas production using protein-rich substrates.
PXD004293	27824121	Sequence basis of Barnacle Cement Nanostructure is Defined by Proteins with Silk Homology. 	Sequence basis of Barnacle Cement Nanostructure is Defined by Proteins with Silk Homology	adhesion, barnacle, cement, cement proteins, silk	Barnacles adhere by producing a mixture of cement proteins (CPs) that organize into a permanently bonded layer displayed as nanoscale fibers. These cement proteins share no homology with any other marine adhesives, and a common sequence-basis that defines how nanostructures function as adhesives remains undiscovered. Here we demonstrate that a significant unidentified portion of acorn barnacle cement is comprised of low complexity proteins; they are organized into repetitive sequence blocks and found to maintain homology to silk motifs. Proteomic analysis of aggregate bands from PAGE gels reveal an abundance of Gly/Ala/Ser/Thr repeats exemplified by a prominent, previously unidentified, 43 kDa protein in the solubilized adhesive. Low complexity regions found throughout the cement proteome, as well as multiple lysyl oxidases and peroxidases, establish homology with silk-associated materials such as fibroin, silk gum sericin, and pyriform spidroins from spider silk. Distinct primary structures defined by homologous domains shed light on how barnacles use low complexity in nanofibers to enable adhesion, and serves as a starting point for unraveling the molecular architecture of a robust and unique class of adhesive nanostructures.
PXD005277	27824369	Proteomics profiling of interactome dynamics by colocalisation analysis (COLA). 	isobaric Colocalisation analysis (iCOLA) of A375P and A375M2 melanoma cells	COLA, interactome, protein-protein interactions, spatial proteomics	Localisation and protein function are intimately linked in eukaryotes, as proteins are localised to specific compartments where they come into proximity of other functionally relevant proteins. Significant co-localisation of two proteins can therefore be indicative of their functional association. We here present COLA, a proteomics based strategy coupled with a bioinformatics framework to detect protein-protein co-localisations on a global scale. COLA reveals functional interactions by matching proteins with significant similarity in their subcellular localisation signatures. The rapid nature of COLA allows mapping of interactome dynamics across different conditions or treatments with high precision.
PXD005095	27826303	A Role for Barley Calcium-Dependent Protein Kinase CPK2a in the Response to Drought. 	A role for barley calcium-dependent protein kinase CPK2a in the response to drought	Hordeum vulgare L., calcium-dependent kinase, drought stress, phosphorylation, post-translational modification (PTM)	Increasing the drought tolerance of crops is one of the most challenging goals in plant breeding. To improve crop productivity during periods of water deficit, it is essential to understand the complex regulatory pathways that adapt plant metabolism to environmental conditions. Among various plant hormones and second messengers, calcium ions are known to be involved in drought stress perception and signaling. Plants have developed specific calcium-dependent protein kinases that convert calcium signals into phosphorylation events. In this study we attempted to elucidate the role of a calcium-dependent protein kinase in the drought stress response of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), one of the most economically important crops worldwide. The ongoing barley genome project has provided useful information about genes potentially involved in the drought stress response, but information on the role of calcium-dependent kinases is still limited. We found that the gene encoding the calcium-dependent protein kinase HvCPK2a was significantly upregulated in response to drought. To better understand the role of HvCPK2a in drought stress signaling, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants that overexpressed the corresponding coding sequence. Overexpressing lines displayed drought sensitivity, reduced nitrogen balance index (NBI), an increase in total chlorophyll content and decreased relative water content. In addition, in vitro kinase assay experiments combined with mass spectrometry allowed HvCPK2a autophosphorylation sites to be identified. Our results suggest that HvCPK2a is a dual-specificity calcium-dependent protein kinase that functions as a negative regulator of the drought stress response in barley.
PXD004541	27827301	Validation and development of MTH1 inhibitors for treatment of cancer. 	CETSA proteomics to investigate drug binding in BJ Ras Sv40 cells treated with MTH1 inhibitors.	BJ Ras Sv40 cells, CETSA, LC-MS	BACKGROUND: Previously, we showed cancer cells rely on the MTH1 protein to prevent incorporation of otherwise deadly oxidised nucleotides into DNA and we developed MTH1 inhibitors which selectively kill cancer cells. Recently, several new and potent inhibitors of MTH1 were demonstrated to be non-toxic to cancer cells, challenging the utility of MTH1 inhibition as a target for cancer treatment. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Human cancer cell lines were exposed in vitro to MTH1 inhibitors or depleted of MTH1 by siRNA or shRNA. 8-oxodG was measured by immunostaining and modified comet assay. Thermal Proteome profiling, proteomics, cellular thermal shift assays, kinase and CEREP panel were used for target engagement, mode of action and selectivity investigations of MTH1 inhibitors. Effect of MTH1 inhibition on tumour growth was explored in BRAF V600E-mutated malignant melanoma patient derived xenograft and human colon cancer SW480 and HCT116 xenograft models. RESULTS: Here, we demonstrate that recently described MTH1 inhibitors, which fail to kill cancer cells, also fail to introduce the toxic oxidized nucleotides into DNA. We also describe a new MTH1 inhibitor TH1579, (Karonudib), an analogue of TH588, which is a potent, selective MTH1 inhibitor with good oral availability and demonstrates excellent pharmacokinetic and anti-cancer properties in vivo. CONCLUSION: We demonstrate that in order to kill cancer cells MTH1 inhibitors must also introduce oxidized nucleotides into DNA. Furthermore, we describe TH1579 as a best-in-class MTH1 inhibitor, which we expect to be useful in order to further validate the MTH1 inhibitor concept.
PXD004173	27833098	Neuronal GPCR OCTR-1 regulates innate immunity by controlling protein synthesis in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	N2 versus octr-1 shotgun proteomics nano MS/MS	C. elegans, MS/MS, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, octr-1	Upon pathogen infection, microbial killing pathways and cellular stress pathways are rapidly activated by the host innate immune system. These pathways must be tightly regulated because insufficient or excessive immune responses have deleterious consequences. Increasing evidence indicates that the nervous system regulates the immune system to confer coordinated protection to the host. However, the precise mechanisms of neural-immune communication remain unclear. Previously we have demonstrated that OCTR-1, a neuronal G protein-coupled receptor, functions in the sensory neurons ASH and ASI to suppress innate immune responses in non-neural tissues against Pseudomonas aeruginosa in Caenorhabditis elegans. In the current study, by using a mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics approach, we discovered that OCTR-1 regulates innate immunity by suppressing translation and the unfolded protein response (UPR) pathways at the protein level. Functional assays revealed that OCTR-1 inhibits specific protein synthesis factors such as ribosomal protein RPS-1 and translation initiation factor EIF-3.J to reduce infection-triggered protein synthesis and UPR. Translational inhibition by chemicals abolishes the OCTR-1-controlled innate immune responses, indicating that activation of the OCTR-1 pathway is dependent on translation upregulation such as that induced by pathogen infection. Because OCTR-1 downregulates protein translation activities, the OCTR-1 pathway could function to suppress excessive responses to infection or to restore protein homeostasis after infection.
PXD004236	27834373	In vivo protein interaction network analysis reveals porin-localized antibiotic inactivation in Acinetobacter baumannii strain AB5075. 	In vivo protein interaction network analysis reveals porin-localized toxin inactivation in antibiotic resistant bacteria	Acinetobacter baumannii, antibiotic resistance, carbapenem, chemical cross-linking, protein-protein interactions	The nosocomial pathogen Acinetobacter baumannii is a frequent cause of hospital-acquired infections worldwide and is a challenge for treatment due to its evolved resistance to antibiotics, including carbapenems. Here, to gain insight on A. baumannii antibiotic resistance mechanisms, we analyse the protein interaction network of a multidrug-resistant A. baumannii clinical strain (AB5075). Using in vivo chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometry, we identify 2,068 non-redundant cross-linked peptide pairs containing 245 intra- and 398 inter-molecular interactions. Outer membrane proteins OmpA and YiaD, and carbapenemase Oxa-23 are hubs of the identified interaction network. Eighteen novel interactors of Oxa-23 are identified. Interactions of Oxa-23 with outer membrane porins OmpA and CarO are verified with co-immunoprecipitation analysis. Furthermore, transposon mutagenesis of oxa-23 or interactors of Oxa-23 demonstrates changes in meropenem or imipenem sensitivity in strain AB5075. These results provide a view of porin-localized antibiotic inactivation and increase understanding of bacterial antibiotic resistance mechanisms.
PXD004945	27834733	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Fundamental Regulatory Differences in Oncogenic HRAS and Isocitrate Dehydrogenase (IDH1) Driven Astrocytoma. 	Glioma proteome -  Quantitative proteomics reveals fundamental regulatory differences in oncogenic HRAS and IDH1 driven astrocytoma	Epigenetics, MEK PI3K inhibition, Phosphoproteomics, Primary vs. secondary Glioblastoma	Glioblastoma multiformes (GBMs) are high-grade astrocytomas and the most common brain malignancies. Primary GBMs are often associated with disturbed RAS signaling, and expression of oncogenic HRAS results in a malignant phenotype in glioma cell lines. Secondary GBMs arise from lower-grade astrocytomas, have slower progression than primary tumors, and contain IDH1 mutations in over 70% of cases. Despite significant amount of accumulating genomic and transcriptomic data, the fundamental mechanistic differences of gliomagenesis in these two types of high-grade astrocytoma remain poorly understood. Only a few studies have attempted to investigate the proteome, phosphorylation signaling, and epigenetic regulation in astrocytoma. In the present study, we applied quantitative phosphoproteomics to identify the main signaling differences between oncogenic HRAS and mutant IDH1-driven glioma cells as models of primary and secondary GBM, respectively. Our analysis confirms the driving roles of the MAPK and PI3K/mTOR signaling pathways in HRAS driven cells and additionally uncovers dysregulation of other signaling pathways. Although a subset of the signaling changes mediated by HRAS could be reversed by a MEK inhibitor, dual inhibition of MEK and PI3K resulted in more complete reversal of the phosphorylation patterns produced by HRAS expression. In contrast, cells expressing mutant IDH1 did not show significant activation of MAPK or PI3K/mTOR pathways. Instead, global downregulation of protein expression was observed. Targeted proteomic analysis of histone modifications identified significant histone methylation, acetylation, and butyrylation changes in the mutant IDH1 expressing cells, consistent with a global transcriptional repressive state. Our findings offer novel mechanistic insight linking mutant IDH1 associated inhibition of histone demethylases with specific histone modification changes to produce global transcriptional repression in secondary glioblastoma. Our proteomic datasets are available for download and provide a comprehensive catalogue of alterations in protein abundance, phosphorylation, and histone modifications in oncogenic HRAS and IDH1 driven astrocytoma cells beyond the transcriptomic level.
PXD004253	27834734	Nano-liquid Chromatography-orbitrap MS-based Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Differences Between the Mechanisms of Action of Carnosic Acid and Carnosol in Colon Cancer Cells. 	Nano-liquid chromatography-orbitrap MS/MS-based quantitative proteomics reveals differences between the mechanisms of action of carnosic acid and carnosol in colon cancer cells	16 foodomics, HT-29 cells, antiproliferative activity, carnosic acid, carnosol, colon cancer, dimethyl labeling, quantitative proteomics	Carnosic acid (CA) and carnosol (CS) are two structurally related diterpenes present in rosemary herb (Rosmarinus officinalis). Although several studies have demonstrated that both diterpenes can scavenge free radicals and interfere in cellular processes such as cell proliferation, they may not necessarily exert the same effects at the molecular level. In this work, a shotgun proteomics study based on stable isotope dimethyl labeling (DML) and nano-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (nano-LC-MS/MS) has been performed to identify the relative changes in proteins and to gain some light on the specific molecular targets and mechanisms of action of CA and CS in HT-29 colon cancer cells. Protein profiles revealed that CA and CS induce different Nrf2-mediated response. Furthermore, examination of our data revealed that each diterpene affects protein homeostasis by different mechanisms. CA treatment induces the expression of proteins involved in the unfolded protein response in a concentration dependent manner reflecting ER stress, whereas CS directly inhibits chymotrypsin-like activity of the 20S proteasome. In conclusion, the unbiased proteomics-wide method applied in the present study has demonstrated to be a powerful tool to reveal differences on the mechanisms of action of two related bioactive compounds in the same biological model.
PXD004351	27838466	Candidate Brocadiales dominates C, N and S cycling in anoxic groundwater of a pristine limestone-fracture aquifer. 	Aquifer metaproteomics -  Candidate Brocadiales dominates C, N and S cycling in anoxic groundwater of a pristine limestone-fracture aquifer	groundwater, metaproteomics, microbial community	Groundwater-associated microorganisms are known to play an important role in the biogeochemical C, N and S cycling. Metaproteomics was applied to characterize the diversity and the activity of microbes to identify key species in major biogeochemical processes in the anoxic groundwater of a pristine karstic aquifer located in Hainich, central Germany. Sampling was achieved by pumping 1000L water from two sites of the upper aquifer assemblage and filtration on 0.3mum glass filters. In total, 3808 protein groups were identified. Interestingly, the two wells (H4/2 and H5/2) differed not only in microbial density but also in the prevalence of different C, N and S cycling pathways. The well H5/2 was dominated by the anaerobic ammonia-oxidizing (anammox) candidate Brocadiales (31%) while other orders such as Burkholderiales (2%) or Nitrospirales (3%) were less abundant. Otherwise, the well H4/2 featured only low biomass and remarkably fewer proteins (391 to 3631 at H5/2). Candidate Brocadiales was affiliated to all major carbon fixation strategies, and to the cycling of N and S implying a major role in biogeochemical processes of groundwater aquifers. The findings of our study support functions which can be linked to the ecosystem services provided by the microbial communities present in aquifers. SIGNIFICANCE: Subsurface environments especially the groundwater ecosystems represent a large habitat for microbial activity. Microbes are responsible for energy and nutrient cycling and are massively involved in the planet's sustainability. Microbial diversity is tremendous and the central question in current microbial ecology is "Who eats what, where and when?". In this study, we characterize a natural aquifer inhabiting microbial community to obtain evidence for the phylogenetic diversity and the metabolic activity by protein abundance and we highlight important biogeochemical cycling processes. The aquifer was dominated by Candidatus Brocadiales while other phylotypes such as Burkholderiales, Caulobacterales and Nitrospirales were less abundant. The candidate comprised all major carbon fixation strategies, ammonification, anammox and denitrification as well as assimilatory sulfate reduction. Our findings have broad implications for the understanding of microbial activities in this aquifer and consequently specific functions can be linked to the ecosystem services provided by the microbial communities present in aquifers.
PXD003850	27841257	Glucose-regulated and drug-perturbed phosphoproteome reveals molecular mechanisms controlling insulin secretion. 	Glucose-regulated and drug perturbed beta-cell phosphoproteome reveals molecular mechanisms controlling insulin secretion	Beta cells, insulin secretion, islets, phoshoproteome, systems biology	Insulin-secreting beta cells play an essential role in maintaining physiological blood glucose levels, and their dysfunction leads to the development of diabetes. To elucidate the signalling events regulating insulin secretion, we applied a recently developed phosphoproteomics workflow. We quantified the time-resolved phosphoproteome of murine pancreatic cells following their exposure to glucose and in combination with small molecule compounds that promote insulin secretion. The quantitative phosphoproteome of 30,000 sites clustered into three main groups in concordance with the modulation of the three key kinases: PKA, PKC and CK2A. A high-resolution time course revealed key novel regulatory sites, revealing the importance of methyltransferase DNMT3A phosphorylation in the glucose response. Remarkably a significant proportion of these novel regulatory sites is significantly downregulated in diabetic islets. Control of insulin secretion is embedded in an unexpectedly broad and complex range of cellular functions, which are perturbed by drugs in multiple ways.
PXD004987	27841354	Proteomic characterization of neuromelanin granules isolated from human substantia nigra by laser-microdissection. 	Proteomic characterization of neuromelanin granules isolated from human substantia nigra by laser-microdissection	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), laser microdissection, neuromelanin, substantia nigra	Neuromelanin is a complex polymer pigment found primarily in the dopaminergic neurons of human substantia nigra. Neuromelanin pigment is stored in granules including a protein matrix and lipid droplets. Neuromelanin granules are yet only partially characterised regarding their structure and function. To clarify the exact function of neuromelanin granules in humans, their enrichment and in-depth characterization from human substantia nigra is necessary. Previously published global proteome studies of neuromelanin granules in human substantia nigra required high tissue amounts. Due to the limited availability of human brain tissue we established a new method based on laser microdissection combined with mass spectrometry for the isolation and analysis of neuromelanin granules. With this method it is possible for the first time to isolate a sufficient amount of neuromelanin granules for global proteomics analysis from ten 10 mum tissue sections. In total 1,000 proteins were identified associated with neuromelanin granules. More than 68% of those proteins were also identified in previously performed studies. Our results confirm and further extend previously described findings, supporting the connection of neuromelanin granules to iron homeostasis and lysosomes or endosomes. Hence, this method is suitable for the donor specific enrichment and proteomic analysis of neuromelanin granules.
PXD004023	27841757	MHC class I-associated peptides derive from selective regions of the human genome. 	The immunopeptidome presents a selected portion of the human genome with distinct features to CD8 T cells	B cell, B lymphoblast, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), HLA-A, HLA-B, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP)	MHC class I-associated peptides (MAPs) define the immune self for CD8+ T lymphocytes and are key targets of cancer immunosurveillance. Here, the goals of our work were to determine whether the entire set of protein-coding genes could generate MAPs and whether specific features influence the ability of discrete genes to generate MAPs. Using proteogenomics, we have identified 25,270 MAPs isolated from the B lymphocytes of 18 individuals who collectively expressed 27 high-frequency HLA-A,B allotypes. The entire MAP repertoire presented by these 27 allotypes covered only 10% of the exomic sequences expressed in B lymphocytes. Indeed, 41% of expressed protein-coding genes generated no MAPs, while 59% of genes generated up to 64 MAPs, often derived from adjacent regions and presented by different allotypes. We next identified several features of transcripts and proteins associated with efficient MAP production. From these data, we built a logistic regression model that predicts with good accuracy whether a gene generates MAPs. Our results show preferential selection of MAPs from a limited repertoire of proteins with distinctive features. The notion that the MHC class I immunopeptidome presents only a small fraction of the protein-coding genome for monitoring by the immune system has profound implications in autoimmunity and cancer immunology.
PXD004916	27841876	Cardioprotection and lifespan extension by the natural polyamine spermidine. 	Spermidine treated mouse Heart LC-MS/MS	Heart, Spermidine	Aging is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and death. Here we show that oral supplementation of the natural polyamine spermidine extends the lifespan of mice and exerts cardioprotective effects, reducing cardiac hypertrophy and preserving diastolic function in old mice. Spermidine feeding enhanced cardiac autophagy, mitophagy and mitochondrial respiration, and it also improved the mechano-elastical properties of cardiomyocytes in vivo, coinciding with increased titin phosphorylation and suppressed subclinical inflammation. Spermidine feeding failed to provide cardioprotection in mice that lack the autophagy-related protein Atg5 in cardiomyocytes. In Dahl salt-sensitive rats that were fed a high-salt diet, a model for hypertension-induced congestive heart failure, spermidine feeding reduced systemic blood pressure, increased titin phosphorylation and prevented cardiac hypertrophy and a decline in diastolic function, thus delaying the progression to heart failure. In humans, high levels of dietary spermidine, as assessed from food questionnaires, correlated with reduced blood pressure and a lower incidence of cardiovascular disease. Our results suggest a new and feasible strategy for protection against cardiovascular disease.
PXD004753	27844044	SWATH-MS data of Drosophila melanogaster proteome dynamics during embryogenesis. 	Analysis of heat-shock treated Drosophila melanogaster embryos by SWATH-MS	Drosophila melanogaster, SWATH, embryo	Embryogenesis is one of the most important processes in the life of an animal. During this dynamic process, progressive cell division and cellular differentiation are accompanied by significant changes in protein expression at the level of the proteome. However, very few studies to date have described the dynamics of the proteome during the early development of an embryo in any organism. In this dataset, we monitor changes in protein expression across a timecourse of more than 20 h of Drosophila melanogaster embryonic development. Mass-spectrometry data were produced using a SWATH acquisition mode on a Sciex Triple-TOF 6600. A spectral library built in-house was used to analyse these data and more than 1950 proteins were quantified at each embryonic timepoint. The files presented here are a permanent digital map and can be reanalysed to test against new hypotheses. The data have been deposited with the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the dataset identifier PRIDE: PXD0031078.
PXD004971	27848959	Carbene footprinting accurately maps binding sites in protein-ligand and protein-protein interactions. 	Carbene Footprinting Accurately Maps Binding Sites in Protein-Ligand and Protein-Protein Interactions	Covalent labelling, USP5, carbene footprinting, lysozyme	Specific interactions between proteins and their binding partners are fundamental to life processes. The ability to detect protein complexes, and map their sites of binding, is crucial to understanding basic biology at the molecular level. Methods that employ sensitive analytical techniques such as mass spectrometry have the potential to provide valuable insights with very little material and on short time scales. Here we present a differential protein footprinting technique employing an efficient photo-activated probe for use with mass spectrometry. Using this methodology the location of a carbohydrate substrate was accurately mapped to the binding cleft of lysozyme, and in a more complex example, the interactions between a 100 kDa, multi-domain deubiquitinating enzyme, USP5 and a diubiquitin substrate were located to different functional domains. The much improved properties of this probe make carbene footprinting a viable method for rapid and accurate identification of protein binding sites utilizing benign, near-UV photoactivation.
PXD004966	27852625	Stabilization of the metaphase spindle by Cdc14 is required for recombinational DNA repair. 	Identification of Cdc14 phopho-targets in response to DNA damage	Cdc14, DNA damage, Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Cells are constantly threatened by multiple sources of genotoxic stress that cause DNA damage. To maintain genome integrity, cells have developed a coordinated signalling network called DNA damage response (DDR). While multiple kinases have been thoroughly studied during DDR activation, the role of protein dephosphorylation in the damage response remains elusive. Here, we show that the phosphatase Cdc14 is essential to fulfil recombinational DNA repair in budding yeast. After DNA double-strand break (DSB) generation, Cdc14 is transiently released from the nucleolus and activated. In this state, Cdc14 targets the spindle pole body (SPB) component Spc110 to counterbalance its phosphorylation by cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk). Alterations in the Cdk/Cdc14-dependent phosphorylation status of Spc110, or its inactivation during the induction of a DNA lesion, generate abnormal oscillatory SPB movements that disrupt DSB-SPB interactions. Remarkably, these defects impair DNA repair by homologous recombination indicating that SPB integrity is essential during the repair process. Together, these results show that Cdc14 promotes spindle stability and DSB-SPB tethering during DNA repair, and imply that metaphase spindle maintenance is a critical feature of the repair process.
PXD005008	27852626	Negative regulation of type I IFN signaling by phosphorylation of STAT2 on T387. 	Negative regulation of Type I IFN signaling by phosphorylation of STAT2 on T387	Phosphorylation, STAT2	The transcription factor ISGF3, comprised of IRF9 and tyrosine-phosphorylated STATs 1 and 2, transmits the signal from the type I interferon receptor to the genome. We have discovered a novel phosphorylation of STAT2 on T387 that negatively regulates this response. In most untreated cell types, the majority of STAT2 is phosphorylated on T387 constitutively. In response to interferon-beta, the T387A mutant of STAT2 is much more effective than wild-type STAT2 in mediating the expression of many interferon-stimulated genes, in protecting cells against virus infection, and in inhibiting cell growth. Interferon-beta-treated cells expressing wild-type STAT2 contain much less ISGF3 capable of binding to an interferon-stimulated response element than do cells expressing T387A STAT2. T387 lies in a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) consensus sequence, and CDK inhibitors decrease T387 phosphorylation. Using CDK inhibitors to reverse the constitutive inhibitory phosphorylation of T387 of U-STAT2 might enhance the efficacy of type I interferons in many different clinical settings.
PXD003431	27852650	Multiparameter functional diversity of human C2H2 zinc finger proteins. 	Multiparameter functional diversity of human C2H2 zinc finger proteins	C2H2 zinc finger proteins, protein protein interaction, regulation of transcription, transcription factors	C2H2 zinc finger proteins represent the largest and most enigmatic class of human transcription factors. Their C2H2-ZF arrays are highly variable, indicating that most will have unique DNA binding motifs. However, most of the binding motifs have not been directly determined. In addition, little is known about whether or how these proteins regulate transcription. Most of the ~700 human C2H2-ZF proteins also contain at least one KRAB, SCAN, BTB, or SET domain, suggesting that they may have common interacting partners and/or effector functions. Here, we report a multifaceted functional analysis of 131 human C2H2-ZF proteins, encompassing DNA binding sites, interacting proteins, and transcriptional response to genetic perturbation. We confirm the expected diversity in DNA binding motifs and genomic binding sites, and provide motif models for 78 previously uncharacterized C2H2-ZF proteins, most of which are unique. Surprisingly, the diversity in protein-protein interactions is nearly as high as diversity in DNA binding motifs: Most C2H2-ZF proteins interact with a unique spectrum of co-activators and co-repressors. Thus, multiparameter diversification likely underlies the evolutionary success of this large class of human proteins.
PXD004665	27852747	Enzyme Kinetics for Complex System Enables Accurate Determination of Specificity Constants of Numerous Substrates in a Mixture by Proteomics Platform. 	Jurkat 2D-LC-MS/MS -  Enzyme Kinetics for Complex System Enables Accurate Determination of Specificity Constants of Numerous Substrates in a Mixture by Proteomics Platform	Glu-C, Jurkat, catalytic efficiency	Many important experiments in proteomics including protein digestion, enzyme substrate screening, enzymatic labeling, etc., involve the enzymatic reactions in a complex system where numerous substrates coexists with an enzyme. However, the enzyme kinetics in such a system remains unexplored and poorly understood. Herein, we derived and validated the kinetics equations for the enzymatic reactions in complex system. We developed an iteration approach to depict the enzymatic reactions in complex system. It was validated by 630 time-course points from 24 enzymatic reaction experiments and was demonstrated to be a powerful tool to simulate the reactions in the complex system. By applying this approach, we found that the ratio of substrate depletion is independent of other coexisted substrates under specific condition. This observation was then validated by experiments. Based on this striking observation, a simplified model was developed to determine the catalytic efficiencies of numerous competing substrates presented in the complex enzyme reaction system. When coupled with high-throughput quantitative proteomics technique, this simplified model enabled the accurate determination of catalytic efficiencies for 2369 peptide substrates of a protease by using only one enzymatic reaction experiment. Thus, this study provided, in the first time, a validated model for the large scale determination of specificity constants which could enable the enzyme substrate screening approach turned from a qualitative method of identifying substrates to a quantitative method of identifying and prioritizing substrates. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004665.
PXD004190	27852748	Quantitative GTPase Affinity Purification Identifies Rho Family Protein Interaction Partners. 	Quantitative GTPase affinity purification identifies Rho family protein interaction partners	Rho GTPase, interaction proteomics	Although Rho GTPases are essential molecular switches involved in many cellular processes, an unbiased experimental comparison of their interaction partners was not yet performed. Here, we develop quantitative GTPase affinity purification (qGAP) to systematically identify interaction partners of six Rho GTPases (Cdc42, Rac1, RhoA, RhoB, RhoC, and RhoD), depending on their nucleotide loading state. The method works with cell line or tissue-derived protein lysates in combination with SILAC-based or label-free quantification, respectively. We demonstrate that qGAP identifies known and novel binding partners that can be validated in an independent assay. Our interaction network for six Rho GTPases contains many novel binding partners, reveals highly promiscuous interaction of several effectors, and mirrors evolutionary relationships among Rho GTPases.
PXD005082	27863225	EPOP Functionally Links Elongin and Polycomb in Pluripotent Stem Cells. 	AP-MS of EPOP in mouse embryonic stem cells	ESC, PRC2, Polycomb	The cellular plasticity of pluripotent stem cells is thought to be sustained by genomic regions that display both active and repressive chromatin properties. These regions exhibit low levels of gene expression, yet the mechanisms controlling these levels remain unknown. Here, we describe Elongin BC as a binding factor at the promoters of bivalent sites. Biochemical and genome-wide analyses show that Elongin BC is associated with Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) in pluripotent stem cells. Elongin BC is recruited to chromatin by the PRC2-associated factor EPOP (Elongin BC and Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 Associated Protein, also termed C17orf96, esPRC2p48, E130012A19Rik), a protein expressed in the inner cell mass of the mouse blastocyst. Both EPOP and Elongin BC are required to maintain low levels of expression at PRC2 genomic targets. Our results indicate that keeping the balance between activating and repressive cues is a more general feature of chromatin in pluripotent stem cells than previously appreciated.
PXD005297	27864514	Proteomics and comparative genomics of Nitrososphaera viennensis reveal the core genome and adaptations of archaeal ammonia oxidizers. 	Proteomics and comparative genomics of Nitrososphaera viennensis	ammonia oxidation, archaea, biofilm	Ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) are among the most abundant microorganisms and key players in the global nitrogen and carbon cycles. They share a common energy metabolism but represent a heterogeneous group with respect to their environmental distribution and adaptions, growth requirements, and genome contents. We report here the genome and proteome of Nitrososphaera viennensis EN76, the type species of the archaeal class Nitrososphaeria of the phylum Thaumarchaeota encompassing all known AOA. N. viennensis is a soil organism with a 2.52-Mb genome and 3,123 predicted protein-coding genes. Proteomic analysis revealed that nearly 50% of the predicted genes were translated under standard laboratory growth conditions. Comparison with genomes of closely related species of the predominantly terrestrial Nitrososphaerales as well as the more streamlined marine Nitrosopumilales [Candidatus (Ca.) order] and the acidophile "Ca. Nitrosotalea devanaterra" revealed a core genome of AOA comprising 860 genes, which allowed for the reconstruction of central metabolic pathways common to all known AOA and expressed in the N. viennensis and "Ca Nitrosopelagicus brevis" proteomes. Concomitantly, we were able to identify candidate proteins for as yet unidentified crucial steps in central metabolisms. In addition to unraveling aspects of core AOA metabolism, we identified specific metabolic innovations associated with the Nitrososphaerales mediating growth and survival in the soil milieu, including the capacity for biofilm formation, cell surface modifications and cell adhesion, and carbohydrate conversions as well as detoxification of aromatic compounds and drugs.
PXD003578	27867116	Automatic and rapid identification of glycopeptides by nano-UPLC-LTQ-FT-MS and proteomic search engine. 	Glycopeptide identification by LC-MS/MS	Glycopeptide, byonic	Here we demonstrate the potential of nano-UPLC-LTQ-FT-MS and the Byonic(TM) proteomic search engine for the separation, detection, and identification of N- and O-glycopeptide glycoforms in standard glycoproteins. The use of a BEH C18 nanoACQUITY column allowed the separation of the glycopeptides present in the glycoprotein digest and a baseline-resolution of the glycoforms of the same glycopeptide on the basis of the number of sialic acids. Moreover, we evaluated several acquisition strategies in order to improve the detection and characterization of glycopeptide glycoforms with the maximum number of identification percentages. The proposed strategy is simple to set up with the technology platforms commonly used in proteomic labs. The method allows the straightforward and rapid obtention of a general glycosylated map of a given protein, including glycosites and their corresponding glycosylated structures. The MS strategy selected in this work, based on a gas phase fractionation approach, led to 136 unique peptides from four standard proteins, which represented 78% of the total number of peptides identified. Moreover, the method does not require an extra glycopeptide enrichment step, thus preventing the bias that this step could cause towards certain glycopeptide species. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003578. SIGNIFICANCE: We propose a simple and high-throughput glycoproteomics-based methodology that allows the separation of glycopeptide glycoforms on the basis of the number of sialic acids, and their automatic and rapid identification without prior knowledge of protein glycosites or type and structure of the glycans.
PXD026391	27868065	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Light-Induced Mycelial Brown Film Formation in Lentinula edodes. 	Light-induced in proteome of L.edodes during BF formation	BF formation, L.edodes, light	Light-induced brown film (BF) formation by the vegetative mycelium of Lentinula edodes is important for ensuring the quantity and quality of this edible mushroom. Nevertheless, the molecular mechanism underlying this phenotype is still unclear. In this study, a comparative proteomic analysis of mycelial BF formation in L. edodes was performed. Seventy-three protein spots with at least a twofold difference in abundance on two-dimensional electrophoresis (2DE) maps were observed, and 52 of them were successfully identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization tandem time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/TOF/MS). These proteins were classified into the following functional categories: small molecule metabolic processes (39%), response to oxidative stress (5%), and organic substance catabolic processes (5%), followed by oxidation-reduction processes (3%), single-organism catabolic processes (3%), positive regulation of protein complex assembly (3%), and protein metabolic processes (3%). Interestingly, four of the proteins that were upregulated in response to light exposure were nucleoside diphosphate kinases. To our knowledge, this is the first proteomic analysis of the mechanism of BF formation in L. edodes. Our data will provide a foundation for future detailed investigations of the proteins linked to BF formation.
PXD004894	27869121	Direct identification of clinically relevant neoepitopes presented on native human melanoma tissue by mass spectrometry. 	Direct identification of clinically relevant neoepitopes presented on native human melanoma tissue by mass spectrometry	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, immunopeptidomics, machine learning, submit	Although mutations may represent attractive targets for immunotherapy, direct identification of mutated peptide ligands isolated from human leucocyte antigens (HLA) on the surface of native tumour tissue has so far not been successful. Using advanced mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, we survey the melanoma-associated immunopeptidome to a depth of 95,500 patient-presented peptides. We thereby discover a large spectrum of attractive target antigen candidates including cancer testis antigens and phosphopeptides. Most importantly, we identify peptide ligands presented on native tumour tissue samples harbouring somatic mutations. Four of eleven mutated ligands prove to be immunogenic by neoantigen-specific T-cell responses. Moreover, tumour-reactive T cells with specificity for selected neoantigens identified by MS are detected in the patient's tumour and peripheral blood. We conclude that direct identification of mutated peptide ligands from primary tumour material by MS is possible and yields true neoepitopes with high relevance for immunotherapeutic strategies in cancer.
PXD003073	27869123	A systems study reveals concurrent activation of AMPK and mTOR by amino acids. 	A systems study reveals concurrent activation of AMPK and mTOR by amino acids	AMPK, SILAC, mTOR, phosphoproteomics, system modelling	Amino acids (aa) are not only building blocks for proteins, but also signalling molecules, with the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) acting as a key mediator. However, little is known about whether aa, independently of mTORC1, activate other kinases of the mTOR signalling network. To delineate aa-stimulated mTOR network dynamics, we here combine a computational-experimental approach with text mining-enhanced quantitative proteomics. We report that AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) and mTOR complex 2 (mTORC2) are acutely activated by aa-readdition in an mTORC1-independent manner. AMPK activation by aa is mediated by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase beta (CaMKKbeta). In response, AMPK impinges on the autophagy regulators Unc-51-like kinase-1 (ULK1) and c-Jun. AMPK is widely recognized as an mTORC1 antagonist that is activated by starvation. We find that aa acutely activate AMPK concurrently with mTOR. We show that AMPK under aa sufficiency acts to sustain autophagy. This may be required to maintain protein homoeostasis and deliver metabolite intermediates for biosynthetic processes.
PXD003240	27871150	Integrated proteomics and metabolomics suggests symbiotic metabolism and multimodal regulation in a fungal-endobacterial system. 	Characterization of Mortierella elongata/Candidatus Glomeribacter sp. symbiotic system	Candidatus Glomeribacter sp., Mortierella elongata, endosymbiosis	Many plant-associated fungi host endosymbiotic endobacteria with reduced genomes. While endobacteria play important roles in these tri-partite plant-fungal-endobacterial systems, the active physiology of fungal endobacteria has not been characterized extensively by systems biology approaches. Here, we use integrated proteomics and metabolomics to characterize the relationship between the endobacterium Mycoavidus sp. and the root-associated fungus Mortierella elongata. In nitrogen-poor media, M. elongata had decreased growth but hosted a large and growing endobacterial population. The active endobacterium likely extracted malate from the fungal host as the primary carbon substrate for energy production and biosynthesis of phospho-sugars, nucleobases, peptidoglycan and some amino acids. The endobacterium obtained nitrogen by importing a variety of nitrogen-containing compounds. Further, nitrogen limitation significantly perturbed the carbon and nitrogen flows in the fungal metabolic network. M. elongata regulated many pathways by concordant changes on enzyme abundances, post-translational modifications, reactant concentrations and allosteric effectors. Such multimodal regulations may be a general mechanism for metabolic modulation.
PXD004154	27871366	Metalloprotease SPRTN/DVC1 Orchestrates Replication-Coupled DNA-Protein Crosslink Repair. 	Metalloprotease SPRTN/DVC1 Orchestrates Replication-Coupled DNA-Protein Crosslink Removal	DNA-Protein Crosslink	The cytotoxicity of DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) is largely ascribed to their ability to block the progression of DNA replication. DPCs frequently occur in cells, either as a consequence of metabolism or exogenous agents, but the mechanism of DPC repair is not completely understood. Here, we characterize SPRTN as a specialized DNA-dependent and DNA replication-coupled metalloprotease for DPC repair. SPRTN cleaves various DNA binding substrates during S-phase progression and thus protects proliferative cells from DPC toxicity. Ruijs-Aalfs syndrome (RJALS) patient cells with monogenic and biallelic mutations in SPRTN are hypersensitive to DPC-inducing agents due to a defect in DNA replication fork progression and the inability to eliminate DPCs. We propose that SPRTN protease represents a specialized DNA replication-coupled DPC repair pathway essential for DNA replication progression and genome stability. Defective SPRTN-dependent clearance of DPCs is the molecular mechanism underlying RJALS, and DPCs are contributing to accelerated aging and cancer.
PXD005494	27872192	The Chromatin Assembly Factor Complex 1 (CAF1) and 5-Azacytidine (5-AzaC) Affect Cell Motility in Src-transformed Human Epithelial Cells. 	The chromatin assembly factor complex 1 (CAF1) and 5-Azacytidine (5-AzaC) affect cell motility in Src-transformed human epithelial cells	epigenetics, invasion	Tumor invasion into surrounding stromal tissue is a hallmark of high grade, metastatic cancers. Oncogenic transformation of human epithelial cells in culture can be triggered by activation of v-Src kinase, resulting in increased cell motility, invasiveness, and tumorigenicity and provides a valuable model for studying how changes in gene expression cause cancer phenotypes. Here, we show that epithelial cells transformed by activated Src show increased levels of DNA methylation and that the methylation inhibitor 5-azacytidine (5-AzaC) potently blocks the increased cell motility and invasiveness induced by Src activation. A proteomic screen for chromatin regulators acting downstream of activated Src identified the replication-dependent histone chaperone CAF1 as an important factor for Src-mediated increased cell motility and invasion. We show that Src causes a 5-AzaC-sensitive decrease in both mRNA and protein levels of the p150 (CHAF1A) and p60 (CHAF1B), subunits of CAF1. Depletion of CAF1 in untransformed epithelial cells using siRNA was sufficient to recapitulate the increased motility and invasive phenotypes characteristic of transformed cells without activation of Src. Maintaining high levels of CAF1 by exogenous expression suppressed the increased cell motility and invasiveness phenotypes when Src was activated. These data identify a critical role of CAF1 in the dysregulation of cell invasion and motility phenotypes seen in transformed cells and also highlight an important role for epigenetic remodeling through DNA methylation for Src-mediated induction of cancer phenotypes.
PXD004014	27872998	PpEst is a novel PBAT degrading polyesterase identified by proteomic screening of Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes. 	Polyesterase discovery in Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes secretome	PBAT, Pseudomonas, arylesterase, polyester, polyesterase, polymer, secretome	A novel esterase, PpEst, that hydrolyses the co-aromatic-aliphatic polyester poly(1,4-butylene adipate-co-terephthalate) (PBAT) was identified by proteomic screening of the Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes secretome. PpEst was induced by the presence of PBAT in the growth media and had predicted arylesterase (EC 3.1.1.2) activity. PpEst showed polyesterase activity on both whole and milled PBAT film releasing terephthalic acid and 4-(4-hydroxybutoxycarbonyl)benzoic acid while end product inhibition by 4-(4-hydroxybutoxycarbonyl)benzoic acid was observed. Modelling of an aromatic polyester mimicking oligomer into the PpEst active site indicated that the binding pocket could be big enough to accommodate large polymers. This is the first report of a PBAT degrading enzyme being identified by proteomic screening and shows that this approach can contribute to the discovery of new polymer hydrolysing enzymes. Moreover, these results indicate that arylesterases could be an interesting enzyme class for identifications of polyesterases.
PXD002882	27876802	Altered intestinal microbiota-host mitochondria crosstalk in new onset Crohn's disease. 	Altered Intestinal Microbiota-Host Mitochondria Crosstalk in New Onset Crohn's Disease	Crohns Disease, Gut, IBD, Microbiota	Intestinal microbial dysbiosis is associated with Crohn's disease (CD). However, the mechanisms leading to the chronic mucosal inflammation that characterizes this disease remain unclear. In this report, we use systems-level approaches to study the interactions between the gut microbiota and host in new-onset paediatric patients to evaluate causality and mechanisms of disease. We report an altered host proteome in CD patients indicative of impaired mitochondrial functions. In particular, mitochondrial proteins implicated in H2S detoxification are downregulated, while the relative abundance of H2S microbial producers is increased. Network correlation analysis reveals that Atopobium parvulum controls the central hub of H2S producers. A. parvulum induces pancolitis in colitis-susceptible interleukin-10-deficient mice and this phenotype requires the presence of the intestinal microbiota. Administrating the H2S scavenger bismuth mitigates A. parvulum-induced colitis in vivo. This study reveals that host-microbiota interactions are disturbed in CD and thus provides mechanistic insights into CD pathogenesis.
PXD004625	27879288	Multi-omics Analysis of Serum Samples Demonstrates Reprogramming of Organ Functions Via Systemic Calcium Mobilization and Platelet Activation in Metastatic Melanoma. 	Multi-omics analysis of serum samples demonstrates reprogramming of organ functions via systemic calcium mobilization and platelet activation in metastatic melanoma patients - proteins from serum samples of melanoma patients with low tumor load	Metastatic melanoma, cachexia, calcium mobilization, damage signature, platelet activation, serum analysis, shotgun proteomics	Pathophysiologies of cancer-associated syndromes such as cachexia are poorly understood and no routine biomarkers have been established, yet. Using shotgun proteomics, known marker molecules including PMEL, CRP, SAA, and CSPG4 were found deregulated in patients with metastatic melanoma. Targeted analysis of 58 selected proteins with multiple reaction monitoring was applied for independent data verification. In three patients, two of which suffered from cachexia, a tissue damage signature was determined, consisting of nine proteins, PLTP, CD14, TIMP1, S10A8, S10A9, GP1BA, PTPRJ, CD44, and C4A, as well as increased levels of glycine and asparagine, and decreased levels of polyunsaturated phosphatidylcholine concentrations, as determined by targeted metabolomics. Remarkably, these molecules are known to be involved in key processes of cancer cachexia. Based on these results, we propose a model how metastatic melanoma may lead to reprogramming of organ functions via formation of platelet activating factors from long-chain polyunsaturated phosphatidylcholines under oxidative conditions and via systemic induction of intracellular calcium mobilization. Calcium mobilization in platelets was demonstrated to alter levels of several of these marker molecules. Additionally, platelets from melanoma patients proved to be in a rather exhausted state, and platelet-derived eicosanoids implicated in tumor growth were found massively increased in blood from three melanoma patients. Platelets were thus identified as important source of serum protein and lipid alterations in late stage melanoma patients. As a result, the proposed model describes the crosstalk between lipolysis of fat tissue and muscle wasting mediated by oxidative stress, resulting in the metabolic deregulations characteristic for cachexia.
PXD004957	27880911	USP44 Is an Integral Component of N-CoR that Contributes to Gene Repression by Deubiquitinating Histone H2B. 	Tandem affinity purification and Multidimensional Protein Identification Technology to identify USP44 interacting proteins	Affinity Purification, H2B ubiquitination, MudPIT, N-CoR complex, USP44 deubiquitinase	Decreased expression of the USP44 deubiquitinase has been associated with global increases in H2Bub1 levels during mouse embryonic stem cell (mESC) differentiation. However, whether USP44 directly deubiquitinates histone H2B or how its activity is targeted to chromatin is not known. We identified USP44 as an integral subunit of the nuclear receptor co-repressor (N-CoR) complex. USP44 within N-CoR deubiquitinates H2B in vitro and in vivo, and ablation of USP44 impairs the repressive activity of the N-CoR complex. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments confirmed that USP44 recruitment reduces H2Bub1 levels at N-CoR target loci. Furthermore, high expression of USP44 correlates with reduced levels of H2Bub1 in the breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231. Depletion of either USP44 or TBL1XR1 impairs the invasiveness of MDA-MB-231 cells in vitro and causes an increase of global H2Bub1 levels. Our findings indicate that USP44 contributes to N-CoR functions in regulating gene expression and is required for efficient invasiveness of triple-negative breast cancer cells.
PXD005633	27881664	Lipid disequilibrium disrupts ER proteostasis by impairing ERAD substrate glycan trimming and dislocation. 	Hrd1 interaction proteomics -  Lipid disequilibrium disrupts ER proteostasis by impairing ERAD substrate glycan trimming and dislocation	ERAD, Hrd1, triacsin C	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) mediates the folding, maturation, and deployment of the secretory proteome. Proteins that fail to achieve their native conformation are retained in the ER and targeted for clearance by ER-associated degradation (ERAD), a sophisticated process that mediates the ubiquitin-dependent delivery of substrates to the 26S proteasome for proteolysis. Recent findings indicate that inhibition of long-chain acyl-CoA synthetases with triacsin C, a fatty acid analogue, impairs lipid droplet (LD) biogenesis and ERAD, suggesting a role for LDs in ERAD. However, whether LDs are involved in the ERAD process remains an outstanding question. Using chemical and genetic approaches to disrupt diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT)-dependent LD biogenesis, we provide evidence that LDs are dispensable for ERAD in mammalian cells. Instead, our results suggest that triacsin C causes global alterations in the cellular lipid landscape that disrupt ER proteostasis by interfering with the glycan trimming and dislocation steps of ERAD. Prolonged triacsin C treatment activates both the IRE1 and PERK branches of the unfolded protein response and ultimately leads to IRE1-dependent cell death. These findings identify an intimate relationship between fatty acid metabolism and ER proteostasis that influences cell viability.
PXD003633	27881975	Membrane Complexes of Syntrophomonas wolfei Involved in Syntrophic Butyrate Degradation and Hydrogen Formation. 	S.wolfei membrane proteins -  Membrane Complexes of Syntrophomonas wolfei Involved in Syntrophic Butyrate Degradation and Hydrogen Formation	Syntrophomonas, membrane, protein, wolfei	Syntrophic butyrate metabolism involves the thermodynamically unfavorable production of hydrogen and/or formate from the high potential electron donor, butyryl-CoA. Such redox reactions can occur only with energy input by a process called reverse electron transfer. Previous studies have demonstrated that hydrogen production from butyrate requires the presence of a proton gradient, but the biochemical machinery involved has not been clearly elucidated. In this study, the gene and enzyme systems involved in reverse electron transfer by Syntrophomonas wolfei were investigated using proteomic and gene expression approaches. S. wolfei was grown in co-culture with Methanospirillum hungatei or Dehalococcoides mccartyi under conditions requiring reverse electron transfer and compared to both axenic S. wolfei cultures and co-cultures grown in conditions that do not require reverse electron transfer. Blue native gel analysis of membranes solubilized from syntrophically grown cells revealed the presence of a membrane-bound hydrogenase, Hyd2, which exhibited hydrogenase activity during in gel assays. Bands containing a putative iron-sulfur (FeS) oxidoreductase were detected in membranes of crotonate-grown and butyrate grown S. wolfei cells. The genes for the corresponding hydrogenase subunits, hyd2ABC, were differentially expressed at higher levels during syntrophic butyrate growth when compared to growth on crotonate. The expression of the FeS oxidoreductase gene increased when S. wolfei was grown with M. hungatei. Additional membrane-associated proteins detected included FoF1 ATP synthase subunits and several membrane transporters that may aid syntrophic growth. Furthermore, syntrophic butyrate metabolism can proceed exclusively by interspecies hydrogen transfer, as demonstrated by growth with D. mccartyi, which is unable to use formate. These results argue for the importance of Hyd2 and FeS oxidoreductase in reverse electron transfer during syntrophic butyrate degradation.
PXD002973	27882349	The airway epithelium undergoes metabolic reprogramming in individuals at high risk for lung cancer. 	Metabolic reprogramming in the airway epithelium of high risk individuals 	airway epithelium, carbohydrate metabolism, cigarette smoke, metabolic reprogramming	The molecular determinants of lung cancer risk remain largely unknown. Airway epithelial cells are prone to assault by risk factors and are considered to be the primary cell type involved in the field of cancerization. To investigate risk-associated changes in the bronchial epithelium proteome that may offer new insights into the molecular pathogenesis of lung cancer, proteins were identified in the airway epithelial cells of bronchial brushing specimens from risk-stratified individuals by shotgun proteomics. Differential expression of selected proteins was validated by parallel reaction monitoring mass spectrometry in an independent set of individual bronchial brushings. We identified 2,869 proteins, of which 312 proteins demonstrated a trend in expression. Pathway analysis revealed enrichment of carbohydrate metabolic enzymes in high-risk individuals. Glucose consumption and lactate production were increased in human bronchial epithelial BEAS2B cells treated with cigarette smoke condensate for 7 months. Increased lipid biosynthetic capacity and net reductive carboxylation were revealed by metabolic flux analyses of [U-(13)C5] glutamine in this in vitro model, suggesting profound metabolic reprogramming in the airway epithelium of high-risk individuals. These results provide a rationale for the development of potentially new chemopreventive strategies and selection of patients for surveillance programs.
PXD003282	27882920	Repression of RNA polymerase by the archaeo-viral regulator ORF145/RIP. 	Clamping down on transcription: repression of archaeal RNAP by the novel viral regulator RIP	RNA polymerase, Transcription, archaea, bacteriophages, cross-linking and mass spectrometry, evolution, repressor, virus	Little is known about how archaeal viruses perturb the transcription machinery of their hosts. Here we provide the first example of an archaeo-viral transcription factor that directly targets the host RNA polymerase (RNAP) and efficiently represses its activity. ORF145 from the temperate Acidianus two-tailed virus (ATV) forms a high-affinity complex with RNAP by binding inside the DNA-binding channel where it locks the flexible RNAP clamp in one position. This counteracts the formation of transcription pre-initiation complexes in vitro and represses abortive and productive transcription initiation, as well as elongation. Both host and viral promoters are subjected to ORF145 repression. Thus, ORF145 has the properties of a global transcription repressor and its overexpression is toxic for Sulfolobus. On the basis of its properties, we have re-named ORF145 RNAP Inhibitory Protein (RIP).
PXD002833	27888076	Proteome-wide identification of lysine succinylation in thermophilic and mesophilic bacteria. 	Proteome-wide analysis of lysine succinylation in 5 organisms	Lysine succinylation, Post-translational modification	Lysine succinylation, one of post-translational acylations conserved from eukaryotes to bacteria, plays regulatory roles in various cellular processes. However, much remains unknown about the general and specific characteristics of lysine succinylation among bacteria, and about its functions different from those of other acylations. In this study, we characterized lysine succinylation, a newly discovered widespread type of lysine acylation in five bacterial species with different characteristics such as optimal growth temperature and cell wall structure. This study is the first to demonstrate that succinylation is general phenomenon occurring not only in mesophiles but also in thermophiles. Mapping of succinylation sites on protein structures revealed that succinylation occurs at many lysine residues important for protein function. Comparison of the succinylation sites in the five bacterial species provides insights regarding common protein regulation mechanisms utilizing lysine succinylation. Many succinylation sites were conserved among five bacteria, especially between Geobacillus kaustophilus and Bacillus subtilis, some of which are functionally important sites. Furthermore, systematic comparison of the succinyl-proteome results and our previous propionyl-proteome results showed that the abundance of these two types of acylations is considerably different among the five bacteria investigated. Many succinylation and propionylation events were detected in G. kaustophilus, whereas Escherichia coli and B. subtilis exhibited high succinylation and low propionylation; low succinylation and high propionylation were identified in Thermus thermophilus, and low succinylation and propionylation were observed in Rhodothermus marinus. Comparison of the characteristics of lysine succinylation and lysine propionylation suggested these two types of acylation play different roles in cellular processes.
PXD003644	27888142	Profiling and identification of new proteins involved in brain ischemia using MALDI-imaging-mass-spectrometry. 	Protein profiling and identification of new biomarkers of brain ischemia by MALDI-imaging-mass-spectrometry	MALDI imaging, biomarkers, brain ischemia, tMCAO	The identification of proteins involved in brain ischemia might allow the discovery of putative biomarkers or therapeutic targets for ischemic stroke. Our aim is to study the distribution of proteins within mouse brain after an ischemic insult using MALDI imaging-mass-spectrometry and to identify relevant proteins involved in brain damage. We occluded the middle cerebral artery of C57BL/6J mice. Brain slices were analyzed by MALDI-TOF and infarct (IC) and contralateral (CL) regions were compared using ClinProTools. The ion distribution maps of relevant m/z values were obtained by FlexImagin3.0. Protein identification was conducted through a bottom-up approach consisting on complementary sample fractionation methods. Some identifications were confirmed by immunohistochemistry and western blot. We identified 102 m/z values with different abundances between IC and CL (p<0.05), from which 21 m/z peaks were selected as more relevant. Thirteen of them were found increased in the infarct region and 4 m/z values showed AUC>90% between IC and CL. Identification analyses confirmed altered expressions of ATP5i, COX6C and UMP-CMP kinase in IC compared to CL. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Using MALDI-IMS we identified for the first time new proteins that might be involved in brain ischemia representing potential diagnostic biomarkers or target molecules for neurological recovery.
PXD004437	27890679	Evaluation of non-supervised MALDI mass spectrometry imaging combined with microproteomics for glioma grade III classification. 	Evaluation of Non-Supervised MALDI Mass Spectrometry Imaging Combined to MicroProteomics for Glioma Grade III Classification	Anaplastic glioma, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Mass Spectrometry Imaging, microproteomics	An integrated diagnosis using molecular features is recommended in the 2016 World Health Organization (WHO) classification. Our aim was to explore non-targeted molecular classification using MALDI mass spectrometry imaging (MALDI MSI) associated to microproteomics in order to classify anaplastic glioma by integration of clinical data. We used fresh-frozen tissue sections to perform MALDI MSI of proteins based on their digestion peptides after in-situ trypsin digestion of the tissue sections and matrix deposition by micro-spraying. The generated 70mum spatial resolution image datasets were further processed by individual or global segmentation in order to cluster the tissues according to their molecular protein signature. The clustering gives 3 main distinct groups. Within the tissues the ROIs (regions of interest) defined by these groups were used for microproteomics by micro-extraction of the tryptic peptides after on-tissue enzymatic digestion. More than 2500 proteins including 22 alternative proteins (AltProt) are identified by the Shotgun microproteomics. Statistical analysis on the basis of the label free quantification of the proteins shows a similar classification to the MALDI MSI segmentation into 3 groups. Functional analysis performed on each group reveals sub-networks related to neoplasia for group 1, glioma with inflammation for group 2 and neurogenesis for group 3. This demonstrates the interest on these new non-targeted large molecular data combining both MALDI MSI and microproteomics data, for tumor classification. This analysis provides new insights into grade III glioma organization. This specific information could allow a more accurate classification of the biopsies according to the prognosis and the identification of potential new targeted therapeutic options. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: MALDI Imaging, edited by Dr. Corinna Henkel and Prof. Peter Hoffmann.
PXD005074	27891114	Comparative Analysis of Two Helicobacter pylori Strains using Genomics and Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics. 	Comparative Analysis of two Helicobacter pylori Strains using Genomics and Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics	Genomics, Helicobacter pylori, MaxQuant, TMT, protein expression	Helicobacter pylori, a gastroenteric pathogen believed to have co-evolved with humans over 100,000 years, shows significant genetic variability. This motivates the study of different H. pylori strains and the diseases they cause in order to identify determinants for disease evolution. In this study, we used proteomics tools to compare two H. pylori strains. Nic25_A was isolated in Nicaragua from a patient with intestinal metaplasia, and P12 was isolated in Europe from a patient with duodenal ulcers. Differences in the abundance of surface proteins between the two strains were determined with two mass spectrometry-based methods, label-free quantification (MaxQuant) or the use of tandem mass tags (TMT). Each approach used a lipid-based protein immobilization (LPI(TM)) technique to enrich peptides of surface proteins. Using the MaxQuant software, we found 52 proteins that differed significantly in abundance between the two strains (up- or downregulated by a factor of 1.5); with TMT, we found 18 proteins that differed in abundance between the strains. Strain P12 had a higher abundance of proteins encoded by the cag pathogenicity island, while levels of the acid response regulator ArsR and its regulatory targets (KatA, AmiE, and proteins involved in urease production) were higher in strain Nic25_A. Our results show that differences in protein abundance between H. pylori strains can be detected with proteomic approaches; this could have important implications for the study of disease progression.
PXD005123	27892468	Somatic increase of CCT8 mimics proteostasis of human pluripotent stem cells and extends C. elegans lifespan. 	Somatic increase of CCT8 mimics proteostasis of human pluripotent stem cells and extends C. elegans lifespan	Embryonic stem cells, chaperome, neural progenitors cells, neurons	Human embryonic stem cells can replicate indefinitely while maintaining their undifferentiated state and, therefore, are immortal in culture. This capacity may demand avoidance of any imbalance in protein homeostasis (proteostasis) that would otherwise compromise stem cell identity. Here we show that human pluripotent stem cells exhibit enhanced assembly of the TRiC/CCT complex, a chaperonin that facilitates the folding of 10% of the proteome. We find that ectopic expression of a single subunit (CCT8) is sufficient to increase TRiC/CCT assembly. Moreover, increased TRiC/CCT complex is required to avoid aggregation of mutant Huntingtin protein. We further show that increased expression of CCT8 in somatic tissues extends Caenorhabditis elegans lifespan in a TRiC/CCT-dependent manner. Ectopic expression of CCT8 also ameliorates the age-associated demise of proteostasis and corrects proteostatic deficiencies in worm models of Huntington's disease. Our results suggest proteostasis is a common principle that links organismal longevity with hESC immortality.
PXD004121	27893749	Differential Protein Expression in the Hemolymph of Bithynia siamensis goniomphalos Infected with Opisthorchis viverrini. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of the hemolymph from Bithynia siamensis goniomphalos infected with Opisthorchis viverrini	Bithynia siamensis goniomphalos, hemocyte, hemolymph, plasma, swath	Bithynia siamensis goniomphalos is a freshwater snail that serves as the first intermediate host of the human liver fluke Opisthorchis viverrini. This parasite is a major public health problem in different countries throughout the Greater Mekong sub-region (Thailand, southern Vietnam, Lao PDR and Cambodia). Chronic O. viverrini infection also results in a gradual increase of fibrotic tissues in the biliary tract that are associated with hepatobiliary diseases and contribute to cholangiocarcinoma (a fatal type of bile duct cancer). Infectivity of the parasite in the snail host is strongly correlated with destruction of helminths by the snail's innate immune system, composed of cellular (hemocyte) and humoral (plasma) defense factors. To better understand this important host-parasite interface we applied sequential window acquisition of all theoretical spectra mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS) to identify and quantify the proteins from the hemolymph of B. siamensis goniomphalos experimentally infected with O. viverrini and compare them to non-infected snails (control group). A total of 362 and 242 proteins were identified in the hemocytes and plasma, respectively. Of these, 145 and 117 proteins exhibited significant differences in expression upon fluke infection in hemocytes and plasma, respectively. Among the proteins with significantly different expression patterns, we found proteins related to immune response (up-regulated in both hemocyte and plasma of infected snails) and proteins belonging to the structural and motor group (mostly down-regulated in hemocytes but up-regulated in plasma of infected snails). The proteins identified and quantified in this work will provide important information for the understanding of the factors involved in snail defense against O. viverrini and might facilitate the development of new strategies to control O. viverrini infection in endemic areas.
PXD005479	27894104	Proteomic profiling of NCI-60 extracellular vesicles uncovers common protein cargo and cancer type-specific biomarkers. 	Proteomic profiling of NCI-60 extracellular vesicles uncovers common protein cargo and cancer type-specific biomarkers	biomarkers, co-inertia, exosomes, microvesicles	Packed with biological information, extracellular vesicles (EVs) offer exciting promise for biomarker discovery and applications in therapeutics and non-invasive diagnostics. Currently, our understanding of EV contents is confined by the limited cells from which vesicles have been characterized utilizing the same enrichment method. Using sixty cell lines from the National Cancer Institute (NCI-60), here we provide the largest proteomic profile of EVs in a single study, identifying 6,071 proteins with 213 common to all isolates. Proteins included established EV markers, and vesicular trafficking proteins such as Rab GTPases and tetraspanins. Differentially-expressed proteins offer potential for cancer diagnosis and prognosis. Network analysis of vesicle quantity and proteomes identified EV components associated with vesicle secretion, including CD81, CD63, syntenin-1, VAMP3, Rab GTPases, and integrins. Integration of vesicle proteomes with whole-cell molecular profiles revealed similarities, suggesting EVs provide a reliable reflection of their progenitor cell content, and are therefore excellent indicators of disease.
PXD003684	27895226	The Plastoglobule-Localized Metallopeptidase PGM48 Is a Positive Regulator of Senescence in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Analysis of isolated Plastoglobules from Arabidopsis thaliana WT and M48 null mutants.	LTQ-Orbitrap, Plastoglobules, chloroplast, protease, quantitative proteomics	Plastoglobuli (PG) are thylakoid-associated monolayer lipid particles with a specific proteome of ~30 PG core proteins and isoprenoid and neutral lipids. During senescence, PGs increase in size, reflecting their role in dismantling thylakoid membranes. Here, we show that the only PG-localized peptidase PGM48 positively regulates leaf senescence. We discovered that PGM48 is a member of the M48 peptidase family with PGM48 homologs, forming a clade (M48D) only found in photosynthetic organisms. Unlike the M48A, B, and C clades, members of M48D have no transmembrane domains, consistent with their unique subcellular location in the PG. In vitro assays showed Zn-dependent proteolytic activity and substrate cleavage upstream of hydrophobic residues. Overexpression of PGM48 accelerated natural leaf senescence, whereas suppression delayed senescence. Quantitative proteomics of PG from senescing rosettes of PGM48 overexpression lines showed a dramatically reduced level of CAROTENOID CLEAVAGE ENZYME4 (CCD4) and significantly increased levels of the senescence-induced ABC1 KINASE7 (ABC1K7) and PHYTYL ESTER SYNTHASE1 (PES1). Yeast two-hybrid experiments identified PG core proteins ABC1K3, PES1, and CCD4 as PGM48 interactors, whereas several other PG-localized proteins and chlorophyll degradation enzymes did not interact. We discuss mechanisms through which PGM48 could possibly accelerate the senescence process.
PXD003340	27895531	Follicular fluid biomarkers for human in vitro fertilization outcome: Proof of principle. 	human follicular fluid lc-ms/ms	follicular fluid	BACKGROUND: Human follicular fluid (FF) is a unique biological fluid in which the oocyte develops in vivo, and presents an optimal source for non-invasive biochemical predictors. Oocyte quality directly influences the embryo development and hence, may be used as a predictor of embryo quality. Peptide profiling of FF and its potential use as a biomarker for oocyte quality has never been reported. METHODS: This study screened FF for peptide biomarkers that predict the outcome of in vitro fertilization (IVF). Potential biomarkers were discovered by investigating 2 training datasets, consisting both of 17 samples and validating on an independent experiment containing 32 samples. Peptide profiles were acquired by nano-scale liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (nano LC-MS/MS). RESULTS: From the training datasets 53 peptides were found as potential biomarker candidates, predicting the fertilization outcome of 24 out of the 32 validation samples blindly (81.3% sensitivity, 68.8% specificity, AUC = 0.86). Seven potential biomarker peptides were identified. They were derived from: insulin-like growth factor binding protein-5, alpha-2-antiplasmin, complement component 3, inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H1, serum albumin, protein diaphanous homolog 1 and plastin-3. CONCLUSIONS: The MS-based comprehensive peptidomic approach carried out in this study, established a novel panel of potential biomarkers that present a promising predictive accuracy rate in fertilization outcome, and indicates FF as an interesting biomarker resource to improve IVF clinic routine.
PXD010659	27897233	Changes in the Membrane-Associated Proteins of Exosomes Released from Human Macrophages after Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection. 	Changes in the Membrane-Associated Proteins of Exosomes Released from Human Macrophages after Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection - Biotinylated	Asp-N, biotin	Tuberculosis (TB) is the deadliest infectious disease worldwide. One obstacle hindering the elimination of TB is our lack of understanding of host-pathogen interactions. Exosomes, naturally loaded with microbial molecules, are circulating markers of TB. Changes in the host protein composition of exosomes from Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb)-infected cells have not been described, can contribute to our understanding of the disease process, and serve as a direct source of biomarkers or as capture targets to enrich for exosomes containing microbial molecules. Here, the protein composition of exosomes from Mtb-infected and uninfected THP-1-derived macrophages was evaluated by tandem-mass-spectrometry and differences in protein abundances were assessed. Our results show that infection with Mtb leads to significant changes in the protein composition of exosomes. Specifically, 41 proteins were significantly more abundant in exosomes from Mtb-infected cells; 63% of these were predicted to be membrane associated. Thus, we used a novel biotinylation strategy to verify protein localization, and confirmed the localization of some of these proteins in the exosomal membrane. Our findings reveal another important scenario where Mtb could be influencing changes in host cells that unveil new features of the host-pathogen interaction and may also be exploited as a source of biomarkers for TB.
PXD004876	27898262	Characterization of genetic loss-of-function of Fus in zebrafish. 	Characterization of genetic loss-of-function of Fus in zebrafish	CRISPR, fus protein, zebrafish	The RNA-binding protein FUS is implicated in transcription, alternative splicing of neuronal genes and DNA repair. Mutations in FUS have been linked to human neurodegenerative diseases such as ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis). We genetically disrupted fus in zebrafish (Danio rerio) using the CRISPR-Cas9 system. The fus knockout animals are fertile and did not show any distinctive phenotype. Mutation of fus induces mild changes in gene expression on the transcriptome and proteome level in the adult brain. We observed a significant influence of genetic background on gene expression and 3'UTR usage, which could mask the effects of loss of Fus. Unlike published fus morphants, maternal zygotic fus mutants do not show motoneuronal degeneration and exhibit normal locomotor activity.
PXD005048	27900319	Spleen-Dependent Immune Protection Elicited by CpG Adjuvanted Reticulocyte-Derived Exosomes from Malaria Infection Is Associated with Changes in T cell Subsets' Distribution. 	Proteomic characterization of exosomes derived from malaria-infected reticulocytes, in a murine malaria model	exosomes, malaria, reticulocytes, spleen	Reticulocyte-derived exosomes (rex) are 30-100 nm membrane vesicles of endocytic origin released during the maturation of reticulocytes to erythrocytes upon fusion of multivesicular bodies with the plasma membrane. Combination of CpG-ODN with rex obtained from BALB/c mice infected with the reticulocyte-prone non-lethal P. yoelii 17X malaria strain (rexPy), had been shown to induce survival and long lasting protection. Here, we show that splenectomized mice are not protected upon rexPy+CpG inmunizations and that protection is restored upon passive transfer of splenocytes obtained from animals immunized with rexPy+CpG. Notably, rexPy immunization of mice induced changes in PD1(-) memory T cells with effector phenotype. Proteomics analysis of rexPy confirmed their reticulocyte origin and demonstrated the presence of parasite antigens. Our studies thus prove, for what we believe is the first time, that rex from reticulocyte-prone malarial infections are associated with splenic long-lasting memory responses. To try extrapolating these data to human infections, in vitro experiments with spleen cells of human transplantation donors were performed. Plasma-derived exosomes from vivax malaria patients (exPv) were actively uptaken by human splenocytes and stimulated spleen cells leading to changes in T cell subsets.
PXD004607	27901089	A SILAC-Based Method for Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Intestinal Organoids. 	Quantitative mass spectrometry analysis of intestinal organoids	Organoids, SILAC, intestine, quantitative proteomics	Organoids have the potential to bridge 3D cell culture to tissue physiology by providing a model resembling in vivo organs. Long-term growing organoids were first isolated from intestinal crypt cells and recreated the renewing intestinal epithelial niche. Since then, this technical breakthrough was applied to many other organs, including prostate, liver, kidney and pancreas. We describe here how to apply a SILAC-based quantitative proteomic approach to measure protein expression changes in intestinal organoids under different experimental conditions. We generated SILAC organoid media that allow organoids to grow and differentiate normally, and confirmed the incorporation of isotopically labelled amino acids. Furthermore, we used a treatment reported to affect organoid differentiation to demonstrate the reproducibility of the quantification using this approach and to validate the identification of proteins that correlate with the inhibition of cellular growth and development. With the combined use of quantitative mass spectrometry, SILAC and organoid culture, we validated this approach and showed that large-scale proteome variations can be measured in an "organ-like" system.
PXD004521	27903465	Label-free quantitative phosphoproteomic profiling of cellular response induced by an insect cytokine paralytic peptide. 	Label-free quantitative phosphoproteomic profiling of cellular response induced by an insect cytokine paralytic peptide	Bombyx mori, LCMSMS, phosphoproteomic	Paralytic peptide (PP) participates in diverse physiological processes as an insect cytokine, such as immunity control, paralysis induction, regulation of cell morphology and proliferation. To investigate the molecular mechanism underlying those physiological activities, we systematically investigated the global phosphorylation events in fat body of silkworm larvae induced by PP through label-free quantitative phosphoproteomics. 2534 phosphosites were finally identified, of which the phosphorylation level of 620 phosphosites on 244 proteins was significantly up-regulated and 67 phosphosites on 43 proteins was down-regulated. Among those proteins, 13 were protein kinases (PKs), 13 were transcription factors (TFs) across 10 families and 17 were metabolism related enzymes. Meanwhile, Motif-X analysis of the phosphorylation sites showed that 16 motifs are significantly enriched, including 8 novel phosphorylation motifs. In addition, KEGG and functional interacting network analysis revealed that phosphorylation cascades play the crucial regulation roles in PP-dependent signaling pathways, and highlighted the potential central position of the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in them. These analyses provide direct insights into the molecule mechanisms of cellular response induced by PP. SIGNIFICANCE: PP as an insect cytokine participated in diverse functions including immunity control paralysis induction, regulation of cell morphology and proliferation. In this study, we performed firstly a label-free quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis. We found some new phosphorylation targets of PP-stimulation. Meanwhile, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis and functional networks revealed that phosphorylation cascades play the crucial regulation roles in PP-dependent signaling pathways. In addition, the potential central position of the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) was highlighted in PP-dependent signaling pathways. We think our findings may help us gain a systematic understanding of the cytokine-dependent response regulation in insects.
PXD010344	27903962	Targeted proteomics in urinary extracellular vesicles identifies biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis of prostate cancer. 	PCa_EVs_SRM (Sequeiros et al. 2017)	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Rapid and reliable diagnosis of prostate cancer (PCa) is highly desirable as current used methods lack specificity. In addition, identification of PCa biomarkers that can classify patients into high- and low-risk groups for disease progression at early stage will improve treatment decision-making. Here, we describe a set of protein-combination panels in urinary extracellular vesicles (EVs), defined by targeted proteomics and immunoblotting techniques that improve early non-invasive detection and stratification of PCa patients.We report a two-protein combination in urinary EVs that classifies benign and PCa patients (ADSV-TGM4), and a combination of five proteins able to significantly distinguish between high- and low-grade PCa patients (CD63-GLPK5-SPHM-PSA-PAPP). Proteins composing the panels were validated by immunohistochemistry assays in tissue microarrays (TMAs) confirming a strong link between the urinary EVs proteome and alterations in PCa tissues. Moreover, ADSV and TGM4 abundance yielded a high diagnostic potential in tissue and promising TGM4 prognostic power. These results suggest that the proteins identified in urinary EVs distinguishing high- and low grade PCa are a reflection of histological changes that may be a consequence of their functional involvement in PCa development. In conclusion, our study resulted in the identification of protein-combination panels present in urinary EVs that exhibit high sensitivity and specificity for PCa detection and patient stratification. Moreover, our study highlights the potential of targeted proteomic approaches-such as selected reaction monitoring (SRM)-as diagnostic assay for liquid biopsies via urinary EVs to improve diagnosis and prognosis of suspected PCa patients.
PXD005337	27907059	Quantitative and Selective Analysis of Feline Growth Related Proteins Using Parallel Reaction Monitoring High Resolution Mass Spectrometry. 	Fractions of cat serum, LC-MS/MS	Cat, IGF-I, IGFBP, serum	Today immunoassays are widely used in veterinary medicine, but lack of species specific assays often necessitates the use of assays developed for human applications. Mass spectrometry (MS) is an attractive alternative due to high specificity and versatility, allowing for species-independent analysis. Targeted MS-based quantification methods are valuable complements to large scale shotgun analysis. A method referred to as parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), implemented on Orbitrap MS, has lately been presented as an excellent alternative to more traditional selected reaction monitoring/multiple reaction monitoring (SRM/MRM) methods. The insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-system is not well described in the cat but there are indications of important differences between cats and humans. In feline medicine IGF-I is mainly analyzed for diagnosis of growth hormone disorders but also for research, while the other proteins in the IGF-system are not routinely analyzed within clinical practice. Here, a PRM method for quantification of IGF-I, IGF-II, IGF binding protein (BP) -3 and IGFBP-5 in feline serum is presented. Selective quantification was supported by the use of a newly launched internal standard named QPrEST(TM). Homology searches demonstrated the possibility to use this standard of human origin for quantification of the targeted feline proteins. Excellent quantitative sensitivity at the attomol/muL (pM) level and selectivity were obtained. As the presented approach is very generic we show that high resolution mass spectrometry in combination with PRM and QPrEST(TM) internal standards is a versatile tool for protein quantitation across multispecies.
PXD004201	27907131	iTRAQ-Based Quantitative Proteomic Comparison of Early- and Late-Passage Human Dermal Papilla Cell Secretome in Relation to Inducing Hair Follicle Regeneration. 	Human dermal papilla cell culture medium iTRAQ	dermal papilla cell, iTRAQ	Alopecia is an exceedingly prevalent problem that lacks effective therapy. Recently, research has focused on early-passage dermal papilla cells (DPCs), which have hair inducing activity both in vivo and in vitro. Our previous study indicated that factors secreted from early-passage DPCs contribute to hair follicle (HF) regeneration. To identify which factors are responsible for HF regeneration and why late-passage DPCs lose this potential, we collected 48-h-culture medium (CM) from both of passage 3 and 9 DPCs, and subcutaneously injected the DPC-CM into NU/NU mice. Passage 3 DPC-CM induced HF regeneration, based on the emergence of a white hair coat, but passage 9 DPC-CM did not. In order to identify the key factors responsible for hair induction, CM from passage 3 and 9 DPCs was analyzed by iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic technology. We identified 1360 proteins, of which 213 proteins were differentially expressed between CM from early-passage vs. late-passage DPCs, including SDF1, MMP3, biglycan and LTBP1. Further analysis indicated that the differentially-expressed proteins regulated the Wnt, TGF-beta and BMP signaling pathways, which directly and indirectly participate in HF morphogenesis and regeneration. Subsequently, we selected 19 proteins for further verification by multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) between the two types of CM. These results indicate DPC-secreted proteins play important roles in HF regeneration, with SDF1, MMP3, biglycan, and LTBP1 being potential key inductive factors secreted by dermal papilla cells in the regeneration of hair follicles.
PXD005105	27911807	Enhanced limonene production in cyanobacteria reveals photosynthesis limitations. 	Enhanced limonene production in Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942	limonene MEP terpene modeling ATP/NADPH	Terpenes are the major secondary metabolites produced by plants, and have diverse industrial applications as pharmaceuticals, fragrance, solvents, and biofuels. Cyanobacteria are equipped with efficient carbon fixation mechanism, and are ideal cell factories to produce various fuel and chemical products. Past efforts to produce terpenes in photosynthetic organisms have gained only limited success. Here we engineered the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 to efficiently produce limonene through modeling guided study. Computational modeling of limonene flux in response to photosynthetic output has revealed the downstream terpene synthase as a key metabolic flux-controlling node in the MEP (2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate) pathway-derived terpene biosynthesis. By enhancing the downstream limonene carbon sink, we achieved over 100-fold increase in limonene productivity, in contrast to the marginal increase achieved through stepwise metabolic engineering. The establishment of a strong limonene flux revealed potential synergy between photosynthate output and terpene biosynthesis, leading to enhanced carbon flux into the MEP pathway. Moreover, we show that enhanced limonene flux would lead to NADPH accumulation, and slow down photosynthesis electron flow. Fine-tuning ATP/NADPH toward terpene biosynthesis could be a key parameter to adapt photosynthesis to support biofuel/bioproduct production in cyanobacteria.
PXD005240	27912065	Phosphoribosylation of Ubiquitin Promotes Serine Ubiquitination and Impairs Conventional Ubiquitination. 	Mass-Spectrometric analysis of SdeA Ubiquitin modification and Ubiquitination	ETD, Legionella pneumophila, Orbitrap Fusion	Conventional ubiquitination involves the ATP-dependent formation of amide bonds between the ubiquitin C terminus and primary amines in substrate proteins. Recently, SdeA, an effector protein of pathogenic Legionella pneumophila, was shown to mediate NAD-dependent and ATP-independent ubiquitin transfer to host proteins. Here, we identify a phosphodiesterase domain in SdeA that efficiently catalyzes phosphoribosylation of ubiquitin on a specific arginine via an ADP-ribose-ubiquitin intermediate. SdeA also catalyzes a chemically and structurally distinct type of substrate ubiquitination by conjugating phosphoribosylated ubiquitin to serine residues of protein substrates via a phosphodiester bond. Furthermore, phosphoribosylation of ubiquitin prevents activation of E1 and E2 enzymes of the conventional ubiquitination cascade, thereby impairing numerous cellular processes including mitophagy, TNF signaling, and proteasomal degradation. We propose that phosphoribosylation of ubiquitin potently modulates ubiquitin functions in mammalian cells.
PXD004995	27913581	A Proteomic Approach to Analyze the Aspirin-mediated Lysine Acetylome. 	Sites of aspirin-mediated lysine acetylation in HeLa cells, part 2	Aspirin, Hela, lysine acetylation	Aspirin, or acetylsalicylic acid is widely used to control pain, inflammation and fever. Important to this function is its ability to irreversibly acetylate cyclooxygenases at active site serines. Aspirin has the potential to acetylate other amino acid side-chains, leading to the possibility that aspirin-mediated lysine acetylation could explain some of its as-yet unexplained drug actions or side-effects. Using isotopically labeled aspirin-d3, in combination with acetylated lysine purification and LC-MS/MS, we identified over 12000 sites of lysine acetylation from cultured human cells. Although aspirin amplifies endogenous acetylation signals at the majority of detectable endogenous sites, cells tolerate aspirin mediated acetylation very well unless cellular deacetylases are inhibited. Although most endogenous acetylations are amplified by orders of magnitude, lysine acetylation site occupancies remain very low even after high doses of aspirin. This work shows that while aspirin has enormous potential to alter protein function, in the majority of cases aspirin-mediated acetylations do not accumulate to levels likely to elicit biological effects. These findings are consistent with an emerging model for cellular acetylation whereby stoichiometry correlates with biological relevance, and deacetylases act to minimize the biological consequences of nonspecific chemical acetylations.
PXD005138	27916455	Phosphodiesterase 10A Inhibition Improves Cortico-Basal Ganglia Function in Huntington's Disease Models. 	Phosphodiesterase 10A inhibition improves cortico-basal ganglia function in Huntington's disease models	Huntingtons disease, PDE10A, Phosphoproteomics, Striatum	Huntington's disease (HD) symptoms are driven to a large extent by dysfunction of the basal ganglia circuitry. HD patients exhibit reduced striatal phoshodiesterase 10 (PDE10) levels. Using HD mouse models that exhibit reduced PDE10, we demonstrate the benefit of pharmacologic PDE10 inhibition to acutely correct basal ganglia circuitry deficits. PDE10 inhibition restored corticostriatal input and boosted cortically driven indirect pathway activity. Cyclic nucleotide signaling is impaired in HD models, and PDE10 loss may represent a homeostatic adaptation to maintain signaling. Elevation of both cAMP and cGMP by PDE10 inhibition was required for rescue. Phosphoproteomic profiling of striatum in response to PDE10 inhibition highlighted plausible neural substrates responsible for the improvement. Early chronic PDE10 inhibition in Q175 mice showed improvements beyond those seen with acute administration after symptom onset, including partial reversal of striatal deregulated transcripts and the prevention of the emergence of HD neurophysiological deficits. VIDEO ABSTRACT.
PXD003772	27917875	Exploring experimental cerebral malaria pathogenesis through the characterisation of host-derived plasma microparticle protein content. 	Characterisation of the protein cargo of murine plasma microparticles released during experimental cerebral malaria	Experimental cerebral malaria, Microparticles, Protein cargo, QExactive Orbitrap, Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)	Cerebral malaria (CM) is a severe complication of Plasmodium falciparum infection responsible for thousands of deaths in children in sub-Saharan Africa. CM pathogenesis remains incompletely understood but a number of effectors have been proposed, including plasma microparticles (MP). MP numbers are increased in CM patients' circulation and, in the mouse model, they can be localised within inflamed vessels, suggesting their involvement in vascular damage. In the present work we define, for the first time, the protein cargo of MP during experimental cerebral malaria (ECM) with the overarching hypothesis that this characterisation could help understand CM pathogenesis. Using qualitative and quantitative high-throughput proteomics we compared MP proteins from non-infected and P. berghei ANKA-infected mice. More than 360 proteins were identified, 60 of which were differentially abundant, as determined by quantitative comparison using TMT(TM) isobaric labelling. Network analyses showed that ECM MP carry proteins implicated in molecular mechanisms relevant to CM pathogenesis, including endothelial activation. Among these proteins, the strict association of carbonic anhydrase I and S100A8 with ECM was verified by western blot on MP from DBA/1 and C57BL/6 mice. These results demonstrate that MP protein cargo represents a novel ECM pathogenic trait to consider in the understanding of CM pathogenesis.
PXD003774	27918545	Warfarin traps human vitamin K epoxide reductase in an intermediate state during electron transfer. 	In-cell isotope-coded labeling and LC-MS/MS analysis probe warfarin inhibition mechanism	N-ethylmeleimide, bottom-up proteomics, human vitamin K epoxide reuctase, isotope, warfarin	Although warfarin is the most widely used anticoagulant worldwide, the mechanism by which warfarin inhibits its target, human vitamin K epoxide reductase (hVKOR), remains unclear. Here we show that warfarin blocks a dynamic electron-transfer process in hVKOR. A major fraction of cellular hVKOR is in an intermediate redox state containing a Cys51-Cys132 disulfide, a characteristic accommodated by a four-transmembrane-helix structure of hVKOR. Warfarin selectively inhibits this major cellular form of hVKOR, whereas disruption of the Cys51-Cys132 disulfide impairs warfarin binding and causes warfarin resistance. Relying on binding interactions identified by cysteine alkylation footprinting and mass spectrometry coupled with mutagenesis analysis, we conducted structure simulations, which revealed a closed warfarin-binding pocket stabilized by the Cys51-Cys132 linkage. Understanding the selective warfarin inhibition of a specific redox state of hVKOR should enable the rational design of drugs that exploit the redox chemistry and associated conformational changes in hVKOR.
PXD005084	27920218	A Molecular Basis for the Presentation of Phosphorylated Peptides by HLA-B Antigens. 	HLA-I peptidomes and phosphopeptidomes (B*40, B*27, B*07, B*39)	HLA, MHC, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, peptidome, phosphopeptidome	As aberrant protein phosphorylation is a hallmark of tumor cells, the display of tumor-specific phosphopeptides by Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) class I molecules can be exploited in the treatment of cancer by T-cell-based immunotherapy. Yet, the characterization and prediction of HLA-I phospholigands is challenging as the molecular determinants of the presentation of such post-translationally modified peptides are not fully understood. Here, we employed a peptidomic workflow to identify 256 unique phosphorylated ligands associated with HLA-B*40, -B*27, -B*39, or -B*07. Remarkably, these phosphopeptides showed similar molecular features. Besides the specific anchor motifs imposed by the binding groove of each allotype, the predominance of phosphorylation at peptide position 4 (P4) became strikingly evident, as was the enrichment of basic residues at P1. To determine the structural basis of this observation, we carried out a series of peptide binding assays and solved the crystal structures of HLA-B*40 in complex with a phosphorylated ligand or its nonphosphorylated counterpart. Overall, our data provide a clear explanation to the common motif found in the phosphopeptidomes associated to different HLA-B molecules. The high prevalence of phosphorylation at P4 is dictated by the presence of the conserved residue Arg62 in the heavy chain, a structural feature shared by most HLA-B alleles. In contrast, the preference for basic residues at P1 is allotype-dependent and might be linked to the structure of the A pocket. This molecular understanding of the presentation of phosphopeptides by HLA-B molecules provides a base for the improved prediction and identification of phosphorylated neo-antigens, as potentially used for cancer immunotherapy.
PXD005253	27926873	FOXA1 Directs H3K4 Monomethylation at Enhancers via Recruitment of the Methyltransferase MLL3. 	FOXA1 directs H3K4 monomethylation at enhancers via recruitment of the methyltransferase MLL3	FOXA1, H3K4, LCMSMS, MLL3	FOXA1 is a pioneer factor that binds to enhancer regions that are enriched in H3K4 mono- and dimethylation (H3K4me1 and H3K4me2). We performed a FOXA1 rapid immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry of endogenous proteins (RIME) screen in ERalpha-positive MCF-7 breast cancer cells and found histone-lysine N-methyltransferase (MLL3) as the top FOXA1-interacting protein. MLL3 is typically thought to induce H3K4me3 at promoter regions, but recent findings suggest it may contribute to H3K4me1 deposition. We performed MLL3 chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) in breast cancer cells, and MLL3 was shown to occupy regions marked by FOXA1 occupancy and H3K4me1 and H3K4me2. MLL3 binding was dependent on FOXA1, indicating that FOXA1 recruits MLL3 to chromatin. MLL3 silencing decreased H3K4me1 at enhancer elements but had no appreciable impact on H3K4me3 at enhancer elements. We propose a mechanism whereby the pioneer factor FOXA1 recruits the chromatin modifier MLL3 to facilitate the deposition of H3K4me1 histone marks, subsequently demarcating active enhancer elements.
PXD004583	27926928	An Interactome-Centered Protein Discovery Approach Reveals Novel Components Involved in Mitosome Function and Homeostasis in Giardia lamblia. 	Serial co-immunoprecipitation to expand the protein interactome of the outer mitosomal membrane in Giardia lamblia	crosslinking, protein discovery	Protozoan parasites of the genus Giardia are highly prevalent globally, and infect a wide range of vertebrate hosts including humans, with proliferation and pathology restricted to the small intestine. This narrow ecological specialization entailed extensive structural and functional adaptations during host-parasite co-evolution. An example is the streamlined mitosomal proteome with iron-sulphur protein maturation as the only biochemical pathway clearly associated with this organelle. Here, we applied techniques in microscopy and protein biochemistry to investigate the mitosomal membrane proteome in association to mitosome homeostasis. Live cell imaging revealed a highly immobilized array of 30-40 physically distinct mitosome organelles in trophozoites. We provide direct evidence for the single giardial dynamin-related protein as a contributor to mitosomal morphogenesis and homeostasis. To overcome inherent limitations that have hitherto severely hampered the characterization of these unique organelles we applied a novel interaction-based proteome discovery strategy using forward and reverse protein co-immunoprecipitation. This allowed generation of organelle proteome data strictly in a protein-protein interaction context. We built an initial Tom40-centered outer membrane interactome by co-immunoprecipitation experiments, identifying small GTPases, factors with dual mitosome and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) distribution, as well as novel matrix proteins. Through iterative expansion of this protein-protein interaction network, we were able to i) significantly extend this interaction-based mitosomal proteome to include other membrane-associated proteins with possible roles in mitosome morphogenesis and connection to other subcellular compartments, and ii) identify novel matrix proteins which may shed light on mitosome-associated metabolic functions other than Fe-S cluster biogenesis. Functional analysis also revealed conceptual conservation of protein translocation despite the massive divergence and reduction of protein import machinery in Giardia mitosomes.
PXD005274	27927741	A Strong Neutrophil Elastase Proteolytic Fingerprint Marks the Carcinoma Tumor Proteome. 	Proteomic survey for search of biomarkers of colon tumors	adenocarcinoma, colon cancer, iTRAQ, isoelectric focusing, tubular  adenoma, tubulo-villous adenoma	Proteolytic cascades are deeply involved in critical stages of cancer progression. During the course of peptide-wise analysis of shotgun proteomic data sets representative of colon adenocarcinoma (AC) and ulcerative colitis (UC), we detected a cancer-specific proteolytic fingerprint composed of a set of numerous protein fragments cleaved C-terminally to V, I, A, T, or C residues, significantly overrepresented in AC. A peptide set linked by a common VIATC cleavage consensus was the only prominent cancer-specific proteolytic fingerprint detected. This sequence consensus indicated neutrophil elastase as a source of the fingerprint. We also found that a large fraction of affected proteins are RNA processing proteins associated with the nuclear fraction and mostly cleaved within their functionally important RNA-binding domains. Thus, we detected a new class of cancer-specific peptides that are possible markers of tumor-infiltrating neutrophil activity, which often correlates with the clinical outcome. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers: PXD005274 (Data set 1) and PXD004249 (Data set 2). Our results indicate the value of peptide-wise analysis of large global proteomic analysis data sets as opposed to protein-wise analysis, in which outlier differential peptides are usually neglected.
PXD004476	27932303	One Sample, One Shot - Evaluation of sample preparation protocols for the mass spectrometric proteome analysis of human bile fluid without extensive fractionation. 	Human Bile LC-MS/MS	Bile fluid, biomarkers, cholangiocellular carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, method comparison	The proteome analysis of bile fluid represents a promising strategy to identify biomarker candidates for various diseases of the hepatobiliary system. However, to obtain substantive results in biomarker discovery studies large patient cohorts necessarily need to be analyzed. Consequently, this would lead to an unmanageable number of samples to be analyzed if sample preparation protocols with extensive fractionation methods are applied. Hence, the performance of simple workflows allowing for "one sample, one shot" experiments have been evaluated in this study. In detail, sixteen different protocols implying modifications at the stages of desalting, delipidation, deglycosylation and tryptic digestion have been examined. Each method has been individually evaluated regarding various performance criteria and comparative analyses have been conducted to uncover possible complementarities. Here, the best performance in terms of proteome coverage has been assessed for a combination of acetone precipitation with in-gel digestion. Finally, a mapping of all obtained protein identifications with putative biomarkers for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and cholangiocellular carcinoma (CCC) revealed several proteins easily detectable in bile fluid. These results can build the basis for future studies with large and well-defined patient cohorts in a more disease-related context. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Human bile fluid is a proximal body fluid and supposed to be a potential source of disease markers. However, due to its biochemical composition, the proteome analysis of bile fluid still represents a challenging task and is therefore mostly conducted using extensive fractionation procedures. This in turn leads to a high number of mass spectrometric measurements for one biological sample. Considering the fact that in order to overcome the biological variability a high number of biological samples needs to be analyzed in biomarker discovery studies, this leads to the dilemma of an unmanageable number of necessary MS-based analyses. Hence, easy sample preparation protocols are demanded representing a compromise between proteome coverage and simplicity. In the presented study, such protocols have been evaluated regarding various technical criteria (e.g. identification rates, missed cleavages, chromatographic separation) uncovering the strengths and weaknesses of various methods. Furthermore, a cumulative bile proteome list has been generated that extends the current bile proteome catalog by 248 proteins. Finally, a mapping with putative biomarkers for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and cholangiocellular carcinoma (CCC) derived from tissue-based studies, revealed several of these proteins being easily and reproducibly detectable in human bile. Therefore, the presented technical work represents a solid base for future disease-related studies.
PXD004893	27932519	Host Plants Indirectly Influence Plant Virus Transmission by Altering Gut Cysteine Protease Activity of Aphid Vectors. 	Increased cysteine protease activity in the aphid midgut decreases the transmission efficiency of a circulative plant virus	2D-DIGE, Luteoviridae, Potato leafroll virus, host-pathogen interactions	The green peach aphid, Myzus persicae, is a vector of the Potato leafroll virus (PLRV, Luteoviridae), transmitted exclusively by aphids in a circulative manner. PLRV transmission efficiency was significantly reduced when a clonal lineage of M. persicae was reared on turnip as compared with the weed physalis, and this was a transient effect caused by a host-switch response. A trend of higher PLRV titer in physalis-reared aphids as compared with turnip-reared aphids was observed at 24 h and 72 h after virus acquisition. The major difference in the proteomes of these aphids was the up-regulation of predicted lysosomal enzymes, in particular the cysteine protease cathepsin B (cathB), in aphids reared on turnip. The aphid midgut is the site of PLRV acquisition, and cathB and PLRV localization were starkly different in midguts of the aphids reared on the two host plants. In viruliferous aphids that were reared on turnip, there was near complete colocalization of cathB and PLRV at the cell membranes, which was not observed in physalis-reared aphids. Chemical inhibition of cathB restored the ability of aphids reared on turnip to transmit PLRV in a dose-dependent manner, showing that the increased activity of cathB and other cysteine proteases at the cell membrane indirectly decreased virus transmission by aphids. Understanding how the host plant influences virus transmission by aphids is critical for growers to manage the spread of virus among field crops.
PXD003104	27933903	Proteomic Identification and Analysis of Arginine-Methylated Proteins of Plasmodium falciparum at Asexual Blood Stages. 	Arginine methylation in P. falciparum	PTM, arginine methylation, plasmodium	Plasmodium falciparum undergoes a tightly regulated developmental process in human erythrocytes, and recent studies suggest an important regulatory role of post-translational modifications (PTMs). As compared with Plasmodium phosphoproteome, little is known about other PTMs in the parasite. In the present study, we performed a global analysis of asexual blood stages of Plasmodium falciparum to identify arginine-methylated proteins. Using two different methyl arginine-specific antibodies, we immunoprecipitated the arginine-methylated proteins from the stage-specific parasite lysates and identified 843 putative arginine-methylated proteins by LC-MS/MS. Motif analysis of the protein sequences unveiled that the methylation sites are associated with the previously known methylation motifs such as GRx/RGx, RxG, GxxR, or WxxxR. We identified Plasmodium homologues of known arginine-methylated proteins in trypanosomes, yeast, and human. Hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC) was performed on the immunoprecipitates from the trophozoite stage to enrich arginine-methylated peptides. Mass spectrometry analysis of immunoprecipitated and HILIC fractions identified 55 arginine-methylated peptides having 62 methylated arginine sites. Functional classification revealed that the arginine-methylated proteins are involved in RNA metabolism, protein synthesis, intracellular protein trafficking, proteolysis, protein folding, chromatin organization, hemoglobin metabolic process, and several other functions. Summarily, the findings suggest that protein methylation of arginine residues is a widespread phenomenon in Plasmodium, and the PTM may play an important regulatory role in a diverse set of biological pathways, including host-pathogen interactions.
PXD005025	27934294	Label-free Proteomic Reveals that Cowpea Severe Mosaic Virus Transiently Suppresses the Host Leaf Protein Accumulation During the Compatible Interaction with Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata [L.] Walp.). 	Label-free Proteomics Reveals that Cowpea Severe Mosaic Virus Transiently Suppresses the Host Leaf Protein Accumulation During the Compatible Interaction with Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata [L.] Walp.)	CPSMV, Label-free proteomic, Vigna unguiculata, compatible interaction	Viruses are important plant pathogens that threaten diverse crops worldwide. Diseases caused by Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) have drawn attention because of the serious damages they cause to economically important crops including cowpea. This work was undertaken to quantify and identify the responsive proteins of a susceptible cowpea genotype infected with CPSMV, in comparison with mock-inoculated controls, using label-free quantitative proteomics and databanks, aiming at providing insights on the molecular basis of this compatible interaction. Cowpea leaves were mock- or CPSMV-inoculated and 2 and 6 days later proteins were extracted and analyzed. More than 3000 proteins were identified (data available via ProteomeXchange, identifier PXD005025) and 75 and 55 of them differentially accumulated in response to CPSMV, at 2 and 6 DAI, respectively. At 2 DAI, 76% of the proteins decreased in amount and 24% increased. However, at 6 DAI, 100% of the identified proteins increased. Thus, CPSMV transiently suppresses the synthesis of proteins involved particularly in the redox homeostasis, protein synthesis, defense, stress, RNA/DNA metabolism, signaling, and other functions, allowing viral invasion and spread in cowpea tissues.
PXD004343	27934295	Activity-Based Protein Profiling Shows Heterogeneous Signaling Adaptations to BRAF Inhibition. 	Activity-Based Protein Profiling of BRAF Inhibitor Resistance in Melanoma Cell Lines	ABPP, BRAF, Drug Resistance, Kinase Inhibitor, Melanoma	Patients with BRAF V600E mutant melanoma are typically treated with targeted BRAF kinase inhibitors, such as vemurafenib and dabrafenib. Although these drugs are initially effective, they are not curative. Most of the focus to date has been upon genetic mechanisms of acquired resistance; therefore, we must better understand the global signaling adaptations that mediate escape from BRAF inhibition. In the current study, we have used activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) with ATP-analogue probes to enrich kinases and other enzyme classes that contribute to BRAF inhibitor (BRAFi) resistance in four paired isogenic BRAFi-naive/resistant cell line models. Our analysis showed these cell line models, which also differ in their PTEN status, have considerable heterogeneity in their kinase ATP probe uptake in comparing both naive cells and adaptations to chronic drug exposure. A number of kinases including FAK1, SLK, and TAOK2 had increased ATP probe uptake in BRAFi resistant cells, while KHS1 (M4K5) and BRAF had decreased ATP probe uptake in the BRAFi-resistant cells. Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis revealed BRAFi resistance is associated with a significant enhancement in ATP probe uptake in proteins implicated in cytoskeletal organization and adhesion, and decreases in ATP probe uptake in proteins associated with cell metabolic processes. The ABPP approach was able to identify key phenotypic mediators critical for each BRAFi resistant cell line. Together, these data show that common phenotypic adaptations to BRAF inhibition can be mediated through very different signaling networks, suggesting considerable redundancy within the signaling of BRAF mutant melanoma cells.
PXD004686	27938330	Novel insight into the composition of human single-stranded DNA-binding protein 1 (hSSB1)-containing protein complexes. 	Novel insight into the composition of human single-stranded DNA-binding protein 1 (hSSB1)-containing protein complexes	INTS3, NABP2, chromatin remodelling, hSSB1, mRNA metabolism	BACKGROUND: Single-stranded DNA-binding proteins are essential cellular components required for the protection, metabolism and processing of single-stranded DNA. Human single-stranded DNA-binding protein 1 (hSSB1) is one such protein, with described roles in genome stability maintenance and transcriptional regulation. As yet, however, the mechanisms through which hSSB1 functions and the binding partners with which it interacts remain poorly understood. RESULTS: In this work, hSSB1 was immunoprecipitated from cell lysate samples that had been enriched for non-soluble nuclear proteins and those associating with hSSB1 identified by mass spectrometry. In doing so, 334 potential hSSB1-associating proteins were identified, with known roles in a range of distinct biological processes. Unexpectedly, whilst hSSB1 has largely been studied in a genome stability context, few other DNA repair or replication proteins were detected. By contrast, a large number of proteins were identified with roles in mRNA metabolism, reflecting a currently emerging area of hSSB1 study. In addition, numerous proteins were detected that comprise various chromatin-remodelling complexes. CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide new insight into the binding partners of hSSB1 and will likely function as a platform for future research.
PXD005202	27939944	A SUMO-Dependent Protein Network Regulates Chromosome Congression during Oocyte Meiosis. 	A SUMO-Dependent Protein Network Regulates Chromosome Congression During Oocyte Meiosis	C. elegans, KLP-19, PIAS, Sumoylation sites	During Caenorhabditis elegans oocyte meiosis, a multi-protein ring complex (RC) localized between homologous chromosomes, promotes chromosome congression through the action of the chromokinesin KLP-19. While some RC components are known, the mechanism of RC assembly has remained obscure. We show that SUMO E3 ligase GEI-17/PIAS is required for KLP-19 recruitment to the RC, and proteomic analysis identified KLP-19 as a SUMO substrate in vivo. In vitro analysis revealed that KLP-19 is efficiently sumoylated in a GEI-17-dependent manner, while GEI-17 undergoes extensive auto-sumoylation. GEI-17 and another RC component, the kinase BUB-1, contain functional SUMO interaction motifs (SIMs), allowing them to recruit SUMO modified proteins, including KLP-19, into the RC. Thus, dynamic SUMO modification and the presence of SIMs in RC components generate a SUMO-SIM network that facilitates assembly of the RC. Our results highlight the importance of SUMO-SIM networks in regulating the assembly of dynamic protein complexes.
PXD003934	27940637	An Optimized Chromatographic Strategy for Multiplexing In Parallel Reaction Monitoring Mass Spectrometry: Insights from Quantitation of Activated Kinases. 	Kinase peptide discovery in MIB enriched samples using 2m monolithic silica-C18 column	Kinase enrichment, Multidrug inhibitor beads	Reliable quantitation of protein abundances in defined sets of cellular proteins is critical to numerous biological applications. Traditional immunodetection-based methods are limited by the quality and availability of specific antibodies, especially for site-specific post-translational modifications. Targeted proteomic methods, including the recently developed parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) mass spectrometry, have enabled accurate quantitative measurements of up to a few hundred specific target peptides. However, the degree of practical multiplexing in label-free PRM workflows remains a significant limitation for the technique. Here we present a strategy for significantly increasing multiplexing in label-free PRM that takes advantage of the superior separation characteristics and retention time stability of meter-scale monolithic silica-C18 column-based chromatography. We show the utility of the approach in quantifying kinase abundances downstream of previously developed active kinase enrichment methodology based on multidrug inhibitor beads. We examine kinase activation dynamics in response to three different MAP kinase inhibitors in colorectal carcinoma cells and demonstrate reliable quantitation of over 800 target peptides from over 150 kinases in a single label-free PRM run. The kinase activity profiles obtained from these analyses reveal compensatory activation of TGF-beta family receptors as a response to MAPK blockade. The gains achieved using this label-free PRM multiplexing strategy will benefit a wide array of biological applications.
PXD003944	27956707	A Luciferase-fragment Complementation Assay to Detect Lipid Droplet-associated Protein-Protein Interactions. 	A luciferase-fragment complementation assay to detect lipid droplet-associated protein-protein interactions	lipid droplet, luciferase-fragment complementation assay, protein-protein interaction	A critical challenge for all organisms is to carefully control the amount of lipids they store. An important node for this regulation is the protein coat present at the surface of lipid droplets (LDs), the intracellular organelles dedicated to lipid storage. Only limited aspects of this regulation are understood so far. For the probably best characterized case, the regulation of lipolysis in mammals, some of the major protein players have been identified, and it has been established that this process crucially depends on an orchestrated set of protein-protein interactions. Proteomic analysis has revealed that LDs are associated with dozens, if not hundreds, of different proteins, most of them poorly characterized, with even fewer data regarding which of them might physically interact. To comprehensively understand the mechanism of lipid storage regulation, it will likely be essential to define the interactome of LD-associated proteins.Previous studies of such interactions were hampered by technical limitations. Therefore, we have developed a split-luciferase based protein-protein interaction assay and test for interactions among 47 proteins from Drosophila and from mouse. We confirmed previously described interactions and identified many new ones. In 1561 complementation tests, we assayed for interactions among 487 protein pairs of which 92 (19%) resulted in a successful luciferase complementation. These results suggest that a prominent fraction of the LD-associated proteome participates in protein-protein interactions.In targeted experiments, we analyzed the two proteins Jabba and CG9186 in greater detail. Jabba mediates the sequestration of histones to LDs. We successfully applied our split luciferase complementation assay to learn more about this function as we were e.g. able to map the interaction between Jabba and histones. For CG9186, expression levels affect the positioning of LDs. Here, we reveal the ubiquitination of CG9186, and link this posttranslational modification to LD cluster induction.
PXD004947	27957804	In-depth characterization of the tomato fruit pericarp proteome. 	Characterization of the tomato fruit pericarp proteome (2)	Mass-spectrometry, Plant proteomics, Q-Exactive, Solanum lycopersicum, Tomato	Since the genome of Solanum lycopersicum L. was published in 2012, some studies have explored its proteome although with a limited depth. In this work, we present an extended characterization of the proteome of the tomato pericarp at its ripe red stage. Fractionation of tryptic peptides generated from pericarp proteins by off-line high-pH reverse-phase phase chromatography in combination with LC-MS/MS analysis on a Fisher Scientific Q Exactive and a Sciex Triple-TOF 6600 resulted in the identification of 8588 proteins with a 1% FDR both at the peptide and protein levels. Proteins were mapped through GO and KEGG databases and a large number of the identified proteins were associated with cytoplasmic organelles and metabolic pathways categories. These results constitute one of the most extensive proteome datasets of tomato so far and provide an experimental confirmation of the existence of a high number of theoretically predicted proteins. All MS data are available in the ProteomeXchange repository with the dataset identifiers PXD004947 and PXD004932.
PXD004456	27960333	Synthetic Uncleavable Ubiquitinated Proteins Dissect Proteasome Deubiquitination and Degradation, and Highlight Distinctive Fate of Tetraubiquitin. 	Proteasome degradation of synthetic ubiquitinated globin	26S Proteasome, Ubiquitin, alpha globin	Various hypotheses have been proposed regarding how chain length, linkage type, position on substrate, and susceptibility to deubiquitinases (DUBs) affect processing of different substrates by proteasome. Here we report a new strategy for the chemical synthesis of ubiquitinated proteins to generate a set of well-defined conjugates bearing an oxime bond between the chain and the substrate. We confirmed that this isopeptide replacement is resistant to DUBs and to shaving by proteasome. Analyzing products generated by proteasomes ranked how chain length governed degradation outcome. Our results support that (1) the cleavage of the proximal isopeptide bond is not a prerequisite for proteasomal degradation, (2) by overcoming trimming at the proteasome, tetraUb is a fundamentally different signal than shorter chains, and (3) the tetra-ubiquitin chain can be degraded with the substrate. Together these results highlight the usefulness of chemistry to dissect the contribution of proteasome-associated DUBs and the complexity of the degradation process.
PXD003868	27966978	Quantitative Global Proteomics of Yeast PBP1 Deletion Mutants and Their Stress Responses Identifies Glucose Metabolism, Mitochondrial, and Stress Granule Changes. 	Quantitative global proteomics of yeast PBP1 deletion mutants and their stress responses reveals glucose metabolism, translation and stress granule changes	PBP1	The yeast protein PBP1 is implicated in very diverse pathways. Intriguingly, its deletion mitigates the toxicity of human neurodegeneration factors. Here, we performed label-free quantitative global proteomics to identify crucial downstream factors, either without stress or under cell stress conditions (heat and NaN3). Compared to the wildtype BY4741 strain, PBP1 deletion always triggered downregulation of the key bioenergetics enzyme KGD2 and the prion protein RNQ1 as well as upregulation of the leucine biosynthesis enzyme LEU1. Without stress, enrichment of stress response factors was consistently detected for both deletion mutants; upon stress, these factors were more pronounced. The selective analysis of components of stress granules and P-bodies revealed a prominent downregulation of GIS2. Our yeast data are in good agreement with a global proteomics and metabolomics publication that the PBP1 ortholog ATAXIN-2 (ATXN2) knockout (KO) in mouse results in mitochondrial deficits in leucine/fatty acid catabolism and bioenergetics, with an obesity phenotype. Furthermore, our data provide the completely novel insight that PBP1 mutations in stress periods involve GIS2, a plausible scenario in view of previous data that both PBP1 and GIS2 relocalize from ribosomes to stress granules, interact with poly(A)-binding protein in translation regulation and prevent mitochondrial precursor overaccumulation stress (mPOS). This may be relevant for human diseases like spinocerebellar ataxias, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and the metabolic syndrome.
PXD004918	27967218	Protein S-Bacillithiolation Functions in Thiol Protection and Redox Regulation of the Glyceraldehyde-3-Phosphate Dehydrogenase Gap in Staphylococcus aureus Under Hypochlorite Stress. 	Monitoring of protein thiol-oxidation in S.aureus USA300 under hypochlorite stress using OxICAT approach.	GAPDH, H2O2, NaOCl, OxICAT, Staphylococcus aureus, oxidative stress	AIMS: Bacillithiol (BSH) is the major low-molecular-weight thiol of the human pathogen Staphylococcus aureus. In this study, we used OxICAT and Voronoi redox treemaps to quantify hypochlorite-sensitive protein thiols in S. aureus USA300 and analyzed the role of BSH in protein S-bacillithiolation. RESULTS: The OxICAT analyses enabled the quantification of 228 Cys residues in the redox proteome of S. aureus USA300. Hypochlorite stress resulted in >10% increased oxidation of 58 Cys residues (25.4%) in the thiol redox proteome. Among the highly oxidized sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl)-sensitive proteins are five S-bacillithiolated proteins (Gap, AldA, GuaB, RpmJ, and PpaC). The glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (G3P) dehydrogenase Gap represents the most abundant S-bacillithiolated protein contributing 4% to the total Cys proteome. The active site Cys151 of Gap was very sensitive to overoxidation and irreversible inactivation by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) or NaOCl in vitro. Treatment with H2O2 or NaOCl in the presence of BSH resulted in reversible Gap inactivation due to S-bacillithiolation, which could be regenerated by the bacilliredoxin Brx (SAUSA300_1321) in vitro. Molecular docking was used to model the S-bacillithiolated Gap active site, suggesting that formation of the BSH mixed disulfide does not require major structural changes. Conclusion and Innovation: Using OxICAT analyses, we identified 58 novel NaOCl-sensitive proteins in the pathogen S. aureus that could play protective roles against the host immune defense and include the glycolytic Gap as major target for S-bacillithiolation. S-bacillithiolation of Gap did not require structural changes, but efficiently functions in redox regulation and protection of the active site against irreversible overoxidation in S. aureus. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 28, 410-430.
PXD005251	27974378	Architecture of the yeast Elongator complex. 	Architecture of the yeast Elongator complex	Elongator, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, electron microscopy, tRNA modification	The highly conserved eukaryotic Elongator complex performs specific chemical modifications on wobble base uridines of tRNAs, which are essential for proteome stability and homeostasis. The complex is formed by six individual subunits (Elp1-6) that are all equally important for its tRNA modification activity. However, its overall architecture and the detailed reaction mechanism remain elusive. Here, we report the structures of the fully assembled yeast Elongator and the Elp123 sub-complex solved by an integrative structure determination approach showing that two copies of the Elp1, Elp2, and Elp3 subunits form a two-lobed scaffold, which binds Elp456 asymmetrically. Our topological models are consistent with previous studies on individual subunits and further validated by complementary biochemical analyses. Our study provides a structural framework on how the tRNA modification activity is carried out by Elongator.
PXD005133	27974800	Near-atomic-resolution cryo-EM analysis of the Salmonella T3S injectisome basal body. 	Identification of proteins in a Salmonella SPI-1 type III secretion injectisome basal body mutant	Salmonella, injectisome, type iii secretion system	The type III secretion (T3S) injectisome is a specialized protein nanomachine that is critical for the pathogenicity of many Gram-negative bacteria, including purveyors of plague, typhoid fever, whooping cough, sexually transmitted infections and major nosocomial infections. This syringe-shaped 3.5-MDa macromolecular assembly spans both bacterial membranes and that of the infected host cell. The internal channel formed by the injectisome allows for the direct delivery of partially unfolded virulence effectors into the host cytoplasm. The structural foundation of the injectisome is the basal body, a molecular lock-nut structure composed predominantly of three proteins that form highly oligomerized concentric rings spanning the inner and outer membranes. Here we present the structure of the prototypical Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium pathogenicity island 1 basal body, determined using single-particle cryo-electron microscopy, with the inner-membrane-ring and outer-membrane-ring oligomers defined at 4.3 Aa and 3.6 Aa resolution, respectively. This work presents the first, to our knowledge, high-resolution structural characterization of the major components of the basal body in the assembled state, including that of the widespread class of outer-membrane portals known as secretins.
PXD004859	27976366	Proteomic signatures reveal a dualistic and clinically relevant classification of anal canal carcinoma. 	Anal Canal Cancer : subclassification	Anal, HPV, transitionnal zone	Aetiologically linked to HPV infection, malignancies of the anal canal have substantially increased in incidence over the last 20 years. Although most anal squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) respond well to chemoradiotherapy, about 30% of patients experience a poor outcome, for undetermined reasons. Despite cumulative efforts for discovering independent predictors of overall survival, both nodal status and tumour size are still the only reliable factors predicting patient outcome. Recent efforts have revealed that the biology of HPV-related lesions in the cervix is strongly linked to the originally infected cell population. To address the hypothesis that topography also influences both gene expression profile and behaviour of anal (pre)neoplastic lesions, we correlated both proteomic signatures and clinicopathological features of tumours arising from two distinct portions of the anal canal: the lower part (squamous zone) and the more proximal anal transitional zone. Although microdissected cancer cells appeared indistinguishable by morphology (squamous phenotype), unsupervised clustering analysis of the whole proteome significantly highlighted the heterogeneity that exists within anal canal tumours. More importantly, two region-specific subtypes of SCC were revealed. The expression profile (sensitivity/specificity) of several selected biomarkers (keratin filaments) further confirmed the subclassification of anal (pre)cancers based on their cellular origin. Less commonly detected compared to their counterparts located in the squamous mucosa, SCCs originating in the transitional zone more frequently displayed a poor or basaloid differentiation, and were significantly correlated with reduced disease-free and overall survivals. Taken together, we present direct evidence that anal canal SCC comprises two distinct entities with different cells of origin, proteomic signatures, and survival rates. This study forms the basis for a dualistic classification of anal carcinoma, with implications for management, outcome expectations, and possibly therapy. Copyright (c) 2016 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
PXD003940	27976581	Phosphatase POPX2 Exhibits Dual Regulatory Functions in Cancer Metastasis. 	Phosphatase POPX2 exhibits dual regulatory functions in cancer metastasis	POPX2 phosphatase, SILAC mass spectrometry, Tumor angiogenesis, cytokine, exosome, secretome	Cancer metastasis is a complex mechanism involving multiple processes. Previously, our integrative proteome, transcriptome, and phosphoproteome study reported that the levels of serine/threonine phosphatase POPX2 were positively correlated with cancer cell motility through modulating MAPK signaling. Surprisingly, here we found that POPX2 knockdown cells induced more numerous and larger tumor nodules in lungs in longer term animal studies. Interestingly, our analysis of DNA microarray data from cancer patient samples that are available in public databases shows that low POPX2 expression is linked to distant metastasis and poor survival rate. These observations suggest that lower levels of POPX2 may favor tumor progression in later stages of metastasis. We hypothesize that POPX2 may do so by modulation of angiogenesis. Secretome analysis of POPX2-knockdown MDA-MB-231 cells using LC-MS/MS-based SILAC quantitative proteomics and cytokine array show that silencing of POPX2 leads to increased secretion of exosomes, which may, in turn, induce multiple pro-angiogenic cytokines. This study, combined with our previous findings, suggests that a single ubiquitously expressed phosphatase POPX2 influences cancer metastasis via modulating multiple biological processes including MAPK signaling and exosome cytokine secretion.
PXD003210	27976729	Interactomic analysis of REST/NRSF and implications of its functional links with the transcription suppressor TRIM28 during neuronal differentiation. 	REST-interactome -  Interactomic analysis of REST/NRSF and implications of its functional links with the transcription suppressor TRIM28 during neuronal differentiation	Cell biology, Interaction profiling, Transcription factor	RE-1 silencing transcription factor (REST) is a transcriptional repressor that regulates gene expression by binding to repressor element 1. However, despite its critical function in physiology, little is known about its interaction proteins. Here we identified 204 REST-interacting proteins using affinity purification and mass spectrometry. The interactome included proteins associated with mRNA processing/splicing, chromatin organization, and transcription. The interactions of these REST-interacting proteins, which included TRIM28, were confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation and immunocytochemistry, respectively. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis revealed that neuronal differentiation-related GO terms were enriched among target genes that were co-regulated by REST and TRIM28, while the level of CTNND2 was increased by the knockdown of REST and TRIM28. Consistently, the level of CTNND2 increased while those of REST and TRIM28 decreased during neuronal differentiation in the primary neurons, suggesting that CTNND2 expression may be co-regulated by both. Furthermore, neurite outgrowth was increased by depletion of REST or TRIM28, implying that reduction of both REST and TRIM28 could promote neuronal differentiation via induction of CTNND2 expression. In conclusion, our study of REST reveals novel interacting proteins which could be a valuable resource for investigating unidentified functions of REST and also suggested functional links between REST and TRIM28 during neuronal development.
PXD004009	27981680	A Whole Proteome Inventory of Background Photocrosslinker Binding. 	A whole proteome inventory of background photocrosslinker binding	affinity-based protein profiling, photocrosslinker, target identification	Affinity-based protein profiling (AfBPP) is a widely applied method for the target identification of bioactive molecules. Probes containing photocrosslinkers, such as benzophenones, diazirines, and aryl azides, irreversibly link the molecule of interest to its target protein upon irradiation with UV light. Despite their prevalent application, little is known about photocrosslinker-specific off-targets, affecting the reliability of results. Herein, we investigated background protein labeling by gel-free quantitative proteomics. Characteristic off-targets were identified for each photoreactive group and compiled in a comprehensive inventory. In a proof-of-principle study, H8, a protein kinase A inhibitor, was equipped with a diazirine moiety. Application of this photoprobe revealed, by alignment with the diazirine background, unprecedented insight into its in situ proteome targets. Taken together, our findings guide the identification of biologically relevant binders in photoprobe experiments.
PXD003598	27984725	CDK Substrate Phosphorylation and Ordering the Cell Cycle. 	Cyclin-dependant kinase (CDK) orders the cell cycle via substrate specific thresholds	CDK, S. pombe, SILAC, cell cycle	S phase and mitotic onset are brought about by the action of multiple different cyclin-CDK complexes. However, it has been suggested that changes in the total level of CDK kinase activity, rather than substrate specificity, drive the temporal ordering of S phase and mitosis. Here, we present a phosphoproteomics-based systems analysis of CDK substrates in fission yeast and demonstrate that the phosphorylation of different CDK substrates can be temporally ordered during the cell cycle by a single cyclin-CDK. This is achieved by rising CDK activity and the differential sensitivity of substrates to CDK activity over a wide dynamic range. This is combined with rapid phosphorylation turnover to generate clearly resolved substrate-specific activity thresholds, which in turn ensures the appropriate ordering of downstream cell-cycle events. Comparative analysis with wild-type cells expressing multiple cyclin-CDK complexes reveals how cyclin-substrate specificity works alongside activity thresholds to fine-tune the patterns of substrate phosphorylation.
PXD003708	27987026	Phosphoproteomics of colon cancer metastasis: comparative mass spectrometric analysis of the isogenic primary and metastatic cell lines SW480 and SW620. 	Phosphoproteome of a patient-matched cell line model of colon cancer metastasis	SW480, SW620, consitutive signaling, lymph node metastasis, phosphorylation	The contributions of phosphorylation-mediated signaling networks to colon cancer metastasis are poorly defined. To interrogate constitutive signaling alterations in cancer progression, the global phosphoproteomes of patient-matched SW480 (primary colon tumor origin) and SW620 (lymph node metastasis) cell lines were compared with TiO2 and immobilized metal affinity chromatography phosphopeptide enrichment followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Network analysis of the significantly altered phosphosites revealed differential regulation in cellular adhesion, mitosis, and messenger RNA translational machinery. Messenger RNA biogenesis and splicing, transport through the nuclear pores, initiation of translation, and stability and degradation were also affected. Although alterations in these processes have been associated with oncogenic transformation, control of messenger RNA stability has typically not been associated with cancer progression. Notably, the single phosphosite with the greatest relative change in SW620 cells was Ser2 on eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 subunit 2, suggesting that SW620 cells translate faster or with greater efficiency than SW480 cells. These broad changes in the regulation of translation also occur without overexpression of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E. The findings suggest that metastatic cells exhibit constitutive changes to the phosphoproteome, and that messenger RNA stability and translational efficiency may be important targets of deregulation during cancer progression.
PXD002465	27988178	A novel protein coding potential of long intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) in the kinetoplastid protozoan parasite Leishmania major. 	A novel protein coding potential of long intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) in the kinetoplastid protozoan parasite Leishmania major	Cutaneous leishmaniasis, gene annotations, non-coding RNA, protozoan parasite	Cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) is caused by a kinetoplastid protozoan parasite Leishmania major, as a skin ulcer at the site of the sandfly bite. CL is curable and in most cases ulcers heal spontaneously within three to six months leaving a scar and disfiguration. Complete genome of L. major was reported in 2005 at the very initial phase of kinetoplastid parasite genome sequencing project. Presently, L. major genome is most studied and comprehensively annotated genome and therefore, it is being used as a reference genome for annotating recently sequenced Leishmanial genomes. A recent study reporting global transcriptome of L. major promastigotes, identified 1884 uniquely expressed non-coding RNAs (ncRNA) in L. major. In the current study, an in-depth analysis of the 1884 novel ncRNAs was carried out using a proteogenomic approach to identify their protein coding potential. Our analysis resulted in identification of eight novel protein coding genes based on mass spectrometry data. We have analyzed each of these eight novel CDS and in the process have improved the genome annotation of L. major on the basis of mass spectrometry derived peptide data. Although sequenced a decade ago, the improvement in the L. major genome annotation thus is an ongoing process.
PXD005404	27990558	Comparative proteomic analysis of hemolymph from uninfected and Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus-infected Diaphorina citri. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of hemolymph from uninfected and Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus-infected Diaphorina citri	Asian Citrus Psyllid, Diaphorina citri, Endosymbionts, Hemiptera, Hemolymph	Hemolymph was characterized from Diaphorina citri adults infected with the phytopathogen, Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus (CLas), and compared with that from uninfected psyllids. This study identified 5531 and 3220 peptides within infected and uninfected hemolymph using nano-LC-MS/MS. A reduced number of proteins were detected for D. citri and all known endosymbionts within infected hemolymph as compared to uninfected hemolymph. A large number of immune defense proteins were absent from D. citri hemolymph; however, a single recognition protein (PGRP), two serine protease inhibitors, three prophenoloxidase (proPO) enzymes, and a single serine protease in an uninfected D. citri were detected. The hemolymph is nearly devoid of nutrient storage proteins. This is the first proteomic analysis of D. citri hemolymph that also analyses the components contributed by all the endosymbionts. By comparing the contribution of each endosymbiont (CCR, CPA, and WB) in the presence and absence of CLas infection, this study offers initial insights regarding the hemolymph response to microbial community shifts associated with D. citri infection status. Our data also present potential protein targets for analysis and disruption of CLas transmission that may facilitate management of huanglongbing (HLB) caused by CLas in citrus.
PXD010981	27990823	ABRF Proteome Informatics Research Group (iPRG) 2015 Study: Detection of Differentially Abundant Proteins in Label-Free Quantitative LC-MS/MS Experiments. 	Quantitation Analysis using OpenMS of iPRG2015: Detection of Differentially Abundant Proteins in Label-Free Quantitative LC-MS/MS Experiments	Benchmark, IPRG Study, IPRG2015, Label-free, OpenMS, Reference Dataset	Detection of differentially abundant proteins in label-free quantitative shotgun liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) experiments requires a series of computational steps that identify and quantify LC-MS features. It also requires statistical analyses that distinguish systematic changes in abundance between conditions from artifacts of biological and technical variation. The 2015 study of the Proteome Informatics Research Group (iPRG) of the Association of Biomolecular Resource Facilities (ABRF) aimed to evaluate the effects of the statistical analysis on the accuracy of the results. The study used LC-tandem mass spectra acquired from a controlled mixture, and made the data available to anonymous volunteer participants. The participants used methods of their choice to detect differentially abundant proteins, estimate the associated fold changes, and characterize the uncertainty of the results. The study found that multiple strategies (including the use of spectral counts versus peak intensities, and various software tools) could lead to accurate results, and that the performance was primarily determined by the analysts' expertise. This manuscript summarizes the outcome of the study, and provides representative examples of good computational and statistical practice. The data set generated as part of this study is publicly available.
PXD005484	27991487	The non-canonical mitochondrial inner membrane presequence translocase of trypanosomatids contains two essential rhomboid-like proteins. 	The non-canonical mitochondrial inner membrane presequence translocase of trypanosomatids contains two essential rhomboid-like proteins	RNAi-mediated protein knockdown, SILAC, TbTim17, Trypanosoma brucei, mitochondrial protein import, rhomboid-like proteins	Mitochondrial protein import is essential for all eukaryotes. Here we show that the early diverging eukaryote Trypanosoma brucei has a non-canonical inner membrane (IM) protein translocation machinery. Besides TbTim17, the single member of the Tim17/22/23 family in trypanosomes, the presequence translocase contains nine subunits that co-purify in reciprocal immunoprecipitations and with a presequence-containing substrate that is trapped in the translocation channel. Two of the newly discovered subunits are rhomboid-like proteins, which are essential for growth and mitochondrial protein import. Rhomboid-like proteins were proposed to form the protein translocation pore of the ER-associated degradation system, suggesting that they may contribute to pore formation in the presequence translocase of T. brucei. Pulldown of import-arrested mitochondrial carrier protein shows that the carrier translocase shares eight subunits with the presequence translocase. This indicates that T. brucei may have a single IM translocase that with compositional variations mediates import of presequence-containing and carrier proteins.
PXD004808	27991520	The Safety Limits Of An Extended Fast: Lessons from a Non-Model Organism. 	Penguin plasma LC-MSMS	2D gels, Adlie Penguin, plasma	While safety of fasting therapy is debated in humans, extended fasting occurs routinely and safely in wild animals. To do so, food deprived animals like breeding penguins anticipate the critical limit of fasting by resuming feeding. To date, however, no molecular indices of the physiological state that links spontaneous refeeding behaviour with fasting limits had been identified. Blood proteomics and physiological data reveal here that fasting-induced body protein depletion is not unsafe "per se". Indeed, incubating penguins only abandon their chick/egg to refeed when this state is associated with metabolic defects in glucose homeostasis/fatty acid utilization, insulin production and action, and possible renal dysfunctions. Our data illustrate how the field investigation of "exotic" models can be a unique source of information, with possible biomedical interest.
PXD004555	27991726	An optimised version of the secretome protein enrichment with click sugars (SPECS) method leads to enhanced coverage of the secretome. 	An optimized version of the Secretome protein enrichment with click sugars (SPECS) method leads to enhanced coverage of the secretome	SPECS, glycocapture, glycoprotein, label-free quantification	The secretome, the entirety of all soluble proteins either being secreted or proteolytically released by a cell, plays a key role in inter-cellular communication of multi-cellular organisms. Pathological alterations contribute to diseases such as hypertension, cancer, autoimmune disorders or neurodegenerative diseases. Hence, studying disease-related perturbations of the secretome and the secretome itself covers an important aspect of cellular physiology. We recently developed the secretome protein enrichment with click sugars (SPECS) method that enables the analysis of secretomes of in vitro cell cultures even in the presence of FCS with MS. So far, SPECS facilitated the identification of protease substrates of BACE1, SPPL3 and ADAM10. Though, the SPECS method has already enabled deep insights into secretome biology, we aimed to improve the SPECS protocol to obtain even more information from MS-based secretome analysis and reduce the amount of input material. Here, we optimised the reaction buffer, the pH and replaced Dibenzocyclooctyne (DBCO) PEG12-biotin with the more water-soluble variant DBCO-sulpho-biotin to finally provide an optimised protocol of the recently published SPECS protocol. Overall, the number of quantified glycoproteins and their average sequence coverage was increased by 1.6- and 2.4-fold, respectively. Thus, the opzimised SPECS protocol allows reducing the input material by half without losing information. These improvements make the SPECS method more sensitive and more universal applicable to cell types with limited availability.
PXD004780	27991763	The "PepSAVI-MS" Pipeline for Natural Product Bioactive Peptide Discovery. 	The PepSAVI-MS' pipeline for natural product bioactive peptide discovery	Antimicrobial peptides, anticancer, antifungal, antimicrobial resistance, screening platform	The recent increase in extensively drug-resistant bacterial pathogens and the associated increase of morbidity and mortality demonstrate the immediate need for new antibiotic backbones with novel mechanisms of action. Here, we report the development of the PepSAVI-MS pipeline for bioactive peptide discovery. This highly versatile platform employs mass spectrometry and statistics to identify bioactive peptide targets from complex biological samples. We validate the use of this platform through the successful identification of known bioactive peptides from a botanical species, Viola odorata. Using this pipeline, we have widened the known antimicrobial spectrum for V. odorata cyclotides, including antibacterial activity of cycloviolacin O2 against A. baumannii. We further demonstrate the broad applicability of the platform through the identification of novel anticancer activities for cycloviolacins by their cytotoxicity against ovarian, breast, and prostate cancer cell lines.
PXD003594	27991931	Oxidative stress downstream of mTORC1 but not AKT causes a proliferative defect in cancer cells resistant to PI3K inhibition. 	An increase in oxidative stress downstream of mTORC1 but not AKT causes a proliferative defect in cancer cells with acquired resistance to PI3K/mTOR inhibitors	LTQ-Orbitrap, Metabolism, PI3K resistance, Phosphoproteomics, Q-Exactive Plus, TiO2	Compounds targeting phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/mammalian target of rapamycin (PI3K/mTOR) signaling are being investigated in multiple clinical settings, but drug resistance may reduce their benefit. Compound rechallenge after drug holidays can overcome such resistance, yet little is known about the impact of drug holidays on cell biochemistry. We found that PI3K inhibitor (PI3Ki)-resistant cells cultured in the absence of PI3Ki developed a proliferative defect, increased oxygen consumption and accumulated reactive oxygen species (ROS), leading to lactate production through hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha. This metabolic imbalance was reversed by mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) inhibitors. Interestingly, neither AKT nor c-MYC was involved in mediating the metabolic phenotype, despite the latter contributing to resistant cells' proliferation. These data suggest that an AKT-independent PI3K/mTORC1 axis operates in these cells. The excessive ROS hampered cell division, and the metabolic phenotype made resistant cells more sensitive to hydrogen peroxide and nutrient starvation. Thus, the proliferative defect of PI3Ki-resistant cells during drug holidays is caused by defective metabolic adaptation to chronic PI3K/mTOR pathway inhibition. This metabolic imbalance may open the therapeutic window for challenge with metabolic drugs during drug holidays.
PXD004703	27992588	Site-Specific Cleavage of Ribosomal RNA in Escherichia coli-Based Cell-Free Protein Synthesis Systems. 	Elongation factors E. coli	Elongation factors, ribosomal protein S1	Cell-free protein synthesis, which mimics the biological protein production system, allows rapid expression of proteins without the need to maintain a viable cell. Nevertheless, cell-free protein expression relies on active in vivo translation machinery including ribosomes and translation factors. Here, we examined the integrity of the protein synthesis machinery, namely the functionality of ribosomes, during (i) the cell-free extract preparation and (ii) the performance of in vitro protein synthesis by analyzing crucial components involved in translation. Monitoring the 16S rRNA, 23S rRNA, elongation factors and ribosomal protein S1, we show that processing of a cell-free extract results in no substantial alteration of the translation machinery. Moreover, we reveal that the 16S rRNA is specifically cleaved at helix 44 during in vitro translation reactions, resulting in the removal of the anti-Shine-Dalgarno sequence. These defective ribosomes accumulate in the cell-free system. We demonstrate that the specific cleavage of the 16S rRNA is triggered by the decreased concentrations of Mg2+. In addition, we provide evidence that helix 44 of the 30S ribosomal subunit serves as a point-of-entry for ribosome degradation in Escherichia coli. Our results suggest that Mg2+ homeostasis is fundamental to preserving functional ribosomes in cell-free protein synthesis systems, which is of major importance for cell-free protein synthesis at preparative scale, in order to create highly efficient technical in vitro systems.
PXD001645	28000977	SILAC-based quantitative proteomic analysis reveals widespread molecular alterations in human skin keratinocytes upon chronic arsenic exposure. 	SILAC-based quantitative proteomic analysis reveals molecular alterations in human skin keratinocytes upon chronic exposure to arsenic	HaCaT, sodium arsenite, toxicity	Chronic exposure to arsenic is associated with dermatological and nondermatological disorders. Consumption of arsenic-contaminated drinking water results in accumulation of arsenic in liver, spleen, kidneys, lungs, and gastrointestinal tract. Although arsenic is cleared from these sites, a substantial amount of residual arsenic is left in keratin-rich tissues including skin. Epidemiological studies suggest the association of skin cancer upon arsenic exposure, however, the mechanism of arsenic-induced carcinogenesis is not completely understood. We developed a cell line based model to understand the molecular mechanisms involved in arsenic-mediated toxicity and carcinogenicity. Human skin keratinocyte cell line, HaCaT, was chronically exposed to 100 nM sodium arsenite over a period of 6 months. We observed an increase in basal ROS levels in arsenic-exposed cells. SILAC-based quantitative proteomics approach resulted in identification of 2111 proteins of which 42 proteins were found to be overexpressed and 54 downregulated (twofold) upon chronic arsenic exposure. Our analysis revealed arsenic-induced overexpression of aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C2 (AKR1C2), aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C3 (AKR1C3), glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit (GCLC), and NAD(P)H dehydrogenase [quinone] 1 (NQO1) among others. We observed downregulation of several members of the plakin family including periplakin (PPL), envoplakin (EVPL), and involucrin (IVL) that are essential for terminal differentiation of keratinocytes. MRM and Western blot analysis confirmed differential expression of several candidate proteins. Our study provides insights into molecular alterations upon chronic arsenic exposure on skin.
PXD005428	28003343	Ectodomain shedding of CD99 within highly conserved regions is mediated by the metalloprotease meprin beta and promotes transendothelial cell migration. 	Proteolytic processing of CD99	TEM, adhesion molecule, cell migration, inflammation, protease, proteolysis	The adhesion molecule CD99 is essential for the transendothelial migration of leukocytes. In this study, we used biochemical and cellular assays to show that CD99 undergoes ectodomain shedding by the metalloprotease meprin beta and subsequent intramembrane proteolysis by gamma-secretase. The cleavage site in CD99 was identified by mass spectrometry within an acidic region highly conserved through different vertebrate species. This finding fits perfectly to the unique cleavage specificity of meprin beta with a strong preference for aspartate residues and suggests coevolution of protease and substrate. We hypothesized that limited CD99 cleavage by meprin beta would alter cellular transendothelial migration (TEM) behavior in tissue remodeling processes, such as inflammation and cancer. Indeed, meprin beta induced cell migration of Lewis lung carcinoma cells in an in vitro TEM assay. Accordingly, deficiency of meprin beta in Mep1b(-/-) mice resulted in significantly increased CD99 protein levels in the lung. Therefore, meprin beta could serve as a therapeutic target, given that in a proof-of-concept approach we showed accumulation of CD99 protein in lungs of meprin beta inhibitor-treated mice.-Bedau, T., Peters, F., Prox, J., Arnold, P., Schmidt, F., Finkernagel, M., Koellmann, S., Wichert, R., Otte, A., Ohler, A., Stirnberg, M., Lucius, R., Koudelka, T., Tholey, A., Biasin, V., Pietrzik, C. U., Kwapiszewska, G., Becker-Pauly, C. Ectodomain shedding of CD99 within highly conserved regions is mediated by the metalloprotease meprin beta and promotes transendothelial cell migration.
PXD003902	28007913	Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) Promotes Assembly of the p130Cas Interactome to Drive Endothelial Chemotactic Signaling and Angiogenesis. 	VEGF orchestration of the p130Cas Interactome	IQGAP1, cell movement, focal adhesion, neuropilin	p130Cas is a polyvalent adapter protein essential for cardiovascular development, and with a key role in cell movement. In order to identify the pathways by which p130Cas exerts its biological functions in endothelial cells we mapped the p130Cas interactome and its dynamic changes in response to VEGF using high-resolution mass spectrometry and reconstruction of protein interaction (PPI) networks with the aid of multiple PPI databases. VEGF enriched the p130Cas interactome in proteins involved in actin cytoskeletal dynamics and cell movement, including actin-binding proteins, small GTPases and regulators or binders of GTPases. Detailed studies showed that p130Cas association of the GTPase-binding scaffold protein, IQGAP1, plays a key role in VEGF chemotactic signaling, endothelial polarization, VEGF-induced cell migration, and endothelial tube formation. These findings indicate a cardinal role for assembly of the p130Cas interactome in mediating the cell migratory response to VEGF in angiogenesis, and provide a basis for further studies of p130Cas in cell movement.
PXD002626	28009281	Peroxiredoxin 1 Protects Telomeres from Oxidative Damage and Preserves Telomeric DNA for Extension by Telomerase. 	Peroxiredoxin 1 protects telomeres from oxidative damage preserving chromosome ends for extension by telomerase	Peroxiredoxin 1, oxidative damage, telomerase, telomeres	Oxidative damage of telomeres can promote cancer, cardiac failure, and muscular dystrophy. Specific mechanisms protecting telomeres from oxidative damage have not been described. We analyzed telomeric chromatin composition during the cell cycle and show that the antioxidant enzyme peroxiredoxin 1 (PRDX1) is enriched at telomeres during S phase. Deletion of the PRDX1 gene leads to damage of telomeric DNA upon oxidative stress, revealing a protective function of PRDX1 against oxidative damage at telomeres. We also show that the oxidized nucleotide 8-oxo-2'deoxyguanosine-5'-triphosphate (8oxodGTP) causes premature chain termination when incorporated by telomerase and that some DNA substrates terminating in 8oxoG prevent extension by telomerase. Thus, PRDX1 safeguards telomeres from oxygen radicals to counteract telomere damage and preserve telomeric DNA for elongation by telomerase.
PXD005118	28011752	Visualizing and comparing results of different peptide identification methods. 	Comparing search algorithms -  Visualizing and comparing results of different peptide identification methods	Escherichia coli, peptide-spectrum matching	In mass spectrometry-based proteomics, peptides are typically identified from tandem mass spectra using spectrum comparison. A sequence search engine compares experimentally obtained spectra with those predicted from protein sequences, applying enzyme cleavage and fragmentation rules. To this, there are two main alternatives: spectral libraries and de novo sequencing. The former compares measured spectra with a collection of previously acquired and identified spectra in a library. De novo attempts to sequence peptides from the tandem mass spectra alone. We here present a theoretical framework and a data processing workflow for visualizing and comparing the results of these different types of algorithms. The method considers the three search strategies as different dimensions, identifies distinct agreement classes and visualizes the complementarity of the search strategies. We have included X! Tandem, SpectraST and PepNovo, as they are in common use and representative for algorithms of each type. Our method allows advanced investigation of how the three search methods perform relatively to each other and shows the impact of the currently used decoy sequences for evaluating the false discovery rates.
PXD004960	28028127	Myofibrillar Z-discs Are a Protein Phosphorylation Hot Spot with Protein Kinase C (PKCalpha) Modulating Protein Dynamics. 	Quantitative Myogenesis C2C12 Proteome with Dimethyl-Labelling	C2C12 cells, dimethyl, muscle differentiation, myoblasts, myotubes	The Z-disc is a protein-rich structure critically important for the development and integrity of myofibrils, which are the contractile organelles of cross-striated muscle cells. We here used mouse C2C12 myoblast, which were differentiated into myotubes, followed by electrical pulse stimulation (EPS) to generate contracting myotubes comprising mature Z-discs. Using a quantitative proteomics approach, we found significant changes in the relative abundance of 387 proteins in myoblasts versus differentiated myotubes, reflecting the drastic phenotypic conversion of these cells during myogenesis. Interestingly, EPS of differentiated myotubes to induce Z-disc assembly and maturation resulted in increased levels of proteins involved in ATP synthesis, presumably to fulfill the higher energy demand of contracting myotubes. Because an important role of the Z-disc for signal integration and transduction was recently suggested, its precise phosphorylation landscape further warranted in-depth analysis. We therefore established, by global phosphoproteomics of EPS-treated contracting myotubes, a comprehensive site-resolved protein phosphorylation map of the Z-disc and found that it is a phosphorylation hotspot in skeletal myocytes, underscoring its functions in signaling and disease-related processes. In an illustrative fashion, we analyzed the actin-binding multiadaptor protein filamin C (FLNc), which is essential for Z-disc assembly and maintenance, and found that PKCalpha phosphorylation at distinct serine residues in its hinge 2 region prevents its cleavage at an adjacent tyrosine residue by calpain 1. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching experiments indicated that this phosphorylation modulates FLNc dynamics. Moreover, FLNc lacking the cleaved Ig-like domain 24 exhibited remarkably fast kinetics and exceedingly high mobility. Our data set provides research community resource for further identification of kinase-mediated changes in myofibrillar protein interactions, kinetics, and mobility that will greatly advance our understanding of Z-disc dynamics and signaling.
PXD004438	28029036	Scout-MRM: Multiplexed Targeted Mass Spectrometry-Based Assay without Retention Time Scheduling Exemplified by Dickeya dadantii Proteomic Analysis during Plant Infection. 	Proteomics of the phytopathogen Dickeya dadantii	MRM assay, bacteria	Targeted mass spectrometry of a surrogate peptide panel is a powerful method to study the dynamics of protein networks, but chromatographic time scheduling remains a major limitation for dissemination and implementation of robust and large multiplexed assays. We unveil a Multiple Reaction Monitoring method (Scout-MRM) where the use of spiked scout peptides triggers complex transition lists, regardless of the retention time of targeted surrogate peptides. The interest of Scout-MRM method regarding the retention time independency, multiplexing capability, reproducibility, and putative interest in facilitating method transfer was illustrated by a 782-peptide-plex relative assay targeting 445 proteins of the phytopathogen Dickeya dadantii during plant infection.
PXD004676	28035797	Combining Higher-Energy Collision Dissociation and Electron-Transfer/Higher-Energy Collision Dissociation Fragmentation in a Product-Dependent Manner Confidently Assigns Proteomewide ADP-Ribose Acceptor Sites. 	Cellular ADP-ribosylome characterization with HCD and EThcD	ADP-ribosylome, EThcD, HCD, Product dependent method	Protein adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribosylation is a physiologically and pathologically important post-translational modification. Recent technological advances have improved analysis of this complex modification and have led to the discovery of hundreds of ADP-ribosylated proteins in both cultured cells and mouse tissues. Nevertheless, accurate assignment of the ADP-ribose acceptor site(s) within the modified proteins identified has remained a challenging task. This is mainly due to poor fragmentation of modified peptides. Here, using an Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid mass spectrometer, we present an optimized methodology that not only drastically improves the overall localization scores for ADP-ribosylation acceptor sites but also boosts ADP-ribosylated peptide identifications. First, we systematically compared the efficacy of higher-energy collision dissociation (HCD), electron-transfer dissociation with supplemental collisional activation (ETcaD), and electron-transfer/higher-energy collision dissociation (EThcD) fragmentation methods when determining ADP-ribose acceptor sites within complex cellular samples. We then tested the combination of HCD and EThcD fragmentation, which were employed in a product-dependent manner, and the unique fragmentation properties of the ADP-ribose moiety were used to trigger targeted fragmentation of only the modified peptides. The best results were obtained with a workflow that included initial fast, high-energy HCD (Orbitrap, FT) scans, which produced intense ADP-ribose fragmentation ions. These potentially ADP-ribosylated precursors were then selected and analyzed via subsequent high-resolution HCD and EThcD fragmentation. Using these resulting high-quality spectra, we identified a xxxxxxKSxxxxx modification motif where lysine can serve as an ADP-ribose acceptor site. Due to the appearance of serine within this motif and its close presence to the lysine, further analysis revealed that serine serves as a new ADP-ribose acceptor site across the proteome.
PXD005305	28036087	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Harmless and Pathogenic Strains of Infectious Microalgae, Prototheca spp. 	Comparative proteomics analysis of microalgae Prototheca associated with severe, mild and non-infectious strains	LTQ Orbitrap Velos mass spectrometer, Maxquant, Perseus software, Prototheca, Prototheca blaschkeae, Prototheca zopfii, bovine masititis, comparative proteomic analysis, label free quantitative analysis	Microalgae of the genus Prototheca (P.) spp are associated with rare algal infections of invertebrates termed protothecosis. Among the seven generally accepted species, P. zopfii genotype 2 (GT2) is associated with a severe form of bovine mastitis while P. blaschkeae causes the mild and sub-clinical form of mastitis. The reason behind the infectious nature of P. zopfii GT2, while genotype 1 (GT1) remains non-infectious, is not known. Therefore, in the present study we investigated the protein expression level difference between the genotypes of P. zopfii and P. blaschkeae. Cells were cultured to the mid-exponential phase, harvested, and processed for LC-MS analysis. Peptide data was acquired on an LTQ Orbitrap Velos, raw spectra were quantitatively analyzed with MaxQuant software and matching with the reference database of Chlorella variabilis and Auxenochlorella protothecoides resulted in the identification of 226 proteins. Comparison of an environmental strain with infectious strains resulted in the identification of 51 differentially expressed proteins related to carbohydrate metabolism, energy production and protein translation. The expression level of Hsp70 proteins and their role in the infectious process is worth further investigation. All mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005305.
PXD001963	28038447	Proteome alterations associated with transformation of multiple myeloma to secondary plasma cell leukemia. 	Proteome alterations associated with transformation of multiple myeloma to secondary plasma cell leukemia	MM, PCL, cell, leukemia, myeloma, plasma, secondary	Plasma cell leukemia is a rare and aggressive plasma cell neoplasm that may either originate de novo (primary PCL) or by leukemic transformation of multiple myeloma (MM) to secondary PCL (sPCL). The prognosis of sPCL is very poor, and currently no standard treatment is available due to lack of prospective clinical studies. In an attempt to elucidate factors contributing to transformation, we have performed super-SILAC quantitative proteome profiling of malignant plasma cells collected from the same patient at both the MM and sPCL stages of the disease. 795 proteins were found to be differentially expressed in the MM and sPCL samples. Gene ontology analysis indicated a metabolic shift towards aerobic glycolysis in sPCL as well as marked down-regulation of enzymes involved in glycan synthesis, potentially mediating altered glycosylation of surface receptors. There was no significant change in overall genomic 5-methylcytosine or 5-hydroxymethylcytosine at the two stages, indicating that epigenetic dysregulation was not a major driver of transformation to sPCL. The present study constitutes the first attempt to provide a comprehensive map of the altered protein expression profile accompanying transformation of MM to sPCL in a single patient, identifying several candidate proteins that can be targeted by currently available small molecule drugs. Our dataset furthermore constitutes a reference dataset for further proteomic analysis of sPCL transformation.
PXD006048	28039027	The MAP kinase MAPKLK1 is essential to Trypanosoma brucei proliferation and regulates proteins involved in mRNA metabolism. 	T. brucei MAPKLK1 knockdown -  The MAP kinase MAPKLK1 is essential to Trypanosoma brucei proliferation and regulates proteins involved in mRNA metabolism	LTQ Orbitrap XL ETD, MAP kinase, Trypanosoma brucei	Protein phosphorylation and dephosphorylation events regulate many cellular processes. The identification of all phosphorylation sites and their association to a respective protein kinase or phosphatase is a challenging and crucial step to have a deeper understanding of the effects of signaling networks on cells. Pathogenic trypanosomatids have a large number of protein kinases and phosphatases in comparison to other organisms, which reinforces the relevance of the phosphorylation process in these early eukaryotes, nevertheless little is known about protein phosphorylation in these protozoa. In this context, the role of a MAP kinase-like kinase (MAPKLK1), observed to be essential to proliferation of procyclic Trypanosoma brucei, was studied. After silencing MAPKLK1 expression by RNAi, the cells were evaluated by SILAC MS-based proteomics and RNA-Seq. We identified 1756 phosphorylation sites of which 384 were not previously described in T. brucei. Despite being essential, few modulations were observed at the phosphorylation patterns and gene expression levels of MAPKLK1 knockdown. These indirect targets and potential substrates of MAPKLK1 are related to key cellular processes enriched to mRNA processing and stability control. SIGNIFICANCE: The field of cell signaling is a promising topic of study for trypanosomatids, since little is known about this topic and the gene expression regulation occurs at post-transcriptional level. In this sense, the present work increases the knowledge on protein phosphorylation process in Trypanosoma brucei. We depleted one MAP kinase (MAPKLK1) of T. brucei and evaluated the effects on the cell. We showed that MAPKLK1 is essential to the cell, while few modulations on phosphoproteome, proteome and transcriptome are observed with its depletion. Although in low number, the changes in phosphoproteome were significant, presenting possible substrate candidates of MAPKLK1 and indirect targets related to mRNA processing and stability control, metabolic pathways, among others. This result provides insights in the phosphorylation network of T. brucei, a model organism that impacts human and animal health.
PXD005570	28039816	Overexpression of a stress-responsive U-box protein gene VaPUB affects the accumulation of resistance related proteins in Vitis vinifera 'Thompson Seedless'. 	Grapevine Leaf proteome -  Overexpression of a stress-responsive U-box protein gene VaPUB affects the accumulation of resistance related proteins in Vitis vinifera 'Thompson Seedless'	MALDI-TOF/TOF, Vitis	Many U-box proteins have been identified and characterized as important factors against environmental stresses such as chilling, heat, salinity and pathogen attack in plant. Our previous research reported the cloning of a novel U-box protein gene VaPUB from Vitis amurensis 'Zuoshanyi' grape and suggested a function of it in related to cold stress in the model plant Arabidopsis system. In this study, the role of VaPUB in response to biotic and abiotic stress was further analyzed in the homologous grapevine system by studying the transcript regulation and the protein accumulation in VaPUB transgenic vines. The expression analysis assay shown that VaPUB was significantly up-regulated 6 h after cold treatment and as early as 2 h post inoculation with Plasmopara viticola, a pathogen causing downy mildew disease in grapevine. Over-expressing VaPUB in V. Vinifera 'Thompson Seedless' affected the microstructure of leaves. The proteome assay shown that the accumulation of pathogenesis-related protein PR10 and many proteins involved in carbon and energy metabolism, oxidation reaction and protein metabolism were significantly altered in transgenic vines. In comparison with wild type plants, the expression level of PR10 family genes was significantly decreased in VaPUB transgenic vines under P. viticola treatment or cold stress. Results from this study showed that the U-box protein gene PUB quickly responded to both biotic stress and abiotic stress and significantly influenced the accumulation of resistance related proteins in grapevine.
PXD004544	28040530	Correlation of cell surface proteins of distinct Beauveria bassiana cell types and adaption to varied environment and interaction with the host insect. 	LC-MS/MS of dithiothreitol-extracted proteins from the insect fungal pathogen Beauveria bassiana hyphal bodies (in vivo blastospores)	Beauveria bassiana, DTT-extracted proteins, LLC-MS/MS, hyphal bodies, in vivo blastospores	The insect fungal pathogen Beauveria bassiana produces a number of distinct cell types that include aerial conidia, blastospores and haemolymph-derived cells, termed hyphal bodies, to adapt varied environment niches and within the host insect. These cells display distinct biochemical properties and surface structures, and a highly ordered outermost brush-like structure uniquely present on hyphal bodies, but not on any in vitro cells. Here, we found that the outermost structure on the hyphal bodies mainly consisted of proteins associated to structural wall components in that most of it could be removed by dithiothreitol (DTT) or proteinase K. DTT-treatment also caused delayed germination, decreased tolerance to ultraviolet irradiation and virulence of conidia or blastospores, with decreased adherence and alternated carbohydrate epitopes, suggesting involvement in fungal development, stress responses and virulence. To characterize these cell surface molecules, proteins were released from the living cells using DTT, and identified and quantitated using label-free quantitative mass spectrometry. Thereafter, a series of bioinformatics programs were used to predict cell surface-associated proteins (CSAPs), and 96, 166 and 54 CSAPs were predicted from the identified protein pools of conidia, blastospores and hyphal bodies, respectively, which were involved in utilization of carbohydrate, nitrogen, and lipid, detoxification, pathogen-host interaction, and likely other cellular processes. Thirteen, sixty-nine and six CSAPs were exclusive in conidia, blastospores and hyphal bodies, respectively, which were verified by eGFP-tagged proteins at their N-terminus. Our data provide a crucial cue to understand mechanism of B. bassiana to adapt to varied environment and interaction with insect host.
PXD002533	28042331	Comprehensive Metaproteomic Analyses of Urine in the Presence and Absence of Neutrophil-Associated Inflammation in the Urinary Tract. 	Comprehensive Metaproteomic Analyses of Urine	clinicao proteomics, metaproteomics, urine	Inflammation in the urinary tract results in a urinary proteome characterized by a high dynamic range of protein concentrations and high variability in protein content. This proteome encompasses plasma proteins not resorbed by renal tubular uptake, renal secretion products, proteins of immune cells and erythrocytes derived from trans-urothelial migration and vascular leakage, respectively, and exfoliating urothelial and squamous epithelial cells. We examined how such proteins partition into soluble urine (SU) and urinary pellet (UP) fractions by analyzing 33 urine specimens 12 of which were associated with a urinary tract infection (UTI). Using mass spectrometry-based metaproteomic approaches, we identified 5,327 non-redundant human proteins, 2,638 and 4,379 of which were associated with SU and UP fractions, respectively, and 1,206 non-redundant protein orthology groups derived from pathogenic and commensal organisms of the urogenital tract. Differences between the SU and UP proteomes were influenced by local inflammation, supported by respective comparisons with 12 healthy control urine proteomes. Clustering analyses showed that SU and UP fractions had proteomic signatures discerning UTIs, vascular injury, and epithelial cell exfoliation from the control group to varying degrees. Cases of UTI revealed clusters of proteins produced by activated neutrophils. Network analysis supported the central role of neutrophil effector proteins in the defense against invading pathogens associated with subsequent coagulation and wound repair processes. Our study expands the existing knowledge of the urinary proteome under perturbed conditions, and should be useful as reference dataset in the search of biomarkers.
PXD004863	28044435	Expanding the cerebrospinal fluid endopeptidome. 	Expanding the cerebrospinal fluid endopeptidome	Alzheimer's disease, Cerebrospinal fluid, Parkinson's disease, biomarkers, neurodegeneration, peptides, peptidomics	Biomarkers of neurodegenerative disorders are needed to assist in diagnosis, to monitor disease progression and therapeutic interventions, and to provide insight into disease mechanisms. One route to identify such biomarkers is by proteomic and peptidomic analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). In the current study, we performed an in-depth analysis of the human CSF endopeptidome to establish an inventory that may serve as a basis for future targeted biomarker studies. High-pH RP HPLC was employed for off-line sample prefractionation followed by low-pH nano-LC-MS analysis. Different software programs and scoring algorithms for peptide identification were employed and compared. A total of 18 031 endogenous peptides were identified at a FDR of 1%, increasing the number of known endogenous CSF peptides 10-fold compared to previous studies. The peptides were derived from 2 053 proteins of which more than 60 have been linked to neurodegeneration. Notably, among the findings were six peptides derived from microtubule-associated protein tau, three of which span the diagnostically interesting threonine-181 (Tau-F isoform). Also, 213 peptides from amyloid precursor protein were identified, 58 of which were partially or completely within the sequence of amyloid beta 1-40/42, as well as 109 peptides from apolipoprotein E, spanning sequences that discriminate between the E2/E3/E4 isoforms of the protein.
PXD004208	28050635	Biotransformation and reduction of estrogenicity of bisphenol A by the biphenyl-degrading Cupriavidus basilensis. 	Different mechanisms of biotransformation of bisphenol A by the biphenyl-degrading Cupriavidus basilensis SBUG 290 lead to detoxification and reduction of estrogenicity	bisphenol A-degradation	The biphenyl-degrading Gram-negative bacterium Cupriavidus basilensis (formerly Ralstonia sp.) SBUG 290 uses various aromatic compounds as carbon and energy sources and has a high capacity to transform bisphenol A (BPA), which is a hormonally active substance structurally related to biphenyl. Biphenyl-grown cells initially hydroxylated BPA and converted it to four additional products by using three different transformation pathways: (a) formation of multiple hydroxylated BPA, (b) ring fission, and (c) transamination followed by acetylation or dimerization. Products of the ring fission pathway were non-toxic and all five products exhibited a significantly reduced estrogenic activity compared to BPA. Cell cultivation with phenol and especially in nutrient broth (NB) resulted in a reduced biotransformation rate and lower product quantities, and NB-grown cells did not produce all five products in detectable amounts. Thus, the question arose whether enzymes of the biphenyl degradation pathway are involved in the transformation of BPA and was addressed by proteomic analyses.
PXD004939	28054942	A Comprehensive Proteomic Survey of ABA-Induced Protein Phosphorylation in Rice (Oryza sativa L.). 	A comprehensive proteomic survey of ABA-induced protein phosphorylation in rice (Oryza sativa L.)	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) - Abscisic acid - signaling - phosphorylation - proteome	abscisic acid (ABA) is a key phytohormone regulating plant development and stress response. The signal transduction of ABA largely relies on protein phosphorylation. However; little is known about the phosphorylation events occurring during ABA signaling in rice thus far. By employing a label-free; MS (Mass Spectrometry)-based phosphoproteomic approach; we identified 2271 phosphosites of young rice seedlings and their intensity dynamics in response to ABA; during which 1060 proteins were found to be differentially phosphorylated. Western-blot analysis verified the differential phosphorylation pattern of D1, SMG1 and SAPK9 as indicated by the MS result; suggesting the high reliability of our phosphoproteomic data. The DP (differentially phosphorylated) proteins are extensively involved in ABA as well as other hormone signaling pathways. It is suggested that ABA antagonistically regulates brassinosteroid (BR) signaling via inhibiting BR receptor activity. The result of this study not only expanded our knowledge of rice phosphoproteome, but also shed more light on the pattern of protein phosphorylation in ABA signaling.
PXD004994	28056797	Comparative proteomic analysis reveals a dynamic pollen plasma membrane protein map and the membrane landscape of receptor-like kinases and transporters important for pollen tube growth and interaction with pistils in rice. 	Rice pollen plasma membrane iTRAQ	iTRAQ, plasma membrane, pollen	BACKGROUND: The coordination of pollen tube (PT) growth, guidance and timely growth arrest and rupture mediated by PT-pistil interaction is crucial for the PT to transport sperm cells into ovules for double fertilization. The plasma membrane (PM) represents an important interface for cell-cell interaction, and PM proteins of PTs are pioneers for mediating PT integrity and interaction with pistils. Thus, understanding the mechanisms underlying these events is important for proteomics. RESULTS: Using the efficient aqueous polymer two-phase system and alkali buffer treatment, we prepared high-purity PM from mature and germinated pollen of rice. We used iTRAQ quantitative proteomic methods and identified 1,121 PM-related proteins (PMrPs) (matched to 899 loci); 192 showed differential expression in the two pollen cell types, 119 increased and 73 decreased in abundance during germination. The PMrP and differentially expressed PMrP sets all showed a functional skew toward signal transduction, transporters, wall remodeling/metabolism and membrane trafficking. Their genomic loci had strong chromosome bias. We found 37 receptor-like kinases (RLKs) from 8 kinase subfamilies and 209 transporters involved in flux of diversified ions and metabolites. In combination with the rice pollen transcriptome data, we revealed that in general, the protein expression of these PMrPs disagreed with their mRNA expression, with inconsistent mRNA expression for 74% of differentially expressed PMrPs. CONCLUSIONS: This study identified genome-wide pollen PMrPs, and provided insights into the membrane profile of receptor-like kinases and transporters important for pollen tube growth and interaction with pistils. These pollen PMrPs and their mRNAs showed discordant expression. This work provides resource and knowledge to further dissect mechanisms by which pollen or the PT controls PMrP abundance and monitors interactions and ion and metabolite exchanges with female cells in rice.
PXD003588	28057767	Nano Random Forests to mine protein complexes and their relationships in quantitative proteomics data. 	Nano Random Forests to mine proteomics data for protein complexes and their relationships in quantitative proteomics data	Machine learning, SILAC, SMC, chicken, kinetochore, mitotic chromosomes	Ever-increasing numbers of quantitative proteomics data sets constitute an underexploited resource for investigating protein function. Multiprotein complexes often follow consistent trends in these experiments, which could provide insights about their biology. Yet, as more experiments are considered, a complex's signature may become conditional and less identifiable. Previously we successfully distinguished the general proteomic signature of genuine chromosomal proteins from hitchhikers using the Random Forests (RF) machine learning algorithm. Here we test whether small protein complexes can define distinguishable signatures of their own, despite the assumption that machine learning needs large training sets. We show, with simulated and real proteomics data, that RF can detect small protein complexes and relationships between them. We identify several complexes in quantitative proteomics results of wild-type and knockout mitotic chromosomes. Other proteins covary strongly with these complexes, suggesting novel functional links for later study. Integrating the RF analysis for several complexes reveals known interdependences among kinetochore subunits and a novel dependence between the inner kinetochore and condensin. Ribosomal proteins, although identified, remained independent of kinetochore subcomplexes. Together these results show that this complex-oriented RF (NanoRF) approach can integrate proteomics data to uncover subtle protein relationships. Our NanoRF pipeline is available online.
PXD004692	28059076	Structure of the cohesin loader Scc2. 	Structure of the Cohesin Loader Scc2-Scc4 and its Binding to a Folded Cohesin	CX-MS, Cohesin, Cross-linking	The functions of cohesin are central to genome integrity, chromosome organization and transcription regulation through its prevention of premature sister-chromatid separation and the formation of DNA loops. The loading of cohesin onto chromatin depends on the Scc2-Scc4 complex; however, little is known about how it stimulates the cohesion-loading activity. Here we determine the large 'hook' structure of Scc2 responsible for catalysing cohesin loading. We identify key Scc2 surfaces that are crucial for cohesin loading in vivo. With the aid of previously determined structures and homology modelling, we derive a pseudo-atomic structure of the full-length Scc2-Scc4 complex. Finally, using recombinantly purified Scc2-Scc4 and cohesin, we performed crosslinking mass spectrometry and interaction assays that suggest Scc2-Scc4 uses its modular structure to make multiple contacts with cohesin.
PXD002966	28062376	A biotin enrichment strategy identifies novel carbonylated amino acids in proteins from human plasma. 	OXIPEP: mass spectrometry strategy to characterize protein carbonylation.	biotin-hydrazide, bovine serum albumine, human plasma, protein carbonylation	Protein carbonylation is an irreversible protein oxidation correlated with oxidative stress, various diseases and ageing. Here we describe a peptide-centric approach for identification and characterisation of up to 14 different types of carbonylated amino acids in proteins. The modified residues are derivatised with biotin-hydrazide, enriched and characterised by tandem mass spectrometry. The strength of the method lies in an improved elution of biotinylated peptides from monomeric avidin resin using hot water (95degreesC) and increased sensitivity achieved by reduction of analyte losses during sample preparation and chromatography. For the first time MS/MS data analysis utilising diagnostic biotin fragment ions is used to pinpoint sites of biotin labelling and improve the confidence of carbonyl peptide assignments. We identified a total of 125 carbonylated residues in bovine serum albumin after extensive in vitro metal ion-catalysed oxidation. Furthermore, we assigned 133 carbonylated sites in 36 proteins in native human plasma protein samples. The optimised workflow enabled detection of 10 hitherto undetected types of carbonylated amino acids in proteins: aldehyde and ketone modifications of leucine, valine, alanine, isoleucine, glutamine, lysine and glutamic acid (+14Da), an oxidised form of methionine - aspartate semialdehyde (-32Da) - and decarboxylated glutamic acid and aspartic acid (-30Da). BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Proteomic tools provide a promising way to decode disease mechanisms at the protein level and help to understand how carbonylation affects protein structure and function. The challenge for future research is to identify the type and nature of oxidised residues to gain a deeper understanding of the mechanism(s) governing carbonylation in cells and organisms and assess their role in disease.
PXD002765	28062706	Combinatorial Drug Screening Identifies Ewing Sarcoma-specific Sensitivities. 	Proteomics analysis of synergistic drug combination of midostaurin and BMS-754807 in Ewing sarcoma ASP14 cell line	Ewing Sarcoma, drug synergy	Improvements in survival for Ewing sarcoma pediatric and adolescent patients have been modest over the past 20 years. Combinations of anticancer agents endure as an option to overcome resistance to single treatments caused by compensatory pathways. Moreover, combinations are thought to lessen any associated adverse side effects through reduced dosing, which is particularly important in childhood tumors. Using a parallel phenotypic combinatorial screening approach of cells derived from three pediatric tumor types, we identified Ewing sarcoma-specific interactions of a diverse set of targeted agents including approved drugs. We were able to retrieve highly synergistic drug combinations specific for Ewing sarcoma and identified signaling processes important for Ewing sarcoma cell proliferation determined by EWS-FLI1 We generated a molecular target profile of PKC412, a multikinase inhibitor with strong synergistic propensity in Ewing sarcoma, revealing its targets in critical Ewing sarcoma signaling routes. Using a multilevel experimental approach including quantitative phosphoproteomics, we analyzed the molecular rationale behind the disease-specific synergistic effect of simultaneous application of PKC412 and IGF1R inhibitors. The mechanism of the drug synergy between these inhibitors is different from the sum of the mechanisms of the single agents. The combination effectively inhibited pathway crosstalk and averted feedback loop repression, in EWS-FLI1-dependent manner. Mol Cancer Ther; 16(1); 88-101. (c)2016 AACR.
PXD003811	28062795	Stable Isotope Labeling with Amino Acids (SILAC)-Based Proteomics of Primary Human Kidney Cells Reveals a Novel Link between Male Sex Hormones and Impaired Energy Metabolism in Diabetic Kidney Disease. 	SILAC-Based Proteomics of Primary Human Kidney Cells treated with Sex Hormones.	Kidney cells, SILAC, Sex hormones	Male sex predisposes to many kidney diseases. Considering that androgens exert deleterious effects in a variety of cell types within the kidney, we hypothesized that dihydrotestosterone (DHT) would alter the biology of the renal tubular cell by inducing changes in the proteome. We employed stable isotope labeling with amino acids (SILAC) in an indirect spike-in fashion to accurately quantify the proteome in DHT- and 17beta-estradiol (EST)-treated human proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTEC). Of the 5043 quantified proteins, 76 were differentially regulated. Biological processes related to energy metabolism were significantly enriched among DHT-regulated proteins. SILAC ratios of 3 candidates representing glycolysis, N-acetylglucosamine metabolism and fatty acid beta-oxidation, namely glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (GPI), glucosamine-6-phosphate-N-acetyltransferase 1 (GNPNAT1), and mitochondrial trifunctional protein subunit alpha (HADHA), were verified in vitro. In vivo, renal GPI and HADHA protein expression was significantly increased in males. Furthermore, male sex was associated with significantly higher GPI, GNPNAT1, and HADHA kidney protein expression in two different murine models of diabetes. Enrichment analysis revealed a link between our DHT-regulated proteins and oxidative stress within the diabetic kidney. This finding was validated in vivo, as we observed increased oxidative stress levels in control and diabetic male kidneys, compared with females. This in depth quantitative proteomics study of human primary PTEC response to sex hormone administration suggests that male sex hormone stimulation results in perturbed energy metabolism in kidney cells, and that this perturbation results in increased oxidative stress in the renal cortex. The proteome-level changes associated with androgens may play a crucial role in the development of structural and functional changes in the diseased kidney. With our findings, we propose a possible link between diabetic and non-diabetic kidney disease progression and male sex hormone levels. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (https://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/archive/) with identifier PXD003811.
PXD004608	28062796	Integrated Cellular and Plasma Proteomics of Contrasting B-cell Cancers Reveals Common, Unique and Systemic Signatures. 	Integrated cellular and plasma proteomics reveals common and systemic signatures in contrasting B-cell cancers	B-cell, E-TCL1, E-myc, leukaemia, lymphoma, oncogenesis, plasma	Approximately 800,000 leukemia and lymphoma cases are diagnosed worldwide each year. Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are examples of contrasting B-cell cancers; BL is a highly aggressive lymphoid tumor, frequently affecting children, whereas CLL typically presents as an indolent, slow-progressing leukemia affecting the elderly. The B-cell-specific overexpression of the myc and TCL1 oncogenes in mice induce spontaneous malignancies modeling BL and CLL, respectively. Quantitative mass spectrometry proteomics and isobaric labeling were employed to examine the biology underpinning contrasting Emu-myc and Emu-TCL1 B-cell tumors. Additionally, the plasma proteome was evaluated using subproteome enrichment to interrogate biomarker emergence and the systemic effects of tumor burden. Over 10,000 proteins were identified (q<0.01) of which 8270 cellular and 2095 plasma proteins were quantitatively profiled. A common B-cell tumor signature of 695 overexpressed proteins highlighted ribosome biogenesis, cell-cycle promotion and chromosome segregation. Emu-myc tumors overexpressed several methylating enzymes and underexpressed many cytoskeletal components. Emu-TCL1 tumors specifically overexpressed ER stress response proteins and signaling components in addition to both subunits of the interleukin-5 (IL5) receptor. IL5 treatment promoted Emu-TCL1 tumor proliferation, suggesting an amplification of IL5-induced AKT signaling by TCL1. Tumor plasma contained a substantial tumor lysis signature, most prominent in Emu-myc plasma, whereas Emu-TCL1 plasma contained signatures of immune-response, inflammation and microenvironment interactions, with putative biomarkers in early-stage cancer. These findings provide a detailed characterization of contrasting B-cell tumor models, identifying common and specific tumor mechanisms. Integrated plasma proteomics allowed the dissection of a systemic response and a tumor lysis signature present in early- and late-stage cancers, respectively. Overall, this study suggests common B-cell cancer signatures exist and illustrates the potential of the further evaluation of B-cell cancer subtypes by integrative proteomics.
PXD001556	28062798	Quantitative Proteome Analysis of Mouse Liver Lysosomes Provides Evidence for Mannose 6-phosphate-independent Targeting Mechanisms of Acid Hydrolases in Mucolipidosis II. 	Mouse lysosome - LC-DIA-IM-MS	liver, lysosome	The efficient receptor-mediated targeting of soluble lysosomal proteins to lysosomes requires the modification with mannose 6-phosphate (M6P) residues. Although the absence of M6P results in misrouting and hypersecretion of lysosomal enzymes in many cells, normal levels of lysosomal enzymes have been reported in liver of patients lacking the M6P-generating phosphotransferase (PT). The identity of lysosomal proteins depending on M6P has not yet been comprehensively analyzed. In this study we purified lysosomes from liver of PT-defective mice and 67 known soluble lysosomal proteins were identified that illustrated quantitative changes using an ion mobility-assisted data-independent label-free LC-MS approach. After validation of various differentially expressed lysosomal components by Western blotting and enzyme activity assays, the data revealed a small number of lysosomal proteins depending on M6P, including neuraminidase 1, cathepsin F, Npc2, and cathepsin L, whereas the majority reach lysosomes by alternative pathways. These data were compared with findings on cultured hepatocytes and liver sinusoid endothelial cells isolated from the liver of wild-type and PT-defective mice. Our findings show that the relative expression, targeting efficiency and lysosomal localization of lysosomal proteins tested in cultured hepatic cells resemble their proportion in isolated liver lysosomes. Hypersecretion of newly synthesized nonphosphorylated lysosomal proteins suggest that secretion-recapture mechanisms contribute to maintain major lysosomal functions in liver.
PXD003745	28062852	A proteomic approach to identify endosomal cargoes controlling cancer invasiveness. 	A proteomic approach to identify endosomal cargoes controlling cancer invasiveness	Cancer, Label-free, Orbitrap, Recyclome, SILAC	We have previously shown that Rab17, a small GTPase associated with epithelial polarity, is specifically suppressed by ERK2 (also known as MAPK1) signalling to promote an invasive phenotype. However, the mechanisms through which Rab17 loss permits invasiveness, and the endosomal cargoes that are responsible for mediating this, are unknown. Using quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we have found that knockdown of Rab17 leads to a highly selective reduction in the cellular levels of a v-SNARE (Vamp8). Moreover, proteomics and immunofluorescence indicate that Vamp8 is associated with Rab17 at late endosomes. Reduced levels of Vamp8 promote transition between ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and a more invasive phenotype. We developed an unbiased proteomic approach to elucidate the complement of receptors that redistributes between endosomes and the plasma membrane, and have pin-pointed neuropilin-2 (NRP2) as a key pro-invasive cargo of Rab17- and Vamp8-regulated trafficking. Indeed, reduced Rab17 or Vamp8 levels lead to increased mobilisation of NRP2-containing late endosomes and upregulated cell surface expression of NRP2. Finally, we show that NRP2 is required for the basement membrane disruption that accompanies the transition between DCIS and a more invasive phenotype.
PXD004181	28064214	HSP90 promotes Burkitt lymphoma cell survival by maintaining tonic B-cell receptor signaling. 	HSP90 promotes Burkitt lymphoma cell survival by maintaining tonic B cell receptor signaling	BCR signaling, Burkitt's lymphoma, HSP90, Syk, phosphoproteomics	Burkitt lymphoma (BL) is an aggressive B-cell neoplasm that is currently treated by intensive chemotherapy in combination with anti-CD20 antibodies. Because of their toxicity, current treatment regimens are often not suitable for elderly patients or for patients in developing countries where BL is endemic. Targeted therapies for BL are therefore needed. In this study, we performed a compound screen in 17 BL cell lines to identify small molecule inhibitors affecting cell survival. We found that inhibitors of heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) induced apoptosis in BL cells in vitro at concentrations that did not affect normal B cells. By global proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling, we show that, in BL, HSP90 inhibition compromises the activity of the pivotal B-cell antigen receptor (BCR)-proximal effector spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK), which we identified as an HSP90 client protein. Consistently, expression of constitutively active TEL-SYK counteracted the apoptotic effect of HSP90 inhibition. Together, our results demonstrate that HSP90 inhibition impairs BL cell survival by interfering with tonic BCR signaling, thus providing a molecular rationale for the use of HSP90 inhibitors in the treatment of BL.
PXD004815	28065164	Plasma proteome and metabolome characterization of an experimental human thyrotoxicosis model. 	Proteomics study of a human thyrotoxicosis mode	Plasma, Thyrotoxicosis	BACKGROUND: Determinations of thyrotropin (TSH) and free thyroxine (FT4) represent the gold standard in evaluation of thyroid function. To screen for novel peripheral biomarkers of thyroid function and to characterize FT4-associated physiological signatures in human plasma we used an untargeted OMICS approach in a thyrotoxicosis model. METHODS: A sample of 16 healthy young men were treated with levothyroxine for 8 weeks and plasma was sampled before the intake was started as well as at two points during treatment and after its completion, respectively. Mass spectrometry-derived metabolite and protein levels were related to FT4 serum concentrations using mixed-effect linear regression models in a robust setting. To compile a molecular signature discriminating between thyrotoxicosis and euthyroidism, a random forest was trained and validated in a two-stage cross-validation procedure. RESULTS: Despite the absence of obvious clinical symptoms, mass spectrometry analyses detected 65 metabolites and 63 proteins exhibiting significant associations with serum FT4. A subset of 15 molecules allowed a robust and good prediction of thyroid hormone function (AUC = 0.86) without prior information on TSH or FT4. Main FT4-associated signatures indicated increased resting energy expenditure, augmented defense against systemic oxidative stress, decreased lipoprotein particle levels, and increased levels of complement system proteins and coagulation factors. Further association findings question the reliability of kidney function assessment under hyperthyroid conditions and suggest a link between hyperthyroidism and cardiovascular diseases via increased dimethylarginine levels. CONCLUSION: Our results emphasize the power of untargeted OMICs approaches to detect novel pathways of thyroid hormone action. Furthermore, beyond TSH and FT4, we demonstrated the potential of such analyses to identify new molecular signatures for diagnosis and treatment of thyroid disorders. This study was registered at the German Clinical Trials Register (DRKS) [DRKS00011275] on the 16th of November 2016.
PXD004248	28065597	A Global Analysis of the Receptor Tyrosine Kinase-Protein Phosphatase Interactome. 	A Global Analysis of Receptor Tyrosine Kinase - Protein Phosphatase Interactome	Tyrosine Kinaase, phosphatase interactome	Receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) and protein phosphatases comprise protein families that play crucial roles in cell signaling. We used two protein-protein interaction (PPI) approaches, the membrane yeast two-hybrid (MYTH) and the mammalian membrane two-hybrid (MaMTH), to map the PPIs between human RTKs and phosphatases. The resulting RTK-phosphatase interactome reveals a considerable number of previously unidentified interactions and suggests specific roles for different phosphatase families. Additionally, the differential PPIs of some protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) and their mutants suggest diverse mechanisms of these PTPs in the regulation of RTK signaling. We further found that PTPRH and PTPRB directly dephosphorylate EGFR and repress its downstream signaling. By contrast, PTPRA plays a dual role in EGFR signaling: besides facilitating EGFR dephosphorylation, it enhances downstream ERK signaling by activating SRC. This comprehensive RTK-phosphatase interactome study provides a broad and deep view of RTK signaling.
PXD003056	28065881	An integrated transcriptomics-guided genome-wide promoter analysis and next-generation proteomics approach to mine factor(s) regulating cellular differentiation. 	SWATH-MS analysis of nuclear and cytoplasmic fractions of rat Sertoli cells	Cytoplasm, Nucleus, Sertoli cell	Differential next-generation-omics approaches aid in the visualization of biological processes and pave the way for divulging important events and/or interactions leading to a functional output at cellular or systems level. To this end, we undertook an integrated Nextgen transcriptomics and proteomics approach to divulge differential gene expression of infant and pubertal rat Sertoli cells (Sc).Unlike, pubertal Sc, infant Sc are immature and fail to support spermatogenesis. We found exclusive association of 14 and 19 transcription factor binding sites to infantile and pubertal states of Sc, respectively, using differential transcriptomics-guided genome-wide computational analysis of relevant promoters employing 220 Positional Weight Matrices from the TRANSFAC database. Proteomic SWATH-MS analysis provided extensive quantification of nuclear and cytoplasmic protein fractions revealing 1,670 proteins differentially located between the nucleus and cytoplasm of infant Sc and 890 proteins differentially located within those of pubertal Sc. Based on our multi-omics approach, the transcription factor YY1 was identified as one of the lead candidates regulating differentiation of Sc.YY1 was found to have abundant binding sites on promoters of genes upregulated during puberty. To determine its significance, we generated transgenic rats with Sc specific knockdown of YY1 that led to compromised spermatogenesis.
PXD005312	28066266	Deep Phosphoproteomic Measurements Pinpointing Drug Induced Protective Mechanisms in Neuronal Cells. 	Deep Phosphoproteomic measurements pinpointing drug induced protective mechanisms in neuro-2a cells	Neuro-2a, phosphoproteome	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive and irreversible neurological disorder that impairs the living quality of old population and even life spans. New compounds have shown potential inneuroprotective effects in AD, such as GFKP-19, a 2-pyrrolidone derivative which has been proved to enhance the memory of dysmnesia mouse. The molecular mechanisms remain to be established for these drug candidates. Large-scale phosphoproteomic approach has been evolved rapidly in the last several years, which holds the potential to provide a useful toolkit to understand cellular signaling underlying drug effects. To establish and test such a method, we accurately analyzed the deep quantitative phosphoproteome of the neuro-2a cells treated with and without GFKP-19 using triple SILAC labeling. A total of 14,761 Class I phosphosites were quantified between controls, damaged, and protected conditions using the high resolution mass spectrometry, with a decent inter-mass spectrometer reproducibility for even subtle regulatory events. Our data suggests that GFKP-19 can reverse Abeta25-35 induced phosphorylation change in neuro-2a cells, and might protect the neuron system in two ways: firstly, it may decrease oxidative damage and inflammation induced by NO via down regulating the phosphorylation of nitric oxide synthase NOS1 at S847; Secondly, it may decrease tau protein phosphorylation through down-regulating the phosphorylation level of MAPK14 at T180. All mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005312.
PXD005042	28066480	Global Lysine Acetylome Analysis of Desiccated Somatic Embryos of Picea asperata. 	Global lysine acetylome analysis of Picea asperata somatic  1 embryos during partial desiccation	Picea asperata, acetylome	Partial desiccation treatment (PDT) promotes the germination capacity of conifer somatic embryos. Lysine acetylation (LysAc) is a dynamic and reversible post-translational modification that plays a key role in many biological processes including metabolic pathways and stress response. To investigate the functional impact of LysAc in the response of Picea asperata somatic embryos to PDT, we performed a global lysine acetylome analysis. Here, combining antibody-based affinity enrichment and high-resolution mass spectrometry, we identified and validated 1079 acetylation sites in 556 acetylated proteins from P. asperata somatic embryos during PDT. These data represent a novel large-scale dataset of lysine-acetylated proteins from the conifer family. Intensive bioinformatics analysis of the Gene Ontology of molecular functions demonstrated that lysine-acetylated proteins were mainly associated with binding, catalytic activities, and structural molecular activities. Functional characterization of the acetylated proteins revealed that in the desiccated somatic embryos, LysAc is mainly involved in the response to stress and central metabolism. Accordingly, the majority of these interacting proteins were also highly enriched in ribosome, proteasome, spliceosome, and carbon metabolism clusters. This work provides the most comprehensive profile of LysAc for a coniferous species obtained to date and facilitates the systematic study of the physiological role of LysAc in desiccated somatic embryos of P. asperata.
PXD003701	28067524	Urea Artifacts Interfere with Immuno-Purification of Lysine Acetylation. 	Urea artifacts interfere with immunopurification of lysine acetylation	Carbamyl, acetyl, acetylation, carbamylation, immunopurification, urea	Comprehensive analysis of post-translational modifications (PTMs) often depends on the purification of modified peptides prior to LC-MS/MS. The implementation of these enrichment methods requires thorough knowledge of the experimental conditions to achieve optimal selectivity and sensitivity. In this regard, large-scale analysis of lysine acetylation, a key PTM for multiple cellular processes, makes use of monoclonal pan-antibodies designed against this moiety. We report that the immuno-purification of lysine-acetylated peptides is hampered by the copurification of lysine carbamylated peptides, a frequent urea artifact. This specific interaction can be explained by the similar chemical structures of lysine acetylation and lysine carbamylation. As an alternative, we propose a sample preparation protocol based on sodium deoxycholate that eliminates these artifacts and dramatically improves the selectivity and sensitivity of this immuno-purification assay.
PXD005227	28068333	Bdf1 Bromodomains Are Essential for Meiosis and the Expression of Meiotic-Specific Genes. 	Yeast Bdf1 interactome -  Bdf1 Bromodomains are Essential for Meiosis and the Expression of Meiotic-Specific Genes	Bdf1, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, TAP purification, nanoLC-MS/MS	Bromodomain and Extra-terminal motif (BET) proteins play a central role in transcription regulation and chromatin signalling pathways. They are present in unicellular eukaryotes and in this study, the role of the BET protein Bdf1 has been explored in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Mutation of Bdf1 bromodomains revealed defects on both the formation of spores and the meiotic progression, blocking cells at the exit from prophase, before the first meiotic division. This phenotype is associated with a massive deregulation of the transcription of meiotic genes and Bdf1 bromodomains are required for appropriate expression of the key meiotic transcription factor NDT80 and almost all the Ndt80-inducible genes, including APC complex components. Bdf1 notably accumulates on the promoter of Ndt80 and its recruitment is dependent on Bdf1 bromodomains. In addition, the ectopic expression of NDT80 during meiosis partially bypasses this dependency. Finally, purification of Bdf1 partners identified two independent complexes with Bdf2 or the SWR complex, neither of which was required to complete sporulation. Taken together, our results unveil a new role for Bdf1 -working independently from its predominant protein partners Bdf2 and the SWR1 complex-as a regulator of meiosis-specific genes.
PXD004305	28069559	Proteomic insights into mannan degradation and protein secretion by the forest floor bacterium Chitinophaga pinensis. 	Proteomic insights into mannan degradation and protein secretion by the forest floor bacterium Chitinophaga pinensis	Chitinophaga pinensis, mannan, secretome	Together with fungi, saprophytic bacteria are central to the decomposition and recycling of biomass in forest environments. The Bacteroidetes phylum is abundant in diverse habitats, and several species have been shown to be able to deconstruct a wide variety of complex carbohydrates. The genus Chitinophaga is often enriched in hotspots of plant and microbial biomass degradation. We present a proteomic assessment of the ability of Chitinophaga pinensis to grow on and degrade mannan polysaccharides, using an agarose plate-based method of protein collection to minimise contamination with exopolysaccharides and proteins from lysed cells, and to reflect the realistic setting of growth on a solid surface. We show that select Polysaccharide Utilisation Loci (PULs) are expressed in different growth conditions, and identify enzymes that may be involved in mannan degradation. By comparing proteomic and enzymatic profiles, we show evidence for the induced expression of enzymes and PULs in cells grown on mannan polysaccharides compared with cells grown on glucose. In addition, we show that the secretion of putative biomass-degrading enzymes during growth on glucose comprises a system for nutrient scavenging, which employs constitutively produced enzymes. SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS STUDY: Chitinophaga pinensis belongs to a bacterial genus which is prominent in microbial communities in agricultural and forest environments, where plant and fungal biomass is intensively degraded. Such degradation is hugely significant in the recycling of carbon in the natural environment, and the enzymes responsible are of biotechnological relevance in emerging technologies involving the deconstruction of plant cell wall material. The bacterium has a comparatively large genome, which includes many uncharacterised carbohydrate-active enzymes. We present the first proteomic assessment of the biomass-degrading machinery of this species, focusing on mannan, an abundant plant cell wall hemicellulose. Our findings include the identification of several novel enzymes, which are promising targets for future biochemical characterisation. In addition, the data indicate the expression of specific Polysaccharide Utilisation Loci, induced in the presence of different growth substrates. We also highlight how a constitutive secretion of enzymes which deconstruct microbial biomass likely forms part of a nutrient scavenging process.
PXD003712	28069995	ATM induces MacroD2 nuclear export upon DNA damage. 	ATM INDUCES MACROD2 NUCLEAR EXPORT UPON DNA DAMAGE	ATM phosphorylation, DNA damage, nuclear export, regulation of ADP-ribosylation	ADP-ribosylation is a dynamic post-translation modification that regulates the early phase of various DNA repair pathways by recruiting repair factors to chromatin. ADP-ribosylation levels are defined by the activities of specific transferases and hydrolases. However, except for the transferase PARP1/ARDT1 little is known about regulation of these enzymes. We found that MacroD2, a mono-ADP-ribosylhydrolase, is exported from the nucleus upon DNA damage, and that this nuclear export is induced by ATM activity. We show that the export is dependent on the phosphorylation of two SQ/TQ motifs, suggesting a novel direct interaction between ATM and ADP-ribosylation. Lastly, we show that MacroD2 nuclear export temporally restricts its recruitment to DNA lesions, which may decrease the net ADP-ribosylhydrolase activity at the site of DNA damage. Together, our results identify a novel feedback regulation between two crucial DNA damage-induced signaling pathways: ADP-ribosylation and ATM activation.
PXD004372	28070933	Secretome analysis of diarrhea-inducing strains of Escherichia coli. 	Secretome analysis of diarrhea inducing strains of Escherichia coli	E.coli, big six strains, diarhea, secretome	Secreted proteins constitute a major part of virulence factors that are responsible for pathogenesis caused by Gram-negative bacteria. Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli, O157:H7, is the major pathogen often causing outbreaks. However, studies have reported that the significant outbreaks caused by non-O157:H7 E. coli strains, also known as "Big-Six" serogroup strains, are increasing. There is no systematic study describing differential secreted proteins from these non-O157:H7 E. coli strains. In this study, we carried out MS-based differential secretome analysis using tandem mass tags labeling strategy of non-O157:H7 E. coli strains, O103, O111, O121, O145, O26, and O45. We identified 1241 proteins, of which 565 proteins were predicted to be secreted. We also found that 68 proteins were enriched in type III secretion system and several of them were differentially expressed across the strains. Additionally, we identified several strain-specific secreted proteins that could be used for developing potential markers for the identification and strain-level differentiation. To our knowledge, this study is the first comparative proteomic study on secretome of E. coli Big-Six serogroup and the several of these strain-specific secreted proteins can be further studied to develop potential markers for identification and strain-level differentiation. Moreover, the results of this study can be utilized in several applications, including food safety, diagnostics of E. coli outbreaks, and detection and identification of bio threats in biodefense.
PXD004612	28071813	Sex differences in tendon structure and function. 	Proteomic comparison study between female and male tendon	female, male, tendon	Tendons play a critical role in the transmission of forces between muscles and bones, and chronic tendon injuries and diseases are among the leading causes of musculoskeletal disability. Little is known about sex-based differences in tendon structure and function. Our objective was to evaluate the mechanical properties, biochemical composition, transcriptome, and cellular activity of plantarflexor tendons from 4 month old male and female C57BL/6 mice using in vitro biomechanics, mass spectrometry-based proteomics, genome-wide expression profiling, and cell culture techniques. While the Achilles tendons of male mice were approximately 6% larger than female mice (p < 0.05), the cell density of female mice was around 19% greater than males (p < 0.05). No significant differences in mechanical properties (p > 0.05) of plantaris tendons were observed. Mass spectrometry proteomics analysis revealed no significant difference between sexes in the abundance of major extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins such as collagen types I (p = 0.30) and III (p = 0.68), but female mice had approximately twofold elevations (p < 0.05) in less abundant ECM proteins such as fibronectin, periostin, and tenascin C. The transcriptome of male and female tendons differed by only 1%. In vitro, neither the sex of the serum that fibroblasts were cultured in, nor the sex of the ECM in which they were embedded, had profound effects on the expression of collagen and cell proliferation genes. Our results indicate that while male mice expectedly had larger tendons, male and female tendons have very similar mechanical properties and biochemical composition, with small increases in some ECM proteins and proteoglycans evident in female tendons. (c) 2017 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 35:2117-2126, 2017.
PXD004791	28071820	Response Profiling Using Shotgun Proteomics Enables Global Metallodrug Mechanisms of Action To Be Established. 	Response Profiling Using Shotgun Proteomics Enables Establishing Global Metallodrug Mechanisms of Action - nuclear proteins of KP46-treated SW480 epithelial cells	functional protein groups, mechanism of action, metallodrug, proteome profiling, response profiling	Response profiling using shotgun proteomics for establishing global metallodrug mechanisms of action in two colon carcinoma cell lines, HCT116 and SW480, has been applied and evaluated with the clinically approved arsenic trioxide. Surprisingly, the complete established mechanism of action of arsenic trioxide was observed by protein regulations in SW480, but not HCT116 cells. Comparing the basal protein expression in the two cell lines revealed an 80 % convergence of protein identification, but with significant expression differences, which in turn seem to affect the extent of protein regulation. A clear-cut redox response was observed in SW480 cells upon treatment with arsenic, but hardly in HCT116 cells. Response profiling was then used to investigate four anti-cancer metallodrugs (KP46, KP772, KP1339 and KP1537). Proteome alterations were mapped to selected functional groups, including DNA repair, endocytosis, protection from oxidative stress, protection from endoplasmatic reticulum (ER) stress, cell adhesion and mitochondrial function. The present data suggest that knowledge of the mechanism of action of anti-cancer metallodrugs and improved patient stratification strategies are imperative for the design of clinical studies.
PXD003451	28076789	Reduced Insulin/IGF-1 Signaling Restores the Dynamic Properties of Key Stress Granule Proteins during Aging. 	Reduced insulin/IGF-1 signaling restores the dynamic properties of key stress granule proteins during aging	Caenorhabditis elegans, aggregation, aging, iTRAQ, insulin, quantification	Low-complexity "prion-like" domains in key RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) mediate the reversible assembly of RNA granules. Individual RBPs harboring these domains have been linked to specific neurodegenerative diseases. Although their aggregation in neurodegeneration has been extensively characterized, it remains unknown how the process of aging disturbs RBP dynamics. We show that a wide variety of RNA granule components, including stress granule proteins, become highly insoluble with age in C. elegans and that reduced insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) daf-2 receptor signaling efficiently prevents their aggregation. Importantly, stress-granule-related RBP aggregates are associated with reduced fitness. We show that heat shock transcription factor 1 (HSF-1) is a main regulator of stress-granule-related RBP aggregation in both young and aged animals. During aging, increasing DAF-16 activity restores dynamic stress-granule-related RBPs, partly by decreasing the buildup of other misfolded proteins that seed RBP aggregation. Longevity-associated mechanisms found to maintain dynamic RBPs during aging could be relevant for neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD005334	28076790	The Anti-Warburg Effect Elicited by the cAMP-PGC1alpha Pathway Drives Differentiation of Glioblastoma Cells into Astrocytes. 	Anti-Warburg effect elicited by mitochondrial biogenesis drives differentiation of glioblastoma cells into astroglial cells	Glioblastoma	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is among the most aggressive of human cancers. Although differentiation therapy has been proposed as a potential approach to treat GBM, the mechanisms of induced differentiation remain poorly defined. Here, we established an induced differentiation model of GBM using cAMP activators that specifically directed GBM differentiation into astroglia. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed that oxidative phosphorylation and mitochondrial biogenesis are involved in induced differentiation of GBM. Dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP) reverses the Warburg effect, as evidenced by increased oxygen consumption and reduced lactate production. Mitochondrial biogenesis induced by activation of the CREB-PGC1alpha pathway triggers metabolic shift and differentiation. Blocking mitochondrial biogenesis using mdivi1 or by silencing PGC1alpha abrogates differentiation; conversely, overexpression of PGC1alpha elicits differentiation. In GBM xenograft models and patient-derived GBM samples, cAMP activators also induce tumor growth inhibition and differentiation. Our data show that mitochondrial biogenesis and metabolic switch to oxidative phosphorylation drive the differentiation of tumor cells.
PXD005152	28077445	Human Antiviral Protein IFIX Suppresses Viral Gene Expression during Herpes Simplex Virus 1 (HSV-1) Infection and Is Counteracted by Virus-induced Proteasomal Degradation. 	The antiviral protein IFIX is targeted for degradation during HSV-1 infection	HSV-1, IFIX	The interferon-inducible protein X (IFIX), a member of the PYHIN family, was recently recognized as an antiviral factor against infection with herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1). IFIX binds viral DNA upon infection and promotes expression of antiviral cytokines. How IFIX exerts its host defense functions and whether it is inhibited by the virus remain unknown. Here, we integrated live cell microscopy, proteomics, IFIX domain characterization, and molecular virology to investigate IFIX regulation and antiviral functions during HSV-1 infection. We find that IFIX has a dynamic localization during infection that changes from diffuse nuclear and nucleoli distribution in uninfected cells to discrete nuclear puncta early in infection. This is rapidly followed by a reduction in IFIX protein levels. Indeed, using immunoaffinity purification and mass spectrometry, we define IFIX interactions during HSV-1 infection, finding an association with a proteasome subunit and proteins involved in ubiquitin-proteasome processes. Using synchronized HSV-1 infection, microscopy, and proteasome-inhibition experiments, we demonstrate that IFIX co-localizes with nuclear proteasome puncta shortly after 3 h of infection and that its pyrin domain is rapidly degraded in a proteasome-dependent manner. We further demonstrate that, in contrast to several other host defense factors, IFIX degradation is not dependent on the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of the viral protein ICP0. However, we show IFIX degradation requires immediate-early viral gene expression, suggesting a viral host suppression mechanism. The IFIX interactome also demonstrated its association with transcriptional regulatory proteins, including the 5FMC complex. We validate this interaction using microscopy and reciprocal isolations and determine it is mediated by the IFIX HIN domain. Finally, we show IFIX suppresses immediate-early and early viral gene expression during infection. Altogether, our study demonstrates that IFIX antiviral functions work in part via viral transcriptional suppression and that HSV-1 has acquired mechanisms to block its functions via proteasome-dependent degradation.
PXD012655	28077793	Integrated proteomic and N-glycoproteomic analyses of doxorubicin sensitive and resistant ovarian cancer cells reveal glycoprotein alteration in protein abundance and glycosylation. 	Integrated proteomic and N-glycoproteomic analyses of doxorubicin sensitive and resistant ovarian cancer cells reveal glycoprotein alteration in protein abundance and glycosylation	Glycoproteomics (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, N-glycoproteome, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), SILAC, global pr, multidrug resistance, ovarian cancer	Ovarian cancer is one of the most common cancer among women in the world, and chemotherapy remains the principal treatment for patients. However, drug resistance is a major obstacle to the effective treatment of ovarian cancers and the underlying mechanism is not clear. An increased understanding of the mechanisms that underline the pathogenesis of drug resistance is therefore needed to develop novel therapeutics and diagnostic. Herein, we report the comparative analysis of the doxorubicin sensitive OVCAR8 cells and its doxorubicin-resistant variant NCI/ADR-RES cells using integrated global proteomics and N-glycoproteomics. A total of 1525 unique N-glycosite-containing peptides from 740 N-glycoproteins were identified and quantified, of which 253 N-glycosite-containing peptides showed significant change in the NCI/ADR-RES cells. Meanwhile, stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) based comparative proteomic analysis of the two ovarian cancer cells led to the quantification of 5509 proteins. As about 50% of the identified N-glycoproteins are low-abundance membrane proteins, only 44% of quantified unique N-glycosite-containing peptides had corresponding protein expression ratios. The comparison and calibration of the N-glycoproteome versus the proteome classified 14 change patterns of N-glycosite-containing peptides, including 8 up-regulated N-glycosite-containing peptides with the increased glycosylation sites occupancy, 35 up-regulated N-glycosite-containing peptides with the unchanged glycosylation sites occupancy, 2 down-regulated N-glycosite-containing peptides with the decreased glycosylation sites occupancy, 46 down-regulated N-glycosite-containing peptides with the unchanged glycosylation sites occupancy. Integrated proteomic and N-glycoproteomic analyses provide new insights, which can help to unravel the relationship of N-glycosylation and multidrug resistance (MDR), understand the mechanism of MDR, and discover the new diagnostic and therapeutic targets.
PXD004905	28077967	Integrated omics analyses reveal the details of metabolic adaptation of Clostridium thermocellum to lignocellulose-derived growth inhibitors released during the deconstruction of switchgrass. 	Integrated omics analysis reveals metabolic adaptation of Clostridium thermocellum to lignocellulose-derived growth inhibitors released during the deconstruction of switchgrass	bioenergy, ethanol, fermentation, integrated omics, switchgrass, time course	BACKGROUND: Clostridium thermocellum is capable of solubilizing and converting lignocellulosic biomass into ethanol. Although much of the work-to-date has centered on characterizing this microbe's growth on model cellulosic substrates, such as cellobiose, Avicel, or filter paper, it is vitally important to understand its metabolism on more complex, lignocellulosic substrates to identify relevant industrial bottlenecks that could undermine efficient biofuel production. To this end, we have examined a time course progression of C. thermocellum grown on switchgrass to assess the metabolic and protein changes that occur during the conversion of plant biomass to ethanol. RESULTS: The most striking feature of the metabolome was the observed accumulation of long-chain, branched fatty acids over time, implying an adaptive restructuring of C. thermocellum's cellular membrane as the culture progresses. This is undoubtedly a response to the gradual accumulation of lignocellulose-derived inhibitory compounds as the organism deconstructs the switchgrass to access the embedded cellulose. Corroborating the metabolomics data, proteomic analysis revealed a corresponding time-dependent increase in various enzymes, including those involved in the interconversion of branched amino acids valine, leucine, and isoleucine to iso- and anteiso-fatty acid precursors. Additionally, the metabolic accumulation of hemicellulose-derived sugars and sugar alcohols concomitant with increased abundance of enzymes involved in C5 sugar metabolism/pentose phosphate pathway indicates that C. thermocellum shifts glycolytic intermediates to alternate pathways to modulate overall carbon flux in response to C5 sugar metabolites that increase during lignocellulose deconstruction. CONCLUSIONS: Integrated omic platforms provided complementary systems biological information that highlight C. thermocellum's specific response to cytotoxic inhibitors released during the deconstruction and utilization of switchgrass. These additional viewpoints allowed us to fully realize the level to which the organism adapts to an increasingly challenging culture environment-information that will prove critical to C. thermocellum's industrial efficacy.
PXD005180	28081440	A Knockout Screen of ApiAP2 Genes Reveals Networks of Interacting Transcriptional Regulators Controlling the Plasmodium Life Cycle. 	A knockout screen of ApiAP2 genes reveals networks of interacting transcriptional regulators controlling the Plasmodium life cycle.	Malaria, Plasmodium, TMT	A family of apicomplexa-specific proteins containing AP2 DNA-binding domains (ApiAP2s) was identified in malaria parasites. This family includes sequence-specific transcription factors that are key regulators of development. However, functions for the majority of ApiAP2 genes remain unknown. Here, a systematic knockout screen in Plasmodium berghei identified ten ApiAP2 genes that were essential for mosquito transmission: four were critical for the formation of infectious ookinetes, and three were required for sporogony. We describe non-essential functions for AP2-O and AP2-SP proteins in blood stages, and identify AP2-G2 as a repressor active in both asexual and sexual stages. Comparative transcriptomics across mutants and developmental stages revealed clusters of co-regulated genes with shared cis promoter elements, whose expression can be controlled positively or negatively by different ApiAP2 factors. We propose that stage-specific interactions between ApiAP2 proteins on partly overlapping sets of target genes generate the complex transcriptional network that controls the Plasmodium life cycle.
PXD002892	28082348	Interactome disassembly during apoptosis occurs independent of caspase cleavage. 	PCP SILAC of apoptosis initiation	APOPTOSIS, JURKAT, LC-MS	Protein-protein interaction networks (interactomes) define the functionality of all biological systems. In apoptosis, proteolysis by caspases is thought to initiate disassembly of protein complexes and cell death. Here we used a quantitative proteomics approach, protein correlation profiling (PCP), to explore changes in cytoplasmic and mitochondrial interactomes in response to apoptosis initiation as a function of caspase activity. We measured the response to initiation of Fas-mediated apoptosis in 17,991 interactions among 2,779 proteins, comprising the largest dynamic interactome to date. The majority of interactions were unaffected early in apoptosis, but multiple complexes containing known caspase targets were disassembled. Nonetheless, proteome-wide analysis of proteolytic processing by terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates (TAILS) revealed little correlation between proteolytic and interactome changes. Our findings show that, in apoptosis, significant interactome alterations occur before and independently of caspase activity. Thus, apoptosis initiation includes a tight program of interactome rearrangement, leading to disassembly of relatively few, select complexes. These early interactome alterations occur independently of cleavage of these protein by caspases.
PXD004948	28082515	Impact of Cystinosin Glycosylation on Protein Stability by Differential Dynamic Stable Isotope Labeling by Amino Acids in Cell Culture (SILAC). 	Cystinosin interactomics -  Impact of cystinosin glycosylation on protein stability by differential dynamic SILAC	LC MSMS, high resolution, rare disease	Cystinosis is a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder characterized by intralysosomal accumulation of cystine. The causative gene for cystinosis is CTNS, which encodes the protein cystinosin, a lysosomal proton-driven cystine transporter. Over 100 mutations have been reported, leading to varying disease severity, often in correlation with residual cystinosin activity as a transporter and with maintenance of its protein-protein interactions. In this study, we focus on the DeltaITILELP mutation, the only mutation reported that sometimes leads to severe forms, inconsistent with its residual transported activity. DeltaITILELP is a deletion that eliminates a consensus site on N66, one of the protein's seven glycosylation sites. Our hypothesis was that the DeltaITILELP mutant is less stable and undergoes faster degradation. Our dynamic stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) study clearly showed that wild-type cystinosin is very stable, whereas DeltaITILELP is degraded three times more rapidly. Additional lysosome inhibition experiments confirmed DeltaITILELP instability and showed that the degradation was mainly lysosomal. We observed that in the lysosome, DeltaITILELP is still capable of interacting with the V-ATPase complex and some members of the mTOR pathway, similar to the wild-type protein. Intriguingly, our interactomic and immunofluorescence studies showed that DeltaITILELP is partially retained at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). We proposed that the DeltaITILELP mutation causes protein misfolding, ER retention and inability to be processed in the Golgi apparatus, and we demonstrated that DeltaITILELP carries high-mannose glycans on all six of its remaining glycosylation sites. We found that the high turnover of DeltaITILELP, because of its immature glycosylation state in combination with low transport activity, might be responsible for the phenotype observed in some patients.
PXD003289	28083997	Dysregulation of cell-cell interactions in brain arteriovenous malformations: A quantitative proteomic study. 	Dysregulation of Cell-Cell Interaction in Brain Arteriovenous Malformations: A Quantitative Proteomics Study	angiogenesis, brain arteriovenous malformations, cell-cell interaction, quantitative	PURPOSE: Detailed and exact mechanisms underlying brain arteriovenous malformations (bAVM) are still clinically confusing. Understanding the quantitative changes in proteins and signaling pathways would provide useful information for clinicians to understand the formation and development of bAVM, guiding individualized treatment strategies. This study was performed to establish a large human bAVM proteome database using tandem mass tag labeling and to detect changes of protein expression and pathways in human bAVM. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: This study used quantitative 6-plex tandem mass tag labeling to profile protein changes in bAVM lesions. Integrated bioinformatics analysis was used to classify and identify the altered proteins and relating signaling pathways. Western blot analyzes were used to validate the proteomic data. RESULTS: Our work established the first human bAVM proteome databases to date. A total of 1264 proteins were identified, and the expression of 316 proteins was significantly differentially expressed, with 249 upregulated proteins. Bioinformatics analysis demonstrated that the altered proteins had close functional correlations, including integrin cell surface interactions, extracellular matrix organization, and smooth muscle contraction. Three signaling pathways (focal adhesions, tight junctions, and gap junctions), which represent an important arena of cell-cell interactions, were found to be activated in bAVM. The proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003289. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Cell-cell interactions, including focal adhesions, tight junctions, and gap junctions, were significantly influenced in human bAVM. Understanding the molecular mechanisms that underlie bAVM would provide useful information for the development of future therapeutic approaches, guiding possible precise and individual treatment strategies.
PXD004123	28086104	Label-free quantitative proteome analysis of the surface-bound salivary pellicle. 	Label-Free Quantitative Analysis of the Salivary Pellicle's Proteome	Orbitrap Velos, acquired pellicle, saliva	The salivary pellicle, covering natural as well as restored tooth surfaces in the oral cavity as an immobilized protein-rich layer, acts as an important physico-chemical and biological mediator at the tooth-saliva-interface. For the first time, the pellicle's proteome of individual volunteers were analyzed separately on three consecutive days and the relative protein abundance determined by a label-free quantitative nano-LC-MS/MS approach. A total of 72 major proteins were identified in the initial pellicles formed intraorally on dental ceramic specimens already after 3min with high inter-individual and inter-day consistency. In comparison, significant differences in protein abundance were evident between subjects, thus indicating unique individual pellicle profiles. Furthermore, the relative protein abundance in pellicles was compared to the proteome pattern in the corresponding saliva samples of the same individuals to provide first data on significantly enriched and depleted salivary proteins (p <0.05) within the surface-bound salivary pellicle. Our findings reveal the initial adsorption of salivary proteins at the solid-liquid interface to be a rapid, highly selective, and reproducible process leading to the immobilization of a broad range of protective proteins and enzymes on the substratum surface within a few minutes. This provides evidence that the pellicle layer might be physiologically functional even without further maturation.
PXD004983	28087593	Norovirus-Mediated Modification of the Translational Landscape via Virus and Host-Induced Cleavage of Translation Initiation Factors. 	AP-MS analysis of m7GTP-binding proteins in Murine norovirus infected BV-2 cells (v2)	MNV, SILAC, initiation, m7GTP, norovirus, translation	Noroviruses produce viral RNAs lacking a 5' cap structure and instead use a virus-encoded viral protein genome-linked (VPg) protein covalently linked to viral RNA to interact with translation initiation factors and drive viral protein synthesis. Norovirus infection results in the induction of the innate response leading to interferon stimulated gene (ISG) transcription. However, the translation of the induced ISG mRNAs is suppressed. A SILAC-based mass spectrometry approach was employed to analyze changes to protein abundance in both whole cell and m7GTP-enriched samples to demonstrate that diminished host mRNA translation correlates with changes to the composition of the eukaryotic initiation factor complex. The suppression of host ISG translation correlates with the activity of the viral protease (NS6) and the activation of cellular caspases leading to the establishment of an apoptotic environment. These results indicate that noroviruses exploit the differences between viral VPg-dependent and cellular cap-dependent translation in order to diminish the host response to infection.
PXD000970	28087597	Membrane-Depolarizing Channel Blockers Induce Selective Glioma Cell Death by Impairing Nutrient Transport and Unfolded Protein/Amino Acid Responses. 	Glioma stem cells -  Membrane-depolarizing channel blockers induce selective glioma cell death by impairing nutrient transport and unfolded protein/amino acid responses	Glioma, LC/MS/MS, Phosphoproteome, ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, stem cells	Glioma-initiating cells (GIC) are considered the underlying cause of recurrences of aggressive glioblastomas, replenishing the tumor population and undermining the efficacy of conventional chemotherapy. Here we report the discovery that inhibiting T-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) and KCa channels can effectively induce selective cell death of GIC and increase host survival in an orthotopic mouse model of human glioma. At present, the precise cellular pathways affected by the drugs affecting these channels are unknown. However, using cell-based assays and integrated proteomics, phosphoproteomics, and transcriptomics analyses, we identified the downstream signaling events these drugs affect. Changes in plasma membrane depolarization and elevated intracellular Na(+), which compromised Na(+)-dependent nutrient transport, were documented. Deficits in nutrient deficit acted in turn to trigger the unfolded protein response and the amino acid response, leading ultimately to nutrient starvation and GIC cell death. Our results suggest new therapeutic targets to attack aggressive gliomas. Cancer Res; 77(7); 1741-52. (c)2017 AACR.
PXD002915	28088779	Comprehensive proteome analysis of lysosomes reveals the diverse function of macrophages in immune responses. 	Comprehensive proteome analysis reveals the central role of macrophage lysosomes in regulating immune responses	innate immunity, macrophage lysosome, pathogen	Phagocytosis and autophagy in macrophages have been shown to be essential to both innate and adaptive immunity. Lysosomes are the main catabolic subcellular organelles responsible for degradation and recycling of both extracellular and intracellular material, which are the final steps in phagocytosis and autophagy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying lysosomal functions after infection remain obscure. In this study, we conducted a quantitative proteomics analysis of the changes in constitution and glycosylation of proteins in lysosomes derived from murine RAW 264.7 macrophage cells treated with different types of pathogens comprising examples of bacteria (Listeria monocytogenes, L. m), DNA viruses (herpes simplex virus type-1, HSV-1) and RNA viruses (vesicular stomatitis virus, VSV). In total, 3,704 lysosome-related proteins and 300 potential glycosylation sites on 193 proteins were identified. Comparative analysis showed that the aforementioned pathogens induced distinct alterations in the proteome of the lysosome, which is closely associated with the immune functions of macrophages, such as toll-like receptor activation, inflammation and antigen-presentation. The most significant changes in proteins and fluctuations in glycosylation were also determined. Furthermore, Western blot analysis showed that the changes in expression of these proteins were undetectable at the whole cell level. Thus, our study provides unique insights into the function of lysosomes in macrophage activation and immune responses.
PXD004613	28091603	Repo-Man/PP1 regulates heterochromatin formation in interphase. 	Repo-Man/PP1 regulates heterochromatin formation in interphase	HeLa, Repo-Man, Shotgun proteomics heretochromatin	Repo-Man is a protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) targeting subunit that regulates mitotic progression and chromatin remodelling. After mitosis, Repo-Man/PP1 remains associated with chromatin but its function in interphase is not known. Here we show that Repo-Man, via Nup153, is enriched on condensed chromatin at the nuclear periphery and at the edge of the nucleopore basket. Repo-Man/PP1 regulates the formation of heterochromatin, dephosphorylates H3S28 and it is necessary and sufficient for heterochromatin protein 1 binding and H3K27me3 recruitment. Using a novel proteogenomic approach, we show that Repo-Man is enriched at subtelomeric regions together with H2AZ and H3.3 and that depletion of Repo-Man alters the peripheral localization of a subset of these regions and alleviates repression of some polycomb telomeric genes. This study shows a role for a mitotic phosphatase in the regulation of the epigenetic landscape and gene expression in interphase.
PXD004585	28093501	Discrete cytosolic macromolecular BRAF complexes exhibit distinct activities and composition. 	BRAF complexes -  Discrete cytosolic macromolecular BRAF complexes exhibit distinct activities and composition	AP-MS, BRAF, Caco2 cells, SEC-PCP-SILAC, V600E	As a central element within the RAS/ERK pathway, the serine/threonine kinase BRAF plays a key role in development and homeostasis and represents the most frequently mutated kinase in tumors. Consequently, it has emerged as an important therapeutic target in various malignancies. Nevertheless, the BRAF activation cycle still raises many mechanistic questions as illustrated by the paradoxical action and side effects of RAF inhibitors. By applying SEC-PCP-SILAC, we analyzed protein-protein interactions of hyperactive BRAF(V)(600E) and wild-type BRAF (BRAF(WT)). We identified two macromolecular, cytosolic BRAF complexes of distinct molecular composition and phosphorylation status. Hyperactive BRAF(V)(600E) resides in large complexes of higher molecular mass and activity, while BRAF(WT) is confined to smaller, slightly less active complexes. However, expression of oncogenic K-Ras(G12V), either by itself or in combination with RAF dimer promoting inhibitors, induces the incorporation of BRAF(WT) into large, active complexes, whereas pharmacological inhibition of BRAF(V)(600E) has the opposite effect. Thus, the quaternary structure of BRAF complexes is shaped by its activation status, the conformation of its kinase domain, and clinically relevant inhibitors.
PXD004606	28096092	Initiation of acute graft-versus-host disease by angiogenesis. 	Endothelial Cells from GvsHD Mouse	DML, Endothelial cells, GvsHD	The inhibition of inflammation-associated angiogenesis ameliorates inflammatory diseases by reducing the recruitment of tissue-infiltrating leukocytes. However, it is not known if angiogenesis has an active role during the initiation of inflammation or if it is merely a secondary effect occurring in response to stimuli by tissue-infiltrating leukocytes. Here, we show that angiogenesis precedes leukocyte infiltration in experimental models of inflammatory bowel disease and acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). We found that angiogenesis occurred as early as day+2 after allogeneic transplantation mainly in GVHD typical target organs skin, liver, and intestines, whereas no angiogenic changes appeared due to conditioning or syngeneic transplantation. The initiation phase of angiogenesis was not associated with classical endothelial cell (EC) activation signs, such as Vegfa/VEGFR1+2 upregulation or increased adhesion molecule expression. During early GVHD at day+2, we found significant metabolic and cytoskeleton changes in target organ ECs in gene array and proteomic analyses. These modifications have significant functional consequences as indicated by profoundly higher deformation in real-time deformability cytometry. Our results demonstrate that metabolic changes trigger alterations in cell mechanics, leading to enhanced migratory and proliferative potential of ECs during the initiation of inflammation. Our study adds evidence to the hypothesis that angiogenesis is involved in the initiation of tissue inflammation during GVHD.
PXD005356	28096179	Dbf4-dependent kinase and the Rtt107 scaffold promote Mus81-Mms4 resolvase activation during mitosis. 	Dbf4-dependent kinase (DDK) and the Rtt107 scaffold promote Mus81-Mms4 resolvase activation during mitosis	DDK, DNA repair	DNA repair by homologous recombination is under stringent cell cycle control. This includes the last step of the reaction, disentanglement of DNA joint molecules (JMs). Previous work has established that JM resolving nucleases are activated specifically at the onset of mitosis. In case of budding yeast Mus81-Mms4, this cell cycle stage-specific activation is known to depend on phosphorylation by CDK and Cdc5 kinases. Here, we show that a third cell cycle kinase, Cdc7-Dbf4 (DDK), targets Mus81-Mms4 in conjunction with Cdc5-both kinases bind to as well as phosphorylate Mus81-Mms4 in an interdependent manner. Moreover, DDK-mediated phosphorylation of Mms4 is strictly required for Mus81 activation in mitosis, establishing DDK as a novel regulator of homologous recombination. The scaffold protein Rtt107, which binds the Mus81-Mms4 complex, interacts with Cdc7 and thereby targets DDK and Cdc5 to the complex enabling full Mus81 activation. Therefore, Mus81 activation in mitosis involves at least three cell cycle kinases, CDK, Cdc5 and DDK Furthermore, tethering of the kinases in a stable complex with Mus81 is critical for efficient JM resolution.
PXD014436	28096346	Conserved GTPase LepA (Elongation Factor 4) functions in biogenesis of the 30S subunit of the 70S ribosome. 	Conserved GTPase LepA (Elongation Factor 4) functions in biogenesis of the 30S subunit of the 70S ribosome	EF4, RsgA, YjeQ, protein synthesis, translation	The physiological role of LepA, a paralog of EF-G found in all bacteria, has been a mystery for decades. Here, we show that LepA functions in ribosome biogenesis. In cells lacking LepA, immature 30S particles accumulate. Four proteins are specifically underrepresented in these particles-S3, S10, S14, and S21-all of which bind late in the assembly process and contribute to the folding of the 3' domain of 16S rRNA. Processing of 16S rRNA is also delayed in the mutant strain, as indicated by increased levels of precursor 17S rRNA in assembly intermediates. Mutation DeltalepA confers a synthetic growth phenotype in absence of RsgA, another GTPase, well known to act in 30S subunit assembly. Analysis of the DeltarsgA strain reveals accumulation of intermediates that resemble those seen in the absence of LepA. These data suggest that RsgA and LepA play partially redundant roles to ensure efficient 30S assembly.
PXD005142	28096404	TORC1-dependent sumoylation of Rpc82 promotes RNA polymerase III assembly and activity. 	TORC1 shapes the SUMO proteome to control RNA Polymerase III activity	ChIP-Seq, RNA polymerase, SUMOylation, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, transcription	Maintaining cellular homeostasis under changing nutrient conditions is essential for the growth and development of all organisms. The mechanisms that maintain homeostasis upon loss of nutrient supply are not well understood. By mapping the SUMO proteome in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we discovered a specific set of differentially sumoylated proteins mainly involved in transcription. RNA polymerase III (RNAPIII) components, including Rpc53, Rpc82, and Ret1, are particularly prominent nutrient-dependent SUMO targets. Nitrogen starvation, as well as direct inhibition of the master nutrient response regulator target of rapamycin complex 1 (TORC1), results in rapid desumoylation of these proteins, which is reflected by loss of SUMO at tRNA genes. TORC1-dependent sumoylation of Rpc82 in particular is required for robust tRNA transcription. Mechanistically, sumoylation of Rpc82 is important for assembly of the RNAPIII holoenzyme and recruitment of Rpc82 to tRNA genes. In conclusion, our data show that TORC1-dependent sumoylation of Rpc82 bolsters the transcriptional capacity of RNAPIII under optimal growth conditions.
PXD005489	28096900	MS_HistoneDB, a manually curated resource for proteomic analysis of human and mouse histones. 	MS_HistoneDB, a manually curated resource for proteomic analysis of human and mouse histones	Histone, chromatin, histone variants	BACKGROUND: Histones and histone variants are essential components of the nuclear chromatin. While mass spectrometry has opened a large window to their characterization and functional studies, their identification from proteomic data remains challenging. Indeed, the current interpretation of mass spectrometry data relies on public databases which are either not exhaustive (Swiss-Prot) or contain many redundant entries (UniProtKB or NCBI). Currently, no protein database is ideally suited for the analysis of histones and the complex array of mammalian histone variants. RESULTS: We propose two proteomics-oriented manually curated databases for mouse and human histone variants. We manually curated >1700 gene, transcript and protein entries to produce a non-redundant list of 83 mouse and 85 human histones. These entries were annotated in accordance with the current nomenclature and unified with the "HistoneDB2.0 with Variants" database. This resource is provided in a format that can be directly read by programs used for mass spectrometry data interpretation. In addition, it was used to interpret mass spectrometry data acquired on histones extracted from mouse testis. Several histone variants, which had so far only been inferred by homology or detected at the RNA level, were detected by mass spectrometry, confirming the existence of their protein form. CONCLUSIONS: Mouse and human histone entries were collected from different databases and subsequently curated to produce a non-redundant protein-centric resource, MS_HistoneDB. It is dedicated to the proteomic study of histones in mouse and human and will hopefully facilitate the identification and functional study of histone variants.
PXD005106	28099887	Comparative proteomics of paired vocal fold and oral mucosa fibroblasts. 	Comparative Proteomics of PairedVocal Fold and Oral Mucosa Fibroblasts	fibroblasts, fibrosis, lamina propria, laryngology, oral mucosa, scar, vocal folds, wound healing	Injuries of the vocal folds frequently heal with scar formation, which can have lifelong detrimental impact on voice quality. Current treatments to prevent or resolve scars of the vocal fold mucosa are highly unsatisfactory. In contrast, the adjacent oral mucosa is mostly resistant to scarring. These differences in healing tendency might relate to distinct properties of the fibroblasts populating oral and vocal fold mucosae. We thus established the in vitro cultivation of paired, near-primary vocal fold fibroblasts (VFF) and oral mucosa fibroblasts (OMF) to perform a basic cellular characterization and comparative cellular proteomics. VFF were significantly larger than OMF, proliferated more slowly, and exhibited a sustained TGF-beta1-induced elevation of pro-fibrotic interleukin 6. Cluster analysis of the proteomic data revealed distinct protein repertoires specific for VFF and OMF. Further, VFF displayed a broader protein spectrum, particularly a more sophisticated array of factors constituting and modifying the extracellular matrix. Conversely, subsets of OMF-enriched proteins were linked to cellular proliferation, nuclear events, and protection against oxidative stress. Altogether, this study supports the notion that fibroblasts sensitively adapt to the functional peculiarities of their respective anatomical location and presents several molecular targets for further investigation in the context of vocal fold wound healing. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Mammalian vocal folds are a unique but delicate tissue. A considerable fraction of people is affected by voice problems, yet many of the underlying vocal fold pathologies are sparsely understood at the molecular level. One such pathology is vocal fold scarring - the tendency of vocal fold injuries to heal with scar formation -, which represents a clinical problem with highly suboptimal treatment modalities. This study employed proteomics to obtain comprehensive insight into the protein repertoire of vocal fold fibroblasts, which are the cells that predominantly synthesize the extracellular matrix in both physiological and pathophysiological conditions. Protein profiles were compared to paired fibroblasts from the oral mucosa, a neighboring tissue that is remarkably resistant to scarring. Bioinformatic analyses of the data revealed a number of pathways as well as single proteins (e.g. ECM-remodeling factors, transcription factors, enzymes) that were significantly different between the two fibroblast types. Thereby, this study has revealed novel interesting molecular targets which can be analyzed in the future for their impact on vocal fold wound healing.
PXD004241	28101920	Quantitative proteomic analysis of HIV-1 Tat-induced dysregulation in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of HIV-1 Tat-induced dysregulation in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells	network analysis, neuroblastoma	Despite affecting up to 70% of HIV-positive patients and being the leading cause of dementia in patients under 40 years, the molecular mechanisms involved in the onset of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) are not well understood. To address this, we performed SILAC-based quantitative proteomic analysis on HIV-Tat treated SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Isolated protein was fractionated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed by nLC-MS/MS on an Orbitrap Velos. Using MaxQuant, we identified and quantified 3077 unique protein groups, of which 407 were differentially regulated. After applying an additional standard deviation-based cutoff, 29 of these were identified as highly significantly and stably dysregulated. GO term analysis shows dysregulation in both protein translation machinery as well as cytoskeletal regulation that have both been implicated in other dementias. In addition, several key cytoskeletal regulatory proteins such as ARHGEF17, the Rho GTPase, SHROOM3, and CMRP1 are downregulated. Together, these data demonstrate that HIV-Tat can dysregulate neuronal cytoskeletal regulatory proteins that could lead to the major HAND clinical manifestation-synapse loss.
PXD003173	28102082	Characterization of the Molecular Mechanisms Underlying the Chronic Phase of Stroke in a Cynomolgus Monkey Model of Induced Cerebral Ischemia. 	Molecular profiling of a monkey ischemia stroke model	Cynomolgus monkey, brain, iTRAQ, ischemic stroke, multidimensional liquid chromatography	Stroke is one of the main causes of mortality and long-term disability worldwide. The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying this disease are not well understood, particularly in the chronic phase after the initial ischemic episode. In this study, a Macaca fascicularis stroke model consisting of two sample groups, as determined by MRI-quantified infarct volumes as a measure of the stroke severity 28 days after the ischemic episode, was evaluated using qualitative and quantitative proteomics analyses. By using multiple online multidimensional liquid chromatography platforms, 8790 nonredundant proteins were identified that condensed to 5223 protein groups at 1% global false discovery rate (FDR). After the application of a conservative criterion (5% local FDR), 4906 protein groups were identified from the analysis of cerebral cortex. Of the 2068 quantified proteins, differential proteomic analyses revealed that 31 and 23 were dysregulated in the elevated- and low-infarct-volume groups, respectively. Neurogenesis, synaptogenesis, and inflammation featured prominently as the cellular processes associated with these dysregulated proteins. Protein interaction network analysis revealed that the dysregulated proteins for inflammation and neurogenesis were highly connected, suggesting potential cross-talk between these processes in modulating the cytoskeletal structure and dynamics in the chronic phase poststroke. Elucidating the long-term consequences of brain tissue injuries from a cellular prospective, as well as the molecular mechanisms that are involved, would provide a basis for the development of new potentially neurorestorative therapies.
PXD003457	28102238	Fibronectin-guided migration of carcinoma collectives. 	Fibronectin-binding integrins alpha-v-beta6 and alpha9beta1 drive TGF-beta independent directional migration of head and neck carcinoma collectives through fibroblast-derived matrix	TGF-beta signaling, collective migration, fibronectin, head and neck cancer, integrins	Functional interplay between tumour cells and their neoplastic extracellular matrix plays a decisive role in malignant progression of carcinomas. Here we provide a comprehensive data set of the human HNSCC-associated fibroblast matrisome. Although much attention has been paid to the deposit of collagen, we identify oncofetal fibronectin (FN) as a major and obligate component of the matrix assembled by stromal fibroblasts from head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC). FN overexpression in tumours from 435 patients corresponds to an independent unfavourable prognostic indicator. We show that migration of carcinoma collectives on fibrillar FN-rich matrices is achieved through alphavbeta6 and alpha9beta1 engagement, rather than alpha5beta1. Moreover, alphavbeta6-driven migration occurs independently of latent TGF-beta activation and Smad-dependent signalling in tumour epithelial cells. These results provide insights into the adhesion-dependent events at the tumour-stroma interface that govern the collective mode of migration adopted by carcinoma cells to invade surrounding stroma in HNSCC.
PXD005577	28104718	Bioorthogonal Noncanonical Amino Acid Tagging (BONCAT) Enables Time-Resolved Analysis of Protein Synthesis in Native Plant Tissue. 	BONCAT enables time-resolved analysis of protein synthesis in native plant tissue 	BONCAT, heat stress, native tissue	Proteomic plasticity undergirds stress responses in plants, and understanding such responses requires accurate measurement of the extent to which proteins levels are adjusted to counter external stimuli. Here, we adapt bioorthogonal noncanonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) to interrogate protein synthesis in vegetative Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings. BONCAT relies on the translational incorporation of a noncanonical amino acid probe into cellular proteins. In this study, the probe is the Met surrogate azidohomoalanine (Aha), which carries a reactive azide moiety in its amino acid side chain. The azide handle in Aha can be selectively conjugated to dyes and functionalized beads to enable visualization and enrichment of newly synthesized proteins. We show that BONCAT is sensitive enough to detect Arabidopsis proteins synthesized within a 30-min interval defined by an Aha pulse and that the method can be used to detect proteins made under conditions of light stress, osmotic shock, salt stress, heat stress, and recovery from heat stress. We further establish that BONCAT can be coupled to tandem liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to identify and quantify proteins synthesized during heat stress and recovery from heat stress. Our results are consistent with a model in which, upon the onset of heat stress, translation is rapidly reprogrammed to enhance the synthesis of stress mitigators and is again altered during recovery. All experiments were carried out with commercially available reagents, highlighting the accessibility of the BONCAT method to researchers interested in stress responses as well as translational and posttranslational regulation in plants.
PXD004177	28106078	Comparative Phosphoproteomics Reveals an Important Role of MKK2 in Banana (Musa spp.) Cold Signal Network. 	Comparative Phosphoproteomics between Cavendish Banana and Dajiao (Musa spp.) Reveals an Important role of MKK2 Network in Cold Tolerance Mechanisms	Cavendish Banana, Cold tolerance, Dajiao, MKK2, Phosphoproteomics	Low temperature is one of the key environmental stresses, which greatly affects global banana production. However, little is known about the global phosphoproteomes in Musa spp. and their regulatory roles in response to cold stress. In this study, we conducted a comparative phosphoproteomic profiling of cold-sensitive Cavendish Banana and relatively cold tolerant Dajiao under cold stress. Phosphopeptide abundances of five phosphoproteins involved in MKK2 interaction network, including MKK2, HY5, CaSR, STN7 and kinesin-like protein, show a remarkable difference between Cavendish Banana and Dajiao in response to cold stress. Western blotting of MKK2 protein and its T31 phosphorylated peptide verified the phosphoproteomic results of increased T31 phosphopeptide abundance with decreased MKK2 abundance in Daojiao for a time course of cold stress. Meanwhile increased expression of MKK2 with no detectable T31 phosphorylation was found in Cavendish Banana. These results suggest that the MKK2 pathway in Dajiao, along with other cold-specific phosphoproteins, appears to be associated with the molecular mechanisms of high tolerance to cold stress in Dajiao. The results also provide new evidence that the signaling pathway of cellular MKK2 phosphorylation plays an important role in abiotic stress tolerance that likely serves as a universal plant cold tolerance mechanism.
PXD005366	28107008	Robust, Sensitive, and Automated Phosphopeptide Enrichment Optimized for Low Sample Amounts Applied to Primary Hippocampal Neurons. 	Robust, sensitive and automated phosphopeptide enrichment optimized for low sample amounts applied to primary hippocampal neurons	BRAVO AssayMap, EGF, Fe(III)-IMAC, Phosphoproteomics, Ti(IV)-IMAC, TiO2, hippocampal neurons, phosphopeptide enrichment, quantification, sensitivity	Because of the low stoichiometry of protein phosphorylation, targeted enrichment prior to LC-MS/MS analysis is still essential. The trend in phosphoproteome analysis is shifting toward an increasing number of biological replicates per experiment, ideally starting from very low sample amounts, placing new demands on enrichment protocols to make them less labor-intensive, more sensitive, and less prone to variability. Here we assessed an automated enrichment protocol using Fe(III)-IMAC cartridges on an AssayMAP Bravo platform to meet these demands. The automated Fe(III)-IMAC-based enrichment workflow proved to be more effective when compared to a TiO2-based enrichment using the same platform and a manual Ti(IV)-IMAC-based enrichment workflow. As initial samples, a dilution series of both human HeLa cell and primary rat hippocampal neuron lysates was used, going down to 0.1 mug of peptide starting material. The optimized workflow proved to be efficient, sensitive, and reproducible, identifying, localizing, and quantifying thousands of phosphosites from just micrograms of starting material. To further test the automated workflow in genuine biological applications, we monitored EGF-induced signaling in hippocampal neurons, starting with only 200 000 primary cells, resulting in ~50 mug of protein material. This revealed a comprehensive phosphoproteome, showing regulation of multiple members of the MAPK pathway and reduced phosphorylation status of two glutamate receptors involved in synaptic plasticity.
PXD004595	28107520	PGRMC1 Is a Novel Potential Tumor Biomarker of Human Renal Cell Carcinoma Based on Quantitative Proteomic and Integrative Biological Assessments. 	PGRMC1 is a novel potential tumor biomarker of human renal cell carcinoma based on quantitative proteomics and integrative biological assessments	Human Proteome Project, PGRMC1, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), quantitative proteomics, renal cell carcinoma, upregulation	Progesterone receptor membrane component 1 (PGRMC1) is widely observed with an elevated level in multiple human cancers. However, the roles of PGRMC1 in renal cancer are not clear and merit further study. In this report, we made a systematic, integrative biological assessment for PGRMC1 in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) by a quantitative proteomic identification, immunohistochemical detection, and its clinic pathologic significance analysis. We found that PGRMC1 abundance is increased by 3.91-fold in RCC tissues compared with its autologous para-cancerous tissues by a quantitative proteome identification. To validate the proteomic result with more confidence, 135 clinic RCC tissues were recruited to measure PGRMC1 abundance by immunohistochemical staining, and 63.7% RCC samples (n = 86) showed a higher abundance of PGRMC1 than the noncancerous counterparts. And the elevated PGRMC1 level was related to the tumor malignancy degree and overall survival of RCC patients. Meanwhile the average serum PGRMC1 concentration for RCC patients (n = 18) was significantly increased by 1.67 fold compared with healthy persons. Moreover an exogenous elevated abundance of PGRMC1 by plasmid transfections significantly enhanced cell proliferation of renal cancer cells in vitro. Our findings demonstrate PGRMC1, which promotes RCC progression phenotypes in vitro and in vivo, is a novel potential biomarker and therapeutic target for RCC.
PXD005831	28109157	Concerted regulation of ISWI by an autoinhibitory domain and the H4 N-terminal tail. 	Concerted regulation of ISWI by an autoinhibitory domain and the H4 N-terminal tail	Chd1, ISWI, SNF2H, crosslinking	ISWI-family nucleosome remodeling enzymes need the histone H4 N-terminal tail to mobilize nucleosomes. Here we mapped the H4-tail binding pocket of ISWI. Surprisingly the binding site was adjacent to but not overlapping with the docking site of an auto-regulatory motif, AutoN, in the N-terminal region (NTR) of ISWI, indicating that AutoN does not act as a simple pseudosubstrate as suggested previously. Rather, AutoN cooperated with a hitherto uncharacterized motif, termed AcidicN, to confer H4-tail sensitivity and discriminate between DNA and nucleosomes. A third motif in the NTR, ppHSA, was functionally required in vivo and provided structural stability by clamping the NTR to Lobe 2 of the ATPase domain. This configuration is reminiscent of Chd1 even though Chd1 contains an unrelated NTR. Our results shed light on the intricate structural and functional regulation of ISWI by the NTR and uncover surprising parallels with Chd1.
PXD005149	28111465	Differential signaling networks of Bcr-Abl p210 and p190 kinases in leukemia cells defined by functional proteomics. 	Functional proteomics defines differential signaling networks of the oncogenic kinases Bcr-Abl p210 and p185	Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase, Interactome, Phosphoproteome, SILAC, leukemia	The two major isoforms of the oncogenic Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase, p210 and p190, are expressed upon the Philadelphia chromosome translocation. p210 is the hallmark of chronic myelogenous leukemia, whereas p190 occurs in the majority of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Differences in protein interactions and activated signaling pathways that may be associated with the different diseases driven by p210 and p190 are unknown. We have performed a quantitative comparative proteomics study of p210 and p190. Strong differences in the interactome and tyrosine phosphoproteome were found and validated. Whereas the AP2 adaptor complex that regulates clathrin-mediated endocytosis interacts preferentially with p190, the phosphatase Sts1 is enriched with p210. Stronger activation of the Stat5 transcription factor and the Erk1/2 kinases is observed with p210, whereas Lyn kinase is activated by p190. Our findings provide a more coherent understanding of Bcr-Abl signaling, mechanisms of leukemic transformation, resulting disease pathobiology and responses to kinase inhibitors.
PXD005087	28111950	Expansion for the Brachylophosaurus canadensis Collagen I Sequence and Additional Evidence of the Preservation of Cretaceous Protein. 	Brachylophosaurus In Gel Digestion	Brachylophosaurus canadensis, bone, paleoproteomics	Sequence data from biomolecules such as DNA and proteins, which provide critical information for evolutionary studies, have been assumed to be forever outside the reach of dinosaur paleontology. Proteins, which are predicted to have greater longevity than DNA, have been recovered from two nonavian dinosaurs, but these results remain controversial. For proteomic data derived from extinct Mesozoic organisms to reach their greatest potential for investigating questions of phylogeny and paleobiology, it must be shown that peptide sequences can be reliably and reproducibly obtained from fossils and that fragmentary sequences for ancient proteins can be increasingly expanded. To test the hypothesis that peptides can be repeatedly detected and validated from fossil tissues many millions of years old, we applied updated extraction methodology, high-resolution mass spectrometry, and bioinformatics analyses on a Brachylophosaurus canadensis specimen (MOR 2598) from which collagen I peptides were recovered in 2009. We recovered eight peptide sequences of collagen I: two identical to peptides recovered in 2009 and six new peptides. Phylogenetic analyses place the recovered sequences within basal archosauria. When only the new sequences are considered, B. canadensis is grouped more closely to crocodylians, but when all sequences (current and those reported in 2009) are analyzed, B. canadensis is placed more closely to basal birds. The data robustly support the hypothesis of an endogenous origin for these peptides, confirm the idea that peptides can survive in specimens tens of millions of years old, and bolster the validity of the 2009 study. Furthermore, the new data expand the coverage of B. canadensis collagen I (a 33.6% increase in collagen I alpha 1 and 116.7% in alpha 2). Finally, this study demonstrates the importance of reexamining previously studied specimens with updated methods and instrumentation, as we obtained roughly the same amount of sequence data as the previous study with substantially less sample material. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005087.
PXD004447	28111955	Opposite Electron-Transfer Dissociation and Higher-Energy Collisional Dissociation Fragmentation Characteristics of Proteolytic K/R(X)n and (X)nK/R Peptides Provide Benefits for Peptide Sequencing in Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics. 	Mirroring the charged termini; ETD/HCD fragmentation characteristics of LysargiNase and tryptic peptides and their benefits for peptide sequencing in proteomics	ETD, HCD, LysargiNase, fragmentation, orbitrap, phosphoproteomics, trypsin	A key step in shotgun proteomics is the digestion of proteins into peptides amenable for mass spectrometry. Tryptic peptides can be readily sequenced and identified by collision-induced dissociation (CID) or higher-energy collisional dissociation (HCD) because the fragmentation rules are well-understood. Here, we investigate LysargiNase, a perfect trypsin mirror protease, because it cleaves equally specific at arginine and lysine residues, albeit at the N-terminal end. LysargiNase peptides are therefore practically tryptic-like in length and sequence except that following ESI, the two protons are now both positioned at the N-terminus. Here, we compare side-by-side the chromatographic separation properties, gas-phase fragmentation characteristics, and (phospho)proteome sequence coverage of tryptic (i.e., (X)nK/R) and LysargiNase (i.e., K/R(X)n) peptides using primarily electron-transfer dissociation (ETD) and, for comparison, HCD. We find that tryptic and LysargiNase peptides fragment nearly as mirror images. For LysargiNase predominantly N-terminal peptide ions (c-ions (ETD) and b-ions (HCD)) are formed, whereas for trypsin, C-terminal fragment ions dominate (z-ions (ETD) and y-ions (HCD)) in a homologous mixture of complementary ions. Especially during ETD, LysargiNase peptides fragment into low-complexity but information-rich sequence ladders. Trypsin and LysargiNase chart distinct parts of the proteome, and therefore, the combined use of these enzymes will benefit a more in-depth and reliable analysis of (phospho)proteomes.
PXD004927	28112733	Site-specific mapping of the human SUMO proteome reveals co-modification with phosphorylation. 	Site-specific mapping of the human SUMO proteome reveals co-modification with phosphorylation (part 1)	K0-SUMO, SUMO, deep, phosphorylation	Small ubiquitin-like modifiers (SUMOs) are post-translational modifications (PTMs) that regulate nuclear cellular processes. Here we used an augmented K0-SUMO proteomics strategy to identify 40,765 SUMO acceptor sites and quantify their fractional contribution for 6,747 human proteins. Structural-predictive analyses revealed that lysines residing in disordered regions are preferentially targeted by SUMO, in notable contrast to other widespread lysine modifications. In our data set, we identified 807 SUMOylated peptides that were co-modified by phosphorylation, along with dozens of SUMOylated peptides that were co-modified by ubiquitylation, acetylation and methylation. Notably, 9% of the identified SUMOylome occurred proximal to phosphorylation, and numerous SUMOylation sites were found to be fully dependent on prior phosphorylation events. SUMO-proximal phosphorylation occurred primarily in a proline-directed manner, and inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinases dynamically affected co-modification. Collectively, we present a comprehensive analysis of the SUMOylated proteome, uncovering the structural preferences for SUMO and providing system-wide evidence for a remarkable degree of cross-talk between SUMOylation and other major PTMs.
PXD005150	28114394	Proteomic Analysis of Kveim Reagent Identifies Targets of Cellular Immunity in Sarcoidosis. 	Proteomic analysis of Kveim reagent identifies targets of cellular immunity in sarcoidosis	Immunology, Interstitial Lung Diseases, Sarcoidosis	BACKGROUND: Kveim-reagent (Kv) skin testing was a historical method of diagnosing sarcoidosis. Intradermal injection of treated sarcoidosis spleen tissue resulted in a granuloma response at injection site by 4-6 weeks. Previous work indicates proteins as the possible trigger of this reaction. We aimed to identify Kv-specific proteins and characterise the ex vivo response of Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMCs) from sarcoidosis, tuberculosis and healthy control patients when stimulated with both Kv and selected Kv-specific proteins. METHODS: Kv extracts were separated by 1D-SDS-PAGE and 2D-DIGE and then underwent mass spectrometric analysis for protein identification. Sarcoidosis and control PBMCs were first stimulated with Kv and then with three selected recombinant protein candidates which were identified from the proteomic analysis. PBMC secreted cytokines were subsequently measured by Multiplex Cytokine Assay. RESULTS: We observed significantly increased IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha secretion from Kv-stimulated PBMCs of sarcoidosis patients vs. PBMCs from healthy volunteers (IFN-gamma: 207.2 pg/mL vs. 3.86 pg/mL, p = 0.0018; TNF-alpha: 2375 pg/mL vs. 42.82 pg/mL, p = 0.0003). Through proteomic approaches we then identified 74 sarcoidosis tissue-specific proteins. Of these, 3 proteins (vimentin, tubulin and alpha-actinin-4) were identified using both 1D-SDS-PAGE and 2D-DIGE. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005150. Increased cytokine secretion was subsequently observed with vimentin stimulation of sarcoidosis PBMCs vs. tuberculosis PBMCs (IFN-gamma: 396.6 pg/mL vs 0.1 pg/mL, p = 0.0009; TNF-alpha: 1139 pg/mL vs 0.1 pg/mL, p<0.0001). This finding was also observed in vimentin stimulation of sarcoidosis PBMCs compared to PBMCs from healthy controls (IFN-gamma: 396.6 pg/mL vs. 0.1 pg/mL, p = 0.014; TNF-alpha: 1139 pg/mL vs 42.29 pg/mL, p = 0.027). No difference was found in cytokine secretion between sarcoidosis and control PBMCs when stimulated with either tubulin or alpha-actinin-4. CONCLUSIONS: Stimulation with both Kveim reagent and vimentin induces a specific pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion from sarcoidosis PBMCs. Further investigation of cellular immune responses to Kveim-specific proteins may identify novel biomarkers to assist the diagnosis of sarcoidosis.
PXD005009	28115184	Venom-gland transcriptomics and venom proteomics of the black-back scorpion (Hadrurus spadix) reveal detectability challenges and an unexplored realm of animal toxin diversity. 	Hadrurus spadix venom	Scorpion, venom	The order Scorpiones is one of the most ancient and diverse lineages of venomous animals, having originated approximately 430 million years ago and diversified into 14 extant families. Although partial venom characterizations have been described for numerous scorpion species, we provided the first quantitative transcriptome/proteome comparison for a scorpion species using single-animal approaches. We sequenced the venom-gland transcriptomes of a male and female black-back scorpion (Hadrurus spadix) from the family Caraboctonidae using the Illumina sequencing platform and conducted independent quantitative mass-spectrometry analyses of their venoms. We identified 79 proteomically confirmed venom proteins, an additional 69 transcripts with homology to toxins from other species, and 596 nontoxin proteins expressed at high levels in the venom glands. The venom of H. spadix was rich in antimicrobial peptides, K(+)-channel toxins, and several classes of peptidases. However, the most diverse and one of the most abundant classes of putative toxins could not be assigned even a tentative functional role on the basis of homology, indicating that this venom contained a wealth of previously unexplored animal toxin diversity. We found good agreement between both transcriptomic and proteomic abundances across individuals, but transcriptomic and proteomic abundandances differed substantially within each individual. Small peptide toxins such as K(+)-channel toxins and antimicrobial peptides proved challenging to detect proteomically, at least in part due to the significant proteolytic processing involved in their maturation. In addition, we found a significant tendency for our proteomic approach to overestimate the abundances of large putative toxins and underestimate the abundances of smaller toxins.
PXD004801	28116781	Improved surfaceome coverage with a label-free nonaffinity-purified workflow. 	Improved plasma membrane proteome coverage with a label-free non-affinity-purified workflow	GO term, label-free, leukemia, plasma membrane	The proteins of the cellular plasma membrane (PM) perform important functions relating to homeostasis and intercellular communication. Due to its overall low cellular abundance, amphipathic character, and low membrane-to-cytoplasm ratio, the PM proteome has been challenging to isolate and characterize, and is poorly represented in standard LC-MS/MS analyses. In this study, we employ sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation for the enrichment of the PM proteome, without chemical labeling and affinity purification, together with GeLCMS and use subsequent bioinformatics tools to select proteins associated with the PM/cell surface, herein referred to as the surfaceome. Using this methodology, we identify over 1900 cell surface associated proteins in a human acute myeloid leukemia cell line. These surface proteins comprise almost 50% of all detected cellular proteins, a number that substantially exceeds the depth of coverage in previously published studies describing the leukemia surfaceome.
PXD002757	28117336	CD5 molecule-like and transthyretin as putative biomarkers of chronic myeloid leukemia - an insight from the proteomic analysis of human plasma. 	Plasma Proteome Profiling of CML in Pakistan	2DE, CML, ELISA, Human Plasma Proteome, Pathway Analysis, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	Better and sensitive biomarkers are needed to help understand the mechanism of disease onset, progression, prognosis and monitoring of the therapeutic response. Aim of this study was to identify the candidate circulating markers of chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CP-CML) manifestations, having potential to develop into predictive- or monitoring-biomarkers. A proteomic approach, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis in conjunction with mass spectrometry (2DE-MS), was employed for this purpose. Based on the spot intensity measurements, six proteins were found to be consistently dysregulated in CP-CML subjects compared to the healthy controls [false discovery rate (FDR) threshold <=0.05]. These were identified as alpha-1-antichymotrypsin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, CD5 molecule-like, stress-induced phosphoprotein 1, vitamin D binding protein isoform 1 and transthyretin by MS analysis [PMF score >=79; data accessible via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002757]. Quantitative ELISA, used for validation of candidate proteins both in the pre-treated and nilotinib-treated CP-CML cases, demonstrate that CD5 molecule-like, transthyretin and alpha-1-antitrypsin may serve as useful predictive markers and aid in monitoring the response of TKI-based therapy (ANOVA p < 0.0001). Two of the circulating marker proteins, identified in this study, had not previously been associated with chronic- or acute-phase myeloid leukemia. Exploration of their probable association with CP-CML, in a larger study cohort, may add to our understanding of the disease mechanism besides developing clinically useful biomarkers in future.
PXD004429	28118090	Identifying components required for OMP biogenesis as novel targets for antiinfective drugs. 	Role of proteins belonging to the OMP biogenesis machinery for virulence of Yersinia enterocolitica	bacterial infection, cell surface molecules, outer membrane protein biogenesis	The emergence of multiresistant Gram-negative bacteria requires new therapies for combating bacterial infections. Targeting the biogenesis of virulence factors could be an alternative strategy instead of killing bacteria with antibiotics. The outer membrane (OM) of Gram-negative bacteria acts as a physical barrier. At the same time it facilitates the exchange of molecules and harbors a multitude of proteins associated with virulence. In order to insert proteins into the OM, an essential oligomeric membrane-associated protein complex, the beta-barrel assembly machinery (BAM) is required. Being essential for the biogenesis of outer membrane proteins (OMPs) the BAM and also periplasmic chaperones may serve as attractive targets to develop novel antiinfective agents. Herein, we aimed to elucidate which proteins belonging to the OMP biogenesis machinery have the most important function in granting bacterial fitness, OM barrier function, facilitating biogenesis of dedicated virulence factors and determination of overall virulence. To this end we used the enteropathogen Yersinia enterocolitica as a model system. We individually knocked out all non-essential components of the BAM (BamB, C and E) as well as the periplasmic chaperones DegP, SurA and Skp. In summary, we found that the most profound phenotypes were produced by the loss of BamB or SurA with both knockouts resulting in significant attenuation or even avirulence of Ye in a mouse infection model. Thus, we assume that both BamB and SurA are promising targets for the development of new antiinfective drugs in the future.
PXD005658	28122231	HIV-1 Activates T Cell Signaling Independently of Antigen to Drive Viral Spread. 	HIV-1 activates T cell signaling independently of antigen to drive viral spread	HIV, T cell, phosphorylation, virological synapse	HIV-1 spreads between CD4 T cells most efficiently through virus-induced cell-cell contacts. To test whether this process potentiates viral spread by activating signaling pathways, we developed an approach to analyze the phosphoproteome in infected and uninfected mixed-population T cells using differential metabolic labeling and mass spectrometry. We discovered HIV-1-induced activation of signaling networks during viral spread encompassing over 200 cellular proteins. Strikingly, pathways downstream of the T cell receptor were the most significantly activated, despite the absence of canonical antigen-dependent stimulation. The importance of this pathway was demonstrated by the depletion of proteins, and we show that HIV-1 Env-mediated cell-cell contact, the T cell receptor, and the Src kinase Lck were essential for signaling-dependent enhancement of viral dissemination. This study demonstrates that manipulation of signaling at immune cell contacts by HIV-1 is essential for promoting virus replication and defines a paradigm for antigen-independent T cell signaling.
PXD004816	28123004	Protein abundance of AKT and ERK pathway components governs cell type-specific regulation of proliferation. 	Protein abundance of AKT and ERK pathway components governs cell-type-specific regulation of proliferation	CFU-E, label-free quantification, proteome ruler	Signaling through the AKT and ERK pathways controls cell proliferation. However, the integrated regulation of this multistep process, involving signal processing, cell growth and cell cycle progression, is poorly understood. Here, we study different hematopoietic cell types, in which AKT and ERK signaling is triggered by erythropoietin (Epo). Although these cell types share the molecular network topology for pro-proliferative Epo signaling, they exhibit distinct proliferative responses. Iterating quantitative experiments and mathematical modeling, we identify two molecular sources for cell type-specific proliferation. First, cell type-specific protein abundance patterns cause differential signal flow along the AKT and ERK pathways. Second, downstream regulators of both pathways have differential effects on proliferation, suggesting that protein synthesis is rate-limiting for faster cycling cells while slower cell cycles are controlled at the G1-S progression. The integrated mathematical model of Epo-driven proliferation explains cell type-specific effects of targeted AKT and ERK inhibitors and faithfully predicts, based on the protein abundance, anti-proliferative effects of inhibitors in primary human erythroid progenitor cells. Our findings suggest that the effectiveness of targeted cancer therapy might become predictable from protein abundance.
PXD005141	28126900	Loss-less Nano-fractionator for High Sensitivity, High Coverage Proteomics. 	Loss-less nano-fractionator for high sensitivity, high coverage proteomics	Fractionation, cell lines, nano-flow	Recent advances in mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics now allow very deep coverage of cellular proteomes. To achieve near-comprehensive identification and quantification, the combination of a first HPLC-based peptide fractionation orthogonal to the on-line LC-MS/MS step has proven to be particularly powerful. This first dimension is typically performed with milliliter/min flow and relatively large column inner diameters, which allow efficient pre-fractionation but typically require peptide amounts in the milligram range. Here, we describe a novel approach termed "spider fractionator" in which the post-column flow of a nanobore chromatography system enters an eight-port flow-selector rotor valve. The valve switches the flow into different flow channels at constant time intervals, such as every 90 s. Each flow channel collects the fractions into autosampler vials of the LC-MS/MS system. Employing a freely configurable collection mechanism, samples are concatenated in a loss-less manner into 2-96 fractions, with efficient peak separation. The combination of eight fractions with 100 min gradients yields very deep coverage at reasonable measurement time, and other parameters can be chosen for even more rapid or for extremely deep measurements. We demonstrate excellent sensitivity by decreasing sample amounts from 100 mug into the sub-microgram range, without losses attributable to the spider fractionator and while quantifying close to 10,000 proteins. Finally, we apply the system to the rapid automated and in-depth characterization of 12 different human cell lines to a median depth of 11,472 different proteins, which revealed differences recapitulating their developmental origin and differentiation status. The fractionation technology described here is flexible, easy to use, and facilitates comprehensive proteome characterization with minimal sample requirements.
PXD003556	28126901	Sex-Specific Biology of the Human Malaria Parasite Revealed from the Proteomes of Mature Male and Female Gametocytes. 	The proteomes of plasmodium falciparum mature male and female gametocytes	Plasmodium falciparum, gametocyte, sex-specific	The gametocytes of the malaria parasites are obligate for perpetuating the parasite's life cycle through mosquitoes, but the sex-specific biology of gametocytes is poorly understood. We generated a transgenic line in the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum, which allowed us to accurately separate male and female gametocytes by flow cytometry. In-depth analysis of the proteomes by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry identified 1244 and 1387 proteins in mature male and female gametocytes, respectively. GFP-tagging of nine selected proteins confirmed their sex-partitions to be agreeable with the results from the proteomic analysis. The sex-specific proteomes showed significant differences that are consistent with the divergent functions of the two sexes. Although the male-specific proteome (119 proteins) is enriched in proteins associated with the flagella and genome replication, the female-specific proteome (262 proteins) is more abundant in proteins involved in metabolism, translation and organellar functions. Compared with the Plasmodium berghei sex-specific proteomes, this study revealed both extensive conservation and considerable divergence between these two species, which reflect the disparities between the two species in proteins involved in cytoskeleton, lipid metabolism and protein degradation. Comparison with three sex-specific proteomes allowed us to obtain high-confidence lists of 73 and 89 core male- and female-specific/biased proteins conserved in Plasmodium The identification of sex-specific/biased proteomes in Plasmodium lays a solid foundation for understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying the unique sex-specific biology in this early-branching eukaryote.
PXD001888	28129334	A Novel Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Approach to Monitor Cardiac Metabolic Pathway Remodeling in Response to Sunitinib Malate. 	Mouse heart toxicity -  A Novel Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Approach to Monitor Cardiac Metabolic Pathway Remodeling in Response to Sunitinib Malate	heart tissue	Sunitinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for the treatment of multiple solid tumors. However, cardiotoxicity is of increasing concern, with a need to develop rational mechanism driven approaches for the early detection of cardiac dysfunction. We sought to interrogate changes in cardiac energy substrate usage during sunitinib treatment, hypothesising that these changes could represent a strategy for the early detection of cardiotoxicity. Balb/CJ mice or Sprague-Dawley rats were treated orally for 4 weeks with 40 or 20 mg/kg/day sunitinib. Cardiac positron emission tomography (PET) was implemented to investigate alterations in myocardial glucose and oxidative metabolism. Following treatment, blood pressure increased, and left ventricular ejection fraction decreased. Cardiac [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET revealed increased glucose uptake after 48 hours. [11C]Acetate-PET showed decreased myocardial perfusion following treatment. Electron microscopy revealed significant lipid accumulation in the myocardium. Proteomic analyses indicated that oxidative metabolism, fatty acid beta-oxidation and mitochondrial dysfunction were among the top myocardial signalling pathways perturbed. Sunitinib treatment results in an increased reliance on glycolysis, increased myocardial lipid deposition and perturbed mitochondrial function, indicative of a fundamental energy crisis resulting in compromised myocardial energy metabolism and function. Our findings suggest that a cardiac PET strategy may represent a rational approach to non-invasively monitor metabolic pathway remodeling following sunitinib treatment.
PXD005688	28129394	Characterization of Early-Phase Neutrophil Extracellular Traps in Urinary Tract Infections. 	Characterization of Early-Phase Neutrophil Extracellular Traps in Urinary Tract Infections	LCMSMS, Neutrophil Extracellular Traps (NETs), Urinary Tract Infection (UTI), Urine	Neutrophils have an important role in the antimicrobial defense and resolution of urinary tract infections (UTIs). Our research suggests that a mechanism known as neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation is a defense strategy to combat pathogens that have invaded the urinary tract. A set of human urine specimens with very high neutrophil counts had microscopic evidence of cellular aggregation and lysis. Deoxyribonuclease I (DNase) treatment resulted in disaggregation of such structures, release of DNA fragments and a proteome enriched in histones and azurophilic granule effectors whose quantitative composition was similar to that of previously described in vitro-formed NETs. The effector proteins were further enriched in DNA-protein complexes isolated in native PAGE gels. Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed a flattened morphology of neutrophils associated with decondensed chromatin, remnants of granules in the cell periphery, and myeloperoxidase co-localized with extracellular DNA, features consistent with early-phase NETs. Nuclear staining revealed that a considerable fraction of bacterial cells in these structures were dead. The proteomes of two pathogens, Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli, were indicative of adaptive responses to early-phase NETs, specifically the release of virulence factors and arrest of ribosomal protein synthesis. Finally, we discovered patterns of proteolysis consistent with widespread cleavage of proteins by neutrophil elastase, proteinase 3 and cathepsin G and evidence of citrullination in many nuclear proteins.
PXD005225	28130068	Genomic, proteomic and biochemical analysis of the chitinolytic machinery of Serratia marcescens BJL200. 	Serratia marcescens BJL200 secretome	Chitin, LFQ, secretome	The chitinolytic machinery of Serratia marcescens BJL200 has been studied in detail over the last couple of decades, however, the proteome secreted by this Gram-negative bacterium during growth on chitin has not been studied in depth. In addition, the genome of this most studied chitinolytic Serratia strain has until now, not been sequenced. We report a draft genome sequence for S. marcescens BJL200. Using label-free quantification (LFQ) proteomics and a recently developed plate-method for assessing secretomes during growth on solid substrates, we find that, as expected, the chitin-active enzymes (ChiA, B, C, and CBP21) are produced in high amounts when the bacterium grows on chitin. Other proteins produced in high amounts after bacterial growth on chitin provide interesting targets for further exploration of the proteins involved in degradation of chitin-rich biomasses. The genome encodes a fourth chitinase (ChiD), which is produced in low amounts during growth on chitin. Studies of chitin degradation with mixtures of recombinantly produced chitin-degrading enzymes showed that ChiD does not contribute to the overall efficiency of the process. ChiD is capable of converting N,N'-diacetyl chitobiose to N-acetyl glucosamine, but is less efficient than another enzyme produced for this purpose, the Chitobiase. Thus, the role of ChiD in chitin degradation, if any, remains unclear.
PXD004804	28130397	Melt With This Kiss: Paralyzing and Liquefying Venom of The Assassin Bug Pristhesancus plagipennis (Hemiptera: Reduviidae). 	Assassin bug (Pristhesancus plagipennis) venom proteome	Heteroptera, Reduviidae, assassin bug, venom	Assassin bugs (Hemiptera: Heteroptera: Reduviidae) are venomous insects, most of which prey on invertebrates. Assassin bug venom has features in common with venoms from other animals, such as paralyzing and lethal activity when injected, and a molecular composition that includes disulfide-rich peptide neurotoxins. Uniquely, this venom also has strong liquefying activity that has been hypothesized to facilitate feeding through the narrow channel of the proboscis-a structure inherited from sap- and phloem-feeding phytophagous hemipterans and adapted during the evolution of Heteroptera into a fang and feeding structure. However, further understanding of the function of assassin bug venom is impeded by the lack of proteomic studies detailing its molecular composition.By using a combined transcriptomic/proteomic approach, we show that the venom proteome of the harpactorine assassin bug Pristhesancus plagipennis includes a complex suite of >100 proteins comprising disulfide-rich peptides, CUB domain proteins, cystatins, putative cytolytic toxins, triabin-like protein, odorant-binding protein, S1 proteases, catabolic enzymes, putative nutrient-binding proteins, plus eight families of proteins without homology to characterized proteins. S1 proteases, CUB domain proteins, putative cytolytic toxins, and other novel proteins in the 10-16-kDa mass range, were the most abundant venom components. Thus, in addition to putative neurotoxins, assassin bug venom includes a high proportion of enzymatic and cytolytic venom components likely to be well suited to tissue liquefaction. Our results also provide insight into the trophic switch to blood-feeding by the kissing bugs (Reduviidae: Triatominae). Although some protein families such as triabins occur in the venoms of both predaceous and blood-feeding reduviids, the composition of venoms produced by these two groups is revealed to differ markedly. These results provide insights into the venom evolution in the insect suborder Heteroptera.
PXD004977	28132834	Human iPSC-Derived Neural Progenitors Are an Effective Drug Discovery Model for Neurological mtDNA Disorders. 	Enabling phenotypic drug discovery for neurological mitochondrial DNA disorders with patient-derived neural progenitor cells	MT-ATP6, NPCs, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, iPSCs, machine learning, mitochondrial disorders, mtDNA mutations, neural progenitors	Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations frequently cause neurological diseases. Modeling of these defects has been difficult because of the challenges associated with engineering mtDNA. We show here that neural progenitor cells (NPCs) derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) retain the parental mtDNA profile and exhibit a metabolic switch toward oxidative phosphorylation. NPCs derived in this way from patients carrying a deleterious homoplasmic mutation in the mitochondrial gene MT-ATP6 (m.9185T>C) showed defective ATP production and abnormally high mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), plus altered calcium homeostasis, which represents a potential cause of neural impairment. High-content screening of FDA-approved drugs using the MMP phenotype highlighted avanafil, which we found was able to partially rescue the calcium defect in patient NPCs and differentiated neurons. Overall, our results show that iPSC-derived NPCs provide an effective model for drug screening to target mtDNA disorders that affect the nervous system.
PXD004461	28132839	PP2A(Cdc55) Phosphatase Imposes Ordered Cell-Cycle Phosphorylation by Opposing Threonine Phosphorylation. 	PP21Cdc55 phosphatase imposes phosphothreonine-specific ordering of cell cycle phosphorylation	Cdk, Cell cycle, SILAC, phosphatase, phosphorylation	In the quantitative model of cell-cycle control, progression from G1 through S phase and into mitosis is ordered by thresholds of increasing cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) activity. How such thresholds are read out by substrates that respond with the correct phosphorylation timing is not known. Here, using the budding yeast model, we show that the abundant PP2A(Cdc55) phosphatase counteracts Cdk phosphorylation during interphase and delays phosphorylation of late Cdk substrates. PP2A(Cdc55) specifically counteracts phosphorylation on threonine residues, and consequently, we find that threonine-directed phosphorylation occurs late in the cell cycle. Furthermore, the late phosphorylation of a model substrate, Ndd1, depends on threonine identity of its Cdk target sites. Our results support a model in which Cdk-counteracting phosphatases contribute to cell-cycle ordering by imposing Cdk thresholds. They also unveil a regulatory principle based on the phosphoacceptor amino acid, which is likely to apply to signaling pathways beyond cell-cycle control.
PXD005156	28133907	Discovery of gastric cancer specific biomarkers by the application of serum proteomics. 	Discovery of gastric cancer-specific biomarkers by the application of serum proteomics	Gastric cancer, Serum, biomarker	Current diagnostic markers for gastric cancer are not sufficiently specific or sensitive for use in clinical practice. The aims of this study are to compare the proteomes of serum samples from patients with gastric cancers and normal controls, and to develop useful tumor markers of gastric cancer by quantitative proteomic analysis. We identified a total of 388 proteins with a <=1% FDR and with at least two unique peptides from the sera of each group. Among them, 215, 251, and 260 proteins were identified in serum samples of patients in an advanced cancer group, early cancer group, and normal control group, respectively. We selected differentially expressed proteins in cancer patients compared with those of normal controls via semiquantitative analyses comparing the spectral counts of identified proteins. These differentially expressed proteins were successfully verified using an MS-based quantitative assay, multiple reactions monitoring analysis. Four proteins (vitronectin, clusterin isoform 1, thrombospondin 1, and tyrosine-protein kinase SRMS) were shown to have significant changes between the cancer groups and the normal control group. These four serum proteins were able to discriminate gastric cancer patients from normal controls with sufficient specificity and selectivity.
PXD005500	28134249	Orthogonal ubiquitin transfer identifies ubiquitination substrates under differential control by the two ubiquitin activating enzymes. 	Orthogonal ubiquitin transfer identifies ubiquitination substrates under differential control by the two ubiquitin enzymes	LC/MS, Ubquitin	Protein ubiquitination is mediated sequentially by ubiquitin activating enzyme E1, ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 and ubiquitin ligase E3. Uba1 was thought to be the only E1 until the recent identification of Uba6. To differentiate the biological functions of Uba1 and Uba6, we applied an orthogonal ubiquitin transfer (OUT) technology to profile their ubiquitination targets in mammalian cells. By expressing pairs of an engineered ubiquitin and engineered Uba1 or Uba6 that were generated for exclusive interactions, we identified 697 potential Uba6 targets and 527 potential Uba1 targets with 258 overlaps. Bioinformatics analysis reveals substantial differences in pathways involving Uba1- and Uba6-specific targets. We demonstrate that polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of ezrin and CUGBP1 require Uba6, but not Uba1, and that Uba6 is involved in the control of ezrin localization and epithelial morphogenesis. These data suggest that distinctive substrate pools exist for Uba1 and Uba6 that reflect non-redundant biological roles for Uba6.
PXD004273	28134274	A novel approach to analyze lysosomal dysfunctions through subcellular proteomics and lipidomics: the case of NPC1 deficiency. 	LFQ comparison of total cell lysate, lysosomal and plasma membrane fraction of WT and NPC1 KO cells	Human Proteome Project, Niemann-Pick disease type C1, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), label-free quantification, lysosomal fraction, superparamegnetic iro	Superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs) have mainly been used as cellular carriers for genes and therapeutic products, while their use in subcellular organelle isolation remains underexploited. We engineered SPIONs targeting distinct subcellular compartments. Dimercaptosuccinic acid-coated SPIONs are internalized and accumulate in late endosomes/lysosomes, while aminolipid-SPIONs reside at the plasma membrane. These features allowed us to establish standardized magnetic isolation procedures for these membrane compartments with a yield and purity permitting proteomic and lipidomic profiling. We validated our approach by comparing the biomolecular compositions of lysosomes and plasma membranes isolated from wild-type and Niemann-Pick disease type C1 (NPC1) deficient cells. While the accumulation of cholesterol and glycosphingolipids is seen as a primary hallmark of NPC1 deficiency, our lipidomics analysis revealed the buildup of several species of glycerophospholipids and other storage lipids in selectively late endosomes/lysosomes of NPC1-KO cells. While the plasma membrane proteome remained largely invariable, we observed pronounced alterations in several proteins linked to autophagy and lysosomal catabolism reflecting vesicular transport obstruction and defective lysosomal turnover resulting from NPC1 deficiency. Thus the use of SPIONs provides a major advancement in fingerprinting subcellular compartments, with an increased potential to identify disease-related alterations in their biomolecular compositions.
PXD021013	28135259	Building ProteomeTools based on a complete synthetic human proteome. 	ProteomeTools - Part III - HLA Class I & II & non-tryptic peptides	AspN, EPIC-XS, HLA, HLA Class I, HLA Class II, LysN, ProteomeTools, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, immunopeptidomics, machine learning, proteometools, reference standards, synthetic peptides	We describe ProteomeTools, a project building molecular and digital tools from the human proteome to facilitate biomedical research. Here we report the generation and multimodal liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of >330,000 synthetic tryptic peptides representing essentially all canonical human gene products, and we exemplify the utility of these data in several applications. The resource (available at http://www.proteometools.org) will be extended to >1 million peptides, and all data will be shared with the community via ProteomicsDB and ProteomeXchange.
PXD005601	28135300	Comprehensive Identification of mRNA-Binding Proteins of Leishmania donovani by Interactome Capture. 	mRNA-binding proteins of Leishmania donovani LC-MSMS	Leishmania donovani, interactome capture, mRNA-binding proteins	Leishmania are unicellular eukaryotes responsible for leishmaniasis in humans. Like other trypanosomatids, leishmania regulate protein coding gene expression almost exclusively at the post-transcriptional level with the help of RNA binding proteins (RBPs). Due to the presence of polycystronic transcription units, leishmania do not regulate RNA polymerase II-dependent transcription initiation. Recent evidence suggests that the main control points in gene expression are mRNA degradation and translation. Protein-RNA interactions are involved in every aspect of RNA biology, such as mRNA splicing, polyadenylation, localization, degradation, and translation. A detailed picture of these interactions would likely prove to be highly informative in understanding leishmania biology and virulence. We developed a strategy involving covalent UV cross-linking of RBPs to mRNA in vivo, followed by interactome capture using oligo(dT) magnetic beads to define comprehensively the mRNA interactome of growing L. donovani amastigotes. The protein mass spectrometry analysis of captured proteins identified 79 mRNA interacting proteins which withstood very stringent washing conditions. Strikingly, we found that 49 of these mRNA interacting proteins had no orthologs or homologs in the human genome. Consequently, these may represent high quality candidates for selective drug targeting leading to novel therapeutics. These results show that this unbiased, systematic strategy has the promise to be applicable to study the mRNA interactome during various biological settings such as metabolic changes, stress (low pH environment, oxidative stress and nutrient deprivation) or drug treatment.
PXD005723	28137868	Elucidation of roles for vitamin B12 in regulation of folate, ubiquinone, and methionine metabolism. 	New Roles for Vitamin B12 Regulation	ABP, B12	Only a small fraction of vitamin B12-requiring organisms are able to synthesize B12 de novo, making it a common commodity in microbial communities. Initially recognized as an enzyme cofactor of a few enzymes, recent studies have revealed additional B12-binding enzymes and regulatory roles for B12 Here we report the development and use of a B12-based chemical probe to identify B12-binding proteins in a nonphototrophic B12-producing bacterium. Two unexpected discoveries resulted from this study. First, we identified a light-sensing B12-binding transcriptional regulator and demonstrated that it controls folate and ubiquinone biosynthesis. Second, our probe captured proteins involved in folate, methionine, and ubiquinone metabolism, suggesting that it may play a role as an allosteric effector of these processes. These metabolic processes produce precursors for synthesis of DNA, RNA, and protein. Thereby, B12 likely modulates growth, and by limiting its availability to auxotrophs, B12-producing organisms may facilitate coordination of community metabolism.
PXD004550	28138016	Protein Degradation Rate in Arabidopsis thaliana Leaf Growth and Development. 	Arabidopsis, protein turnover, plastid, leaf growth and development-15N progressive labelling	development, leaf growth, plastid, protein turnover	We applied (15)N labeling approaches to leaves of the Arabidopsis thaliana rosette to characterize their protein degradation rate and understand its determinants. The progressive labeling of new peptides with (15)N and measuring the decrease in the abundance of >60,000 existing peptides over time allowed us to define the degradation rate of 1228 proteins in vivo. We show that Arabidopsis protein half-lives vary from several hours to several months based on the exponential constant of the decay rate for each protein. This rate was calculated from the relative isotope abundance of each peptide and the fold change in protein abundance during growth. Protein complex membership and specific protein domains were found to be strong predictors of degradation rate, while N-end amino acid, hydrophobicity, or aggregation propensity of proteins were not. We discovered rapidly degrading subunits in a variety of protein complexes in plastids and identified the set of plant proteins whose degradation rate changed in different leaves of the rosette and correlated with leaf growth rate. From this information, we have calculated the protein turnover energy costs in different leaves and their key determinants within the proteome.
PXD005383	28139683	Delaying histone deacetylase response to injury accelerates conversion into repair Schwann cells and nerve regeneration. 	Mouse sciatic nerve LC-MSMS -  Delaying histone deacetylase response to injury accelerates conversion into repair Schwann cells and nerve regeneration	Mouse sciatic nerve LC-MSMS	The peripheral nervous system (PNS) regenerates after injury. However, regeneration is often compromised in the case of large lesions, and the speed of axon reconnection to their target is critical for successful functional recovery. After injury, mature Schwann cells (SCs) convert into repair cells that foster axonal regrowth, and redifferentiate to rebuild myelin. These processes require the regulation of several transcription factors, but the driving mechanisms remain partially understood. Here we identify an early response to nerve injury controlled by histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2), which coordinates the action of other chromatin-remodelling enzymes to induce the upregulation of Oct6, a key transcription factor for SC development. Inactivating this mechanism using mouse genetics allows earlier conversion into repair cells and leads to faster axonal regrowth, but impairs remyelination. Consistently, short-term HDAC1/2 inhibitor treatment early after lesion accelerates functional recovery and enhances regeneration, thereby identifying a new therapeutic strategy to improve PNS regeneration after lesion.
PXD005646	28140569	SILAC-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Unveils Arsenite-Induced Perturbation of Multiple Pathways in Human Skin Fibroblast Cells. 	SILAC-based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Unveiled the Arsenite-induced Perturbation of Multiple Pathways in Human Skin Fibroblast Cells	SILAC, arsenite, oxidative stress, quantitative proteomics	Humans are exposed to arsenic species through inhalation, ingestion, and dermal contact, which may lead to skin, liver, and bladder cancers as well as cardiovascular and neurological diseases. The mechanisms underlying the cytotoxic and carcinogenic effects of arsenic species, however, remain incompletely understood. To exploit the mechanisms of toxicity of As(III), we employed stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) together with LC/MS/MS analysis to quantitatively assess the As(III)-induced perturbation of the entire proteome of cultured human skin fibroblast cells. Shotgun proteomic analysis on an LTQ-Orbitrap Velos mass spectrometer facilitated the quantification of 3880 proteins, 130 of which were quantified in both forward and reverse SILAC-labeling experiments and displayed significant alterations (>1.5 fold) upon arsenite treatment. Targeted analysis on a triple-quadrupole mass spectrometer in multiple-reaction monitoring (MRM) mode confirmed the quantification results of some select proteins. Ingenuity pathway analysis revealed the arsenite-induced alteration of more than 10 biological pathways, including the Nrf2-mediated oxidative stress response pathway, which is represented by the upregulation of nine proteins in this pathway. In addition, arsenite induced changes in expression levels of a number of selenoproteins and metallothioneins. Together, the results from the present study painted a more complete picture regarding the biological pathways that are altered in human skin fibroblast cells upon arsenite exposure.
PXD004083	28143887	Comparative Monomethylarginine Proteomics Suggests that Protein Arginine Methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) is a Significant Contributor to Arginine Monomethylation in Toxoplasma gondii. 	Toxoplasma gondii Methylscan	Cell Cycle, Immunoaffinity, Methylation, Microbiology, Parasite, Pathogen, Post-translational Modification, Toxoplasma gondii, Transcription Regulation	Arginine methylation is a common posttranslational modification found on nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins that has roles in transcriptional regulation, RNA metabolism and DNA repair. The protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii has a complex life cycle requiring transcriptional plasticity and has unique transcriptional regulatory pathways. Arginine methylation may play an important part in transcriptional regulation and splicing biology in this organism. The T. gondii genome contains five putative protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs), of which PRMT1 is important for cell division and growth. In order to better understand the function(s) of the posttranslational modification monomethyl arginine (MMA) in T. gondii, we performed a proteomic analysis of MMA proteins using affinity purification employing anti-MMA specific antibodies followed by mass spectrometry. The arginine monomethylome of T. gondii contains a large number of RNA binding proteins and multiple ApiAP2 transcription factors, suggesting a role for arginine methylation in RNA biology and transcriptional regulation. Surprisingly, 90% of proteins that are arginine monomethylated were detected as being phosphorylated in a previous phosphoproteomics study which raises the possibility of interplay between MMA and phosphorylation in this organism. Supporting this, a number of kinases are also arginine methylated. Because PRMT1 is thought to be a major PRMT in T. gondii, an organism which lacks a MMA-specific PRMT, we applied comparative proteomics to understand how PRMT1 might contribute to the MMA proteome in T. gondii We identified numerous putative PRMT1 substrates, which include RNA binding proteins, transcriptional regulators (e.g. AP2 transcription factors), and kinases. Together, these data highlight the importance of MMA and PRMT1 in arginine methylation in T. gondii, as a potential regulator of a large number of processes including RNA biology and transcription.
PXD002055	28148733	Dynamic Interaction- and Phospho-Proteomics Reveal Lck as a Major Signaling Hub of CD147 in T Cells. 	Dynamic interaction- and phosphoproteomics of CD147	cd147	Numerous publications have addressed CD147 as a tumor marker and regulator of cytoskeleton, cell growth, stress response, or immune cell function; however, the molecular functionality of CD147 remains incompletely understood. Using affinity purification, mass spectrometry, and phosphopeptide enrichment of isotope-labeled peptides, we examined the dynamic of the CD147 microenvironment and the CD147-dependent phosphoproteome in the Jurkat T cell line upon treatment with T cell stimulating agents. We identified novel dynamic interaction partners of CD147 such as CD45, CD47, GNAI2, Lck, RAP1B, and VAT1 and, furthermore, found 76 CD147-dependent phosphorylation sites on 57 proteins. Using the STRING protein network database, a network between the CD147 microenvironment and the CD147-dependent phosphoproteins was generated and led to the identification of key signaling hubs around the G proteins RAP1B and GNB1, the kinases PKCbeta, PAK2, Lck, and CDK1, and the chaperone HSPA5. Gene ontology biological process term analysis revealed that wound healing-, cytoskeleton-, immune system-, stress response-, phosphorylation- and protein modification-, defense response to virus-, and TNF production-associated terms are enriched within the microenvironment and the phosphoproteins of CD147. With the generated signaling network and gene ontology biological process term grouping, we identify potential signaling routes of CD147 affecting T cell growth and function.
PXD003807	28152591	Analysis of Reproducibility of Proteome Coverage and Quantitation Using Isobaric Mass Tags (iTRAQ and TMT). 	Analysis of Reproducibility of Proteome Coverage and Quantitation Using Isobaric Mass Tags (iTRAQ and TMT)	Reproducibility, TMT, iTRAQ	This study aimed to compare the depth and reproducibility of total proteome and differentially expressed protein coverage in technical duplicates and triplicates using iTRAQ 4-plex, iTRAQ 8-plex, and TMT 6-plex reagents. The analysis was undertaken because comprehensive comparisons of isobaric mass tag reproducibility have not been widely reported in the literature. The highest number of proteins was identified with 4-plex, followed by 8-plex and then 6-plex reagents. Quantitative analyses revealed that more differentially expressed proteins were identified with 4-plex reagents than 8-plex reagents and 6-plex reagents. Replicate reproducibility was determined to be >=69% for technical duplicates and >=57% for technical triplicates. The results indicate that running an 8-plex or 6-plex experiment instead of a 4-plex experiment resulted in 26 or 39% fewer protein identifications, respectively. When 4-plex spectra were searched with three software tools-ProteinPilot, Mascot, and Proteome Discoverer-the highest number of protein identifications were obtained with Mascot. The analysis of negative controls demonstrated the importance of running experiments as replicates. Overall, this study demonstrates the advantages of using iTRAQ 4-plex reagents over iTRAQ 8-plex and TMT 6-plex reagents, provides estimates of technical duplicate and triplicate reproducibility, and emphasizes the value of running replicate samples.
PXD003463	28152593	Combining Deep Sequencing, Proteomics, Phosphoproteomics, and Functional Screens To Discover Novel Regulators of Sphingolipid Homeostasis. 	Combining deep-sequencing, proteomics, phosphoproteomics and functional screens to discover novel regulators of sphingolipids homeostasis.	Saccharomyces Cerevisiae, label-free quantification, myriocin, sphingolipid metabolism	Sphingolipids (SLs) are essential components of cell membranes and are broad-range bioactive signaling molecules. SL levels must be tightly regulated as imbalances affect cellular function and contribute to pathologies ranging from neurodegenerative and metabolic disorders to cancer and aging. Deciphering how SL homeostasis is maintained and uncovering new regulators is required for understanding lipid biology and for identifying new targets for therapeutic interventions. Here we combine omics technologies to identify the changes of the transcriptome, proteome, and phosphoproteome in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae upon SL depletion induced by myriocin. Surprisingly, while SL depletion triggers important changes in the expression of regulatory proteins involved in SL homeostasis, the most dramatic regulation occurs at the level of the phosphoproteome, suggesting that maintaining SL homeostasis demands rapid responses. To discover which of the phosphoproteomic changes are required for the cell's first-line response to SL depletion, we overlaid our omics results with systematic growth screens for genes required during growth in myriocin. By following the rate of SL biosynthesis in those candidates that are both affecting growth and are phosphorylated in response to the drug, we uncovered Atg9, Stp4, and Gvp36 as putative new regulators of SL homeostasis.
PXD005061	28152594	Deep Phosphotyrosine Proteomics by Optimization of Phosphotyrosine Enrichment and MS/MS Parameters. 	Optimization of Phosphotyrosine Proteomics	Immunoprecipitation, kinome, phosphotyrosine	Phosphorylation is a major post-translational modification that regulates protein function, with phosphotyrosine (pY) modifications being implicated in oncogenesis. However, global profiling of pY statuses without treatment with a tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor such as pervanadate is still challenging due to the low occupancy of pY sites. In this study, we greatly improved the identification of pY sites by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) by optimization of both the pY-immunoprecipitation (pY-IP) protocol and the LC-MS/MS parameters. Our highly sensitive method reproducibly identified more than 1000 pY sites from 8 mg of protein lysate without the need for tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor treatment. Furthermore, >30% of the identified pY sites were not assigned in the PhosphositePlus database. We further applied our method to the comparison of pY status between PC3 cells with and without treatment using the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor Erlotinib. Under Erlotinib treatment, we observed not only a decrease in well-known modes of EGFR downstream signaling but also modulations of kinases that are not relevant to the EGFR cascade, such as PTK6 and MAPK13. Our newly developed method for pY proteomics has the potential to reveal unknown pY signaling modes and to identify novel kinase anticancer targets.
PXD016595	28154854	Nanospray HX-MS configuration for structural interrogation of large protein systems. 	Kinetic Analysis of DNA Dependent Protein Kinase Catalytic Subunit	DNA-PKcs, HDX-MS, Nanospray HX-MS	Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HX-MS) has made important contributions to the study of protein structure and function. Unfortunately, it is not known for low limits of detection, when compared with other forms of peptide-based or bottom-up protein MS methods. Systems perform poorly on sub-pmol quantities of protein states with greater than 300 kDa of unique sequences. The HX-MS analysis of complex protein states would be possible if proteomics-grade configurations could be used reliably, but temperature and temporal constraints have proven to be significant design challenges. Here, we describe an integrated HX-MS ion source operating on a vented-column geometry, which brings regulated column cooling right to the spray tip. The design offers chromatographic peak widths of 2-6 s (FWHM). It provides stable operation at 500 nL min(-1), while retaining deuteration levels comparable to conventional geometries. We demonstrate at least a 50-fold improvement in protein consumption levels, and illustrate robustness by measuring peptide-averaged protection factors for 90% of DNA-PKcs, a 469 kDa protein, from 0.5 pmol injections.
PXD002796	28158262	Uncovering stem cell differentiation factors for salivary gland regeneration by quantitative analysis of differential proteomes. 	Quantitative Analysis of Differential Proteomes  in Mouse Mesenchymal Stem Cells Converted to Salivary Epithelial Precursors	bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells, co-culture, dry mouth, iTRAQ, salivary epithelial precursors, salivary gland regeneration, transcription factors	Severe xerostomia (dry mouth) compromises the quality of life in patients with Sjoegren's syndrome or radiation therapy for head and neck cancer. A clinical management of xerostomia is often unsatisfactory as most interventions are palliative with limited efficacy. Following up our previous study demonstrating that mouse BM-MSCs are capable of differentiating into salivary epithelial cells in a co-culture system, we further explored the molecular basis that governs the MSC reprogramming by utilizing high-throughput iTRAQ-2D-LC-MS/MS-based proteomics. Our data revealed the novel induction of pancreas-specific transcription factor 1a (PTF1alpha), muscle, intestine and stomach expression-1 (MIST-1), and achaete-scute complex homolog 3 (ASCL3) in 7 day co-cultured MSCs but not in control MSCs. More importantly, a common notion of pancreatic-specific expression of PTF1 alpha was challenged for the first time by our verification of PTF1 alpha expression in the mouse salivary glands. Furthermore, a molecular network simulation of our selected putative MSC reprogramming factors demonstrated evidence for their perspective roles in salivary gland development. In conclusion, quantitative proteomics with extensive data analyses narrowed down a set of MSC reprograming factors potentially contributing to salivary gland regeneration. Identification of their differential/synergistic impact on MSC conversion warrants further investigation.
PXD004936	28161958	Comprehensive Metaboproteomics of Burkitt's and Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Cell Lines and Primary Tumor Tissues Reveals Distinct Differences in Pyruvate Content and Metabolism. 	Comprehensive metaboproteomics of Burkitt's and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cell lines and primary tumor tissues	BL, DLBCL, FFPE, SWATH-MS, cell lines, cryopreserved	Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) are pathologically and clinically distinct subtypes of aggressive non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphoma. To learn more about their biology, we employed metabolomic and proteomic methods to study both established cell lines as well as cryopreserved and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue sections of BL and DLBCL. Strikingly, NMR analyses revealed DLBCL cell lines to produce and secrete significantly (padj = 1.72 x 10(-22)) more pyruvic acid than BL cell lines. This finding could be reproduced by targeted GC/MS analyses of cryopreserved tissue sections of BL and DLBCL cases. Enrichment analysis of an overlapping set of N = 2315 proteins, that had been quantified by nanoLC-SWATH-MS in BL and DLBCL cultured cells and cryosections, supported the observed difference in pyruvic acid content, as glycolysis and pyruvate metabolism were downregulated, while one-carbon metabolism was upregulated in BL compared to DLBCL. Furthermore, 92.1% of the overlapping significant proteins showed the same direction of regulation in cryopreserved and FFPE material. Proteome data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004936.
PXD005043	28164707	Discovery of Novel Antimicrobial Peptides from Varanus komodoensis (Komodo Dragon) by Large-Scale Analyses and De-Novo-Assisted Sequencing Using Electron-Transfer Dissociation Mass Spectrometry. 	Discovery of Novel Antimicrobial Peptides from Varanus komodoensis (Komodo dragon) by Large Scale Analyses and De Novo Assisted Sequencing using Electron Transfer Dissociation Mass Spectrometry	ETD, Komodo, MS/MS, antimicrobial peptides, plasma	Komodo dragons are the largest living lizards and are the apex predators in their environs. They endure numerous strains of pathogenic bacteria in their saliva and recover from wounds inflicted by other dragons, reflecting the inherent robustness of their innate immune defense. We have employed a custom bioprospecting approach combining partial de novo peptide sequencing with transcriptome assembly to identify cationic antimicrobial peptides from Komodo dragon plasma. Through these analyses, we identified 48 novel potential cationic antimicrobial peptides. All but one of the identified peptides were derived from histone proteins. The antimicrobial effectiveness of eight of these peptides was evaluated against Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC 9027) and Staphylococcus aureus (ATCC 25923), with seven peptides exhibiting antimicrobial activity against both microbes and one only showing significant potency against P. aeruginosa. This study demonstrates the power and promise of our bioprospecting approach to cationic antimicrobial peptide discovery, and it reveals the presence of a plethora of novel histone-derived antimicrobial peptides in the plasma of the Komodo dragon. These findings may have broader implications regarding the role that intact histones and histone-derived peptides play in defending the host from infection. Data are available via ProteomeXChange with identifier PXD005043.
PXD003977	28164708	Expanding Proteome Coverage with CHarge Ordered Parallel Ion aNalysis (CHOPIN) Combined with Broad Specificity Proteolysis. 	Expanding proteome coverage with CHarge Ordered Parallel Ion aNalysis (CHOPIN) combined with broad specificity proteolysis	Fusion Lumos, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, deep proteome, machine learning	The "deep" proteome has been accessible by mass spectrometry for some time. However, the number of proteins identified in cells of the same type has plateaued at ~8000-10 000 without ID transfer from reference proteomes/data. Moreover, limited sequence coverage hampers the discrimination of protein isoforms when using trypsin as standard protease. Multienzyme approaches appear to improve sequence coverage and subsequent isoform discrimination. Here we expanded proteome and protein sequence coverage in MCF-7 breast cancer cells to an as yet unmatched depth by employing a workflow that addresses current limitations in deep proteome analysis in multiple stages: We used (i) gel-aided sample preparation (GASP) and combined trypsin/elastase digests to increase peptide orthogonality, (ii) concatenated high-pH prefractionation, and (iii) CHarge Ordered Parallel Ion aNalysis (CHOPIN), available on an Orbitrap Fusion (Lumos) mass spectrometer, to achieve 57% median protein sequence coverage in 13 728 protein groups (8949 Unigene IDs) in a single cell line. CHOPIN allows the use of both detectors in the Orbitrap on predefined precursor types that optimizes parallel ion processing, leading to the identification of a total of 179 549 unique peptides covering the deep proteome in unprecedented detail.
PXD004524	28165194	Diversity and functions of the sheep faecal microbiota: a multi-omic characterization. 	Sheep fecal microbiota -  Diversity and functions of the sheep faecal microbiota: a multi-omic characterization	Metaproteomics, metaproteomics, sheep, stool	Little is currently known on the microbial populations colonizing the sheep large intestine, despite their expected key role in host metabolism, physiology and immunity. This study reports the first characterization of the sheep faecal microbiota composition and functions, obtained through the application of a multi-omic strategy. An optimized protocol was first devised for DNA extraction and amplification from sheep stool samples. Then, 16S rDNA sequencing, shotgun metagenomics and shotgun metaproteomics were applied to unravel taxonomy, genetic potential and actively expressed functions and pathways respectively. Under a taxonomic perspective, the sheep faecal microbiota appeared globally comparable to that of other ruminants, with Firmicutes being the main phylum. In functional terms, we detected 2097 gene and 441 protein families, finding that the sheep faecal microbiota was primarily involved in catabolism. We investigated carbohydrate transport and degradation activities and identified phylum-specific pathways, such as methanogenesis for Euryarchaeota and acetogenesis for Firmicutes. Furthermore, our approach enabled the identification of proteins expressed by the eukaryotic component of the microbiota. Taken together, these findings unveil structure and role of the distal gut microbiota in sheep, and open the way to further studies aimed at elucidating its connections with management and dietary variables in sheep farming.
PXD005575	28165461	Structure of the homodimeric androgen receptor ligand-binding domain. 	Structure of the Homodimeric Androgen Receptor Ligand-Binding Domain	AR, Cross-linking	The androgen receptor (AR) plays a crucial role in normal physiology, development and metabolism as well as in the aetiology and treatment of diverse pathologies such as androgen insensitivity syndromes (AIS), male infertility and prostate cancer (PCa). Here we show that dimerization of AR ligand-binding domain (LBD) is induced by receptor agonists but not by antagonists. The 2.15-Aa crystal structure of homodimeric, agonist- and coactivator peptide-bound AR-LBD unveils a 1,000-Aa(2) large dimerization surface, which harbours over 40 previously unexplained AIS- and PCa-associated point mutations. An AIS mutation in the self-association interface (P767A) disrupts dimer formation in vivo, and has a detrimental effect on the transactivating properties of full-length AR, despite retained hormone-binding capacity. The conservation of essential residues suggests that the unveiled dimerization mechanism might be shared by other nuclear receptors. Our work defines AR-LBD homodimerization as an essential step in the proper functioning of this important transcription factor.
PXD005286	28167071	On-column trypsinization allows for re-use of matrix in modified multiplexed inhibitor beads assay. 	Use of a modified Multiplexed Inhibitor Bead assay to study kinome responses to cytostatic treatment in human cancer cell lines	MIB, kinome	The Multiplexed Inhibitor Bead (MIB) assay is a previously published quantitative proteomic MS-based approach to study cellular kinomes. A rather extensive procedure, need for multiple custom-made kinase inhibitors and an inability to re-use the MIB-columns, has limited its applicability. Here we present a modified MIB assay in which elution of bound proteins is facilitated by on-column trypsinization. We tested the modified MIB assay by analyzing extract from three human cancer cell lines treated with the cytotoxic drugs cisplatin or docetaxel. Using only three immobilized kinase inhibitors, we were able to detect about 6000 proteins, including ~40% of the kinome, as well as other signaling, metabolic and structural proteins. The method is reproducible and the MIB-columns are re-usable without loss of performance. This makes the MIB assay a simple, affordable, and rapid assay for monitoring changes in cellular signaling.
PXD021432	28168343	ISSLS PRIZE IN CLINICAL SCIENCE 2017: Is infection the possible initiator of disc disease? An insight from proteomic analysis. 	Is infection the possible initiator of disc disease? An insight from proteomic analysis.	Human IVD, Infective etiology, NP tissues, Tandem mass spectrometry	STUDY DESIGN: Proteomic and 16S rDNA analysis of disc tissues obtained in vivo. OBJECTIVE: To address the controversy of infection as an aetiology for disc disorders through protein profiling. There is raging controversy over the presence of bacteria in human lumbar discs in vivo, and if they represent contamination or infection. Proteomics can provide valuable insight by identifying proteins signifying bacterial presence and, also host defence response proteins (HDRPs), which will confirm infection. METHODS: 22 discs (15-disc herniations (DH), 5-degenerate (DD), 2-normal in MRI (NM) were harvested intraoperatively and immediately snap frozen. Samples were pooled into three groups and proteins extracted were analysed with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Post identification, data analysis was performed using Uniprotdb, Pantherdb, Proteome discoverer and STRING network. Authentication for bacterial presence was performed by PCR amplification of 16S rDNA. RESULTS: LC-MS/MS analysis using Orbitrap showed 1103 proteins in DH group, compared to 394 in NM and 564 in DD. 73 bacterial specific proteins were identified (56 specific for Propionibacterium acnes; 17 for Staphylococcus epidermidis). In addition, 67 infection-specific HDRPs, unique or upregulated, such as Defensin, Lysozyme, Dermcidin, Cathepsin-G, Prolactin-Induced Protein, and Phospholipase-A2, were identified confirming presence of infection. Species-specific primers for P. acnes exhibited amplicons at 946 bp (16S rDNA) and 515 bp (Lipase) confirming presence of P. acnes in both NM discs, 11 of 15 DH discs, and all five DD discs. Bioinformatic search for protein-protein interactions (STRING) documented 169 proteins with close interactions (protein clustering co-efficient 0.7) between host response and degenerative proteins implying that infection may initiate degradation through Ubiquitin C. CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates bacterial specific proteins and host defence proteins to infection which strengthen the hypothesis of infection as a possible initiator of disc disease. These results can lead to a paradigm shift in our understanding and management of disc disorders.
PXD004700	28169345	Bronchoalveolar Lavage Proteomics in Patients with Suspected Lung Cancer. 	Bronchoalveolar Lavage proteomics	Bronchoalveolar Lavage, lung cancer	Lung cancer configures as one of the deadliest types of cancer. The future implementation of early screening methods such as exhaled breath condensate analysis and low dose computed tomography (CT) as an alternative to current chest imaging based screening will lead to an increased burden on bronchoscopy units. New approaches for improvement of diagnosis in bronchoscopy units, regarding patient management, are likely to have clinical impact in the future. Diagnostic approaches to address mortality of lung cancer include improved early detection and stratification of the cancers according to its prognosis and further response to drug treatment. In this study, we performed a detailed mass spectrometry based proteome analysis of acellular bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid samples on an observational prospective cohort consisting of 90 suspected lung cancer cases which were followed during two years. The thirteen new lung cancer cases diagnosed during the follow up time period clustered, based on liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) data, with lung cancer cases at the time of BAL collection. Hundred and thirty-tree potential biomarkers were identified showing significantly differential expression when comparing lung cancer versus non-lung cancer. The regulated biomarkers showed a large overlap with biomarkers detected in tissue samples.
PXD004195	28174229	Effects of ErbB2 Overexpression on the Proteome and ErbB Ligand-specific Phosphosignaling in Mammary Luminal Epithelial Cells. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of ErbB2-dependent signalling	ErbB2, SILAC, breast cancer, phosphoproteomics	Most breast cancers arise from luminal epithelial cells, and 25-30% of these tumors overexpress the ErbB2/HER2 receptor that correlates with disease progression and poor prognosis. The mechanisms of ErbB2 signaling and the effects of its overexpression are not fully understood. Herein, stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC), expression profiling, and phosphopeptide enrichment of a relevant, non-transformed, and immortalized human mammary luminal epithelial cell model were used to profile ErbB2-dependent differences in protein expression and phosphorylation events triggered via EGF receptor (EGF treatment) and ErbB3 (HRG1beta treatment) in the context of ErbB2 overexpression. Bioinformatics analysis was used to infer changes in cellular processes and signaling events. We demonstrate the complexity of the responses to oncogene expression and growth factor signaling, and we identify protein changes relevant to ErbB2-dependent altered cellular phenotype, in particular cell cycle progression and hyper-proliferation, reduced adhesion, and enhanced motility. Moreover, we define a novel mechanism by which ErbB signaling suppresses basal interferon signaling that would promote the survival and proliferation of mammary luminal epithelial cells. Numerous novel sites of growth factor-regulated phosphorylation were identified that were enhanced by ErbB2 overexpression, and we putatively link these to altered cell behavior and also highlight the importance of performing parallel protein expression profiling alongside phosphoproteomic analysis.
PXD005107	28174230	Clustered, Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)/Cas9-coupled Affinity Purification/Mass Spectrometry Analysis Revealed a Novel Role of Neurofibromin in mTOR Signaling. 	AP-MS in CRISPR/Cas9 Utilizing Systems for Mapping Endogenous Protein Complexes	ACUMEN, AP-MS, CRISPR/Cas9, KRAS, NF1	Neurofibromin (NF1) is a well known tumor suppressor that is commonly mutated in cancer patients. It physically interacts with RAS and negatively regulates RAS GTPase activity. Despite the importance of NF1 in cancer, a high quality endogenous NF1 interactome has yet to be established. In this study, we combined clustered, regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/Cas9-mediated gene knock-out technology with affinity purification using antibodies against endogenous proteins, followed by mass spectrometry analysis, to sensitively and accurately detect NF1 protein-protein interactions in unaltered in vivo settings. Using this system, we analyzed endogenous NF1-associated protein complexes and identified 49 high-confidence candidate interaction proteins, including RAS and other functionally relevant proteins. Through functional validation, we found that NF1 negatively regulates mechanistic target of rapamycin signaling (mTOR) in a LAMTOR1-dependent manner. In addition, the cell growth and survival of NF1-deficient cells have become dependent on hyperactivation of the mTOR pathway, and the tumorigenic properties of these cells have become dependent on LAMTOR1. Taken together, our findings may provide novel insights into therapeutic approaches targeting NF1-deficient tumors.
PXD005581	28174249	Tracking the embryonic stem cell transition from ground state pluripotency. 	Tracking the embryonic stem cell transition from ground state pluripotency	ES cell, Rex1, epiblast, pluripotency	Mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells are locked into self-renewal by shielding from inductive cues. Release from this ground state in minimal conditions offers a system for delineating developmental progression from naive pluripotency. Here, we examine the initial transition process. The ES cell population behaves asynchronously. We therefore exploited a short-half-life Rex1::GFP reporter to isolate cells either side of exit from naive status. Extinction of ES cell identity in single cells is acute. It occurs only after near-complete elimination of naive pluripotency factors, but precedes appearance of lineage specification markers. Cells newly departed from the ES cell state display features of early post-implantation epiblast and are distinct from primed epiblast. They also exhibit a genome-wide increase in DNA methylation, intermediate between early and late epiblast. These findings are consistent with the proposition that naive cells transition to a distinct formative phase of pluripotency preparatory to lineage priming.
PXD005449	28174279	A cytoplasmic role of Wnt/beta-catenin transcriptional cofactors Bcl9, Bcl9l, and Pygopus in tooth enamel formation. 	Mouse ameloblasts Bcl9 interactors	Ameloblasts, Bcl9, Pygo, enamel	Wnt-stimulated beta-catenin transcriptional regulation is necessary for the development of most organs, including teeth. Bcl9 and Bcl9l are tissue-specific transcriptional cofactors that cooperate with beta-catenin. In the nucleus, Bcl9 and Bcl9l simultaneously bind beta-catenin and the transcriptional activator Pygo2 to promote the transcription of a subset of Wnt target genes. We showed that Bcl9 and Bcl9l function in the cytoplasm during tooth enamel formation in a manner that is independent of Wnt-stimulated beta-catenin-dependent transcription. Bcl9, Bcl9l, and Pygo2 localized mainly to the cytoplasm of the epithelial-derived ameloblasts, the cells responsible for enamel production. In ameloblasts, Bcl9 interacted with proteins involved in enamel formation and proteins involved in exocytosis and vesicular trafficking. Conditional deletion of both Bcl9 and Bcl9l or both Pygo1 and Pygo2 in mice produced teeth with defective enamel that was bright white and deficient in iron, which is reminiscent of human tooth enamel pathologies. Overall, our data revealed that these proteins, originally defined through their function as beta-catenin transcriptional cofactors, function in odontogenesis through a previously uncharacterized cytoplasmic mechanism, revealing that they have roles beyond that of transcriptional cofactors.
PXD005301	28176443	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis reveals system-wide signaling pathways regulated by site-specific phosphorylation of Keratin-8 in skin squamous cell carcinoma derived cell line. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis reveals system-wide signaling pathways regulated by site-specific phosphorylation on Keratin-8 in skin squamous cell carcinoma derived cell-line	Human epidermoid carcinoma cell-line, Keratin 8 phosphorylation, TMT based quantitative phosphoproteomics	Keratin 8/18, a simple epithelia specific keratin pair, is often aberrantly expressed in squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) where its expression is correlated with increased invasion and poor prognosis. Majority of Keratin 8 (K8) functions are governed by its phosphorylation at Serine(73) (head-domain) and Serine(431) (tail-domain) residues. Although, deregulation of K8 phosphorylation is associated with progression of different carcinomas, its role in skin-SCC and the underlying mechanism is obscure. In this direction, we performed tandem mass tag-based quantitative phosphoproteomics by expressing K8 wild type, phosphodead, and phosphomimetic mutants in K8-deficient A431 cells. Further analysis of our phosphoproteomics data showed a significant proportion of total phosphoproteome associated with migratory, proliferative, and invasive potential of these cells to be differentially phosphorylated. Differential phosphorylation of CDK1(T14,Y15) , EIF4EBP1(T46,T50) , EIF4B(S422) , AKT1S1(T246,S247) , CTTN1(T401,S405,Y421) , and CAP1(S307/309) in K8-S73A/D mutant and CTTN1(T401,S405,Y421) , BUB1B(S1043) , and CARHSP1(S30,S32) in K8-S431A/D mutants as well as some anonymous phosphosites including MYC(S176) , ZYX(S344) , and PNN(S692) could be potential candidates associated with K8 phosphorylation mediated tumorigenicity. Biochemical validation followed by phenotypic analysis further confirmed our quantitative phosphoproteomics data. In conclusion, our study provides the first global picture of K8 site-specific phosphorylation function in neoplastic progression of A431 cells and suggests various potential starting points for further mechanistic studies.
PXD001170	28176486	Integrated analysis of proteome, phosphotyrosine-proteome, tyrosine-kinome, and tyrosine-phosphatome in acute myeloid leukemia. 	AML_profiling -  Integrated analysis of proteome, phosphotyrosine-proteome, tyrosine-kinome and tyrosine-phosphatome in acute myeloid leukemia	AML, Acute myeloid leukemia, PTPome, pYome	Reversible protein-tyrosine phosphorylation is catalyzed by the antagonistic actions of protein-tyrosine kinases (PTKs) and phosphatases (PTPs), and represents a major form of cell regulation. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive hematological malignancy that results from the acquisition of multiple genetic alterations, which in some instances are associated with deregulated protein-phosphotyrosine (pY) mediated signaling networks. However, although individual PTKs and PTPs have been linked to AML and other malignancies, analysis of protein-pY networks as a function of activated PTKs and PTPs has not been done. In this study, MS was used to characterize AML proteomes, and phospho-proteome-subsets including pY proteins, PTKs, and PTPs. AML proteomes resolved into two groups related to high or low degrees of maturation according to French-American-British classification, and reflecting differential expression of cell surface antigens. AML pY proteomes reflect canonical, spatially organized signaling networks, unrelated to maturation, with heterogeneous expression of activated receptor and nonreceptor PTKs. We present the first integrated analysis of the pY-proteome, activated PTKs, and PTPs. Every PTP and most PTKs have both positive and negative associations with the pY-proteome. pY proteins resolve into groups with shared PTK and PTP correlations. These findings highlight the importance of pY turnover and the PTP phosphatome in shaping the pY-proteome in AML.
PXD005517	28176777	Phylointeractomics reconstructs functional evolution of protein binding. 	Phylointeractomics reconstructs functional evolution of protein binding	interactomics, telosome	Molecular phylogenomics investigates evolutionary relationships based on genomic data. However, despite genomic sequence conservation, changes in protein interactions can occur relatively rapidly and may cause strong functional diversification. To investigate such functional evolution, we here combine phylogenomics with interaction proteomics. We develop this concept by investigating the molecular evolution of the shelterin complex, which protects telomeres, across 16 vertebrate species from zebrafish to humans covering 450 million years of evolution. Our phylointeractomics screen discovers previously unknown telomere-associated proteins and reveals how homologous proteins undergo functional evolution. For instance, we show that TERF1 evolved as a telomere-binding protein in the common stem lineage of marsupial and placental mammals. Phylointeractomics is a versatile and scalable approach to investigate evolutionary changes in protein function and thus can provide experimental evidence for phylogenomic relationships.
PXD005659	28178326	Quantitative liver proteomics identifies FGF19 targets that couple metabolism and proliferation. 	Quantitative liver proteomics identifies FGF19 targets that couple metabolism and proliferation	FGF19, FXR, TGF, growth factor, liver, metabolism, proliferation	Fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF19) is a gut-derived peptide hormone that is produced following activation of Farnesoid X Receptor (FXR). FGF19 is secreted and signals to the liver, where it contributes to the homeostasis of bile acid (BA), lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. FGF19 is a promising therapeutic target for the metabolic syndrome and cholestatic diseases, but enthusiasm for its use has been tempered by FGF19-mediated induction of proliferation and hepatocellular carcinoma. To inform future rational design of FGF19-variants, we have conducted temporal quantitative proteomic and gene expression analyses to identify FGF19-targets related to metabolism and proliferation. Mice were fasted for 16 hours, and injected with human FGF19 (1 mg/kg body weight) or vehicle. Liver protein extracts (containing "light" lysine) were mixed 1:1 with a spike-in protein extract from 13C6-lysine metabolically labelled mouse liver (containing "heavy" lysine) and analysed by LC-MS/MS. Our analyses provide a resource of FGF19 target proteins in the liver. 189 proteins were upregulated (>= 1.5 folds) and 73 proteins were downregulated (<= -1.5 folds) by FGF19. FGF19 treatment decreased the expression of proteins involved in fatty acid (FA) synthesis, i.e., Fabp5, Scd1, and Acsl3 and increased the expression of Acox1, involved in FA oxidation. As expected, FGF19 increased the expression of proteins known to drive proliferation (i.e., Tgfbi, Vcam1, Anxa2 and Hdlbp). Importantly, many of the FGF19 targets (i.e., Pdk4, Apoa4, Fas and Stat3) have a dual function in both metabolism and cell proliferation. Therefore, our findings challenge the development of FGF19-variants that fully uncouple metabolic benefit from mitogenic potential.
PXD004797	28183814	Comparative Proteomics of Purified Pathogen Vacuoles Correlates Intracellular Replication of Legionella pneumophila with the Small GTPase Ras-related protein 1 (Rap1). 	Comparative proteomics of purified pathogen vacuoles correlates intracellular replication of Legionella pneumophila with the small GTPase Rap1	Amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum, Legionella, bacterial effector protein, host-pathogen interactions, macrophage, pathogen vacuole, phosphoinositide lipid, small GTPase, type IV secretion	Legionella pneumophila is an opportunistic bacterial pathogen that causes a severe lung infection termed "Legionnaires' disease." The pathogen replicates in environmental protozoa as well as in macrophages within a unique membrane-bound compartment, the Legionella-containing-vacuole (LCV). LCV formation requires the bacterial Icm/Dot type IV secretion system, which translocates ca. 300 "effector proteins" into host cells, where they target distinct host factors. The L. pneumophila "pentuple" mutant (Deltapentuple) lacks 5 gene clusters (31% of the effector proteins) and replicates in macrophages but not in Dictyostelium discoideum amoeba. To elucidate the host factors defining a replication-permissive compartment, we compare here the proteomes of intact LCVs isolated from D. discoideum or macrophages infected with Deltapentuple or the parental strain Lp02. This analysis revealed that the majority of host proteins are shared in D. discoideum or macrophage LCVs containing the mutant or the parental strain, respectively, whereas some proteins preferentially localize to distinct LCVs. The small GTPase Rap1 was identified on D. discoideum LCVs containing strain Lp02 but not the Deltapentuple mutant and on macrophage LCVs containing either strain. The localization pattern of active Rap1 on D. discoideum or macrophage LCVs was confirmed by fluorescence microscopy and imaging flow cytometry, and the depletion of Rap1 by RNA interference significantly reduced the intracellular growth of L. pneumophila Thus, comparative proteomics identified Rap1 as a novel LCV host component implicated in intracellular replication of L. pneumophila.
PXD005246	28183815	Proteomic Screen for Cellular Targets of the Vaccinia Virus F10 Protein Kinase Reveals that Phosphorylation of mDia Regulates Stress Fiber Formation. 	SILAC phosphoproteomics of 293-F10 cells [induced (H) vs uninduced (L)]	F10 protein kinase, Phosphoproteome, SILAC, Vaccinia Virus	Vaccinia virus, a complex dsDNA virus, is unusual in replicating exclusively within the cytoplasm of infected cells. Although this prototypic poxvirus encodes >200 proteins utilized during infection, a significant role for host proteins and cellular architecture is increasingly evident. The viral B1 kinase and H1 phosphatase are known to target cellular proteins as well as viral substrates, but little is known about the cellular substrates of the F10 kinase. F10 is essential for virion morphogenesis, beginning with the poorly understood process of diversion of membranes from the ER for the purpose of virion membrane biogenesis. To better understand the function of F10, we generated a cell line that carries a single, inducible F10 transgene. Using uninduced and induced cells, we performed stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) coupled with phosphopeptide analysis to identify cellular targets of F10-mediated phosphorylation. We identified 27 proteins that showed statistically significant changes in phosphorylation upon the expression of the F10 kinase: 18 proteins showed an increase in phosphorylation whereas 9 proteins showed a decrease in phosphorylation. These proteins participate in several distinct cellular processes including cytoskeleton dynamics, membrane trafficking and cellular metabolism. One of the proteins with the greatest change in phosphorylation was mDia, a member of the formin family of cytoskeleton regulators; F10 induction led to increased phosphorylation on Ser(22) Induction of F10 induced a statistically significant decrease in the percentage of cells with actin stress fibers; however, this change was abrogated when an mDia Ser(22)Ala variant was expressed. Moreover, expression of a Ser(22)Asp variant leads to a reduction of stress fibers even in cells not expressing F10. In sum, we present the first unbiased screen for cellular targets of F10-mediated phosphorylation, and in so doing describe a heretofore unknown mechanism for regulating stress fiber formation through phosphorylation of mDia. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005246.
PXD004963	28184230	Bicarbonate Induced Redox Proteome Changes in Arabidopsis Suspension Cells. 	Bicarbonate induced redox proteome changes in Arabidopsis suspension cells	CO2, bicarbonate, iTRAQ, iodoTMT, oxidative stress, redox-proteomics	Climate change as a result of increasing atmospheric CO2 affects plant growth and productivity. CO2 is not only a carbon donor for photosynthesis but also an environmental signal that can perturb cellular redox homeostasis and lead to modifications of redox-sensitive proteins. Although redox regulation of protein functions has emerged as an important mechanism in several biological processes, protein redox modifications and how they function in plant CO2 response remain unclear. Here a new iodoTMTRAQ proteomics technology was employed to analyze changes in protein redox modifications in Arabidopsis thaliana suspension cells in response to bicarbonate (mimic of elevated CO2) in a time-course study. A total of 47 potential redox-regulated proteins were identified with functions in carbohydrate and energy metabolism, transport, ROS scavenging, cell structure modulation and protein turnover. This inventory of previously unknown redox responsive proteins in Arabidopsis bicarbonate responses lays a foundation for future research toward understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying plant CO2 responses.
PXD005883	28186488	Control of immune ligands by members of a cytomegalovirus gene expansion suppresses natural killer cell activation. 	Control of immune ligands by members of a cytomegalovirus gene expansion suppresses natural killer cell activation	cell surface, human cytomegalovirus, multiplexed proteomics, natural killer	The human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) US12 family consists of ten sequentially arranged genes (US12-21) with poorly characterized function. We now identify novel natural killer (NK) cell evasion functions for four members: US12, US14, US18 and US20. Using a systematic multiplexed proteomics approach to quantify ~1300 cell surface and ~7200 whole cell proteins, we demonstrate that the US12 family selectively targets plasma membrane proteins and plays key roles in regulating NK ligands, adhesion molecules and cytokine receptors. US18 and US20 work in concert to suppress cell surface expression of the critical NKp30 ligand B7-H6 thus inhibiting NK cell activation. The US12 family is therefore identified as a major new hub of immune regulation.
PXD004680	28186774	Quantitative Map of beta-Lactone-Induced Virulence Regulation. 	A quantitative map of beta-lactone induced virulence regulation	S. aureus ClpP, activity-based protein profiling, antivirulence, chemical knockout	beta-Lactones have recently been introduced as the first selective ClpP inhibitors that attenuate virulence of both sensitive Staphylococcus aureus and multiresistant strains (MRSA). Although previous knockout studies showed that ClpP is essential for S. aureus alpha-toxin production, a link between beta-lactone inhibition and molecular virulence mechanisms has been lacking so far. We here perform a chemical-proteomic approach to elucidate antivirulence pathways. First, we demonstrate by gel-free activity-based protein profiling that ClpP is the predominant target of beta-lactones. Only a few off-targets were discovered, which, unlike ClpP, were not involved in the reduction of alpha-toxin expression. Second, in-depth mechanistic insight was provided by a full proteomic comparison between lactone treated and untreated S. aureus cells. Quantitative mass-spectrometric analysis revealed increased repressor of toxin (Rot) levels and a corresponding down-regulation of alpha-toxin, providing the first direct connection between the lactone-dependent phenotype and a corresponding cellular mechanism. By building up a quantitative virulence regulation network, we visualize the impact of ClpP inhibition in a systems biology context. Interestingly, a lack of in vitro Rot degradation by either ClpXP or ClpCP calls either for a proteolysis mechanism with yet unknown adaptor proteins or for an indirect mode of action that may involve ClpX-mediated RNA signaling and feedback circuits.
PXD002273	28186866	Toward Postgenomics Ophthalmology: A Proteomic Map of the Human Choroid-Retinal Pigment Epithelium Tissue. 	A proteomic map of human choroid tissue	Choroid, Eye, bRPLC	Ophthalmology and visual health research have received relatively limited attention from the personalized medicine community, but this trend is rapidly changing. Postgenomics technologies such as proteomics are being utilized to establish a baseline biological variation map of the human eye and related tissues. In this context, the choroid is the vascular layer situated between the outer sclera and the inner retina. The choroidal circulation serves the photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). The RPE is a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells adjacent to the neurosensory retina and maintains the outer limit of the blood-retina barrier. Abnormal changes in choroid-RPE layers have been associated with age-related macular degeneration. We report here the proteome of the healthy human choroid-RPE complex, using reverse phase liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry-based proteomics. A total of 5309 nonredundant proteins were identified. Functional analysis of the identified proteins further pointed to molecular targets related to protein metabolism, regulation of nucleic acid metabolism, transport, cell growth, and/or maintenance and immune response. The top canonical pathways in which the choroid proteins participated were integrin signaling, mitochondrial dysfunction, regulation of eIF4 and p70S6K signaling, and clathrin-mediated endocytosis signaling. This study illustrates the largest number of proteins identified in human choroid-RPE complex to date and might serve as a valuable resource for future investigations and biomarker discovery in support of postgenomics ophthalmology and precision medicine.
PXD005628	28188211	CLUH regulates mitochondrial metabolism by controlling translation and decay of target mRNAs. 	CLUH regulates mitochondrial metabolism by controlling translation and decay of target mRNAs	SILAC mouse, post transcriptional gene expression control	Mitochondria are essential organelles that host crucial metabolic pathways and produce adenosine triphosphate. The mitochondrial proteome is heterogeneous among tissues and can dynamically change in response to different metabolic conditions. Although the transcriptional programs that govern mitochondrial biogenesis and respiratory function are well known, posttranscriptional regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we show that the cytosolic RNA-binding protein clustered mitochondria homologue (CLUH) regulates the expression of a mitochondrial protein network supporting key metabolic programs required under nutrient deprivation. CLUH exerts its function by controlling the stability and translation of target messenger RNAs. In the absence of Cluh, mitochondria are severely depleted of crucial enzymes involved in catabolic energy-converting pathways. CLUH preserves oxidative mitochondrial function and glucose homeostasis, thus preventing death at the fetal-neonatal transition. In the adult liver, CLUH ensures maximal respiration capacity and the metabolic response to starvation. Our results shed new light on the posttranscriptional mechanisms controlling the expression of mitochondrial proteins and suggest novel strategies to tailor mitochondrial function to physiological and pathological conditions.
PXD005502	28188227	The Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-B27 Peptidome in Vivo, in Spondyloarthritis-susceptible HLA-B27 Transgenic Rats and the Effect of Erap1 Deletion. 	HLA B-27 rats peptidome -  The HLA-B27 peptidome in vivo in spondyloarthritis-susceptible HLA-B27 transgenic rats and the effect of ERAP1 deletion	Ankylosing Spondylitis, HLA-B27, Human Leukocytes Antigen, Peptidome, Transgenic rats	HLA-B27 is a class I major histocompatibility (MHC-I) allele that confers susceptibility to the rheumatic disease ankylosing spondylitis (AS) by an unknown mechanism. ERAP1 is an aminopeptidase that trims peptides in the endoplasmic reticulum for binding to MHC-I molecules. ERAP1 shows genetic epistasis with HLA-B27 in conferring susceptibility to AS. Male HLA-B27 transgenic rats develop arthritis and serve as an animal model of AS, whereas female B27 transgenic rats remain healthy. We used large scale quantitative mass spectrometry to identify over 15,000 unique HLA-B27 peptide ligands, isolated after immunoaffinity purification of the B27 molecules from the spleens of HLA-B27 transgenic rats. Heterozygous deletion of Erap1, which reduced the Erap1 level to less than half, had no qualitative or quantitative effects on the B27 peptidome. Homozygous deletion of Erap1 affected approximately one-third of the B27 peptidome but left most of the B27 peptidome unchanged, suggesting the possibility that some of the HLA-B27 immunopeptidome is not processed in the presence of Erap1. Deletion of Erap1 was permissive for the AS-like phenotype, increased mean peptide length and increased the frequency of C-terminal hydrophobic residues and of N-terminal Ala, Ser, or Lys. The presence of Erap1 increased the frequency of C-terminal Lys and Arg, of Glu and Asp at intermediate residues, and of N-terminal Gly. Several peptides of potential interest in AS pathogenesis, previously identified in human cell lines, were isolated. However, rats susceptible to arthritis had B27 peptidomes similar to those of non-susceptible rats, and no peptides were found to be uniquely associated with arthritis. Whether specific B27-bound peptides are required for AS pathogenesis remains to be determined. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005502.
PXD005170	28188936	Cultivation of Podospora anserina on soybean hulls results in an efficient enzyme cocktail for plant biomass hydrolysis. 	Comparative proteomics of plant biomass degradation by the ascomycete fungus Podospora anserine	cellulase, fungal enzymes, induction, pectinase, plant biomass degradation, xylanase	The coprophilic ascomycete fungus Podospora anserina was cultivated on three different plant biomasses, i.e. cotton seed hulls (CSH), soybean hulls (SBH) and acid-pretreated wheat straw (WS) for four days, and the potential of the produced enzyme mixtures was compared in the enzymatic saccharification of the corresponding lignocellulose feedstocks. The enzyme cocktail P. anserina produced after three days of growth on SBH showed superior capacity to release reducing sugars from all tested plant biomass feedstocks compared to the enzyme mixtures from CSH and WS cultures. Detailed proteomics analysis of the culture supernatants revealed that SBH contained the most diverse set of enzymes targeted on plant cell wall polymers and was particularly abundant in xylan, mannan and pectin acting enzymes. The importance of lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases (LPMOs) in plant biomass deconstruction was supported by identification of 20 out of 33 AA9 LPMOs in the SBH cultures. The results highlight the suitability of P. anserina as a source of plant cell wall degrading enzymes for biotechnological applications and the importance of selecting the most optimal substrate for the production of enzyme mixtures.
PXD004185	28190767	An Interaction Landscape of Ubiquitin Signaling. 	An interaction landscape of ubiquitin signaling	Ubiquitin	Intracellular signaling via the covalent attachment of different ubiquitin linkages to protein substrates is fundamental to many cellular processes. Although linkage-selective ubiquitin interactors have been studied on a case-by-case basis, proteome-wide analyses have not been conducted yet. Here, we present ubiquitin interactor affinity enrichment-mass spectrometry (UbIA-MS), a quantitative interaction proteomics method that makes use of chemically synthesized diubiquitin to enrich and identify ubiquitin linkage interactors from crude cell lysates. UbIA-MS reveals linkage-selective diubiquitin interactions in multiple cell types. For example, we identify TAB2 and TAB3 as novel K6 diubiquitin interactors and characterize UCHL3 as a K27-linkage selective interactor that regulates K27 polyubiquitin chain formation in cells. Additionally, we show a class of monoubiquitin and K6 diubiquitin interactors whose binding is induced by DNA damage. We expect that our proteome-wide diubiquitin interaction landscape and established workflows will have broad applications in the ongoing efforts to decipher the complex language of ubiquitin signaling.
PXD005627	28190768	Serine ADP-Ribosylation Depends on HPF1. 	Serine ADP-ribosylation depends on HPF1	ADP-ribosylation, HPF1, PARP-1, PARP-2, histones	ADP-ribosylation (ADPr) regulates important patho-physiological processes through its attachment to different amino acids in proteins. Recently, by precision mapping on all possible amino acid residues, we identified histone serine ADPr marks in the DNA damage response. However, the biochemical basis underlying this serine modification remained unknown. Here we report that serine ADPr is strictly dependent on histone PARylation factor 1 (HPF1), a recently identified regulator of PARP-1. Quantitative proteomics revealed that serine ADPr does not occur in cells lacking HPF1. Moreover, adding HPF1 to in vitro PARP-1/PARP-2 reactions is necessary and sufficient for serine-specific ADPr of histones and PARP-1 itself. Three endogenous serine ADPr sites are located on the PARP-1 automodification domain. Further identification of serine ADPr on HMG proteins and hundreds of other targets indicates that serine ADPr is a widespread modification. We propose that O-linked protein ADPr is the key signal in PARP-1/PARP-2-dependent processes that govern genome stability.
PXD004369	28191818	Changes in protein expression after treatment with Ancylostoma caninum excretory/secretory products in a mouse model of colitis. 	DSS-induced colitis proteomics after A. caninum ES treatment	Ancylostoma caninum, DSS, IBD, colitis, hookworm	Different reports have highlighted the potential use of helminths and their secretions in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) conditions; however, no reports have investigated their effects at a proteome level. Herein, we characterise the protein expression changes that occur in lamina propria (LP) and the intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) of mice with dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis treated with Ancylostoma caninum excretory/secretory (ES) products using a quantitative proteomic approach. We have shown how parasite products can significantly alter the expression of proteins involved in immune responses, cell death and with an antioxidant activity. Interestingly, significant changes in the expression levels of different mucins were observed in this study. MUC13, a mucin implicated in gastrointestinal homeostasis, was upregulated in the LP of mice with DSS-induced colitis treated with ES, while MUC2, a major component of mucus, was upregulated in the IEC. In addition, A. caninum proteins have an important effect on proteins with antioxidant functions and proteins involved in intestinal homeostasis and tissue integrity and regeneration. Understanding how parasites can ameliorate IBD pathogenesis can help us design novel treatments for autoimmune diseases.
PXD000890	28191904	N-terminomics identifies Prli42 as a membrane miniprotein conserved in Firmicutes and critical for stressosome activation in Listeria monocytogenes. 	Decoding Listeria by N-terminomics	Listeria, N-terminal COFRADIC, proteogenomics, translation initiation	To adapt to changing environments, bacteria have evolved numerous pathways that activate stress response genes. In Gram-positive bacteria, the stressosome, a cytoplasmic complex, relays external cues and activates the sigma B regulon. The stressosome is structurally well-characterized in Bacillus, but how it senses stress remains elusive. Here, we report a genome-wide N-terminomic approach in Listeria that strikingly led to the discovery of 19 internal translation initiation sites and 6 miniproteins, among which one, Prli42, is conserved in Firmicutes. Prli42 is membrane-anchored and interacts with orthologues of Bacillus stressosome components. We reconstituted the Listeria stressosome in vitro and visualized its supramolecular structure by electron microscopy. Analysis of a series of Prli42 mutants demonstrated that Prli42 is important for sigma B activation, bacterial growth following oxidative stress and for survival in macrophages. Taken together, our N-terminonic approach unveiled Prli42 as a long-sought link between stress and the stressosome.
PXD028104	28193032	Transcription Factor Response Elements on Tip: A Sensitive Approach for Large-Scale Endogenous Transcription Factor Quantitative Identification. 	Transcription Factor Response Elements on Tip: A Sensitive Approach for Large-Scale Endogenous Transcription Factor Quantitative Identification	Transcription factors,TOT,EGF	The ability to map endogenous transcription factors (TFs) DNA binding activity at the proteome scale will greatly enhance our understanding of various biological processes. Here we report a highly sensitive, rapid, and high-throughput approach, transcription factor response elements on tip-mass spectrometry (TOT-MS), that allows for quantitative measurement of endogenous TFs. A total of 150 TFs from 1 mug of nuclear extracts can be quantified with single shot mass spectrometry detection in 1 h of machine time. Up to 755 TFs, which is comparable to the depth of RNA-seq, were identified by TOT coupled with on-tip small size reverse-phase liquid chromatography. We further demonstrated the capability of TOT-MS by interrogating the dynamic change of TFs in the epidermal growth factor (EGF) signaling pathway. This approach should find broad applications in elucidating the TF landscape from limited amounts of biological materials.
PXD004128	28194157	Comparative Phosphoproteomic Analysis under High-Nitrogen Fertilizer Reveals Central Phosphoproteins Promoting Wheat Grain Starch and Protein Synthesis. 	Phosphoproteome Analysis In Developing Wheat Grains Under Different Nitrogen Conditions	wheat seeds  nitrogen  LC-MS/MS	Nitrogen (N) is a macronutrient important for plant growth and development. It also strongly influences starch and protein synthesis, closely related to grain yield and quality. We performed the first comparative phosphoproteomic analysis of developing wheat grains in response to high-N fertilizer. Physiological and biochemical analyses showed that application of high-N fertilizer resulted in significant increases in leaf length and area, chlorophyll content, the activity of key enzymes in leaves such as nitrate reductase (NR), and in grains such as sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS), sucrose synthase (SuSy), and ADP glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase). This enhanced enzyme activity led to significant improvements in starch content, grain yield, and ultimately, bread making quality. Comparative phosphoproteomic analysis of developing grains under the application of high-N fertilizer performed 15 and 25 days post-anthesis identified 2470 phosphosites among 1372 phosphoproteins, of which 411 unique proteins displayed significant changes in phosphorylation level (>2-fold or <0.5-fold). These phosphoproteins are involved mainly in signaling transduction, starch synthesis, energy metabolism. Pro-Q diamond staining and Western blotting confirmed our phosphoproteomic results. We propose a putative pathway to elucidate the important roles of the central phosphoproteins regulating grain starch and protein synthesis. Our results provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of protein phosphorylation modifications involved in grain development, yield and quality formation.
PXD001789	28194435	Foxp3 drives oxidative phosphorylation and protection from lipotoxicity. 	Foxp3 positive and negative cell comparison	mouse T cells	Tregs can adopt a catabolic metabolic program with increased capacity for fatty acid oxidation-fueled oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). It is unclear why this form of metabolism is favored in Tregs and, more specifically, whether this program represents an adaptation to the environment and developmental cues or is "hardwired" by Foxp3. Here we show, using metabolic analysis and an unbiased mass spectroscopy-based proteomics approach, that Foxp3 is both necessary and sufficient to program Treg-increased respiratory capacity and Tregs' increased ability to utilize fatty acids to fuel oxidative phosphorylation. Foxp3 drives upregulation of components of all the electron transport complexes, increasing their activity and ATP generation by oxidative phosphorylation. Increased fatty acid beta-oxidation also results in selective protection of Foxp3(+) cells from fatty acid-induced cell death. This observation may provide novel targets for modulating Treg function or selection therapeutically.
PXD004682	28195392	Relative protein quantification and accessible biology in lung tumor proteomes from four LC-MS/MS discovery platforms. 	Comparison of Lung Cancer Proteome Profiles 1: Label Free Quantification	Lung Cancer, bRPLC fractionation, discovery proteomics	Discovery proteomics experiments include many options for sample preparation and MS data acquisition, which are capable of creating datasets for quantifying thousands of proteins. To define a strategy that would produce a dataset with sufficient content while optimizing required resources, we compared (1) single-sample LC-MS/MS with data-dependent acquisition to single-sample LC-MS/MS with data-independent acquisition and (2) peptide fractionation with label-free (LF) quantification to peptide fractionation with relative quantification of chemically labeled peptides (sixplex tandem mass tags (TMT)). These strategies were applied to the same set of four frozen lung squamous cell carcinomas and four adjacent tissues, and the overall outcomes of each experiment were assessed. We identified 6656 unique protein groups with LF, 5535 using TMT, 3409 proteins from single-sample analysis with data-independent acquisition, and 2219 proteins from single-sample analysis with data-dependent acquisition. Pathway analysis indicated the number of proteins per pathway was proportional to the total protein identifications from each method, suggesting limited biological bias between experiments. The results suggest the use of single-sample experiments as a rapid tissue assessment tool and digestion quality control or as a technique to maximize output from limited samples and use of TMT or LF quantification as methods for larger amounts of tumor tissue with the selection being driven mainly by instrument time limitations. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD004682, PXD004683, PXD004684, and PXD005733.
PXD005563	28196534	Comparative genomics reveals high biological diversity and specific adaptations in the industrially and medically important fungal genus Aspergillus. 	Comparative genomics reveals high biological diversity and specific adaptations in the fungal genus Aspergillus	Aspergilli, biomass degradation, extracellular proteins	BACKGROUND: The fungal genus Aspergillus is of critical importance to humankind. Species include those with industrial applications, important pathogens of humans, animals and crops, a source of potent carcinogenic contaminants of food, and an important genetic model. The genome sequences of eight aspergilli have already been explored to investigate aspects of fungal biology, raising questions about evolution and specialization within this genus. RESULTS: We have generated genome sequences for ten novel, highly diverse Aspergillus species and compared these in detail to sister and more distant genera. Comparative studies of key aspects of fungal biology, including primary and secondary metabolism, stress response, biomass degradation, and signal transduction, revealed both conservation and diversity among the species. Observed genomic differences were validated with experimental studies. This revealed several highlights, such as the potential for sex in asexual species, organic acid production genes being a key feature of black aspergilli, alternative approaches for degrading plant biomass, and indications for the genetic basis of stress response. A genome-wide phylogenetic analysis demonstrated in detail the relationship of the newly genome sequenced species with other aspergilli. CONCLUSIONS: Many aspects of biological differences between fungal species cannot be explained by current knowledge obtained from genome sequences. The comparative genomics and experimental study, presented here, allows for the first time a genus-wide view of the biological diversity of the aspergilli and in many, but not all, cases linked genome differences to phenotype. Insights gained could be exploited for biotechnological and medical applications of fungi.
PXD005083	28196878	Global Characterization of Protein Secretion from Human Macrophages Following Non-canonical Caspase-4/5 Inflammasome Activation. 	Proteomic and bioinformatic characterization of proteins secreted conventionally and unconventionally from human primary macrophages upon LPS transfection	Innate immunity, LPS, Macrophages, non-canonical inflammasome	Gram-negative bacteria are associated with a wide spectrum of infectious diseases in humans. Inflammasomes are cytosolic protein complexes that are assembled when the cell encounters pathogens or other harmful agents. The non-canonical caspase-4/5 inflammasome is activated by Gram-negative bacteria-derived lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and by endogenous oxidized phospholipids. Protein secretion is a critical component of the innate immune response. Here, we have used label-free quantitative proteomics to characterize global protein secretion in response to non-canonical inflammasome activation upon intracellular LPS recognition in human primary macrophages. Before proteomics, the total secretome was separated into two fractions, enriched extracellular vesicle (EV) fraction and rest-secretome (RS) fraction using size-exclusion centrifugation. We identified 1048 proteins from the EV fraction and 1223 proteins from the RS fraction. From these, 640 were identified from both fractions suggesting that the non-canonical inflammasome activates multiple, partly overlapping protein secretion pathways. We identified several secreted proteins that have a critical role in host response against severe Gram-negative bacterial infection. The soluble secretome (RS fraction) was highly enriched with inflammation-associated proteins upon intracellular LPS recognition. Several ribosomal proteins were highly abundant in the EV fraction upon infection, and our data strongly suggest that secretion of translational machinery and concomitant inhibition of translation are important parts of host response against Gram-negative bacteria sensing caspase-4/5 inflammasome. Intracellular recognition of LPS resulted in the secretion of two metalloproteinases, adisintegrin and metalloproteinase domain-containing protein 10 (ADAM10) and MMP14, in the enriched EV fraction. ADAM10 release was associated with the secretion of TNF, a key inflammatory cytokine, and M-CSF, an important growth factor for myeloid cells probably through ADAM10-dependent membrane shedding of these cytokines. Caspase-4/5 inflammasome activation also resulted in secretion of danger-associated molecules S100A8 and prothymosin-alpha in the enriched EV fraction. Both S100A8 and prothymosin-alpha are ligands for toll-like receptor 4 recognizing extracellular LPS, and they may contribute to endotoxic shock during non-canonical inflammasome activation.
PXD002444	28198360	Secreted CLIC3 drives cancer progression through its glutathione-dependent oxidoreductase activity. 	Proteome and secretome of human mammary normal fibroblasts and CAF	CAF, CLIC3, TGM2, cysteine oxidation, fibroblasts	The secretome of cancer and stromal cells generates a microenvironment that contributes to tumour cell invasion and angiogenesis. Here we compare the secretome of human mammary normal and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). We discover that the chloride intracellular channel protein 3 (CLIC3) is an abundant component of the CAF secretome. Secreted CLIC3 promotes invasive behaviour of endothelial cells to drive angiogenesis and increases invasiveness of cancer cells both in vivo and in 3D cell culture models, and this requires active transglutaminase-2 (TGM2). CLIC3 acts as a glutathione-dependent oxidoreductase that reduces TGM2 and regulates TGM2 binding to its cofactors. Finally, CLIC3 is also secreted by cancer cells, is abundant in the stromal and tumour compartments of aggressive ovarian cancers and its levels correlate with poor clinical outcome. This work reveals a previously undescribed invasive mechanism whereby the secretion of a glutathione-dependent oxidoreductase drives angiogenesis and cancer progression by promoting TGM2-dependent invasion.
PXD005417	28198367	Usp9x regulates Ets-1 ubiquitination and stability to control NRAS expression and tumorigenicity in melanoma. 	Ubiquitin remnant analysis in melanoma post inhibition of Usp9x	G9, Usp9x, deubiquitinase, inhibitor, melanoma	ETS transcription factors are commonly deregulated in cancer by chromosomal translocation, overexpression or post-translational modification to induce gene expression programs essential in tumorigenicity. Targeted destruction of these proteins may have therapeutic impact. Here we report that Ets-1 destruction is regulated by the deubiquitinating enzyme, Usp9x, and has major impact on the tumorigenic program of metastatic melanoma. Ets-1 deubiquitination blocks its proteasomal destruction and enhances tumorigenicity, which could be reversed by Usp9x knockdown or inhibition. Usp9x and Ets-1 levels are coincidently elevated in melanoma with highest levels detected in metastatic tumours versus normal skin or benign skin lesions. Notably, Ets-1 is induced by BRAF or MEK kinase inhibition, resulting in increased NRAS expression, which could be blocked by inactivation of Usp9x and therapeutic combination of Usp9x and MEK inhibitor fully suppressed melanoma growth. Thus, Usp9x modulates the Ets-1/NRAS regulatory network and may have biologic and therapeutic implications.
PXD005655	28199111	Parallel Comparison of N-Linked Glycopeptide Enrichment Techniques Reveals Extensive Glycoproteomic Analysis of Plasma Enabled by SAX-ERLIC. 	Plasma Glycopeptide Enrichment	LC-MS, glycopeptide, plasma	Protein glycosylation is of increasing interest due to its important roles in protein function and aberrant expression with disease. Characterizing protein glycosylation remains analytically challenging due to its low abundance, ion suppression issues, and microheterogeneity at glycosylation sites, especially in complex samples such as human plasma. In this study, the utility of three common N-linked glycopeptide enrichment techniques is compared using human plasma. By analysis on an LTQ-Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer, electrostatic repulsion hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography using strong anion exchange solid-phase extraction (SAX-ERLIC) provided the most extensive N-linked glycopeptide enrichment when compared with multilectin affinity chromatography (M-LAC) and Sepharose-HILIC enrichments. SAX-ERLIC enrichment yielded 191 unique glycoforms across 72 glycosylation sites from 48 glycoproteins, which is more than double that detected using other enrichment techniques. The greatest glycoform diversity was observed in SAX-ERLIC enrichment, with no apparent bias toward specific glycan types. SAX-ERLIC enrichments were additionally analyzed by an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos mass spectrometer to maximize glycopeptide identifications for a more comprehensive assessment of protein glycosylation. In these experiments, 829 unique glycoforms were identified across 208 glycosylation sites from 95 plasma glycoproteins, a significant improvement from the initial method comparison and one of the most extensive site-specific glycosylation analysis in immunodepleted human plasma to date. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005655.
PXD005229	28199320	The use of urinary proteomics in the assessment of suitability of mouse models for ageing. 	The use of urinary proteomics in the assessment of suitability of mouse models for ageing.	ageing, animal models, proteome analysis, urine	Ageing is a complex process characterised by a systemic and progressive deterioration of biological functions. As ageing is associated with an increased prevalence of age-related chronic disorders, understanding its underlying molecular mechanisms can pave the way for therapeutic interventions and managing complications. Animal models such as mice are commonly used in ageing research as they have a shorter lifespan in comparison to humans and are also genetically close to humans. To assess the translatability of mouse ageing to human ageing, the urinary proteome in 89 wild-type (C57BL/6) mice aged between 8-96 weeks was investigated using capillary electrophoresis coupled to mass spectrometry (CE-MS). Using age as a continuous variable, 295 peptides significantly correlated with age in mice were identified. To investigate the relevance of using mouse models in human ageing studies, a comparison was performed with a previous correlation analysis using 1227 healthy subjects. In mice and humans, a decrease in urinary excretion of fibrillar collagens and an increase of uromodulin fragments was observed with advanced age. Of the 295 peptides correlating with age, 49 had a strong homology to the respective human age-related peptides. These ortholog peptides including several collagen (N = 44) and uromodulin (N = 5) fragments were used to generate an ageing classifier that was able to discriminate the age among both wild-type mice and healthy subjects. Additionally, the ageing classifier depicted that telomerase knock-out mice were older than their chronological age. Hence, with a focus on ortholog urinary peptides mouse ageing can be translated to human ageing.
PXD005845	28199961	Proteomic analysis of laser capture microdissected focal lesions in a rat model of progenitor marker-positive hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Proteomic analysis of laser capture microdissected focal lesions in a rat model of progenitor marker-positive hepatocellular carcinoma	hepatocellular carcinoma, laser capture microscopy, liver, pre-neoplasia	We have shown previously that rapamycin, the canonical inhibitor of the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) complex 1, markedly inhibits the growth of focal lesions in the resistant hepatocyte (Solt-Farber) model of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in the rat. In the present study, we characterized the proteome of persistent, pre-neoplastic focal lesions in this model. One group was administered rapamycin by subcutaneous pellet for 3 weeks following partial hepatectomy and euthanized 4 weeks after the cessation of rapamycin. A second group received placebo pellets. Results were compared to unmanipulated control animals and to animals that underwent an incomplete Solt-Farber protocol to activate hepatic progenitor cells. Regions of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue were obtained by laser capture microdissection (LCM). Proteomic analysis yielded 11,070 unique peptides representing 2,227 proteins. Quantitation of the peptides showed increased abundance of known HCC markers (e.g., glutathione S-transferase-P, epoxide hydrolase, 6 others) and potential markers (e.g., aflatoxin aldehyde reductase, glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 10 others) in foci from placebo-treated and rapamycin-treated rats. Peptides derived from cytochrome P450 enzymes were generally reduced. Comparisons of the rapamycin samples to normal liver and to the progenitor cell model indicated that rapamycin attenuated a loss of differentiation relative to placebo. We conclude that early administration of rapamycin in the Solt-Farber model not only inhibits the growth of pre-neoplastic foci but also attenuates the loss of differentiated function. In addition, we have demonstrated that the combination of LCM and mass spectrometry-based proteomics is an effective approach to characterize focal liver lesions.
PXD003963	28208246	Combined Proteome and Eicosanoid Profiling Approach for Revealing Implications of Human Fibroblasts in Chronic Inflammation. 	Eicosadomics, proteomics and metabolomics of inflammatory stimulated human fibroblasts reveals specific functions related to chronic inflammation - secreted proteins of untreated cells	Human fibroblasts, chronic inflammation, eicosadomics, metabolomics, multiple reaction monitoring, shotgun lipidomics, shotgun proteomics	During inflammation, proteins and lipids act in a concerted fashion, calling for combined analyses. Fibroblasts are powerful mediators of chronic inflammation. However, little is known about eicosanoid formation by human fibroblasts. The aim of this study was to analyze the formation of the most relevant inflammation mediators including proteins and lipids in human fibroblasts upon inflammatory stimulation and subsequent treatment with dexamethasone, a powerful antiphlogistic drug. Label-free quantification was applied for proteome profiling, while an in-house established data-dependent analysis method based on high-resolution mass spectrometry was applied for eicosadomics. Furthermore, a set of 188 metabolites was determined by targeted analysis. The secretion of 40 proteins including cytokines, proteases, and other inflammation agonists as well as 14 proinflammatory and nine anti-inflammatory eicosanoids was found significantly induced, while several acylcarnithins and sphingomyelins were found significantly downregulated upon inflammatory stimulation. Treatment with dexamethasone downregulated most cytokines and proteases, abrogated the formation of pro- but also anti-inflammatory eicosanoids, and restored normal levels of acylcarnithins but not of sphingomyelins. In addition, the chemokines CXCL1, CXCL5, CXCL6, and complement C3, known to contribute to chronic inflammation, were not counter-regulated by dexamethasone. Similar findings were obtained with human mesenchymal stem cells, and results were confirmed by targeted analysis with multiple reaction monitoring. Comparative proteome profiling regarding other cells demonstrated cell-type-specific synthesis of, among others, eicosanoid-forming enzymes as well as relevant transcription factors, allowing us to better understand cell-type-specific regulation of inflammation mediators and shedding new light on the role of fibroblasts in chronic inflammation.
PXD005209	28210003	Differential signaling through p190 and p210 BCR-ABL fusion proteins revealed by interactome and phosphoproteome analysis. 	Differential signaling through p190 and p210 BCR-ABL fusion proteins revealed by interactome and phosphoproteome analysis	BCR-ABL, BioID, Leukemia, Phosphoproteomics, p190, p210	Two major types of leukemogenic BCR-ABL fusion proteins are p190(BCR-ABL)and p210(BCR-ABL). Although the two fusion proteins are closely related, they can lead to different clinical outcomes. A thorough understanding of the signaling programs employed by these two fusion proteins is necessary to explain these clinical differences. We took an integrated approach by coupling protein-protein interaction analysis using biotinylation identification with global phosphorylation analysis to investigate the differences in signaling between these two fusion proteins. Our findings suggest that p190(BCR-ABL) and p210(BCR-ABL) differentially activate important signaling pathways, such as JAK-STAT, and engage with molecules that indicate interaction with different subcellular compartments. In the case of p210(BCR-ABL), we observed an increased engagement of molecules active proximal to the membrane and in the case of p190(BCR-ABL), an engagement of molecules of the cytoskeleton. These differences in signaling could underlie the distinct leukemogenic process induced by these two protein variants.
PXD003106	28210565	Label-Free Proteome Analysis of Plasma from Patients with Breast Cancer: Stage-Specific Protein Expression. 	Label-free proteome analysis of plasma from patients with breast cancer: stage-specific protein expression	Breast Cancer, LC-MSE, Plasma	Breast cancer is one of the most commonly diagnosed types of cancer among women. Breast cancer mortality rates remain high probably because its diagnosis is hampered by inaccurate detection methods. Since changes in protein expression as well as modifications in protein glycosylation have been frequently reported in cancer development, the aim of this work was to study the differential expression as well as modifications of glycosylation of proteins from plasma of women with breast cancer at different stages of disease (n = 30) compared to healthy women (n = 10). A proteomics approach was used that depleted albumin and IgG from plasma followed by glycoprotein enrichment using immobilized Moraceae lectin (frutalin)-affinity chromatography and data-independent label-free mass spectrometric analysis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003106. As result, 57,016 peptides and 4,175 proteins among all samples were identified. From this, 40 proteins present in unbound (PI-proteins that did not interact with lectin) and bound (PII-proteins that interacted with lectin) fractions were differentially expressed. High levels of apolipoprotein A-II were detected here that were elevated significantly in the early and advanced stages of the disease. Apolipoprotein C-III was detected in both fractions, and its level was increased slightly in the PI fraction of patients with early-stage breast cancer and expressed at higher levels in the PII fraction of patients with early and intermediate stages. Clusterin was present at higher levels in both fractions of patients with early and intermediate stages of breast cancer. Our findings reveal a correlation between alterations in protein glycosylation, lipid metabolism, and the progression of breast cancer.
PXD004730	28212376	The Legionella pneumophila genome evolved to accommodate multiple regulatory mechanisms controlled by the CsrA-system. 	Proteomics identification of CsrA-regulated proteins in Legionella pneumophila	CsrA, Legionella pneumophila, labelfree shotgun proteomics	The carbon storage regulator protein CsrA regulates cellular processes post-transcriptionally by binding to target-RNAs altering translation efficiency and/or their stability. Here we identified and analyzed the direct targets of CsrA in the human pathogen Legionella pneumophila. Genome wide transcriptome, proteome and RNA co-immunoprecipitation followed by deep sequencing of a wild type and a csrA mutant strain identified 479 RNAs with potential CsrA interaction sites located in the untranslated and/or coding regions of mRNAs or of known non-coding sRNAs. Further analyses revealed that CsrA exhibits a dual regulatory role in virulence as it affects the expression of the regulators FleQ, LqsR, LetE and RpoS but it also directly regulates the timely expression of over 40 Dot/Icm substrates. CsrA controls its own expression and the stringent response through a regulatory feedback loop as evidenced by its binding to RelA-mRNA and links it to quorum sensing and motility. CsrA is a central player in the carbon, amino acid, fatty acid metabolism and energy transfer and directly affects the biosynthesis of cofactors, vitamins and secondary metabolites. We describe the first L. pneumophila riboswitch, a thiamine pyrophosphate riboswitch whose regulatory impact is fine-tuned by CsrA, and identified a unique regulatory mode of CsrA, the active stabilization of RNA anti-terminator conformations inside a coding sequence preventing Rho-dependent termination of the gap operon through transcriptional polarity effects. This allows L. pneumophila to regulate the pentose phosphate pathway and the glycolysis combined or individually although they share genes in a single operon. Thus the L. pneumophila genome has evolved to acclimate at least five different modes of regulation by CsrA giving it a truly unique position in its life cycle.
PXD005664	28212753	The TRAIL-Induced Cancer Secretome Promotes a Tumor-Supportive Immune Microenvironment via CCR2. 	TRAIL-induced cancer secretome	A549 cells, lable-free quantification	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is known for specifically killing cancer cells, whereas in resistant cancers, TRAIL/TRAIL-R can promote metastasis via Rac1 and PI3K. It remains unknown, however, whether and to what extent TRAIL/TRAIL-R signaling in cancer cells can affect the immune microenvironment. Here we show that TRAIL-triggered cytokine secretion from TRAIL-resistant cancer cells is FADD dependent and identify the TRAIL-induced secretome to drive monocyte polarization to myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and M2-like macrophages. TRAIL-R suppression in tumor cells impaired CCL2 production and diminished both lung MDSC presence and tumor growth. In accordance, the receptor of CCL2, CCR2, is required to facilitate increased MDSC presence and tumor growth. Finally, TRAIL and CCL2 are co-regulated with MDSC/M2 markers in lung adenocarcinoma patients. Collectively, endogenous TRAIL/TRAIL-R-mediated CCL2 secretion promotes accumulation of tumor-supportive immune cells in the cancer microenvironment, thereby revealing a tumor-supportive immune-modulatory role of the TRAIL/TRAIL-R system in cancer biology.
PXD008227	28214564	Downregulation of GNA13-ERK network in prefrontal cortex of schizophrenia brain identified by combined focused and targeted quantitative proteomics. 	Schizophrenia brain proteomic analysis	SWATH, brain, schizophrenia	Schizophrenia is a disabling mental illness associated with dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex, which affects cognition and emotion. The purpose of the present study was to identify altered molecular networks in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenia patients by comparing protein expression levels in autopsied brains of patients and controls, using a combination of targeted and focused quantitative proteomics. We selected 125 molecules possibly related to schizophrenia for quantification by knowledge-based targeted proteomics. Among the quantified molecules, GRIK4 and MAO-B were significantly decreased in plasma membrane and cytosolic fractions, respectively, of prefrontal cortex. Focused quantitative proteomics identified 15 increased and 39 decreased proteins. Network analysis identified "GNA13-ERK1-eIF4G2 signaling" as a downregulated network, and proteins involved in this network were significantly decreased. Furthermore, searching downstream of eIF4G2 revealed that eIF4A1/2 and CYFIP1 were decreased, suggesting that downregulation of the network suppresses expression of CYFIP1, which regulates actin remodeling and is involved in axon outgrowth and spine formation. Downregulation of this signaling seems likely to impair axon formation and synapse plasticity of neuronal cells, and could be associated with development of cognitive impairment in the pathology of schizophrenia. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The present study compared the proteome of the prefrontal cortex between schizophrenia patients and healthy controls by means of targeted proteomics and global quantitative proteomics. Targeted proteomics revealed that GRIK4 and MAOB were significantly decreased among 125 putatively schizophrenia-related proteins in prefrontal cortex of schizophrenia patients. Global quantitative proteomics identified 54 differentially expressed proteins in schizophrenia brains. The protein profile indicates attenuation of "GNA13-ERK signaling" in schizophrenia brain. In particular, EIF4G2 and CYFIP1, which are located downstream of the GNA13-ERK network, were decreased, suggesting that the attenuation of this signal network may cause impairment of axon formation and synapse plasticity in the brain of schizophrenia patients. Our results provide a novel insight into schizophrenia pathology, and could be helpful for drug development.
PXD005266	28217134	Proteasome Activity Profiling Uncovers Alteration of Catalytic beta2 and beta5 Subunits of the Stress-Induced Proteasome during Salinity Stress in Tomato Roots. 	Proteasome activity profiling uncovers alteration of catalytic beta2 and beta5 subunits of the stress-induced proteasome during salinity stress in tomato roots	20S proteasome, activity-based protein profiling, catalytic subunit, immune proteasome, programmed cell death, salt stress, tomato root	The stress proteasome in the animal kingdom facilitates faster conversion of oxidized proteins during stress conditions by incorporating different catalytic beta subunits. Plants deal with similar kind of stresses and also carry multiple paralogous genes encoding for each of the three catalytic beta subunits. Here, we investigated the existence of stress proteasomes upon abiotic stress (salt stress) in tomato roots. In contrast to Arabidopsis thaliana, tomato has a simplified proteasome gene set with single genes encoding each beta subunit except for two genes encoding beta2. Using proteasome activity profiling on tomato roots during salt stress, we discovered a transient modification of the catalytic subunits of the proteasome coinciding with a loss of cell viability. This stress-induced active proteasome disappears at later time points and coincides with the need to degrade oxidized proteins during salt stress. Subunit-selective proteasome probes and MS analysis of fluorescent 2D gels demonstrated that the detected stress-induced proteasome is not caused by an altered composition of subunits in active proteasomes, but involves an increased molecular weight of both labeled beta2 and beta5 subunits, and an additional acidic pI shift for labeled beta5, whilst labeled beta1 remains mostly unchanged. Treatment with phosphatase or glycosidases did not affect the migration pattern. This stress-induced proteasome may play an important role in PCD during abiotic stress.
PXD003789	28218284	Proteomic analysis of exported chaperone/co-chaperone complexes of P. falciparum reveals an array of complex protein-protein interactions. 	Proteomic analysis of exported chaperone/cochaperone complexes of P. falciparum reveals an array of complex protein-protein interactions	J-dots, P. falciparum, co-ip, red blood cell	Malaria parasites modify their human host cell, the mature erythrocyte. This modification is mediated by a large number of parasite proteins that are exported to the host cell, and is also the underlying cause for the pathology caused by malaria infection. Amongst these proteins are many Hsp40 co-chaperones, and a single Hsp70. These proteins have been implicated in several processes in the host cell, including a potential role in protein transport, however the further molecular players in this process remain obscure. To address this, we have utilized chemical cross-linking followed by mass spectrometry and immunoblotting to isolate and characterize proteins complexes containing an exported Hsp40 (PFE55), and the only known exported Hsp70 (PfHsp70x). Our data reveal that both of these proteins are contained in high molecular weight protein complexes. These complexes are found both in the infected erythrocyte, and within the parasite-derived compartment referred to as the parasitophorous vacuole. Surprisingly, our data also reveal an association of PfHsp70x with components of PTEX, a putative protein translocon within the membrane of the parasitophorous vacuole. Our results suggest that the P. falciparum- infected human erythrocyte contains numerous high molecular weight protein complexes, which may potentially be involved in host cell modification.
PXD004022	28218653	Proteomic Analysis of Mitochondria-Enriched Fraction Isolated from the Frontal Cortex and Hippocampus of Apolipoprotein E Knockout Mice Treated with Alda-1, an Activator of Mitochondrial Aldehyde Dehydrogenase (ALDH2). 	Proteomic analysis of mitochondria isolated from the frontal cortex and hippocampus of apolipoprotein E knockout mice treated with Alda-1, an activator of mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2)	ALDH2, Alzheimer's disease, apolipoprotein E, brain, mitochondria	The role of different genotypes of apolipoprotein E (apoE) in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease is widely recognized. It has been shown that altered functioning of apoE may promote 4-hydroxynonenal modification of mitochondrial proteins, which may result in mitochondrial dysfunction, aggravation of oxidative stress, and neurodegeneration. Mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2) is an enzyme considered to perform protective function in mitochondria by the detoxification of the end products of lipid peroxidation, such as 4-hydroxynonenal and other reactive aldehydes. The goal of our study was to apply a differential proteomics approach in concert with molecular and morphological techniques to elucidate the changes in the frontal cortex and hippocampus of apolipoprotein E knockout (apoE(-/-)) mice upon treatment with Alda-1-a small molecular weight activator of ALDH2. Despite the lack of significant morphological changes in the brain of apoE(-/-) mice as compared to age-matched wild type animals, the proteomic and molecular approach revealed many changes in the expression of genes and proteins, indicating the impairment of energy metabolism, neuroplasticity, and neurogenesis in brains of apoE(-/-) mice. Importantly, prolonged treatment of apoE(-/-) mice with Alda-1 led to the beneficial changes in the expression of genes and proteins related to neuroplasticity and mitochondrial function. The pattern of alterations implies mitoprotective action of Alda-1, however, the accurate functional consequences of the revealed changes require further research.
PXD005699	28220903	Application of carbohydrate arrays coupled with mass spectrometry to detect activity of plant-polysaccharide degradative enzymes from the fungus Aspergillus niger. 	Application of carbohydrate arrays coupled with mass spectrometry to detect activity of plant-polysaccharide degradative enzymes from the fungus Aspergillus niger	Aspergillus niger, CAZymes, lignocellulose, plant-polysaccharide degrading enzymes	Renewables-based biotechnology depends on enzymes to degrade plant lignocellulose to simple sugars that are converted to fuels or high-value products. Identification and characterization of such lignocellulose degradative enzymes could be fast-tracked by availability of an enzyme activity measurement method that is fast, label-free, uses minimal resources and allows direct identification of generated products. We developed such a method by applying carbohydrate arrays coupled with MALDI-ToF mass spectrometry to identify reaction products of carbohydrate active enzymes (CAZymes) of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger. We describe the production and characterization of plant polysaccharide-derived oligosaccharides and their attachment to hydrophobic self-assembling monolayers on a gold target. We verify effectiveness of this array for detecting exo- and endo-acting glycoside hydrolase activity using commercial enzymes, and demonstrate how this platform is suitable for detection of enzyme activity in relevant biological samples, the culture filtrate of A. niger grown on wheat straw. In conclusion, this versatile method is broadly applicable in screening and characterisation of activity of CAZymes, such as fungal enzymes for plant lignocellulose degradation with relevance to biotechnological applications as biofuel production, the food and animal feed industry.
PXD005465	28223221	The atheroma plaque secretome stimulates the mobilization of endothelial progenitor cells ex vivo. 	THE ATHEROMA PLAQUE SECRETOME STIMULATES THE MOBILIZATION OF ENDOTHELIAL PROGENITOR CELLS EX VIVO	Endothelial progenitor cells, secretome	Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) constitute a promising alternative in cardiovascular regenerative medicine due to their assigned role in angiogenesis and vascular repair. In response to injury, EPCs promote vascular remodeling by replacement of damaged endothelial cells and/or by secreting angiogenic factors over the damaged tissue. Nevertheless, such mechanisms need to be further characterized. In the current approach we have evaluated the initial response of early EPCs (eEPCs) from healthy individuals after direct contact with the factors released by carotid arteries complicated with atherosclerotic plaques (AP), in order to understand the mechanisms underlying the neovascularization and remodeling properties assigned to these cells. Herein, we found that the AP secretome stimulated eEPCs proliferation and mobilization ex vivo, and such increase was accompanied by augmented permeability, cell contraction and also an increase of cell-cell adhesion in association with raised vinculin levels. Furthermore, a comparative mass spectrometry analysis of control versus stimulated eEPCs revealed a differential expression of proteins in the AP treated cells, mostly involved in cell migration, proliferation and vascular remodeling. Some of these protein changes were also detected in the eEPCs isolated from atherosclerotic patients compared to eEPCs from healthy donors. We have shown, for the first time, that the AP released factors activate eEPCs ex vivo by inducing their mobilization together with the expression of vasculogenic related markers. The present approach could be taken as a ex vivo model to study the initial activation of vascular cells in atherosclerosis and also to evaluate strategies looking to potentiate the mobilization of EPCs prior to clinical applications.
PXD005520	28223350	Mapping Atheroprotective Functions and Related Proteins/Lipoproteins in Size Fractionated Human Plasma. 	Human Plasma Gel Filtration Fractions MS Data	plasma	HDL has been shown to possess a variety of cardio-protective functions, including removal of excess cholesterol from the periphery, and inhibition of lipoprotein oxidation. It has been proposed that various HDL subparticles exist, each with distinct protein and lipid compositions, which may be responsible for HDL's many functions. We hypothesized that HDL functions will co-migrate with the operational lipoprotein subspecies when separated by gel filtration chromatography. Plasma from 10 healthy male donors was fractionated and the protein composition of the phospholipid containing fractions was analyzed by mass spectrometry (MS). Each fraction was evaluated for its proteomic content as well as its ability to promote cholesterol efflux and protect low density lipoprotein (LDL) from free radical oxidation. For each function, several peaks of activity were identified across the plasma size gradient. Neither cholesterol efflux or LDL antioxidation activity correlated strongly with any single protein across the fractions. However, we identified multiple proteins that had strong correlations (r values >0.7, p < 0.01) with individual peaks of activity. These proteins fell into diverse functional categories, including those traditionally associated with lipid metabolism, as well as alternative complement cascade, innate immunity and clotting cascades and immunoglobulins. Additionally, the phospholipid and cholesterol concentration of the fractions correlated strongly with cholesterol efflux (r = 0.95 and 0.82 respectively), whereas the total protein content of the fractions correlated best with antioxidant activity across all fractions (r = 0.746). Furthermore, two previously postulated subspecies (apoA-I, apoA-II and apoC-1; as well as apoA-I, apoC-I and apoJ) were found to have strong correlations with both cholesterol efflux and antioxidation activity. Up till now, very little has been known about how lipoprotein composition mediates functions like cholesterol efflux and antioxidation.
PXD005234	28223351	In Vivo and in Vitro Proteome Analysis of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)-1-infected, Human CD4(+) T Cells. 	In vivo and in vitro proteome analysis of HIV-1 infected, human CD4+ T cells	CD4 T cell, HIV, SWATH	Host-directed therapies against HIV-1 are thought to be critical for long term containment of the HIV-1 pandemic but remain elusive. Because HIV-1 infects and manipulates important effectors of both the innate and adaptive immune system, identifying modulations of the host cell systems in humans during HIV-1 infection may be crucial for the development of immune based therapies. Here, we quantified the changes of the proteome in human CD4(+) T cells upon HIV-1 infection, both in vitro and in vivo A SWATH-MS approach was used to measure the proteome of human primary CD4(+) T cells infected with HIV-1 in vitro as well as CD4(+) T cells from HIV-1-infected patients with paired samples on and off antiretroviral treatment. In the in vitro experiment, the proteome of CD4(+) T cells was quantified over a time course following HIV-1 infection. 1,725 host cell proteins and 4 HIV-1 proteins were quantified, with 145 proteins changing significantly during the time course. Changes in the proteome peaked 24 h after infection, concomitantly with significant HIV-1 protein production. In the in vivo branch of the study, CD4(+) T cells from viremic patients and those with no detectable viral load after treatment were sorted, and the proteomes were quantified. We consistently detected 895 proteins, 172 of which were considered to be significantly different between the viremic patients and patients undergoing successful treatment. The proteome of the in vitro-infected CD4(+) T cells was modulated on multiple functional levels, including TLR-4 signaling and the type 1 interferon signaling pathway. Perturbations in the type 1 interferon signaling pathway were recapitulated in CD4(+) T cells from patients. The study shows that proteome maps generated by SWATH-MS indicate a range of functionally significant changes in the proteome of HIV-infected human CD4(+) T cells. Exploring these perturbations in more detail may help identify new targets for immune based interventions.
PXD005422	28224978	Methylated-antibody affinity purification to improve proteomic identification of plant RNA polymerase Pol V complex and the interacting proteins. 	Methylated-antibody affinity purification to improve proteomic identification of plant RNA polymerase Pol V complex and the interacting proteins	AP-MS, Pol V complex, chemical cross-link, on-bead digestion, reductive methylation	Affinity purification followed by enzymatic digestion and mass spectrometry has been widely utilized for the sensitive detection of interacting proteins and protein complexes in various organisms. In plants, the method is technically challenging due to the low abundance proteins, non-specific binding and difficulties of eluting interacting proteins from antibody beads. In this report, we describe a strategy to modify antibodies by reductive methylation of lysines without affecting their binding properties, followed by on-bead digestion of bound proteins with endoproteinase Lys-C. By this method, the antibody remains intact and does not interfere with the downstream identification of interacting proteins. Non-specific binding proteins were excluded using (14)N/(15)N-metabolic labeling of wild-type and the transgenic plant counterparts. The method was employed to identify 12 co-immunoprecipitated protein subunits in Pol V complex and to discover 17 potential interacting protein targets in Arabidopsis. Our results demonstrated that the modification of antibodies by reductive dimethylation can improve the reliability and sensitivity of identifying low-abundance proteins through on-bead digestion and mass spectrometry. We also show that coupling this technique with chemical crosslinking enables in-depth characterization of endogenous protein complexes and the protein-protein interaction networks including mapping the surface topology and post-translational modifications of interacting proteins.
PXD005196	28225021	Characterisation of urinary WFDC12 in small nocturnal basal primates, mouse lemurs (Microcebus spp.). 	Characterisation of urinary WFDC12 in nocturnal basal primates, mouse lemurs (Microcebus spp.), C4PR_LIV	Microcebus lehilahytsara, Microcebus murinus, WFDC12 protein, Whey acidic protein, reproduction, urine	Mouse lemurs are basal primates that rely on chemo- and acoustic signalling for social interactions in their dispersed social systems. We examined the urinary protein content of two mouse lemurs species, within and outside the breeding season, to assess candidates used in species discrimination, reproductive or competitive communication. Urine from Microcebus murinus and Microcebus lehilahytsara contain a predominant 10 kDa protein, expressed in both species by some, but not all, males during the breeding season, but at very low levels by females. Mass spectrometry of the intact proteins confirmed the protein mass and revealed a 30 Da mass difference between proteins from the two species. Tandem mass spectrometry after digestion with three proteases and sequencing de novo defined the complete protein sequence and located an Ala/Thr difference between the two species that explained the 30 Da mass difference. The protein (mature form: 87 amino acids) is an atypical member of the whey acidic protein family (WFDC12). Seasonal excretion of this protein, species difference and male-specific expression during the breeding season suggest that it may have a function in intra- and/or intersexual chemical signalling in the context of reproduction, and could be a cue for sexual selection and species recognition.
PXD005532	28232095	Mixed colonies of Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus oryzae cooperatively degrading wheat bran. 	Mixed colonies of Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus oryzae cooperatively degrading wheat bran	Aspergillus, Fungus, Protein production, XlnR, mixed culture	In both natural and man-made environments, microorganisms live in mixed populations, while in laboratory conditions monocultures are mainly used. Microbial interactions are often described as antagonistic, but can also be neutral or cooperative, and are generally associated with a metabolic change of each partner and cause a change in the pattern of produced bioactive molecules. A. niger and A. oryzae are two filamentous fungi widely used in industry to produce various enzymes (e.g. pectinases, amylases) and metabolites (e.g. citric acid). The co-cultivation of these two fungi in wheat bran showed an equal distribution of the two strains forming mixed colonies with a broad range of carbohydrate active enzymes produced. This stable mixed microbial system seems suitable for subsequent commercial processes such as enzyme production. XlnR knock-out strains for both aspergilli were used to study the influence of plant cell wall degrading enzyme production on the fitness of the mixed culture. Microscopic observation correlated with quantitative PCR and proteomic data suggest that the XlnR Knock-out strain benefit from the release of sugars by the wild type strain to support its growth.
PXD005039	28232487	Fatty acid synthase inhibits the O-GlcNAcase during oxidative stress. 	Stress-induced interactome of the O-GlcNAcase by SILAC-BioID-MS/MS	BioID, FASN, O-GlcNAc, SILAC, glycosylation, mgea5	The dynamic post-translational modification O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) regulates thousands of nuclear, cytoplasmic, and mitochondrial proteins. Cellular stress, including oxidative stress, results in increased O-GlcNAcylation of numerous proteins, and this increase is thought to promote cell survival. The mechanisms by which the O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) and the O-GlcNAcase (OGA), the enzymes that add and remove O-GlcNAc, respectively, are regulated during oxidative stress to alter O-GlcNAcylation are not fully characterized. Here, we demonstrate that oxidative stress leads to elevated O-GlcNAc levels in U2OS cells but has little impact on the activity of OGT. In contrast, the expression and activity of OGA are enhanced. We hypothesized that this seeming paradox could be explained by proteins that bind to and control the local activity or substrate targeting of OGA, thereby resulting in the observed stress-induced elevations of O-GlcNAc. To identify potential protein partners, we utilized BioID proximity biotinylation in combination with stable isotopic labeling of amino acids in cell culture (SILAC). This analysis revealed 90 OGA-interacting partners, many of which exhibited increased binding to OGA upon stress. The associations of OGA with fatty acid synthase (FAS), filamin-A, heat shock cognate 70-kDa protein, and OGT were confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation. The pool of OGA bound to FAS demonstrated a substantial (~85%) reduction in specific activity, suggesting that FAS inhibits OGA. Consistent with this observation, FAS overexpression augmented stress-induced O-GlcNAcylation. Although the mechanism by which FAS sequesters OGA remains unknown, these data suggest that FAS fine-tunes the cell's response to stress and injury by remodeling cellular O-GlcNAcylation.
PXD003839	28232751	CLK-dependent exon recognition and conjoined gene formation revealed with a novel small molecule inhibitor. 	CLK IP-MS -  CLK-dependent exon recognition and conjoined gene formation revealed with a novel small molecule inhibitor	Kinase, immunoprecipitation, tandem mass tag	CDC-like kinase phosphorylation of serine/arginine-rich proteins is central to RNA splicing reactions. Yet, the genomic network of CDC-like kinase-dependent RNA processing events remains poorly defined. Here, we explore the connectivity of genomic CDC-like kinase splicing functions by applying graduated, short-exposure, pharmacological CDC-like kinase inhibition using a novel small molecule (T3) with very high potency, selectivity, and cell-based stability. Using RNA-Seq, we define CDC-like kinase-responsive alternative splicing events, the large majority of which monotonically increase or decrease with increasing CDC-like kinase inhibition. We show that distinct RNA-binding motifs are associated with T3 response in skipped exons. Unexpectedly, we observe dose-dependent conjoined gene transcription, which is associated with motif enrichment in the last and second exons of upstream and downstream partners, respectively. siRNA knockdown of CLK2-associated genes significantly increases conjoined gene formation. Collectively, our results reveal an unexpected role for CDC-like kinase in conjoined gene formation, via regulation of 3'-end processing and associated splicing factors.The phosphorylation of serine/arginine-rich proteins by CDC-like kinase is a central regulatory mechanism for RNA splicing reactions. Here, the authors synthesize a novel small molecule CLK inhibitor and map CLK-responsive alternative splicing events and discover an effect on conjoined gene transcription.
PXD004910	28233997	Toward an Optimized Workflow for Middle-Down Proteomics. 	Towards an optimized workflow for middle-down proteomics	Middle-down proteomics, Orbitrap Fusion	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics workflows can crudely be classified into two distinct regimes, targeting either relatively small peptides (i.e., 0.7 kDa < Mw < 3.0 kDa) or small to medium sized intact proteins (i.e., 10 kDa < Mw < 30 kDa), respectively, termed bottom-up and top-down proteomics. Recently, a niche has started to be explored covering the analysis of middle-range peptides (i.e., 3.0 kDa < Mw < 10 kDa), aptly termed middle-down proteomics. Although middle-down proteomics can follow, in principle, a modular workflow similar to that of bottom-up proteomics, we hypothesized that each of these modules would benefit from targeted optimization to improve its overall performance in the analysis of middle-range sized peptides. Hence, to generate middle-range sized peptides from cellular lysates, we explored the use of the proteases Asp-N and Glu-C and a nonenzymatic acid induced cleavage. To increase the depth of the proteome, a strong cation exchange (SCX) separation, carefully tuned to improve the separation of longer peptides, combined with reversed phase-liquid chromatography (RP-LC) using columns packed with material possessing a larger pore size, was used. Finally, after evaluating the combination of potentially beneficial MS settings, we also assessed the peptide fragmentation techniques, including higher-energy collision dissociation (HCD), electron-transfer dissociation (ETD), and electron-transfer combined with higher-energy collision dissociation (EThcD), for characterization of middle-range sized peptides. These combined improvements clearly improve the detection and sequence coverage of middle-range peptides and should guide researchers to explore further how middle-down proteomics may lead to an improved proteome coverage, beneficial for, among other things, the enhanced analysis of (co-occurring) post-translational modifications.
PXD006038	28234449	Comprehensive de Novo Peptide Sequencing from MS/MS Pairs Generated through Complementary Collision Induced Dissociation and 351 nm Ultraviolet Photodissociation. 	Complementary CID and 351 nm UVPD tandem mass spectra enable effective de novo sequencing	351 nm UVPD, AMCA, de novo, ultraviolet photodissociation	We describe a strategy for de novo peptide sequencing based on matched pairs of tandem mass spectra (MS/MS) obtained by collision induced dissociation (CID) and 351 nm ultraviolet photodissociation (UVPD). Each precursor ion is isolated twice with the mass spectrometer switching between CID and UVPD activation modes to obtain a complementary MS/MS pair. To interpret these paired spectra, we modified the UVnovo de novo sequencing software to automatically learn from and interpret fragmentation spectra, provided a representative set of training data. This machine learning procedure, using random forests, synthesizes information from one or multiple complementary spectra, such as the CID/UVPD pairs, into peptide fragmentation site predictions. In doing so, the burden of fragmentation model definition shifts from programmer to machine and opens up the model parameter space for inclusion of nonobvious features and interactions. This spectral synthesis also serves to transform distinct types of spectra into a common representation for subsequent activation-independent processing steps. Then, independent from precursor activation constraints, UVnovo's de novo sequencing procedure generates and scores sequence candidates for each precursor. We demonstrate the combined experimental and computational approach for de novo sequencing using whole cell E. coli lysate. In benchmarks on the CID/UVPD data, UVnovo assigned correct full-length sequences to 83% of the spectral pairs of doubly charged ions with high-confidence database identifications. Considering only top-ranked de novo predictions, 70% of the pairs were deciphered correctly. This de novo sequencing performance exceeds that of PEAKS and PepNovo on the CID spectra and that of UVnovo on CID or UVPD spectra alone. As presented here, the methods for paired CID/UVPD spectral acquisition and interpretation constitute a powerful workflow for high-throughput and accurate de novo peptide sequencing.
PXD005022	28235076	Changes in plasma protein levels as an early indication of a bloodstream infection. 	Quantitative proteomics of bloodstream infection	MSE, bloodstream infection, sepsis	Blood culture is the primary diagnostic test performed in a suspicion of bloodstream infection to detect the presence of microorganisms and direct the treatment. However, blood culture is slow and time consuming method to detect blood stream infections or separate septic and/or bacteremic patients from others with less serious febrile disease. Plasma proteomics, despite its challenges, remains an important source for early biomarkers for systemic diseases and might show changes before direct evidence from bacteria can be obtained. We have performed a plasma proteomic analysis, simultaneously at the time of blood culture sampling from ten blood culture positive and ten blood culture negative patients, and quantified 172 proteins with two or more unique peptides. Principal components analysis, Orthogonal Projections to Latent Structures Discriminant Analysis (OPLS-DA) and ROC curve analysis were performed to select protein(s) features which can classify the two groups of samples. We propose a number of candidates which qualify as potential biomarkers to select the blood culture positive cases from negative ones. Pathway analysis by two methods revealed complement activation, phagocytosis pathway and alterations in lipid metabolism as enriched pathways which are relevant for the condition. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005022.
PXD004113	28235783	Proteome and Secretome Analysis Reveals Differential Post-transcriptional Regulation of Toll-like Receptor Responses. 	Proteome and Secretome Analysis Reveals Differential Post-Transcriptional Regulation of Toll-Like Receptor Responses	3plex SILAC, Macrophage, RAW264.7, Secretome, TLR, Targeted MS	The innate immune system is the organism's first line of defense against pathogens. Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) are responsible for sensing the presence of pathogen-associated molecules. The prototypic PRRs, the membrane-bound receptors of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family, recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and initiate an innate immune response through signaling pathways that depend on the adaptor molecules MyD88 and TRIF. Deciphering the differences in the complex signaling events that lead to pathogen recognition and initiation of the correct response remains challenging. Here we report the discovery of temporal changes in the protein signaling components involved in innate immunity. Using an integrated strategy combining unbiased proteomics, transcriptomics and macrophage stimulations with three different PAMPs, we identified differences in signaling between individual TLRs and revealed specifics of pathway regulation at the protein level.
PXD005276	28237943	Kinome Profiling Identifies Druggable Targets for Novel Human Cytomegalovirus (HCMV) Antivirals. 	Kinome profiling upon HCMV infection using the MIB-MS approach	HCMV, antivirals, human herpesvirus, kinase inhibitors, kinome, label-free quantitation, virology	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a significant cause of disease in immune-compromised adults and immune naive newborns. No vaccine exists to prevent HCMV infection, and current antiviral therapies have toxic side effects that limit the duration and intensity of their use. There is thus an urgent need for new strategies to treat HCMV infection. Repurposing existing drugs as antivirals is an attractive approach to limit the time and cost of new antiviral drug development. Virus-induced changes in infected cells are often driven by changes in cellular kinase activity, which led us to hypothesize that defining the complement of kinases (the kinome), whose abundance or expression is altered during infection would identify existing kinase inhibitors that could be repurposed as new antivirals. To this end, we applied a kinase capture technique, multiplexed kinase inhibitor bead-mass spectrometry (MIB-MS) kinome, to quantitatively measure perturbations in >240 cellular kinases simultaneously in cells infected with a laboratory-adapted (AD169) or clinical (TB40E) HCMV strain. MIB-MS profiling identified time-dependent increases and decreases in MIB binding of multiple kinases including cell cycle kinases, receptor tyrosine kinases, and mitotic kinases. Based on the kinome data, we tested the antiviral effects of kinase inhibitors and other compounds, several of which are in clinical use or development. Using a novel flow cytometry-based assay and a fluorescent reporter virus we identified three compounds that inhibited HCMV replication with IC50 values of <1 mum, and at doses that were not toxic to uninfected cells. The most potent inhibitor of HCMV replication was OTSSP167 (IC50 <1.2 nm), a MELK inhibitor, blocked HCMV early gene expression and viral DNA accumulation, resulting in a >3 log decrease in virus replication. These results show the utility of MIB-MS kinome profiling for identifying existing kinase inhibitors that can potentially be repurposed as novel antiviral drugs.
PXD004047	28241146	Prophage WO genes recapitulate and enhance Wolbachia-induced cytoplasmic incompatibility. 	wPip (Buckeye) Ovarian Proteome	Culex pipiens, Wolbachia, wPip	The genus Wolbachia is an archetype of maternally inherited intracellular bacteria that infect the germline of numerous invertebrate species worldwide. They can selfishly alter arthropod sex ratios and reproductive strategies to increase the proportion of the infected matriline in the population. The most common reproductive manipulation is cytoplasmic incompatibility, which results in embryonic lethality in crosses between infected males and uninfected females. Females infected with the same Wolbachia strain rescue this lethality. Despite more than 40 years of research and relevance to symbiont-induced speciation, as well as control of arbovirus vectors and agricultural pests, the bacterial genes underlying cytoplasmic incompatibility remain unknown. Here we use comparative and transgenic approaches to demonstrate that two differentially transcribed, co-diverging genes in the eukaryotic association module of prophage WO from Wolbachia strain wMel recapitulate and enhance cytoplasmic incompatibility. Dual expression in transgenic, uninfected males of Drosophila melanogaster crossed to uninfected females causes embryonic lethality. Each gene additively augments embryonic lethality in crosses between infected males and uninfected females. Lethality associates with embryonic defects that parallel those of wild-type cytoplasmic incompatibility and is notably rescued by wMel-infected embryos in all cases. The discovery of cytoplasmic incompatibility factor genes cifA and cifB pioneers genetic studies of prophage WO-induced reproductive manipulations and informs the continuing use of Wolbachia to control dengue and Zika virus transmission to humans.
PXD004161	28241730	Quantitative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Analysis of H37Ra and H37Rv Strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 	Quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of H37Ra and H37Rv strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis	Mycobacterium tuberculosis, phosphoproteomics, virulence attenuation	Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the causative agent of tuberculosis, accounts for 1.5 million human deaths annually worldwide. Despite efforts to eradicate tuberculosis, it still remains a deadly disease. The two best characterized strains of M. tuberculosis, virulent H37Rv and avirulent H37Ra, provide a unique platform to investigate biochemical and signaling pathways associated with pathogenicity. To delineate the biomolecular dynamics that may account for pathogenicity and attenuation of virulence in M. tuberculosis, we compared the proteome and phosphoproteome profiles of H37Rv and H37Ra strains. Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis was performed using high-resolution Fourier transform mass spectrometry. Analysis of exponential and stationary phases of these strains resulted in identification and quantitation of 2709 proteins along with 512 phosphorylation sites derived from 257 proteins. In addition to confirming the presence of previously described M. tuberculosis phosphorylated proteins, we identified 265 novel phosphorylation sites. Quantitative proteomic analysis revealed more than five-fold upregulation of proteins belonging to virulence associated type VII bacterial secretion system in H37Rv when compared to those in H37Ra. We also identified 84 proteins, which exhibited changes in phosphorylation levels between the virulent and avirulent strains. Bioinformatics analysis of the proteins altered in their level of expression or phosphorylation revealed enrichment of pathways involved in fatty acid biosynthesis and two-component regulatory system. Our data provides a resource for further exploration of functional differences at molecular level between H37Rv and H37Ra, which will ultimately explain the molecular underpinnings that determine virulence in tuberculosis.
PXD004724	28242843	Label-free Proteomic Analysis of Exosomes Derived from Inducible Hepatitis B Virus-Replicating HepAD38 Cell Line. 	Label-free Proteomic Analysis of Exosomes Derived from Inducible Hepatitis B Virus-Replicating HepAD38 Cell Line	Exosomes, HBV, Hepatocyte, Label-free quantification, Proteasome	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a major health problem worldwide. Recent evidence suggests that some viruses can manipulate the infection process by packing specific viral and cellular components into exosomes, small nanometer-sized (30-150 nm) vesicles secreted from various cells. However, the impact of HBV replication on the content of exosomes produced by hepatocytes has not been fully delineated. In this work, an HBV-inducible cell line HepAD38 was used to directly compare changes in the protein content of exosomes secreted from HepAD38 cells with or without HBV replication. Exosomes were isolated from supernantants of HepAD38 cells cultured with or without doxycycline (dox) and their purity was confirmed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and Western immunoblotting assays. Ion-intensity based label-free LC-MS/MS quantitation technologies were applied to analyze protein content of exosomes from HBV replicating cells [referred as HepAD38 (dox(-))-exo] and from HBV nonreplicating cells [referred as HepAD38 (dox(+))-exo]. A total of 1412 exosomal protein groups were identified, among which the abundance of 35 proteins was significantly changed following HBV replication. Strikingly, 5 subunit proteins from the 26S proteasome complex, including PSMC1, PSMC2, PSMD1, PSMD7 and PSMD14 were consistently enhanced in HepAD38 (dox(-))-exo. Bioinformatic analysis of differential exosomal proteins confirmed the significant enrichment of components involved in the proteasomal catabolic process. Proteasome activity assays further suggested that HepAD38 (dox(-))-exo had enhanced proteolytic activity compared with HepAD38 (dox(+))-exo. Furthermore, human peripheral monocytes incubated with HepAD38 (dox(-))-exo induced a significantly lower level of IL-6 secretion compared with IL-6 levels from HepAD38 (dox(+))-exo. Irreversible inhibition of proteasomal activity within exosomes restored higher production of IL-6 by monocytes, suggesting that transmission of proteasome subunit proteins by HepAD38 (dox(-))-exo might modulate the production of pro-inflammatory molecules in the recipient monocytes. These results revealed the composition and potential function of exosomes produced during HBV replication, thus providing a new perspective on the role of exosomes in HBV-host interaction.
PXD005557	28243621	Defining the Akt1 interactome data and delineating alterations in its composition as a function of cell cycle progression. 	Defining the Akt1 interactome and delineating alterations in its composition as a function of cell cycle progression.	AP-MS, Akt1, SILAC, cell cycle, interactome	Akt1 is a multi-functional protein implicated in key cellular processes including regulation of proliferation, survival, metabolism and protein synthesis. Its functional diversity results through interactions with other proteins which change with changing context. This study was designed to capture proteins, which interact with Akt1 as the cell cycle progresses from G0 to G1S and then G2 phase. Such an insight might help us understand the role of Akt1 in cell cycle, which as of now is not well explored. Akt1 expressing HEK 293 cells were cultured in light, medium and heavy labeled SILAC media. Normal lysine and arginine were incorporated as light labels; 6 Da (Dalton) heavier isotopes of the same amino acids were used as medium labels; while for heavy labeling the isotopes were 8 and 10 Da heavier. Light labeled cells were arrested in G0 phase while medium and heavy labeled cells were arrested in G2 and G1S phases, respectively. Equal number of cells from each phase was pooled, lysed and subjected to Affinity Purification coupled to Mass Spectroscopy (AP-MS). The obtained Akt1 protein partners were observed to change as the cell cycle progressed from G0 to G1S and then to G2 phase. Additionally, SILAC labeling aided in quantitative estimation of changing association of a number of proteins which were common to two or more phases, with Akt1. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005557.
PXD004951	28245787	Maternal nutrition modulates fetal development by inducing placental efficiency changes in gilts. 	Maternal nutrition modulates fetal development through inducing placental efficiency changes in gilts	energy level, fetal weight, gilts, iTRAQ, placenta	BACKGROUND: Intra-uterine growth restriction (IUGR) and fetal overgrowth increase risks to postnatal health. Maternal nutrition is the major intrauterine environmental factor that alters fetal weight. However, the mechanisms underlying the effects of maternal nutrition on fetal development are not entirely clear. We developed a pig model, and using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ), we investigated alterations in the placental proteome of gilts on a normal-energy-intake (Con) and high-energy-intake (HE) diet. RESULTS: In the Con group, heavy and light fetuses were found at the tubal and cervical ends of the uterus respectively at 90 d of gestation. Moreover, the heavy fetuses had a higher glucose concentration than the light fetuses. However, a higher uniformity was noted in the HE group. Placental promoters between these two positions indicated that 78 and 50 differentially expressed proteins were detected in the Con and HE groups respectively. In the Con group, these proteins were involved in lipid metabolism (HADHA, AACS, CAD), nutrient transport (GLUT, SLC27A1), and energy metabolism (NDUFV1, NDUFV2, ATP5C1). However, in the HE group they mainly participated in transcriptional and translational regulation, and intracellular vesicular transport. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings revealed that maternal nutrition may alter birth weight mainly through the modulation of placental lipid and energy metabolism, which also provides a possible mechanism to explain the higher uniformity of fetal weight in gilts fed a HE diet.
PXD004334	28246120	KDM3A coordinates actin dynamics with intraflagellar transport to regulate cilia stability. 	Role for KDM3A in ciliogenesis	Cilia/ Intraflagellar transport/ Histone demethylase/ KDM3A/ lysine methylation/ actin dynamics	Cilia assembly and disassembly are coupled to actin dynamics, ensuring a coherent cellular response during environmental change. How these processes are integrated remains undefined. The histone lysine demethylase KDM3A plays important roles in organismal homeostasis. Loss-of-function mouse models of Kdm3a phenocopy features associated with human ciliopathies, whereas human somatic mutations correlate with poor cancer prognosis. We demonstrate that absence of KDM3A facilitates ciliogenesis, but these resulting cilia have an abnormally wide range of axonemal lengths, delaying disassembly and accumulating intraflagellar transport (IFT) proteins. KDM3A plays a dual role by regulating actin gene expression and binding to the actin cytoskeleton, creating a responsive "actin gate" that involves ARP2/3 activity and IFT. Promoting actin filament formation rescues KDM3A mutant ciliary defects. Conversely, the simultaneous depolymerization of actin networks and IFT overexpression mimics the abnormal ciliary traits of KDM3A mutants. KDM3A is thus a negative regulator of ciliogenesis required for the controlled recruitment of IFT proteins into cilia through the modulation of actin dynamics.
PXD001889	28248240	Global Proteome Changes in Liver Tissue 6 Weeks after FOLFOX Treatment of Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastases. 	Global proteome changes in liver tissue 6 weeks after FOLFOX treatment of colorectal cancer liver metastases.	innate immune response, minichromosome maintenance complex, recovery of liver injury	(1) Oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy for colorectal cancer liver metastasis is associated with sinusoidal injury of liver parenchyma. The effects of oxaliplatin-induced liver injury on the protein level remain unknown. (2) Protein expression in liver tissue was analyzed-from eight patients treated with FOLFOX (combination of fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin) and seven controls-by label-free liquid chromatography mass spectrometry. Recursive feature elimination-support vector machine and Welch t-test were used to identify classifying and relevantly changed proteins, respectively. Resulting proteins were analyzed for associations with gene ontology categories and pathways. (3) A total of 5891 proteins were detected. A set of 184 (3.1%) proteins classified the groups with a 20% error rate, but relevant change was observed only in 55 (0.9%) proteins. The classifying proteins were associated with changes in DNA replication (p < 0.05) through upregulation of the minichromosome maintenance complex and with the innate immune response (p < 0.05). The importance of DNA replication changes was supported by the results of Welch t-test (p < 0.05). (4) Six weeks after FOLFOX treatment, less than 1% of identified proteins showed changes in expression associated with DNA replication, cell cycle entry, and innate immune response. We hypothesize that the changes remain after recovery from FOLFOX treatment injury.
PXD002659	28248256	Integrated Proteomic and Transcriptomic-Based Approaches to Identifying Signature Biomarkers and Pathways for Elucidation of Daoy and UW228 Subtypes. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of Daoy and UW228 medulloblastoma cell lines	Daoy, UW228, medulloblastoma	Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most common malignant pediatric brain tumor. Patient survival has remained largely the same for the past 20 years, with therapies causing significant health, cognitive, behavioral and developmental complications for those who survive the tumor. In this study, we profiled the total transcriptome and proteome of two established MB cell lines, Daoy and UW228, using high-throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and label-free nano-LC-MS/MS-based quantitative proteomics, coupled with advanced pathway analysis. While Daoy has been suggested to belong to the sonic hedgehog (SHH) subtype, the exact UW228 subtype is not yet clearly established. Thus, a goal of this study was to identify protein markers and pathways that would help elucidate their subtype classification. A number of differentially expressed genes and proteins, including a number of adhesion, cytoskeletal and signaling molecules, were observed between the two cell lines. While several cancer-associated genes/proteins exhibited similar expression across the two cell lines, upregulation of a number of signature proteins and enrichment of key components of SHH and WNT signaling pathways were uniquely observed in Daoy and UW228, respectively. The novel information on differentially expressed genes/proteins and enriched pathways provide insights into the biology of MB, which could help elucidate their subtype classification.
PXD005948	28249160	Loss of Snf5 Induces Formation of an Aberrant SWI/SNF Complex. 	Yeast SWI/SNF complex -  Loss of Snf5 Induces Formation of an Aberrant SWI/SNF Complex	SWI/SNF BS3 Crosslinking Architecture	The SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex is highly conserved from yeast to human, and aberrant SWI/SNF complexes contribute to human disease. The Snf5/SMARCB1/INI1 subunit of SWI/SNF is a tumor suppressor frequently lost in pediatric rhabdoid cancers. We examined the effects of Snf5 loss on the composition, nucleosome binding, recruitment, and remodeling activities of yeast SWI/SNF. The Snf5 subunit is shown by crosslinking-mass spectrometry (CX-MS) and subunit deletion analysis to interact with the ATPase domain of Snf2 and to form a submodule consisting of Snf5, Swp82, and Taf14. Snf5 promotes binding of the Snf2 ATPase domain to nucleosomal DNA and enhances the catalytic and nucleosome remodeling activities of SWI/SNF. Snf5 is also required for SWI/SNF recruitment by acidic transcription factors. RNA-seq analysis suggests that both the recruitment and remodeling functions of Snf5 are required in vivo for SWI/SNF regulation of gene expression. Thus, loss of SNF5 alters the structure and function of SWI/SNF.
PXD003023	28253354	Phycobilisome truncation causes widespread proteome changes in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. 	Phycobilisome mutant variants in Synechocystis species PCC 6803	CB, CK, PAL, Phycobilisome, iTRAQ, mutant study	In cyanobacteria such as Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, large antenna complexes called phycobilisomes (PBS) harvest light and transfer the energy to the photosynthetic reaction centers. Modification of the light harvesting machinery in cyanobacteria has widespread consequences, causing changes in cell morphology and physiology. In the current study, we investigated the effects of PBS truncation on the proteomes of three Synechocystis 6803 PBS antenna mutants. These range from the progressive truncation of phycocyanin rods in the CB and CK strains, to full removal of PBS in the PAL mutant. Comparative quantitative protein results revealed surprising changes in protein abundances in the mutant strains. Our results showed that PBS truncation in Synechocystis 6803 broadly impacted core cellular mechanisms beyond light harvesting and photosynthesis. Specifically, we observed dramatic alterations in membrane transport mechanisms, where the most severe PBS truncation in the PAL strain appeared to suppress the cellular utilization and regulation of bicarbonate and iron. These changes point to the role of PBS as a component critical to cell function, and demonstrate the continuing need to assess systems-wide protein based abundances to understand potential indirect phenotypic effects.
PXD005056	28253357	Quantitative proteomic analysis of Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes CECT5344 in response to industrial cyanide-containing wastewaters using Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry/Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). 	Quantitative proteomic analysis (LC-MS/MS) of Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes CECT5344 in response to industrial cyanide-containing wastewaters	Biodegradation, Pseudomonas, cyanide, heavy metals, jewelry residue	Biological treatments to degrade cyanide are a powerful technology for cyanide removal from industrial wastewaters. It has been previously demonstrated that the alkaliphilic bacterium Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes CECT5344 is able to use free cyanide and several metal-cyanide complexes as the sole nitrogen source. In this work, the strain CECT5344 has been used for detoxification of the different chemical forms of cyanide that are present in alkaline wastewaters from the jewelry industry. This liquid residue also contains large concentrations of metals like iron, copper and zinc, making this wastewater even more toxic. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved in the bioremediation process, a quantitative proteomic analysis by LC-MS/MS has been carried out in P. pseudoalcaligenes CECT5344 cells grown with the jewelry residue as sole nitrogen source. Different proteins related to cyanide and cyanate assimilation, as well as other proteins involved in transport and resistance to metals were induced by the cyanide-containing jewelry residue. GntR-like regulatory proteins were also induced by this industrial residue and mutational analysis revealed that GntR-like regulatory proteins may play a role in the regulation of cyanide assimilation in P. pseudoalcaligenes CECT5344. The strain CECT5344 has been used in a batch reactor to remove at pH 9 the different forms of cyanide present in industrial wastewaters from the jewelry industry (0.3 g/L, ca. 12 mM total cyanide, including both free cyanide and metal-cyanide complexes). This is the first report describing the biological removal at alkaline pH of such as elevated concentration of cyanide present in a heterogeneous mixture from an industrial source.
PXD005148	28253936	Simple discovery of bacterial biocatalysts from environmental samples through functional metaproteomics. 	Lipases from Metagenomic Sources	Biocatalysts, Lipases, Metagenomics, Metaproteomics	Bacterial biocatalysts play a key role in our transition to a bio-based, post-petroleum economy. However, the discovery of new biocatalysts is currently limited by our ability to analyze genomic information and our capacity of functionally screening for desired activities. Here, we present a simple workflow that combines functional metaproteomics and metagenomics, which facilitates the unmediated and direct discovery of biocatalysts in environmental samples. To identify the entirety of lipolytic biocatalysts in a soil sample contaminated with used cooking oil, we detected all proteins active against a fluorogenic substrate in sample's metaproteome using a 2D-gel zymogram. Enzymes' primary structures were then deduced by tryptic in-gel digest and mass spectrometry of the active protein spots, searching against a metagenome database created from the same contaminated soil sample. We then expressed one of the novel biocatalysts heterologously in Escherichia coli and obtained proof of lipolytic activity.
PXD005757	28254776	Accurate Quantification of Site-specific Acetylation Stoichiometry Reveals the Impact of Sirtuin Deacetylase CobB on the E. coli Acetylome. 	Accurate quantification of site-specific acetylation stoichiometry reveals the impact of sirtuin deacetylase CobB on the E. coli acetylome	Acetylation, CobB, E. coli, Sirtuin, stoichiometry	Lysine acetylation is a protein posttranslational modification (PTM) that occurs on thousands of lysine residues in diverse organisms from bacteria to humans. Accurate measurement of acetylation stoichiometry on a proteome-wide scale remains challenging. Most methods employ a comparison of chemically acetylated peptides to native acetylated peptides, however, the potentially large differences in abundance between these peptides presents a challenge for accurate quantification. Stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based mass spectrometry (MS) is one of the most widely used quantitative proteomic methods. Here we show that serial dilution of SILAC-labeled peptides (SD-SILAC) can be used to identify accurately quantified peptides and to estimate the quantification error rate. We applied SD-SILAC to determine absolute acetylation stoichiometry in exponentially-growing and stationary-phase wild-type and Sirtuin deacetylase CobB-deficient cells. To further analyze CobB-regulated sites under conditions of globally increased or decreased acetylation, we measured stoichiometry in phophotransacetylase (ptaDelta) and acetate kinase (ackADelta) mutant strains in the presence and absence of the Sirtuin inhibitor nicotinamide. We measured acetylation stoichiometry at 3,669 unique sites and found that the vast majority of acetylation occurred at a low stoichiometry. Manipulations that cause increased nonenzymatic acetylation by acetyl-phosphate (AcP), such as stationary-phase arrest and deletion of ackA, resulted in globally increased acetylation stoichiometry. Comparison to relative quantification under the same conditions validated our stoichiometry estimates at hundreds of sites, demonstrating the accuracy of our method. Similar to Sirtuin deacetylase 3 (SIRT3) in mitochondria, CobB suppressed acetylation to lower than median stoichiometry in WT, ptaDelta, and ackADelta cells. Together, our results provide a detailed view of acetylation stoichiometry in E. coli and suggest an evolutionarily conserved function of Sirtuin deacetylases in suppressing low stoichiometry acetylation.
PXD005814	28258195	Systematic Analysis of Cell-Type Differences in the Epithelial Secretome Reveals Insights into the Pathogenesis of Respiratory Syncytial Virus-Induced Lower Respiratory Tract Infections. 	Systematic Analysis of Cell-Type Differences in the Epithelial Secretome Reveals Insights Into Pathogenesis Of RSV-Induced Lower Respiratory Tract Infections	Lower respiratory tract, RSV, Secretome	Lower respiratory tract infections from respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) are due, in part, to secreted signals from lower airway cells that modify the immune response and trigger airway remodeling. To understand this process, we applied an unbiased quantitative proteomics analysis of the RSV-induced epithelial secretory response in cells representative of the trachea versus small airway bronchiolar cells. A workflow was established using telomerase-immortalized human epithelial cells that revealed highly reproducible cell type-specific differences in secreted proteins and nanoparticles (exosomes). Approximately one third of secretome proteins are exosomal; the remainder are from lysosomal and vacuolar compartments. We applied this workflow to three independently derived primary human cultures from trachea versus bronchioles. A total of 577 differentially expressed proteins from control supernatants and 966 differentially expressed proteins from RSV-infected cell supernatants were identified at a 1% false discovery rate. Fifteen proteins unique to RSV-infected primary human cultures from trachea were regulated by epithelial-specific ets homologous factor. A total of 106 proteins unique to RSV-infected human small airway epithelial cells was regulated by the transcription factor NF-kappaB. In this latter group, we validated the differential expression of CCL20/macrophage-inducible protein 3alpha, thymic stromal lymphopoietin, and CCL3-like 1 because of their roles in Th2 polarization. CCL20/macrophage-inducible protein 3alpha was the most active mucin-inducing factor in the RSV-infected human small airway epithelial cell secretome and was differentially expressed in smaller airways in a mouse model of RSV infection. These studies provide insights into the complexity of innate responses and regional differences in the epithelial secretome participating in RSV lower respiratory tract infection-induced airway remodeling.
PXD005421	28260372	Large-Scale Filter-Aided Sample Preparation Method for the Analysis of the Ubiquitinome. 	Large-scale filter-aided sample preparation method for the analysis of the ubiquitinome	LFASP, large-scale, portein digestion, post-translational modifications, ubiquitinome	Protein ubiquitination regulates key cellular functions, including protein homeostasis and signal transduction. The digestion of ubiquitinated proteins with trypsin yields a glycine-glycine remnant bound to the modified lysine residue (K-epsilon-GG) that can be recognized by specific antibodies for immunoaffinity purification (IAP) and subsequent identification of ubiquitination sites by mass spectrometry. Previous ubiquitinome studies based on this strategy have consistently digested milligram amounts of protein as starting material using in-solution digestion protocols prior to K-epsilon-GG enrichment. Filter-aided sample preparation (FASP) surpasses in-solution protein digestion in cleavage efficiency, but its performance has thus far been shown for digestion of sample amounts on the order of micrograms. Because cleavage efficiency is pivotal in the generation of the K-epsilon-GG epitope recognized during IAP, here we developed a large-scale FASP method (LFASP) for digestion of milligram amounts of protein and evaluated its applicability to the study of the ubiquitinome. Our results demonstrate that LFASP-based tryptic digestion is efficient, robust, reproducible, and applicable to the study of the ubiquitinome. We benchmark our results with state-of-the-art ubiquitinome studies and show a ~3-fold reduction in the proportion of miscleaved peptides with the method presented here. Beyond ubiquitinome analysis, LFASP overcomes the general limitation in sample capacity of standard FASP-based protocols and can therefore be used for a variety of applications that demand a large(r) amount of starting material.
PXD005192	28261056	Proteomic Analysis of Post-synaptic Density Fractions from Shank3 Mutant Mice Reveals Brain Region Specific Changes Relevant to Autism Spectrum Disorder. 	Unbiased proteomic analysis of postsynaptic density fractions from Shank3 mutant mice reveals brain region specific changes highly relevant to autism spectrum disorder	Shank3 mutants, hippocampus, postsynaptic density (PSD), striatum	Disruption of the human SHANK3 gene can cause several neuropsychiatric disease entities including Phelan-McDermid syndrome, autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and intellectual disability. Although, a wide array of neurobiological studies strongly supports a major role for SHANK3 in organizing the post-synaptic protein scaffold, the molecular processes at synapses of individuals harboring SHANK3 mutations are still far from being understood. In this study, we biochemically isolated the post-synaptic density (PSD) fraction from striatum and hippocampus of adult Shank3Delta11(-/-) mutant mice and performed ion-mobility enhanced data-independent label-free LC-MS/MS to obtain the corresponding PSD proteomes (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005192). This unbiased approach to identify molecular disturbances at Shank3 mutant PSDs revealed hitherto unknown brain region specific alterations including a striatal decrease of several molecules encoded by ASD susceptibility genes such as the serine/threonine kinase Cdkl5 and the potassium channel KCa1.1. Being the first comprehensive analysis of brain region specific PSD proteomes from a Shank3 mutant line, our study provides crucial information on molecular alterations that could foster translational treatment studies for SHANK3 mutation-associated synaptopathies and possibly also ASD in general.
PXD010917	28261998	Use of a Targeted Urine Proteome Assay (TUPA) to identify protein biomarkers of delayed recovery after kidney transplant. 	TUPA0002 (Williams et al. 2017)	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	PURPOSE: Development of delayed graft function (DGF) following kidney transplant is associated with poor outcomes. An ability to rapidly identify patients with DGF versus those with immediate graft function (IGF) may facilitate the treatment of DGF and the research needed to improve prognosis. The purpose of this study was to use a Targeted Urine Proteome Assay to identify protein biomarkers of delayed recovery from kidney transplant. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Potential biomarkers were identified using the Targeted Urine Proteome (MRM) Assay to interrogate the relative DGF/IGF levels of expression of 167 proteins in urine taken 12-18 h after kidney implantation from 21 DGF, 15 SGF (slow graft function), and 16 IGF patients. An iterative Random Forest analysis approach evaluated the relative importance of each biomarker, which was then used to identify an optimum biomarker panel that provided the maximum sensitivity and specificity with the least number of biomarkers. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Four proteins were identified that together distinguished DGF with a sensitivity of 77.4%, specificity of 82.6%, and AUC of 0.891. This panel represents an important step toward identifying DGF at an early stage so that more effective treatments can be developed to improve long-term graft outcomes.
PXD004352	28263321	Social network architecture of human immune cells unveiled by quantitative proteomics. 	Social Network Architecture of Human Immune Cells Unveiled by Quantitative Proteomics	Human Immune Cells, Intercellular Communication, Systems Immunology	The immune system is unique in its dynamic interplay between numerous cell types. However, a system-wide view of how immune cells communicate to protect against disease has not yet been established. We applied high-resolution mass-spectrometry-based proteomics to characterize 28 primary human hematopoietic cell populations in steady and activated states at a depth of >10,000 proteins in total. Protein copy numbers revealed a specialization of immune cells for ligand and receptor expression, thereby connecting distinct immune functions. By integrating total and secreted proteomes, we discovered fundamental intercellular communication structures and previously unknown connections between cell types. Our publicly accessible (http://www.immprot.org/) proteomic resource provides a framework for the orchestration of cellular interplay and a reference for altered communication associated with pathology.
PXD005021	28265047	Human Immunoglobulin Heavy Gamma Chain Polymorphisms: Molecular Confirmation Of Proteomic Assessment. 	Human immunoglobulin heavy gamma chain polymorphisms: molecular confirmation of proteomic assessment	Allotype, Fc fragment, IGHG, IMGT, IgG, allele, newborn, parasitic infection, serological diagnosis	Immunoglobulin G (IgG) proteins are known for the huge diversity of the variable domains of their heavy and light chains, aimed at protecting each individual against foreign antigens. The IgG also harbor specific polymorphism concentrated in the CH2 and CH3-CHS constant regions located on the Fc fragment of their heavy chains. But this individual particularity relies only on a few amino acids among which some could make accurate sequence determination a challenge for mass spectrometry-based techniques.The purpose of the study was to bring a molecular validation of proteomic results by the sequencing of encoding DNA fragments. It was performed using ten individual samples (DNA and sera) selected on the basis of their Gm (gamma marker) allotype polymorphism in order to cover the main immunoglobulin heavy gamma (IGHG) gene diversity. Gm allotypes, reflecting part of this diversity, were determined by a serological method. On its side, the IGH locus comprises four functional IGHG genes totalizing 34 alleles and encoding the four IgG subclasses. The genomic study focused on the nucleotide polymorphism of the CH2 and CH3-CHS exons and of the intron. Despite strong sequence identity, four pairs of specific gene amplification primers could be designed. Additional primers were identified to perform the subsequent sequencing. The nucleotide sequences obtained were first assigned to a specific IGHG gene, and then IGHG alleles were deduced using a home-made decision tree reading of the nucleotide sequences. IGHG amino acid (AA) alleles were determined by mass spectrometry. Identical results were found at 95% between alleles identified by proteomics and those deduced from genomics. These results validate the proteomic approach which could be used for diagnostic purposes, namely for a mother-and-child differential IGHG detection in a context of suspicion of congenital infection.
PXD004940	28266123	Evaluation of different peptide fragmentation types and mass analyzers in data-dependent methods using an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos Tribrid mass spectrometer. 	Performance of the Orbitrap Fusion Lumos Tribrid in single-shot analyses of human samples	Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, Protein quantitation, phosphorylation, protein identification	One of the major additions in MS technology has been the irruption of the Orbitrap mass analyzer, which has boosted the proteomics analyses of biological complex samples since its introduction. Here, we took advantage of the capabilities of the new Orbitrap Fusion Lumos Tribrid mass spectrometer to assess the performance of different data-dependent acquisition methods for the identification and quantitation of peptides and phosphopeptides in single-shot analysis of human whole cell lysates. Our study explored the capabilities of tri-hibrid mass spectrometers for (phospho-) peptide identification and quantitation using different gradient lengths, sample amounts, and combinations of different peptide fragmentation types and mass analyzers. Moreover, the acquisition of the same complex sample with different acquisition methods resulted in the generation of a dataset to be used as a reference for further analyses, and a starting point for future optimizations in particular applications.
PXD004749	28267312	Quirks of Error Estimation in Cross-Linking/Mass Spectrometry. 	Cross-Linked/Mass-spectrometry analysis of RNA-Polimerase II	FDR, PolII, cross-linking	Cross-linking/mass spectrometry is an increasingly popular approach to obtain structural information on proteins and their complexes in solution. However, methods for error assessment are under current development. We note that false-discovery rates can be estimated at different points during data analysis, and are most relevant for residue or protein pairs. Missing this point led in our example analysis to an actual 8.4% error when 5% error was targeted. In addition, prefiltering of peptide-spectrum matches and of identified peptide pairs substantially improved results. In our example, this prefiltering increased the number of residue pairs (5% FDR) by 33% (n = 108 to n = 144). This number improvement did not come at the expense of reduced accuracy as the added data agreed with an available crystal structure. We provide an open-source tool, xiFDR ( https://github.com/rappsilberlab/xiFDR ), that implements our observations for routine application. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004749.
PXD004902	28267743	A large-scale targeted proteomics assay resource based on an in vitro human proteome. 	Matsumoto_Verification of MRM assays using in vitro proteome	MRM verification	Targeted proteomics approaches are of value for deep and accurate quantification of protein abundance. Extending such methods to quantify large numbers of proteins requires the construction of predefined targeted assays. We developed a targeted proteomics platform-in vitro proteome-assisted multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) for protein absolute quantification (iMPAQT)-by using >18,000 human recombinant proteins, thus enabling protein absolute quantification on a genome-wide scale. Our platform comprises experimentally confirmed MRM assays of mass tag (mTRAQ)-labeled peptides to allow for rapid and straightforward measurement of the absolute abundance of predefined sets of proteins by mass spectrometry. We applied iMPAQT to delineate the quantitative metabolic landscape of normal and transformed human fibroblasts. Oncogenic transformation gave rise to relatively small but global changes in metabolic pathways resulting in aerobic glycolysis (Warburg effect) and increased rates of macromolecule synthesis. iMPAQT should facilitate quantitative biology studies based on protein abundance measurements.
PXD005861	28268116	Key metabolic traits of Pisum sativum maintain cell vitality during Didymella pinodes infection: cultivar resistance and the microsymbionts' influence. 	Tripartite symbiosis formed by Pisum sativum, rhizobia and mycorrhiza: Implications for the symbionts, the host plant and the pathogenic fungi	Mycosphaerella pinodes, ascochyta blight, field pea, legume, metabolomics, metabolomicsField pea, mycorrhiza, pathogen, rhizobia	Ascochyta blight causes severe losses in field pea production and the search for resistance traits towards the causal agent Didymella pinodes is of particular importance for farmers. Various microsymbionts have been reported to shape the plants' immune response. However, regardless their contribution to resistance, they are hardly included in experimental designs. We delineate the effect of symbionts (rhizobia, mycorrhiza) on the leaf proteome and metabolome of two field pea cultivars with varying resistance levels against D. pinodes and, furthermore, show cultivar specific symbiont colonisation efficiency. The pathogen infection showed a stronger influence on the interaction with the microsymbionts in the susceptible cultivar, which was reflected in decreased nodule weight and root mycorrhiza colonisation. Vice versa, symbionts induced variation of the host's infection response which, however, was overruled by genotypic resistance associated traits of the tolerant cultivar such as maintenance of photosynthesis and provision of sugars and carbon back bones to fuel secondary metabolism. Moreover, resistance appears to be linked to sulphur metabolism, a functional glutathione-ascorbate hub and fine adjustment of jasmonate and ethylene synthesis to suppress induced cell death. We conclude that these metabolic traits are essential for sustainment of cell vitality and thus, a more efficient infection response. SIGNIFICANCE: The infection response of two Pisum sativum cultivars with varying resistance levels towards Didymella pinodes was analysed most comprehensively at proteomic and metabolomic levels. Enhanced tolerance was linked to newly discovered cultivar specific metabolic traits such as hormone synthesis and presumably suppression of cell death.
PXD002980	28270225	Post-transcriptional regulation of fruit ripening and disease resistance in tomato by the vacuolar protease SlVPE3. 	Tomato quantitative proteome	tomato	BACKGROUND: Proteases represent one of the most abundant classes of enzymes in eukaryotes and are known to play key roles in many biological processes in plants. However, little is known about their functions in fruit ripening and disease resistance, which are unique to flowering plants and required for seed maturation and dispersal. Elucidating the genetic mechanisms of fruit ripening and disease resistance is an important goal given the biological and dietary significance of fruit. RESULTS: Through expression profile analyses of genes encoding tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) cysteine proteases, we identify a number of genes whose expression increases during fruit ripening. RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated repression of SlVPE3, a vacuolar protease gene, results in alterations in fruit pigmentation, lycopene biosynthesis, and ethylene production, suggesting that SlVPE3 is necessary for normal fruit ripening. Surprisingly, the SlVPE3 RNAi fruit are more susceptible to the necrotrophic pathogen Botrytis cinerea. Quantitative proteomic analysis identified 314 proteins that differentially accumulate upon SlVPE3 silencing, including proteins associated with fruit ripening and disease resistance. To identify the direct SlVPE3 targets and mechanisms contributing to fungal pathogen resistance, we perform a screening of SlVPE3-interacting proteins using co-immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry. We show that SlVPE3 is required for the cleavage of the serine protease inhibitor KTI4, which contributes to resistance against the fungal pathogen B. cinerea. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings contribute to elucidating gene regulatory networks and mechanisms that control fruit ripening and disease resistance responses.
PXD004296	28270554	Identifying protein kinase-specific effectors of the osmostress response in yeast. 	Identifying protein kinase specific effectors of the osmostress response in yeast_part3	Hog1, Kinase, MAPK, MS shotgun, Phosphorylation, Rck2, Saccharomyces cerevisiae	The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae reacts to increased external osmolarity by modifying many cellular processes. Adaptive signaling relies primarily on the high-osmolarity glycerol (HOG) pathway, which is closely related to the mammalian p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway in core architecture. To identify target proteins of the MAPK Hog1, we designed a mass spectrometry-based high-throughput experiment to measure the impact of Hog1 activation or inhibition on the Scerevisiae phosphoproteome. In addition, we analyzed how deletion of RCK2, which encodes a known effector protein kinase target of Hog1, modulated osmotic stress-induced phosphorylation. Our results not only provide an overview of the diversity of cellular functions that are directly and indirectly affected by the activity of the HOG pathway but also enabled an assessment of the Hog1-independent events that occur under osmotic stress conditions. We extended the number of putative Hog1 direct targets by analyzing the modulation of motifs consisting of serine or threonine followed by a proline (S/T-P motif) and subsequently validated these with an in vivo interaction assay. Rck2 appears to act as a central hub for many Hog1-mediated secondary phosphorylation events. This study clarifies many of the direct and indirect effects of HOG signaling and its stress-adaptive functions.
PXD005214	28270605	Phosphoproteins in extracellular vesicles as candidate markers for breast cancer. 	Phosphoproteins in extracellular vehicles as candidate markers for breast cancer	Extracellular vesicles, biomarker, phosphoproteomics, plasma	The state of protein phosphorylation can be a key determinant of cellular physiology such as early-stage cancer, but the development of phosphoproteins in biofluids for disease diagnosis remains elusive. Here we demonstrate a strategy to isolate and identify phosphoproteins in extracellular vesicles (EVs) from human plasma as potential markers to differentiate disease from healthy states. We identified close to 10,000 unique phosphopeptides in EVs isolated from small volumes of plasma samples. Using label-free quantitative phosphoproteomics, we identified 144 phosphoproteins in plasma EVs that are significantly higher in patients diagnosed with breast cancer compared with healthy controls. Several biomarkers were validated in individual patients using paralleled reaction monitoring for targeted quantitation. This study demonstrates that the development of phosphoproteins in plasma EV as disease biomarkers is highly feasible and may transform cancer screening and monitoring.
PXD005615	28270628	Temperature-Induced Remodeling of the Photosynthetic Machinery Tunes Photosynthesis in the Thermophilic Alga Cyanidioschyzon merolae. 	Temperature induced remodeling of the photosynthetic machinery of the red alga Cyanidioschyzon merolae	Cyanidioschyzon merolae, acclimation, photosystems, red algae	The thermophilic alga C. merolae thrives in extreme environments (low pH and temperature between 40degreesC and 56degreesC). In this study, we investigated the acclimation process of the alga to a colder temperature (25degreesC). A long-term cell growth experiment revealed an extensive remodeling of the photosynthetic apparatus in the first 250 h of acclimation, which was followed by cell growth to an even higher density than the control (grown at 42degreesC) cell density. Once the cells were shifted to the lower temperature, the proteins of the light-harvesting antenna were greatly down-regulated and the phycobilisome composition was altered. The amount of PSI and PSII subunits was also decreased, but the chlorophyll to photosystems ratio remained unchanged. The 25degreesC cells possessed a less efficient photon-to-oxygen conversion rate and require a 2.5 times higher light intensity to reach maximum photosynthetic efficiency. With respect to chlorophyll, however, the photosynthetic oxygen evolution rate of the 25degreesC culture was 2 times higher than the control. Quantitative proteomics revealed that acclimation requires, besides remodeling of the photosynthetic apparatus, also adjustment of the machinery for protein folding, degradation, and homeostasis. In summary, these remodeling processes tuned photosynthesis according to the demands placed on the system and revealed the capability of C. merolae to grow under a broad range of temperatures.
PXD004562	28271981	Understanding Epstein-Barr Virus Life Cycle with Proteomics: A Temporal Analysis of Ubiquitination During Virus Reactivation. 	Temporal Analysis of Cell Protein Ubiquitination during Epstein-Barr Virus Reactivation by BCR Cross-linking	Apoptosis, BCR, Epstein Barr virus, Reactivation, SILAC, Ubiquitination	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a human gamma-herpesvirus associated with cancer, including Burkitt lymphoma, nasopharyngeal, and gastric carcinoma. EBV reactivation in latently infected B cells is essential for persistent infection whereby B cell receptor (BCR) activation is a physiologically relevant stimulus. Yet, a global view of BCR activation-regulated protein ubiquitination is lacking when EBV is actively replicating. We report here, for the first time, the long-term effects of IgG cross-linking-regulated protein ubiquitination and offer a basis for dissecting the cellular environment during the course of EBV lytic replication. Using the Akata-BX1 (EBV(+)) and Akata-4E3 (EBV(-)) Burkitt lymphoma cells, we monitored the dynamic changes in protein ubiquitination using quantitative proteomics. We observed temporal alterations in the level of ubiquitination at ~150 sites in both EBV(+) and EBV(-) B cells post-IgG cross-linking, compared with controls with no cross-linking. The majority of protein ubiquitination was downregulated. The upregulated ubiquitination events were associated with proteins involved in RNA processing. Among the downregulated ubiquitination events were proteins involved in apoptosis, ubiquitination, and DNA repair. These comparative and quantitative proteomic observations represent the first analysis on the effects of IgG cross-linking at later time points when the majority of EBV genes are expressed and the viral genome is actively being replicated. In all, these data enhance our understanding of mechanistic linkages connecting protein ubiquitination, RNA processing, apoptosis, and the EBV life cycle.
PXD005717	28273461	Integrin Beta 3 Regulates Cellular Senescence by Activating the TGF-beta Pathway. 	Integrin beta 3 regulates cellular senescence by activating the TGFbeta pathway	CBX7, SILAC, senescence	Cellular senescence is an important in vivo mechanism that prevents the propagation of damaged cells. However, the precise mechanisms regulating senescence are not well characterized. Here, we find that ITGB3 (integrin beta 3 or beta3) is regulated by the Polycomb protein CBX7. beta3 expression accelerates the onset of senescence in human primary fibroblasts by activating the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) pathway in a cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomous manner. beta3 levels are dynamically increased during oncogene-induced senescence (OIS) through CBX7 Polycomb regulation, and downregulation of beta3 levels overrides OIS and therapy-induced senescence (TIS), independently of its ligand-binding activity. Moreover, cilengitide, an alphavbeta3 antagonist, has the ability to block the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) without affecting proliferation. Finally, we show an increase in beta3 levels in a subset of tissues during aging. Altogether, our data show that integrin beta3 subunit is a marker and regulator of senescence.
PXD003538	28275217	Identification of Proteins Interacting with Cytoplasmic High-Mobility Group Box 1 during the Hepatocellular Response to Ischemia Reperfusion Injury. 	Identification of proteins interacting with cytoplasmic high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) during the hepatocellular response to ischemia reperfusion injury	2D-GE, HMGB1, LC-MS, ischemia	Ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) occurs inevitably in liver transplantations and frequently during major resections, and can lead to liver dysfunction as well as systemic disorders. High-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) plays a pathogenic role in hepatic IRI. In the normal liver, HMGB1 is located in the nucleus of hepatocytes; after ischemia reperfusion, it translocates to the cytoplasm and it is further released to the extracellular space. Unlike the well-explored functions of nuclear and extracellular HMGB1, the role of cytoplasmic HMGB1 in hepatic IRI remains elusive. We hypothesized that cytoplasmic HMGB1 interacts with binding proteins involved in the hepatocellular response to IRI. In this study, binding proteins of cytoplasmic HMGB1 during hepatic IRI were identified. Liver tissues from rats with warm ischemia reperfusion (WI/R) injury and from normal rats were subjected to cytoplasmic protein extraction. Co-immunoprecipitation using these protein extracts was performed to enrich HMGB1-protein complexes. To separate and identify the immunoprecipitated proteins in eluates, 2-dimensional electrophoresis and subsequent mass spectrometry detection were performed. Two of the identified proteins were verified using Western blotting: betaine-homocysteine S-methyltransferase 1 (BHMT) and cystathionine gamma-lyase (CTH). Therefore, our results revealed the binding of HMGB1 to BHMT and CTH in cytoplasm during hepatic WI/R. This finding may help to better understand the cellular response to IRI in the liver and to identify novel molecular targets for reducing ischemic injury.
PXD005265	28275586	Colistin Resistance in Acinetobacter baumannii MDR-ZJ06 Revealed by a Multiomics Approach. 	Colistin resistance in Acinetobacter baumannii MDR-ZJ06 revealed by a multiomics approach	acinetobacter baumannii, colistin	Acinetobacter baumannii has emerged as an important opportunistic pathogen due to its ability to acquire resistance to most currently available antibiotics. Colistin is often considered as the last line of therapy for infections caused by multidrug-resistant A. baumannii (MDRAB). However, colistin-resistant A. baumannii strain has recently been reported. To explore how multiple drug-resistant A. baumannii responded to colistin resistance, we compared the genomic, transcriptional and proteomic profile of A. baumannii MDR-ZJ06 to the induced colistin-resistant strain ZJ06-200P5-1. Genomic analysis showed that lpxC was inactivated by ISAba1 insertion, leading to LPS loss. Transcriptional analysis demonstrated that the colistin-resistant strain regulated its metabolism. Proteomic analysis suggested increased expression of the RND efflux pump system and down-regulation of FabZ and beta-lactamase. These alterations were believed to be response to LPS loss. In summary, the lpxC mutation not only established colistin resistance but also altered global gene expression.
PXD004888	28285095	Quantitative proteomic analysis of extracellular matrix extracted from mono- and dual-species biofilms of Fusobacterium nucleatum and Porphyromonas gingivalis. 	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Extracellular Matrix Extracted from Mono- and Dual-Species Biofilms of Fusobacterium nucleatum and Porphyromonas gingivalis	Bacterial biofilms, Fusobacterium nucleatum, Porphyromonas gingivalis, extracellular polymeric matrix, label-free quantitative tandem mass spectrometry, proteomics.	The Gram-negative bacteria Fusobacterium nucleatum and Porphyromonas gingivalis are members of a complex dental biofilm associated with periodontal disease. In this study, we cultured F. nucleatum and P. gingivalis as mono- and dual-species biofilms, and analyzed the protein composition of the biofilms extracellular polymeric matrix (EPM) by high-resolution liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis was used for identification of proteins and sequence-based functional characterization for their classification and prediction of possible roles in EPM. We identified 542, 93 and 280 proteins in the matrix of F. nucleatum, P. gingivalis, and the dual-species biofilm, respectively. Nearly 70% of all EPM proteins in the dual-species biofilm originated from F. nucleatum, and a majority of these were cytoplasmic proteins, suggesting an enhanced lysis of F. nucleatum cells. The proteomic analysis also indicated an interaction between the two species: 22 F. nucleatum proteins showed differential levels between the mono and dual-species EPMs, and 11 proteins (8 and 3 from F. nucleatum and P. gingivalis, respectively) were exclusively detected in the dual-species EPM. Oxidoreductases and chaperones were among the most abundant proteins identified in all three EPMs. The biofilm matrices in addition contained several known and hypothetical virulence proteins, which can mediate adhesion to the host cells and disintegration of the periodontal tissues. This study demonstrated that the biofilm matrix of two important periodontal pathogens consists of a multitude of proteins whose amounts and functionalities vary largely. Relatively high levels of several of the detected proteins might facilitate their potential use as targets for the inhibition of biofilm development.
PXD004367	28285833	Integrative Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Profiling Reveals Dynamic Signaling Networks and Bioenergetics Pathways Underlying T Cell Activation. 	Integrative proteomics and phosphoproteomics profiling and systems biology analysis reveal dynamic signaling networks and mTORC1-dependent mitochondrial function in T cell activation	Rptor, T cell activation, mTORC1, mitochondrial function, phosphoproteomics, system biology	The molecular circuits by which antigens activate quiescent T cells remain poorly understood. We combined temporal profiling of the whole proteome and phosphoproteome via multiplexed isobaric labeling proteomics technology, computational pipelines for integrating multi-omics datasets, and functional perturbation to systemically reconstruct regulatory networks underlying T cell activation. T cell receptors activated the T cell proteome and phosphoproteome with discrete kinetics, marked by early dynamics of phosphorylation and delayed ribosome biogenesis and mitochondrial activation. Systems biology analyses identified multiple functional modules, active kinases, transcription factors and connectivity between them, and mitochondrial pathways including mitoribosomes and complex IV. Genetic perturbation revealed physiological roles for mitochondrial enzyme COX10-mediated oxidative phosphorylation in T cell quiescence exit. Our multi-layer proteomics profiling, integrative network analysis, and functional studies define landscapes of the T cell proteome and phosphoproteome and reveal signaling and bioenergetics pathways that mediate lymphocyte exit from quiescence.
PXD005666	28286877	IL-22 Controls Iron-Dependent Nutritional Immunity Against Systemic Bacterial Infections. 	IL-22 Controls Iron-Dependent Nutritional Immunity Against Systemic Bacterial Infections	IL-22, bacterial infection, hemopexin	Host immunity limits iron availability to pathogenic bacteria, but whether immunity limits pathogenic bacteria from accessing host heme, the major source of iron in the body, remains unclear. Using Citrobacter rodentium, a mouse enteric pathogen and Escherichia coli, a major cause of sepsis in humans as models, we find that interleukin-22, a cytokine best known for its ability to promote epithelial barrier function, also suppresses the systemic growth of bacteria by limiting iron availability to the pathogen. Using an unbiased proteomic approach to understand the mechanistic basis of IL-22 dependent iron retention in the host, we have identified that IL-22 induces the production of the plasma hemoglobin scavenger haptoglobin and heme scavenger hemopexin. Moreover, the anti-microbial effect of IL-22 depends on the induction of hemopexin expression, while haptogloblin is dispensable. Impaired pathogen clearance in infected Il22(-/-) mice was restored by hemopexin administration and hemopexin-deficient mice had increased pathogen loads after infection. These studies reveal a previously unrecognized host defense mechanism regulated by IL-22 that relies on the induction of hemopexin to limit heme availability to bacteria leading to suppression of bacterial growth during systemic infections.
PXD005390	28287265	Glycoproteins in Claudin-Low Breast Cancer Cell Lines Have a Unique Expression Profile. 	N-Linked Glycoprotein Profiles of Human Breast Luminal Malignant Cell Lines	Breast, Cell Line, Glycoprotein, Luminal, N-Linked	Claudin proteins are components of epithelial tight junctions; a subtype of breast cancer has been defined by the reduced expression of mRNA for claudins and other genes. Here, we characterize the expression of glycoproteins in breast cell lines for the claudin-low subtype using liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. Unsupervised clustering techniques reveal a group of claudin-low cell lines that is distinct from nonmalignant, basal, and luminal lines. The claudin-low cell lines express F11R, EPCAM, and other proteins at very low levels, whereas CD44 is expressed at a high level. Comparison of mRNA expression to glycoprotein expression shows modest correlation; the best agreement occurs when the mRNA expression level is lowest and little or no protein is detected. These findings from cell lines are compared to those for tumor samples by the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC). The CPTAC samples contain a group low in CLDN3. The samples low in CLDN3 proteins share many differentially expressed glycoproteins with the claudin-low cell lines. In contrast to the situation for cell lines or patient samples classified as claudin-low by RNA expression, however, most of the tumor samples low in CLDN3 protein express the estrogen receptor or HER2. These tumor samples express CD44 protein at low rather than high levels. There is no correlation between CLDN3 gene expression and protein expression in these CPTAC samples; hence, the claudin-low subtype defined by gene expression is not the same group of tumors as that defined by low expression of CLDN3 protein.
PXD005925	28287266	Identifications of Putative PKA Substrates with Quantitative Phosphoproteomics and Primary-Sequence-Based Scoring. 	Identifications of protein kinase A substrates with quantitative phosphoproteomics and primary-sequence based scoring.(H-89)	H-89, HeLa, PKA, TMT	Protein kinase A (PKA or cAMP-dependent protein kinase) is a serine/threonine kinase that plays essential roles in the regulation of proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. To better understand the functions of PKA, it is necessary to elucidate the direct interplay between PKA and their substrates in living human cells. To identify kinase target substrates in a high-throughput manner, we first quantified the change of phosphoproteome in the cells of which PKA activity was perturbed by drug stimulations. LC-MS/MS analyses identified 2755 and 3191 phosphopeptides from experiments with activator or inhibitor of PKA. To exclude potential indirect targets of PKA, we built a computational model to characterize the kinase sequence specificity toward the substrate target site based on known kinase-substrate relationships. Finally, by combining the sequence recognition model with the quantitative changes in phosphorylation measured in the two drug perturbation experiments, we identified 29 reliable candidates of PKA targeting residues in living cells including 8 previously known substrates. Moreover, 18 of these sites were confirmed to be site-specifically phosphorylated in vitro. Altogether this study proposed a confident list of PKA substrate candidates, expanding our knowledge of PKA signaling network.
PXD005825	28289176	Quantitative Proteomic Approach Identifies Vpr Binding Protein as Novel Host Factor Supporting Influenza A Virus Infections in Human Cells. 	Quantitative proteomic approach identifies Vpr binding protein as novel host factor supporting influenza A virus infections in human cells	Influenza, Vprbp, quantitative proteomics	Influenza A virus (IAV) infections are a major cause for respiratory disease in humans, which affects all age groups and contributes substantially to global morbidity and mortality. IAV have a large natural host reservoir in avian species. However, many avian IAV strains lack adaptation to other hosts and hardly propagate in humans. While seasonal or pandemic IAV strains replicate efficiently in permissive human cells, many avian IAV cause abortive nonproductive infections in these hosts despite successful cell entry. However, the precise reasons for these differential outcomes are poorly defined. We hypothesized that the distinct course of an IAV infection with a given virus strain is determined by the differential interplay between specific host and viral factors. By using Spike-in SILAC mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics we characterized sets of cellular factors whose abundance is specifically up- or downregulated in the course of permissive versus nonpermissive IAV infection, respectively. This approach allowed for the definition and quantitative comparison of about 3500 proteins in human lung epithelial cells in response to seasonal or low-pathogenic avian H3N2 IAV. Many identified proteins were similarly regulated by both virus strains, but also 16 candidates with distinct changes in permissive versus nonpermissive infection were found. RNAi-mediated knockdown of these differentially regulated host factors identified Vpr binding protein (VprBP) as proviral host factor because its downregulation inhibited efficient propagation of seasonal IAV whereas overexpression increased viral replication of both seasonal and avian IAV. These results not only show that there are similar differences in the overall changes during permissive and nonpermissive influenza virus infections, but also provide a basis to evaluate VprBP as novel anti-IAV drug target.
PXD000861	28290473	Phosphoproteomics Reveals HMGA1, a CK2 Substrate, as a Drug-Resistant Target in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. 	Phosphopattern Predicts CK2 Substrate, HMGA1, as a Drug Resistant Target for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer	CK2, Drug resistance, HMGA1, IMAC, lung cancer, phosphoproteome	Although EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have demonstrated good efficacy in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients harboring EGFR mutations, most patients develop intrinsic and acquired resistance. We quantitatively profiled the phosphoproteome and proteome of drug-sensitive and drug-resistant NSCLC cells under gefitinib treatment. The construction of a dose-dependent responsive kinase-substrate network of 1548 phosphoproteins and 3834 proteins revealed CK2-centric modules as the dominant core network for the potential gefitinib resistance-associated proteins. CK2 knockdown decreased cell survival in gefitinib-resistant NSCLCs. Using motif analysis to identify the CK2 core sub-network, we verified that elevated phosphorylation level of a CK2 substrate, HMGA1 was a critical node contributing to EGFR-TKI resistance in NSCLC cell. Both HMGA1 knockdown or mutation of the CK2 phosphorylation site, S102, of HMGA1 reinforced the efficacy of gefitinib in resistant NSCLC cells through reactivation of the downstream signaling of EGFR. Our results delineate the TKI resistance-associated kinase-substrate network, suggesting a potential therapeutic strategy for overcoming TKI-induced resistance in NSCLC.
PXD005309	28292441	SPOP Mutation Drives Prostate Tumorigenesis In Vivo through Coordinate Regulation of PI3K/mTOR and AR Signaling. 	SPOP mutation -  SPOP Mutation Drives Prostate Tumorigenesis InVivo through Coordinate Regulation of PI3K/mTOR and AR Signaling	SPOP, cancer, mutation, prostate	Recurrent point mutations in SPOP define a distinct molecular subclass of prostate cancer. Here, we describe a mouse model showing that mutant SPOP drives prostate tumorigenesis in vivo. Conditional expression of mutant SPOP in the prostate dramatically altered phenotypes in the setting of Pten loss, with early neoplastic lesions (high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia) with striking nuclear atypia and invasive, poorly differentiated carcinoma. In mouse prostate organoids, mutant SPOP drove increased proliferation and a transcriptional signature consistent with human prostate cancer. Using these models and human prostate cancer samples, we show that SPOP mutation activates both PI3K/mTOR and androgen receptor signaling, effectively uncoupling the normal negative feedback between these two pathways.
PXD003682	28295016	Global Insight into Lysine Acetylation Events and Their Links to Biological Aspects in Beauveria bassiana, a Fungal Insect Pathogen. 	Systematic analysis of the lysine acetylome in Beauveria bassiana	Entomopathogenic fungi, acetylome, asexual development, lysine acetylation, stress responses	Lysine acetylation (Kac) events in filamentous fungi are poorly explored. Here we show a lysine acetylome generated by LC-MS/MS analysis of immunoaffinity-based Kac peptides from normal hyphal cells of Beauveria bassiana, a fungal entomopathogen. The acetylome comprised 283 Kac proteins and 464 Kac sites. These proteins were enriched to eight molecular functions, 20 cellular components, 27 biological processes, 20 KEGG pathways and 12 subcellular localizations. All Kac sites were characterized as six Kac motifs, including a novel motif (KacW) for 26 Kac sites of 17 unknown proteins. Many Kac sites were predicted to be multifunctional, largely expanding the fungal Kac events. Biological importance of identified Kac sites was confirmed through functional analysis of Kac sites on Pmt1 and Pmt4, two O-mannosyltransferases. Singular site mutations (K88R and K482R) of Pmt1 resulted in impaired conidiation, attenuated virulence and decreased tolerance to oxidation and cell wall perturbation. These defects were close to or more severe than those caused by the deletion of pmt1. The Pmt4 K360R mutation facilitated colony growth under normal and stressful conditions and enhanced the fungal virulence. Our findings provide the first insight into the Kac events of B. bassiana and their links to the fungal potential against insect pests.
PXD005600	28295753	Identification of STN7/STN8 kinase targets reveals connections between electron transport, metabolism and gene expression. 	Identification of new Stn7/Stn8 kinase targets reveals crosstalk between electron transport, carbohydrate metabolism and gene expression	chloroplast, kinase mutant, phosphoproteomics, shotgun proteomics	The thylakoid-associated kinases STN7 and STN8 are involved in short- and long-term acclimation of photosynthetic electron transport to changing light conditions. Here we report the identification of STN7/STN8 in vivo targets that connect photosynthetic electron transport with metabolism and gene expression. Comparative phosphoproteomics with the stn7 and stn8 single and double mutants identified two proteases, one RNA-binding protein, a ribosomal protein, the large subunit of Rubisco and a ferredoxin-NADP reductase as targets for the thylakoid-associated kinases. Phosphorylation of three of the above proteins can be partially complemented by STN8 in the stn7 single mutant, albeit at lower efficiency, while phosphorylation of the remaining three proteins strictly depends on STN7. The properties of the STN7-dependent phosphorylation site are similar to those of phosphorylated light-harvesting complex proteins entailing glycine or another small hydrophobic amino acid in the -1 position. Our analysis uncovers the STN7/STN8 kinases as mediators between photosynthetic electron transport, its immediate downstream sinks and long-term adaptation processes affecting metabolite accumulation and gene expression.
PXD005792	28298358	Identification of beta-catenin-interacting proteins in nuclear fractions of native rat collecting duct cells. 	Identification of beta-Catenin-Interacting Proteins in Nuclei of Aquaporin-2-Expressing Rat Collecting Duct Cells	aquaporin-2, kidney, transcription, transcriptional co-regulator	The gene encoding the aquaporin-2 water channel is regulated transcriptionally in response to vasopressin. In the renal collecting duct, vasopressin stimulates the nuclear translocation and phosphorylation (at Ser(552)) of beta-catenin, a multifunctional protein that acts as a transcriptional coregulator in the nucleus. The purpose of this study was to identify beta-catenin-interacting proteins that might be involved in transcriptional regulation in rat inner medullary collecting duct (IMCD) cells, using experimental and computational approaches. We used a standard chromatin immunoprecipitation procedure coupled to mass spectrometry (ChIP-MS) in a nuclear fraction isolated from rat IMCD suspensions. Over four biological replicates, we reproducibly identified 43 beta-catenin-binding proteins, including several known beta-catenin-binding partners as well as novel interacting proteins. Multiple proteins involved in transcriptional regulation were identified (Taf1, Jup, Tdrd3, Cdh1, Cenpj, and several histones). Many of the identified beta-catenin-binding partners were found in prior studies to translocate to the nucleus in response to vasopressin. There was only one DNA-binding transcription factor (TF), specifically Taf1, part of the RNA-polymerase II preinitiation complex. To identify sequence-specific TFs that might interact with beta-catenin, Bayes' theorem was used to integrate data from several information sources. The analysis identified several TFs with potential binding sites in the Aqp2 gene promoter that could interact with beta-catenin in the regulation of Aqp2 gene transcription, specifically Jun, Junb, Jund, Atf1, Atf2, Mef2d, Usf1, Max, Pou2f1, and Rxra. The findings provide information necessary for modeling the transcriptional response to vasopressin.
PXD005345	28300637	Integrated mass spectrometry imaging and omics workflows on the same tissue section using grid-aided, parafilm-assisted microdissection. 	Integrated Mass Spectrometry Imaging and Omics Workflows on the Same Tissue Section Using Parafilm-Assisted Microdissection	MALDI MS imaging, lipidomics, parafilm-assisted microdissection	BACKGROUND: In spite of the number of applications describing the use of MALDI MSI, one of its major drawbacks is the limited capability of identifying multiple compound classes directly on the same tissue section. METHODS: We demonstrate the use of grid-aided, parafilm-assisted microdissection to perform MALDI MS imaging and shotgun proteomics and metabolomics in a combined workflow and using only a single tissue section. The grid is generated by microspotting acid dye 25 using a piezoelectric microspotter, and this grid was used as a guide to locate regions of interest and as an aid during manual microdissection. Subjecting the dissected pieces to the modified Folch method allows to separate the metabolites from proteins. The proteins can then be subjected to digestion under controlled conditions to improve protein identification yields. RESULTS: The proof of concept experiment on rat brain generated 162 and 140 metabolite assignments from three ROIs (cerebellum, hippocampus and midbrain/hypothalamus) in positive and negative modes, respectively, and 890, 1303 and 1059 unique proteins. Integrated metabolite and protein overrepresentation analysis identified pathways associated with the biological functions of each ROI, most of which were not identified when looking at the protein and metabolite lists individually. CONCLUSIONS: This combined MALDI MS imaging and multi-omics approach further extends the amount of information that can be generated from single tissue sections. GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report combining both imaging and multi-omics analyses in the same workflow and on the same tissue section.
PXD004817	28302921	Deciphering the Acute Cellular Phosphoproteome Response to Irradiation with X-rays, Protons and Carbon Ions. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of cell response to photon and particle irradiation	A549, DNA-damage, GeLC-MSMS, Ionizing radiation, Phosphoproteomics, Radiotherapy, SILAC	Radiotherapy is a cornerstone of cancer therapy. The recently established particle therapy with raster-scanning protons and carbon ions landmarks a new era in the field of high-precision cancer medicine. However, molecular mechanisms governing radiation induced intracellular signaling remain elusive. Here, we present the first comprehensive proteomic and phosphoproteomic study applying stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) in combination with high-resolution mass spectrometry to decipher cellular response to irradiation with X-rays, protons and carbon ions. At protein expression level limited alterations were observed 2 h post irradiation of human lung adenocarcinoma cells. In contrast, 181 phosphorylation sites were found to be differentially regulated out of which 151 sites were not hitherto attributed to radiation response as revealed by crosscheck with the PhosphoSitePlus database.Radiation-induced phosphorylation of the p(S/T)Q motif was the prevailing regulation pattern affecting proteins involved in DNA damage response signaling. Because radiation doses were selected to produce same level of cell kill and DNA double-strand breakage for each radiation quality, DNA damage responsive phosphorylation sites were regulated to same extent. However, differential phosphorylation between radiation qualities was observed for 55 phosphorylation sites indicating the existence of distinct signaling circuitries induced by X-ray versus particle (proton/carbon) irradiation beyond the canonical DNA damage response. This unexpected finding was confirmed in targeted spike-in experiments using synthetic isotope labeled phosphopeptides. Herewith, we successfully validated uniform DNA damage response signaling coexisting with altered signaling involved in apoptosis and metabolic processes induced by X-ray and particle based treatments.In summary, the comprehensive insight into the radiation-induced phosphoproteome landscape is instructive for the design of functional studies aiming to decipher cellular signaling processes in response to radiotherapy, space radiation or ionizing radiation per se Further, our data will have a significant impact on the ongoing debate about patient treatment modalities.
PXD005572	28303880	Locus-specific Retention Predictor (LsRP): A Peptide Retention Time Predictor Developed for Precision Proteomics. 	Locus-specific Retention Predictor (LsRP)	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP), peptide retention, prediction	The precision prediction of peptide retention time (RT) plays an increasingly important role in liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) based proteomics. Owing to the high reproducibility of liquid chromatography, RT prediction provides promising information for both identification and quantification experiment design. In this work, we present a Locus-specific Retention Predictor (LsRP) for precise prediction of peptide RT, which is based on amino acid locus information and Support Vector Regression (SVR) algorithm. Corresponding to amino acid locus, each peptide sequence was converted to a featured locus vector consisting of zeros and ones. With locus vector information from LC-MS/MS data sets, an SVR computational process was trained and evaluated. LsRP finally provided a prediction correlation coefficient of 0.95~0.99. We compared our method with two common predictors. Results showed that LsRP outperforms these methods and tracked up to 30% extra peptides in an extraction RT window of 2 min. A new strategy by combining LsRP and calibration peptide approach was then proposed, which open up new opportunities for precision proteomics.
PXD005509	28306503	Phase Separation of C9orf72 Dipeptide Repeats Perturbs Stress Granule Dynamics. 	Phase separation of C9orf72 dipeptide repeats perturbs stress granule metabolism	Liquid-liquid phase separation, arginine-rich dipeptide repeats, labelfree shotgun proteomics, stress granules	Liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) of RNA-binding proteins plays an important role in the formation of multiple membrane-less organelles involved in RNA metabolism, including stress granules. Defects in stress granule homeostasis constitute a cornerstone of ALS/FTLD pathogenesis. Polar residues (tyrosine and glutamine) have been previously demonstrated to be critical for phase separation of ALS-linked stress granule proteins. We now identify an active role for arginine-rich domains in these phase separations. Moreover, arginine-rich dipeptide repeats (DPRs) derived from C9orf72 hexanucleotide repeat expansions similarly undergo LLPS and induce phase separation of a large set of proteins involved in RNA and stress granule metabolism. Expression of arginine-rich DPRs in cells induced spontaneous stress granule assembly that required both eIF2alpha phosphorylation and G3BP. Together with recent reports showing that DPRs affect nucleocytoplasmic transport, our results point to an important role for arginine-rich DPRs in the pathogenesis of C9orf72 ALS/FTLD.
PXD005534	28316883	Middle Pleistocene protein sequences from the rhinoceros genus Stephanorhinus and the phylogeny of extant and extinct Middle/Late Pleistocene Rhinocerotidae. 	Middle Pleistocene protein sequences from the rhinoceros genus Stephanorhinus and the phylogeny of extant and extinct Middle/Late Pleistocene Rhinocerotidae.	Ancient proteins, Rhinocerotidae, collagen, non-collagenous proteins	BACKGROUND: Ancient protein sequences are increasingly used to elucidate the phylogenetic relationships between extinct and extant mammalian taxa. Here, we apply these recent developments to Middle Pleistocene bone specimens of the rhinoceros genus Stephanorhinus. No biomolecular sequence data is currently available for this genus, leaving phylogenetic hypotheses on its evolutionary relationships to extant and extinct rhinoceroses untested. Furthermore, recent phylogenies based on Rhinocerotidae (partial or complete) mitochondrial DNA sequences differ in the placement of the Sumatran rhinoceros (Dicerorhinus sumatrensis). Therefore, studies utilising ancient protein sequences from Middle Pleistocene contexts have the potential to provide further insights into the phylogenetic relationships between extant and extinct species, including Stephanorhinus and Dicerorhinus. METHODS: ZooMS screening (zooarchaeology by mass spectrometry) was performed on several Late and Middle Pleistocene specimens from the genus Stephanorhinus, subsequently followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to obtain ancient protein sequences from a Middle Pleistocene Stephanorhinus specimen. We performed parallel analysis on a Late Pleistocene woolly rhinoceros specimen and extant species of rhinoceroses, resulting in the availability of protein sequence data for five extant species and two extinct genera. Phylogenetic analysis additionally included all extant Perissodactyla genera (Equus, Tapirus), and was conducted using Bayesian (MrBayes) and maximum-likelihood (RAxML) methods. RESULTS: Various ancient proteins were identified in both the Middle and Late Pleistocene rhinoceros samples. Protein degradation and proteome complexity are consistent with an endogenous origin of the identified proteins. Phylogenetic analysis of informative proteins resolved the Perissodactyla phylogeny in agreement with previous studies in regards to the placement of the families Equidae, Tapiridae, and Rhinocerotidae. Stephanorhinus is shown to be most closely related to the genera Coelodonta and Dicerorhinus. The protein sequence data further places the Sumatran rhino in a clade together with the genus Rhinoceros, opposed to forming a clade with the black and white rhinoceros species. DISCUSSION: The first biomolecular dataset available for Stephanorhinus places this genus together with the extinct genus Coelodonta and the extant genus Dicerorhinus. This is in agreement with morphological studies, although we are unable to resolve the order of divergence between these genera based on the protein sequences available. Our data supports the placement of the genus Dicerorhinus in a clade together with extant Rhinoceros species. Finally, the availability of protein sequence data for both extinct European rhinoceros genera allows future investigations into their geographic distribution and extinction chronologies.
PXD003643	28317030	Blind testing cross-linking/mass spectrometry under the auspices of the 11(th) critical assessment of methods of protein structure prediction (CASP11). 	Blind testing cross-linking/mass spectrometry under the auspices of the 11th critical assessment of methods of protein structure prediction (CASP11)	CASP, Cross-linking/mass spectrometry, protein structure prediction	Determining the structure of a protein by any method requires various contributions from experimental and computational sides. In a recent study, high-density cross-linking/mass spectrometry (HD-CLMS) data in combination with ab initio structure prediction determined the structure of human serum albumin (HSA) domains, with an RMSD to X-ray structure of up to 2.5 Aa, or 3.4 Aa in the context of blood serum. This paper reports the blind test on the readiness of this technology through the help of Critical Assessment of protein Structure Prediction (CASP). We identified between 201-381 unique residue pairs at an estimated 5% FDR (at link level albeit with missing site assignment precision evaluation), for four target proteins. HD-CLMS proved reliable once crystal structures were released. However, improvements in structure prediction using cross-link data were slight. We identified two reasons for this. Spread of cross-links along the protein sequence and the tightness of the spatial constraints must be improved. However, for the selected targets even ideal contact data derived from crystal structures did not allow modellers to arrive at the observed structure. Consequently, the progress of HD-CLMS in conjunction with computational modeling methods as a structure determination method, depends on advances on both arms of this hybrid approach.
PXD005045	28317260	Comparative proteomic analysis of trophoblast cell models reveals their differential phenotypes, potential uses, and limitations. 	Comparative proteome of the BeWo and HTR8/SVneo trophoblastic cell lines	Comparative proteomics, label-free quantitation, trophoblastic cell lines.	Trophoblastic cell lines are widely used in in vitro studies of placental function as a surrogate for primary trophoblasts. To date, no reference proteomics dataset exists to directly compare the shared and unique characteristics of these cells. Here, we performed comparative proteomic profiling of the BeWo and HTR8/SVneo cell lines using label-free quantitative MS. A total of 1557 proteins were identified, which included 338 uniquely attributed to BeWo cells, and a further 304 specifically identified in HTR8/SVneo cells. Raw data are available via ProteomeXchange, identifier PDX005045. Of the 915 proteins expressed by both cell lines, 105 were of higher abundance in BeWo cells, while 199 proteins had a significantly higher expression in HTR8/SVneo cells. Comparative GO of unique and upregulated proteins revealed principal differences in cell junction/adhesion, catenin complex, spindle and microtubule associated complex, as well as cell differentiation. Our data indicate that BeWo cells express an epithelial proteome more characteristic of villous trophoblasts, whereas HTR8/SVneo cells embrace a mesenchymal phenotype, more characteristic of extravillous trophoblasts. This novel comparative proteomic profiling of these trophoblastic cell lines provides a useful platform for future investigations of placental function.
PXD005772	28317378	Scrambled Internal Standard Method for High-Throughput Protein Quantification by Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization Tandem Mass Spectrometry. 	MALDI Quant Fibrinogen	MALDI Quant	Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) could be advantageous for high-throughput MS acquisition but suffers from low signal reproducibility. The purpose of this study was to establish a reliable MALDI-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS)-based high-throughput quantification of tryptic peptides using our newly developed scrambled internal standard (sIS) method. The standard curves obtained with sIS peptides showed good linearity over a wide concentration range (5-1000 fmol/muL) compared to that with the IS-free method, and the coefficient of variation of data points at each concentration (5-1000 fmol/muL) was significantly reduced. Furthermore, the ion suppression effect of digested serum could be normalized with the sIS peptides. Differences of quantitative values obtained by MALDI-MS/MS and liquid chromatography-MS/MS with selected reaction monitoring were within 20% in the presence of 0.1-5 muL of immunoprecipitated model plasma. Furthermore, the effect of amino acid composition on peptide sensitivity was examined, and we found that sensitivity was significantly decreased if an aromatic amino acid was replaced with a nonaromatic amino acid. Thus, high sensitivity required the use of sIS peptides containing an aromatic amino acid. Finally, the sIS method enabled high-throughput quantification of tryptic peptides with high accuracy and a wide dynamic range.
PXD005130	28319050	Extracellular matrix proteomics identifies molecular signature of symptomatic carotid plaques. 	Extracellular Matrix Proteomics Identifies Molecular Signature of Atherosclerotic Plaques from Symptomatic Patients	atherosclerosis, biomarkers, carotid endarterectomy, gene expression, population study	BACKGROUND: The identification of patients with high-risk atherosclerotic plaques prior to the manifestation of clinical events remains challenging. Recent findings question histology- and imaging-based definitions of the "vulnerable plaque," necessitating an improved approach for predicting onset of symptoms. METHODS: We performed a proteomics comparison of the vascular extracellular matrix and associated molecules in human carotid endarterectomy specimens from 6 symptomatic versus 6 asymptomatic patients to identify a protein signature for high-risk atherosclerotic plaques. Proteomics data were integrated with gene expression profiling of 121 carotid endarterectomies and an analysis of protein secretion by lipid-loaded human vascular smooth muscle cells. Finally, epidemiological validation of candidate biomarkers was performed in two community-based studies. RESULTS: Proteomics and at least one of the other two approaches identified a molecular signature of plaques from symptomatic patients that comprised matrix metalloproteinase 9, chitinase 3-like-1, S100 calcium binding protein A8 (S100A8), S100A9, cathepsin B, fibronectin, and galectin-3-binding protein. Biomarker candidates measured in 685 subjects in the Bruneck study were associated with progression to advanced atherosclerosis and incidence of cardiovascular disease over a 10-year follow-up period. A 4-biomarker signature (matrix metalloproteinase 9, S100A8/S100A9, cathepsin D, and galectin-3-binding protein) improved risk prediction and was successfully replicated in an independent cohort, the SAPHIR study. CONCLUSION: The identified 4-biomarker signature may improve risk prediction and diagnostics for the management of cardiovascular disease. Further, our study highlights the strength of tissue-based proteomics for biomarker discovery. FUNDING: UK: British Heart Foundation (BHF); King's BHF Center; and the National Institute for Health Research Biomedical Research Center based at Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust and King's College London in partnership with King's College Hospital. Austria: Federal Ministry for Transport, Innovation and Technology (BMVIT); Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economy (BMWFW); Wirtschaftsagentur Wien; and Standortagentur Tirol.
PXD005878	28319114	Internally tagged ubiquitin: a tool to identify linear polyubiquitin-modified proteins by mass spectrometry. 	Internally Tagged Ubiquitin: a Tool to Identify Linear Polyubiquitin-modified Proteins by Mass Spectrometry	Ubiquitin, pull-down	Ubiquitination controls a plethora of cellular processes. Modifications by linear polyubiquitin have so far been linked with acquired and innate immunity, lymphocyte development and genotoxic stress response. Until now, a single E3 ligase complex (LUBAC), one specific deubiquitinase (OTULIN) and a very few linear polyubiquitinated substrates have been identified. Current methods for studying lysine-based polyubiquitination are not suitable for the detection of linear polyubiquitin-modified proteins. Here, we present an approach to discovering linear polyubiquitin-modified substrates by combining a lysine-less internally tagged ubiquitin (INT-Ub.7KR) with SILAC-based mass spectrometry. We applied our approach in TNFalpha-stimulated T-REx HEK293T cells and validated several newly identified linear polyubiquitin targets. We demonstrated that linear polyubiquitination of the novel LUBAC substrate TRAF6 is essential for NFkappaB signaling.
PXD005822	28323820	Selective stalling of human translation through small-molecule engagement of the ribosome nascent chain. 	SECRETOME DATA only from "Selective stalling of human translation through small molecule engagement of the ribosome nascent chain"	Huh7 cells, PCSK9, SILAC, cell lysate, secretome, translational stalling	Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) plays a key role in regulating the levels of plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). Here, we demonstrate that the compound PF-06446846 inhibits translation of PCSK9 by inducing the ribosome to stall around codon 34, mediated by the sequence of the nascent chain within the exit tunnel. We further show that PF-06446846 reduces plasma PCSK9 and total cholesterol levels in rats following oral dosing. Using ribosome profiling, we demonstrate that PF-06446846 is highly selective for the inhibition of PCSK9 translation. The mechanism of action employed by PF-06446846 reveals a previously unexpected tunability of the human ribosome that allows small molecules to specifically block translation of individual transcripts.
PXD000891	28325760	Neisseria meningitidis Uses Sibling Small Regulatory RNAs To Switch from Cataplerotic to Anaplerotic Metabolism. 	Neisseria meningitides small RNA's regulate Citric acid cycle activity under Feast and Famine conditions	Data Independant Mass Spectrometry, Feast and Famine, Neisseria  meningitides, Pathogens, small RNAs	Neisseria meningitidis (the meningococcus) is primarily a commensal of the human oropharynx that sporadically causes septicemia and meningitis. Meningococci adapt to diverse local host conditions differing in nutrient supply, like the nasopharynx, blood, and cerebrospinal fluid, by changing metabolism and protein repertoire. However, regulatory transcription factors and two-component systems in meningococci involved in adaptation to local nutrient variations are limited. We identified novel sibling small regulatory RNAs ( Neisseriametabolic switch regulators [NmsRs]) regulating switches between cataplerotic and anaplerotic metabolism in this pathogen. Overexpression of NmsRs was tolerated in blood but not in cerebrospinal fluid. Expression of six tricarboxylic acid cycle enzymes was downregulated by direct action of NmsRs. Expression of the NmsRs themselves was under the control of the stringent response through the action of RelA. Small sibling regulatory RNAs of meningococci, controlling general metabolic switches, add an exciting twist to their versatile repertoire in bacterial pathogens.IMPORTANCE Regulatory small RNAs (sRNAs) of pathogens are coming to be recognized as highly important components of riboregulatory networks, involved in the control of essential cellular processes. They play a prominent role in adaptation to physiological changes as represented by different host environments. They can function as posttranscriptional regulators of gene expression to orchestrate metabolic adaptation to nutrient stresses. Here, we identified highly conserved sibling sRNAs in Neisseria meningitidis which are functionally involved in the regulation of gene expression of components of the tricarboxylic acid cycle. These novel sibling sRNAs that function by antisense mechanisms extend the so-called stringent response which connects metabolic status to colonization and possibly virulence as well as pathogenesis in meningococci.
PXD005953	28325852	Extended Multiplexing of Tandem Mass Tags (TMT) Labeling Reveals Age and High Fat Diet Specific Proteome Changes in Mouse Epididymal Adipose Tissue. 	Extended multiplexing of TMT labeling reveals age and high fat diet specific proteome changes in mouse epididymal adipose tissue	MudPIT, Orb, aging, epididymal adipose tissue, extended multiplexing, high fat diet, internal reference scaling normalization, low fat diet, protein expression, tandem mass tags	The lack of high-throughput methods to analyze the adipose tissue protein composition limits our understanding of the protein networks responsible for age and diet related metabolic response. We have developed an approach using multiple-dimension liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry and extended multiplexing (24 biological samples) with tandem mass tags (TMT) labeling to analyze proteomes of epididymal adipose tissues isolated from mice fed either low or high fat diet for a short or a long-term, and from mice that aged on low versus high fat diets. The peripheral metabolic health (as measured by body weight, adiposity, plasma fasting glucose, insulin, triglycerides, total cholesterol levels, and glucose and insulin tolerance tests) deteriorated with diet and advancing age, with long-term high fat diet exposure being the worst. In response to short-term high fat diet, 43 proteins representing lipid metabolism (e.g. AACS, ACOX1, ACLY) and red-ox pathways (e.g. CPD2, CYP2E, SOD3) were significantly altered (FDR < 10%). Long-term high fat diet significantly altered 55 proteins associated with immune response (e.g. IGTB2, IFIT3, LGALS1) and rennin angiotensin system (e.g. ENPEP, CMA1, CPA3, ANPEP). Age-related changes on low fat diet significantly altered only 18 proteins representing mainly urea cycle (e.g. OTC, ARG1, CPS1), and amino acid biosynthesis (e.g. GMT, AKR1C6). Surprisingly, high fat diet driven age-related changes culminated with alterations in 155 proteins involving primarily the urea cycle (e.g. ARG1, CPS1), immune response/complement activation (e.g. C3, C4b, C8, C9, CFB, CFH, FGA), extracellular remodeling (e.g. EFEMP1, FBN1, FBN2, LTBP4, FERMT2, ECM1, EMILIN2, ITIH3) and apoptosis (e.g. YAP1, HIP1, NDRG1, PRKCD, MUL1) pathways. Using our adipose tissue tailored approach we have identified both age-related and high fat diet specific proteomic signatures highlighting a pronounced involvement of arginine metabolism in response to advancing age, and branched chain amino acid metabolism in early response to high fat feeding. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005953.
PXD005663	28326294	The Eukaryote-Like Serine/Threonine Kinase STK Regulates the Growth and Metabolism of Zoonotic Streptococcus suis. 	Streptococcus suis SC-19, LC-MSMS	Streptococcus suis SC-19	Like eukaryotes, bacteria express one or more serine/threonine kinases (STKs) that initiate diverse signaling networks. The STK from Streptococcus suis is encoded by a single-copy stk gene, which is crucial in stress response and virulence. To further understand the regulatory mechanism of STK in S. suis, a stk deletion strain (Deltastk) and its complementary strain (CDeltastk) were constructed to systematically decode STK characteristics by applying whole transcriptome RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and phosphoproteomic analysis. Numerous genes were differentially expressed in Deltastk compared with the wild-type parental strain SC-19, including 320 up-regulated and 219 down-regulated genes. Particularly, 32 virulence-associated genes (VAGs) were significantly down-regulated in Deltastk. Seven metabolic pathways relevant to bacterial central metabolism and translation are significantly repressed in Deltastk. Phosphoproteomic analysis further identified 12 phosphoproteins that exhibit differential phosphorylation in Deltastk. These proteins are associated with cell growth and division, glycolysis, and translation. Consistently, phenotypic assays confirmed that the Deltastk strain displayed deficient growth and attenuated pathogenicity. Thus, STK is a central regulator that plays an important role in cell growth and division, as well as S. suis metabolism.
PXD004152	28328168	Intrastriatal Transplantation of Human Neural Stem Cells Restores the Impaired Subventricular Zone in Parkinsonian Mice. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis reveals the effects of human neural stem cells on multiple brain regions	Parkinsons disease, Subventricular zone, hNSCs transplantation	Cell replacement therapy using neural stem cells (NSCs) transplantation has recently emerged as a promising method of Parkinson's disease (PD) treatment; however, the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. To gain new insights into the mechanisms of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced lesioning and therapeutic efficacy of human NSCs (hNSCs) transplantation, the striatum (ST) of intrastriatal 6-OHDA-injected parkinsonian mice were unilaterally engrafted with undifferentiated hNSCs. A high-throughput quantitative proteomic approach was used to characterize the proteome profiles of PD-related brain regions such as the SN, ST, olfactory bulb, and subventricular zone (SVZ) in these mice. The abundance of more than 5,000 proteins in each region was determined with high confidence in this study, which is the most extensive proteomic study of PD mouse models to date. In addition to disruption of the DA system, the quantitative analysis demonstrated profound disturbance of the SVZ proteome after 6-OHDA insult. After hNSC engraftment, the SVZ proteome was restored and the astrocytes in the ST were greatly activated, accompanied by an increase in neurotrophic factors. Furthermore, bioinformatics analysis demonstrated that the changes in the proteome were not caused by the proliferation of hNSCs or their progeny, but rather by the reaction of endogenous stem cells. Overall, this study elucidates the unexpected role of SVZ cells in PD progress and treatment, thereby providing new therapeutic targets for PD. Stem Cells 2017;35:1519-1531.
PXD004417	28328971	Mapping the N-linked glycosites of rice (Oryza sativa L.) germinating embryos. 	N-glycoproteomic analysis of rice germinating embryo	Rice (Oryza sativa L.), embryo, germination, glycosylation	Germination is a key event in the angiosperm life cycle. N-glycosylation of proteins is one of the most common post-translational modifications, and has been recognized to be an important regulator of the proteome of the germinating embryo. Here, we report the first N-linked glycosites mapping of rice embryos during germination by using a hydrophilic interaction chromatography (HILIC) glycopeptides enrichment strategy associated with high accuracy mass spectrometry identification. A total of 242 glycosites from 191 unique proteins was discovered. Inspection of the motifs and sequence structures involved suggested that all the glycosites were concentrated within [NxS/T] motif, while 82.3% of them were in a coil structure. N-glycosylation preferentially occurred on proteins with glycoside hydrolase activities, which were significantly enriched in the starch and sucrose metabolism pathway, suggesting that N-glycosylation is involved in embryo germination by regulating carbohydrate metabolism. Notably, protein-protein interaction analysis revealed a network with several Brassinosteroids signaling proteins, including XIAO and other BR-responsive proteins, implying that glycosylation-mediated Brassinosteroids signaling may be a key mechanism regulating rice embryo germination. In summary, this study expanded our knowledge of protein glycosylation in rice, and provided novel insight into the PTM regulation in rice seed germination.
PXD005704	28329770	Antigen presentation profiling reveals recognition of lymphoma immunoglobulin neoantigens. 	Antigen Presentation Profiling Reveals T-cell Recognition of Lymphoma Immunoglobulin Neoantigens	LTQ Orbitrap Elite, MHC class I, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, antigen presentation, immunopeptidomics, machine learning	Cancer somatic mutations can generate neoantigens that distinguish malignant from normal cells. However, the personalized identification and validation of neoantigens remains a major challenge. Here we discover neoantigens in human mantle-cell lymphomas by using an integrated genomic and proteomic strategy that interrogates tumour antigen peptides presented by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and class II molecules. We applied this approach to systematically characterize MHC ligands from 17 patients. Remarkably, all discovered neoantigenic peptides were exclusively derived from the lymphoma immunoglobulin heavy- or light-chain variable regions. Although we identified MHC presentation of private polymorphic germline alleles, no mutated peptides were recovered from non-immunoglobulin somatically mutated genes. Somatic mutations within the immunoglobulin variable region were almost exclusively presented by MHC class II. We isolated circulating CD4(+) T cells specific for immunoglobulin-derived neoantigens and found these cells could mediate killing of autologous lymphoma cells. These results demonstrate that an integrative approach combining MHC isolation, peptide identification, and exome sequencing is an effective platform to uncover tumour neoantigens. Application of this strategy to human lymphoma implicates immunoglobulin neoantigens as targets for lymphoma immunotherapy.
PXD002988	28330952	Effects of insulin and the glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist liraglutide on the kidney proteome in db/db mice. 	dbdbLiraglutide	OPLS, db/db, diabetic nephropathy, kidney, liraglutide	Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a worldwide disease that affects 9% of the adult world population and type 2 DM accounts for 90% of those. A common consequence of DM is kidney complications, which could lead to kidney failure. We studied the potential effects of treatment with insulin and the glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonist liraglutide on the diabetic kidney proteome through the use of the db/db mouse model system and mass spectrometry (MS). Multivariate analyses revealed distinct effects of insulin and liraglutide on the db/db kidney proteome, which was seen on the protein levels of, for example, pterin-4 alpha-carbinolamine dehydratase/dimerization cofactor of hepatocyte nuclear factor-1alpha (PCBD1), neural precursor cell expressed developmentally down-regulated-8 (NEDD8), transcription elongation factor-B polypeptide-1 (ELOC) and hepcidin (HEPC). Furthermore, the separation of the insulin, liraglutide and vehicle db/db mouse groups in multivariate analyses was not mainly related to the albumin excretion rate (AER) or the level of glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c%) in the mice. In summary, we show that insulin and liraglutide give rise to separate protein profiles in the db/db mouse kidney.
PXD004373	28331001	Quantitative Tyrosine Phosphoproteomics of Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor-treated Lung Adenocarcinoma Cells Reveals Potential Novel Biomarkers of Therapeutic Response. 	A quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis to study the dynamics of tyrosine phosphorylation in EGFR signaling abrogated by TKIs	EGFR, NSCLC, TKI, adenocarcinoma, phosphoproteomics	Mutations in the Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) kinase domain, such as the L858R missense mutation and deletions spanning the conserved sequence (747)LREA(750), are sensitive to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). The gatekeeper site residue mutation, T790M accounts for around 60% of acquired resistance to EGFR TKIs. The first generation EGFR TKIs, erlotinib and gefitinib, and the second generation inhibitor, afatinib are FDA approved for initial treatment of EGFR mutated lung adenocarcinoma. The predominant biomarker of EGFR TKI responsiveness is the presence of EGFR TKI-sensitizing mutations. However, 30-40% of patients with EGFR mutations exhibit primary resistance to these TKIs, underscoring the unmet need of identifying additional biomarkers of treatment response. Here, we sought to characterize the dynamics of tyrosine phosphorylation upon EGFR TKI treatment of mutant EGFR-driven human lung adenocarcinoma cell lines with varying sensitivity to EGFR TKIs, erlotinib and afatinib. We employed stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based quantitative mass spectrometry to identify and quantify tyrosine phosphorylated peptides. The proportion of tyrosine phosphorylated sites that had reduced phosphorylation upon erlotinib or afatinib treatment correlated with the degree of TKI-sensitivity. Afatinib, an irreversible EGFR TKI, more effectively inhibited tyrosine phosphorylation of a majority of the substrates. The phosphosites with phosphorylation SILAC ratios that correlated with the TKI-sensitivity of the cell lines include sites on kinases, such as EGFR-Y1197 and MAPK7-Y221, and adaptor proteins, such as SHC1-Y349/350, ERRFI1-Y394, GAB1-Y689, STAT5A-Y694, DLG3-Y705, and DAPP1-Y139, suggesting these are potential biomarkers of TKI sensitivity. DAPP1, is a novel target of mutant EGFR signaling and Y-139 is the major site of DAPP1 tyrosine phosphorylation. We also uncovered several off-target effects of these TKIs, such as MST1R-Y1238/Y1239 and MET-Y1252/1253. This study provides unique insight into the TKI-mediated modulation of mutant EGFR signaling, which can be applied to the development of biomarkers of EGFR TKI response.
PXD005846	28336715	Monitoring Cell-surface N-Glycoproteome Dynamics by Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Mechanistic Insights into Macrophage Differentiation. 	Cell surface mapping and monitoring of cell surface dynamics	N-linked glycoproteomics, cell surface, primary cells	The plasma membrane proteome plays a crucial role in inter- and intracellular signaling, cell survival, and cell identity. As such, it is a prominent target for pharmacological intervention. The relatively low abundance of this subproteome in conjunction with challenging extractability and solubility still hampers its comprehensive analysis. Here, we combined a chemical glycoprotein-tagging strategy with mass spectrometry to enable comprehensive analysis of the cell-surface glycoproteome. To benchmark this workflow and to provide guidance for cell line selection for functional experiments, we generated an inventory of the N-linked cell-surface glycoproteomes of 15 standard laboratory human cell lines and three primary lymphocytic cell types. On average, about 900 plasma membrane and secreted proteins were identified per experiment, including more than 300 transporters and ion channels. Primary cells displayed distinct expression of surface markers and transporters underpinning the importance of carefully validating model cell lines selected for the study of cell surface-mediated processes. To monitor dynamic changes of the cell-surface proteome in a highly multiplexed experiment, we employed an isobaric mass tag-based chemical labeling strategy. This enabled the time-resolved analysis of plasma membrane protein presentation during differentiation of the monocytic suspension cell line THP-1 into macrophage-like adherent cells. Time-dependent changes observed in membrane protein presentation reflect functional remodeling during the phenotypic transition in three distinct phases: rapid surface presentation and secretion of proteins from intracellular pools concurrent with rapid internalization of no longer needed proteins and finally delayed presentation of newly synthesized macrophage markers. Perturbation of this process using marketed receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors revealed dasatinib to severely compromise macrophage differentiation due to an off-target activity. This finding suggests that dynamic processes can be highly vulnerable to drug treatment and should be monitored more rigorously to identify adverse drug effects.
PXD004962	28336725	Quantitative Shotgun Proteomics Unveils Candidate Novel Esophageal Adenocarcinoma (EAC)-specific Proteins. 	Quantitative Shotgun Proteomics Unveils Candidate Novel Oesophageal Adenocarcinoma-Specific Proteins	Oesophageal Adenocarcinoma, TMT, shotgun proteomics	Esophageal cancer is the eighth most common cancer worldwide and the majority of patients have systemic disease at presentation. Esophageal adenocarcinoma (OAC), the predominant subtype in western countries, is largely resistant to current chemotherapy regimens. Selective markers are needed to enhance clinical staging and to allow targeted therapies yet there are minimal proteomic data on this cancer type. After histological review, lysates from OAC and matched normal esophageal and gastric samples from seven patients were subjected to LC MS/MS after tandem mass tag labeling and OFFGEL fractionation. Patient matched samples of OAC, normal esophagus, normal stomach, lymph node metastases and uninvolved lymph nodes were used from an additional 115 patients for verification of expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC).Over six thousand proteins were identified and quantified across samples. Quantitative reproducibility was excellent between technical replicates and a moderate correlation was seen across samples with the same histology. The quantitative accuracy was verified across the dynamic range for seven proteins by immunohistochemistry (IHC) on the originating tissues. Multiple novel tumor-specific candidates are proposed and EPCAM was verified by IHC.This shotgun proteomic study of OAC used a comparative quantitative approach to reveal proteins highly expressed in specific tissue types. Novel tumor-specific proteins are proposed and EPCAM was demonstrated to be specifically overexpressed in primary tumors and lymph node metastases compared with surrounding normal tissues. This candidate and others proposed in this study could be developed as tumor-specific targets for novel clinical staging and therapeutic approaches.
PXD001853	28337980	Light-sensing via hydrogen peroxide and a peroxiredoxin. 	Light-sensing via H2O2 and a peroxiredoxin	H2O2, Msn2, oxidative stress	Yeast lacks dedicated photoreceptors; however, blue light still causes pronounced oscillations of the transcription factor Msn2 into and out of the nucleus. Here we show that this poorly understood phenomenon is initiated by a peroxisomal oxidase, which converts light into a hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) signal that is sensed by the peroxiredoxin Tsa1 and transduced to thioredoxin, to counteract PKA-dependent Msn2 phosphorylation. Upon H2O2, the nuclear retention of PKA catalytic subunits, which contributes to delayed Msn2 nuclear concentration, is antagonized in a Tsa1-dependent manner. Conversely, peroxiredoxin hyperoxidation interrupts the H2O2 signal and drives Msn2 oscillations by superimposing on PKA feedback regulation. Our data identify a mechanism by which light could be sensed in all cells lacking dedicated photoreceptors. In particular, the use of H2O2 as a second messenger in signalling is common to Msn2 oscillations and to light-induced entrainment of circadian rhythms and suggests conserved roles for peroxiredoxins in endogenous rhythms.
PXD005735	28344541	OLFM4, KNG1 and Sec24C identified by proteomics and immunohistochemistry as potential markers of early colorectal cancer stages. 	Discovery of potential early colorectal cancer biomarker	FFPE-FASP, early stage, human colorectal cancer, label free, pT1NM, pT2NM	BACKGROUND: Despite recent advances in colorectal cancer (CRC) diagnosis and population screening programs, the identification of patients with preneoplastic lesions or with early CRC stages remains challenging and is important for reducing CRC incidence and increasing patient's survival. METHODS: We analysed 76 colorectal tissue samples originated from early CRC stages, normal or inflamed mucosa by label-free proteomics. The characterisation of three selected biomarker candidates was performed by immunohistochemistry on an independent set of precancerous and cancerous lesions harbouring increasing CRC stages. RESULTS: Out of 5258 proteins identified, we obtained 561 proteins with a significant differential distribution among groups of patients and controls. KNG1, OLFM4 and Sec24C distributions were validated in tissues and showed different expression levels especially in the two early CRC stages compared to normal and preneoplastic tissues. CONCLUSION: We highlighted three proteins that require further investigations to better characterise their role in early CRC carcinogenesis and their potential as early CRC markers.
PXD002629	28344861	Zoledronic acid boosts gammadelta T-cell activity in children receiving alphabeta(+) T and CD19(+) cell-depleted grafts from an HLA-haplo-identical donor. 	Human gammadelta T-cell, LC-MS/MS -  Zoledronic acid boosts gammadelta T-cell activity in children receiving alphabeta+ T and CD19+ cell-depleted grafts from an HLA-haplo-identical donor	Leukemia Cells, Zolendric Acid (ZOL), gammadelta T-cell	We demonstrated that gammadelta T cells of patients given HLA-haploidentical HSCT after removal of alphabeta(+) T cells and CD19(+) B cells are endowed with the capacity of killing leukemia cells after ex vivo treatment with zoledronic acid (ZOL). Thus, we tested the hypothesis that infusion of ZOL in patients receiving this type of graft may enhance gammadelta T-cell cytotoxic activity against leukemia cells. ZOL was infused every 28 d in 43 patients; most were treated at least twice. gammadelta T cells before and after ZOL treatments were studied in 33 of these 43 patients, till at least 7 mo after HSCT by high-resolution mass spectrometry, flow-cytometry, and degranulation assay. An induction of Vdelta2-cell differentiation, paralleled by increased cytotoxicity of both Vdelta1 and Vdelta2 cells against primary leukemia blasts was associated with ZOL treatment. Cytotoxic activity was further increased in Vdelta2 cells, but not in Vdelta1 lymphocytes in those patients given more than one treatment. Proteomic analysis of gammadelta T cells purified from patients showed upregulation of proteins involved in activation processes and immune response, paralleled by downregulation of proteins involved in proliferation. Moreover, a proteomic signature was identified for each ZOL treatment. Patients given three or more ZOL infusions had a better probability of survival in comparison to those given one or two treatments (86% vs. 54%, respectively, p = 0.008). Our data indicate that ZOL infusion in pediatric recipients of alphabeta T- and B-cell-depleted HLA-haploidentical HSCT promotes gammadelta T-cell differentiation and cytotoxicity and may influence the outcome of patients.
PXD005635	28345880	Detecting Proteins Glycosylation by a Homogeneous Reaction System with Zwitterionic Gold Nanoclusters. 	Detecting Proteins Glycosylation by a Homogeneous Reac-tion System with Zwitterionic Gold Nanoclusters	glycopeptides, gold cluster, homogeneous reaction system	Homogeneous gold nanoclusters (Au NCs) have been widely utilized in drug delivery, chemical sensing, bioassays, and biolabeling due to their unique physical and chemical properties. However, little attention has been paid to their application in detecting protein post-translational modifications. Herein, we describe the development of a homogeneous reaction system with water-soluble zwitterionic Au NCs to capture glycopeptides from complex biological samples. The unique characteristics of Au NCs, such as their molecular-like properties, the excellent homogeneity in aqueous solution, the organic solvent responsive precipitation, and the easy preparation in only 4.5 h, contribute to the high efficiency and high throughput for capturing the targeted glycopeptides. Compared with the conventional heterogeneous system with solid-state adsorbents, the number of characterized glycosylation sites was improved by 35%. Finally, an MS detection limit as low as 50 amol was achieved for the standard glycoprotein (IgG), and 1576 glycosylation sites from 713 glycoproteins were identified from only 60 mug of mouse liver protein. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005635.
PXD005566	28346450	Structural modeling of protein-RNA complexes using crosslinking of segmentally isotope-labeled RNA and MS/MS. 	Hybrid structural modeling of protein-RNA complexes using crosslinking of segmentally isotope labeled RNA and tandem mass spectrometry	CLIR-MS/MS, Photochemical cross-linking, U1 snRNP, polypyrimidine tract binding protein 1, protein-RNA cross-linking, ribonucleoproteins, segmental isotope labeling of RNA, structural proteomics	Ribonucleoproteins (RNPs) are key regulators of cellular function. We established an efficient approach, crosslinking of segmentally isotope-labeled RNA and tandem mass spectrometry (CLIR-MS/MS), to localize protein-RNA interactions simultaneously at amino acid and nucleotide resolution. The approach was tested on polypyrimidine tract binding protein 1 and U1 small nuclear RNP. Our method provides distance restraints to support integrative atomic-scale structural modeling and to gain mechanistic insights into RNP-regulated processes.
PXD005080	28348171	The Identification of Macrophage-enriched Glycoproteins Using Glycoproteomics. 	Identification of novel glycoproteins expressed on human macrophage surface using glycoproteomics	glycoproteomics, macrophage glycoproteome, prostate cancer	Prostate cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths of men in the United States. Whereas the localized disease is highly treatable by surgical resection and radiation, cancer that has metastasized remains incurable. Immune cells that primarily scavenge debris and promote prostate cancer angiogenesis and wound repair are M2 macrophages. They are phenotypically similar to M2 tumor-associated macrophages (M2-TAMs) and have been reported to associate with solid tumors and aide in proliferation, metastasis, and resistance to therapy. As an invasive species within the tumor microenvironment, this makes M2-TAMs an ideal therapeutic target in prostate cancer. To identify novel surface glycoproteins expressed on M2 macrophages, we developed a novel method of creating homogeneous populations of human macrophages from human CD14(+) monocytes in vitro These homogeneous M1 macrophages secrete pro-inflammatory cytokines, and our M2 macrophages secrete anti-inflammatory cytokines as well as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). To identify enriched surface glycoproteins, we then performed solid-phase extraction of N-linked glycopeptides followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) on our homogeneous macrophage populations. We discovered five novel peptides that are enriched exclusively on human M2 macrophages relative to human M1 macrophages and human CD14(+) monocytes. Finally, we determined whether these surface glycoproteins, found enriched on M2 macrophages, were also expressed in human metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) tissues. Using mCRPC tissues from rapid autopsies, we were able to determine M2 macrophage infiltration by using immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. These findings highlight the presence of macrophage infiltration in human mCRPC but also surface glycoproteins that could be used for prognosis of localized disease and for targeting strategies.
PXD003804	28348172	Database-independent Protein Sequencing (DiPS) Enables Full-length de Novo Protein and Antibody Sequence Determination. 	Next Generation Protein Sequencing	MAAH, NGPS, de-novo, full length, microwave	Traditional "bottom-up" proteomic approaches use proteolytic digestion, LC-MS/MS, and database searching to elucidate peptide identities and their parent proteins. Protein sequences absent from the database cannot be identified, and even if present in the database, complete sequence coverage is rarely achieved even for the most abundant proteins in the sample. Thus, sequencing of unknown proteins such as antibodies or constituents of metaproteomes remains a challenging problem. To date, there is no available method for full-length protein sequencing, independent of a reference database, in high throughput. Here, we present Database-independent Protein Sequencing, a method for unambiguous, rapid, database-independent, full-length protein sequencing. The method is a novel combination of non-enzymatic, semi-random cleavage of the protein, LC-MS/MS analysis, peptide de novo sequencing, extraction of peptide tags, and their assembly into a consensus sequence using an algorithm named "Peptide Tag Assembler." As proof-of-concept, the method was applied to samples of three known proteins representing three size classes and to a previously un-sequenced, clinically relevant monoclonal antibody. Excluding leucine/isoleucine and glutamic acid/deamidated glutamine ambiguities, end-to-end full-length de novo sequencing was achieved with 99-100% accuracy for all benchmarking proteins and the antibody light chain. Accuracy of the sequenced antibody heavy chain, including the entire variable region, was also 100%, but there was a 23-residue gap in the constant region sequence.
PXD005224	28348271	Identification of Novel STAT6-Regulated Proteins in Mouse B Cells by Comparative Transcriptome and Proteome Analysis. 	Identification of novel STAT6-regulated proteins in mouse B cells by comparative transcriptome and proteome analysis	B cells, IL-4, STAT6, label-free quantitative mass spectrometry	The transcription factor STAT6 plays a key role in mediating signaling downstream of the receptors for IL-4 and IL-13. In B cells, STAT6 is required for class switch recombination to IgE and for germinal center formation during type 2 immune responses directed against allergens or helminths. In this study, we compared the transcriptomes and proteomes of primary mouse B cells from wild-type and STAT6-deficient mice cultured for 4 d in the presence or absence of IL-4. Microarray analysis revealed that 214 mRNAs were upregulated and 149 were downregulated >3-fold by IL-4 in a STAT6-dependent manner. Across all samples, ~5000 proteins were identified by label-free quantitative liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry. A total of 149 proteins was found to be differentially expressed >3-fold between IL-4-stimulated wild-type and STAT6(-/-) B cells (75 upregulated and 74 downregulated). Comparative analysis of the proteome and transcriptome revealed that expression of these proteins was mainly regulated at the transcriptional level, which argues against a major role for posttranscriptional mechanisms that modulate the STAT6-dependent proteome. Nine proteins were selected for confirmation by flow cytometry or Western blot. We show that CD30, CD79b, SLP-76, DEC205, IL-5Ralpha, STAT5, and Thy1 are induced by IL-4 in a STAT6-dependent manner. In contrast, Syk and Fc receptor-like 1 were downregulated. This dataset provides a framework for further functional analysis of newly identified IL-4-regulated proteins in B cells that may contribute to germinal center formation and IgE switching in type 2 immunity.
PXD006172	28350441	Chemical Probes Unravel an Antimicrobial Defense Response Triggered by Binding of the Human Opioid Dynorphin to a Bacterial Sensor Kinase. 	Chemical probes unravel an antimicrobial defense response triggered by binding of the human opioid dynorphin to a bacterial sensor kinase	Host-Microbe Communication, Photoaffinity Probes, Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Host-microbe communication via small molecule signals is important for both symbiotic and pathogenic relationships, but is often poorly understood at the molecular level. Under conditions of host stress, levels of the human opioid peptide dynorphin are elevated, triggering virulence in the opportunistic pathogenic bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa via an unknown pathway. Here we apply a multilayered chemical biology strategy to unravel the mode of action of this putative interkingdom signal. We designed and applied dynorphin-inspired photoaffinity probes to reveal the protein targets of the peptide in live bacteria via chemical proteomics. ParS, a largely uncharacterized membrane sensor of a two-component system, was identified as the most promising hit. Subsequent full proteome studies revealed that dynorphin(1-13) induces an antimicrobial peptide-like response in Pseudomonas, with specific upregulation of membrane defense mechanisms. No such response was observed in a parS mutant, which was more susceptible to dynorphin-induced toxicity. Thus, P. aeruginosa exploits the ParS sensing machinery to defend itself against the host in response to dynorphin as a signal. This study highlights interkingdom communication as a potential essential strategy not only for induction of P. aeruginosa virulence but also for maintaining viability in the hostile environment of the host.
PXD004304	28350877	Exposure to atheroma-relevant 7-oxysterols causes proteomic alterations in cell death, cellular longevity, and lipid metabolism in THP-1 macrophages. 	Analysis of mixed-oxysterol treatment on the THP-1 macrophage	2-DE, THP-1, macrophage, oxysterol, tandem-mass spectrometry	The 7-oxysterols are recognised as strong enhancers of inflammatory processes in foamy macrophages. Atheroma-relevant 7-oxysterol mixtures induce a mixed type of cell death in macrophages, and trigger cellular oxidative stress responses, which mimic oxidative exposures observed in atherosclerotic lesions. However, the macrophage proteome has not previously been determined in the 7-oxysterol treated cell model. The aim of the present study was to determine the specific effects of an atheroma-relevant 7-oxysterol mixture on human macrophage proteome. Human THP-1 macrophages were exposed to an atheroma-relevant mixture of 7beta-hydroxycholesterol and 7-ketocholesterol. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry techniques were used to analyse the alterations in macrophage proteome, which resulted in the identification of 19 proteins with significant differential expression upon oxysterol loading; 8 increased and 11 decreased. The expression patterns of 11 out of 19 identified significant proteins were further confirmed by tandem-mass spectrometry, including further validation of increased histone deacetylase 2 and macrophage scavenger receptor types I and II expressions by western blot analysis. Identified proteins with differential expression in the cell model have been associated with i) signalling imbalance in cell death and cellular longevity; ii) lipid uptake and metabolism in foam cells; and iii) inflammatory proteins. The presented findings highlight a new proteomic platform for further studies into the functional roles of macrophages in atherosclerosis, and present a cell model for future studies to modulate the macrophage proteome by potential anti-atherosclerotic agents.
PXD006246	28351835	Cross-linking mass spectrometry identifies new interfaces of Augmin required to localise the gamma-tubulin ring complex to the mitotic spindle. 	Cross-linking/mass spectrometry analysis of AUGMIN complex	AUGMIN complex, Cross-linking/mass spectromentry	The hetero-octameric protein complex, Augmin, recruits gamma-Tubulin ring complex (gamma-TuRC) to pre-existing microtubules (MTs) to generate branched MTs during mitosis, facilitating robust spindle assembly. However, despite a recent partial reconstitution of the human Augmin complex in vitro, the molecular basis of this recruitment remains unclear. Here, we used immuno-affinity purification of in vivo Augmin from Drosophila and cross-linking/mass spectrometry to identify distance restraints between residues within the eight Augmin subunits in the absence of any other structural information. The results allowed us to predict potential interfaces between Augmin and gamma-TuRC. We tested these predictions biochemically and in the Drosophila embryo, demonstrating that specific regions of the Augmin subunits, Dgt3, Dgt5 and Dgt6 all directly bind the gamma-TuRC protein, Dgp71WD, and are required for the accumulation of gamma-TuRC, but not Augmin, to the mitotic spindle. This study therefore substantially increases our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underpinning MT-dependent MT nucleation.
PXD004911	28352255	Metaproteogenomics Reveals Taxonomic and Functional Changes between Cecal and Fecal Microbiota in Mouse. 	Mouse caecum vs faeces -  Metaproteogenomics Reveals Taxonomic and Functional Changes between Cecal and Fecal Microbiota in Mouse	Metaproteomics, caecum, faeces, gut microbiota, metaproteomics	Previous studies on mouse models report that cecal and fecal microbial communities may differ in the taxonomic structure, but little is known about their respective functional activities. Here, we employed a metaproteogenomic approach, including 16S rRNA gene sequencing, shotgun metagenomics and shotgun metaproteomics, to analyze the microbiota of paired mouse cecal contents (CCs) and feces, with the aim of identifying changes in taxon-specific functions. As a result, Gram-positive anaerobes were observed as considerably higher in CCs, while several key enzymes, involved in oxalate degradation, glutamate/glutamine metabolism, and redox homeostasis, and most actively expressed by Bacteroidetes, were clearly more represented in feces. On the whole, taxon and function abundance appeared to vary consistently with environmental changes expected to occur throughout the transit from the cecum to outside the intestine, especially when considering metaproteomic data. The results of this study indicate that functional and metabolic differences exist between CC and stool samples, paving the way to further metaproteogenomic investigations aimed at elucidating the functional dynamics of the intestinal microbiota.
PXD003973	28355572	Precise Temporal Profiling of Signaling Complexes in Primary Cells Using SWATH Mass Spectrometry. 	Dynamic of the Grb2 interactome in primary cells by DDA-MS	DDA, Grb2, MS, interactome, primary T cells	Spatiotemporal organization of protein interactions in cell signaling is a fundamental process that drives cellular functions. Given differential protein expression across tissues and developmental stages, the architecture and dynamics of signaling interaction proteomes is, likely, highly context dependent. However, current interaction information has been almost exclusively obtained from transformed cells. In this study, we applied an advanced and robust workflow combining mouse genetics and affinity purification (AP)-SWATH mass spectrometry to profile the dynamics of 53 high-confidence protein interactions in primary T cells, using the scaffold protein GRB2 as a model. The workflow also provided a sufficient level of robustness to pinpoint differential interaction dynamics between two similar, but functionally distinct, primary T cell populations. Altogether, we demonstrated that precise and reproducible quantitative measurements of protein interaction dynamics can be achieved in primary cells isolated from mammalian tissues, allowing resolution of the tissue-specific context of cell-signaling events.
PXD003531	28355574	Phosphoproteomics of Primary Cells Reveals Druggable Kinase Signatures in Ovarian Cancer. 	Proteomics of Primary cells derived from Ovarian Cancer	CDK7, EOC, FTE, IHC, OSE, OVCAR3, Ovarian Cancer, primary cells, quantitative phosphoproteomics	Our understanding of the molecular determinants of cancer is still inadequate because of cancer heterogeneity. Here, using epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) as a model system, we analyzed a minute amount of patient-derived epithelial cells from either healthy or cancerous tissues by single-shot mass-spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics. Using a multi-disciplinary approach, we demonstrated that primary cells recapitulate tissue complexity and represent a valuable source of differentially expressed proteins and phosphorylation sites that discriminate cancer from healthy cells. Furthermore, we uncovered kinase signatures associated with EOC. In particular, CDK7 targets were characterized in both EOC primary cells and ovarian cancer cell lines. We showed that CDK7 controls cell proliferation and that pharmacological inhibition of CDK7 selectively represses EOC cell proliferation. Our approach defines the molecular landscape of EOC, paving the way for efficient therapeutic approaches for patients. Finally, we highlight the potential of phosphoproteomics to identify clinically relevant and druggable pathways in cancer.
PXD005516	28357858	Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Paper Mulberry Reveals Phosphorylation Functions in Chilling Tolerance. 	Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Paper Mulberry under Chilling	chilling tolerance, paper mulberry, phosphorylation	Paper mulberry is a valuable woody species with a good chilling tolerance. In this study, phosphoproteomic analysis, physiological measurement, and mRNA quantification were employed to explore the molecular mechanism of chilling (4 degreesC) tolerance in paper mulberry. After chilling for 6 h, 427 significantly changed phosphoproteins were detected in paper mulberry seedlings without obvious physiological injury. When obvious physiological injury occurred after chilling for 48 h, a total of 611 phosphoproteins were found to be significantly changed at the phosphorylation level. Several protein kinases, especially CKII, were possibly responsible for these changes according to conserved sequence analysis. The results of Gene Ontology analysis showed that phosphoproteins were mainly responsible for signal transduction, protein modification, and translation during chilling. Additionally, transport and cellular component organization were enriched after chilling for 6 and 48 h, respectively. On the basis of the protein-protein interaction network analysis, a protein kinase and phosphatases hub protein (P1959) were found to be involved in cross-talk between Ca(2+), BR, ABA, and ethylene-mediated signaling pathways. We also highlighted the phosphorylation of BpSIZ1 and BpICE1 possibly impacted on the CBF/DREB-responsive pathway. From these results, we developed a schematic for the chilling tolerance mechanism at phosphorylation level.
PXD004818	28358042	Spatial and molecular resolution of diffuse malignant mesothelioma heterogeneity by integrating label-free FTIR imaging, laser capture microdissection and proteomics. 	Spectral histopathology supported laser capture microdissection and quantitative proteome analysis of diffuse malignant mesothelioma	Colorectal carcinoma, FTIR, diffuse malignant mesothelioma, infrared spectral histopathology, laser capture microdissection	Diffuse malignant mesothelioma (DMM) is a heterogeneous malignant neoplasia manifesting with three subtypes: epithelioid, sarcomatoid and biphasic. DMM exhibit a high degree of spatial heterogeneity that complicates a thorough understanding of the underlying different molecular processes in each subtype. We present a novel approach to spatially resolve the heterogeneity of a tumour in a label-free manner by integrating FTIR imaging and laser capture microdissection (LCM). Subsequent proteome analysis of the dissected homogenous samples provides in addition molecular resolution. FTIR imaging resolves tumour subtypes within tissue thin-sections in an automated and label-free manner with accuracy of about 85% for DMM subtypes. Even in highly heterogeneous tissue structures, our label-free approach can identify small regions of interest, which can be dissected as homogeneous samples using LCM. Subsequent proteome analysis provides a location specific molecular characterization. Applied to DMM subtypes, we identify 142 differentially expressed proteins, including five protein biomarkers commonly used in DMM immunohistochemistry panels. Thus, FTIR imaging resolves not only morphological alteration within tissue but it resolves even alterations at the level of single proteins in tumour subtypes. Our fully automated workflow FTIR-guided LCM opens new avenues collecting homogeneous samples for precise and predictive biomarkers from omics studies.
PXD006002	28362576	Ambra1 spatially regulates Src activity and Src/FAK-mediated cancer cell invasion via trafficking networks. 	Ambra1 spatially regulates Src activity and Src/FAK-mediated cancer cell invasion via trafficking networks	Ambra1, FAK, IFITM3, Src, dynactin 1, invasion, trafficking	Here, using mouse squamous cell carcinoma cells, we report a completely new function for the autophagy protein Ambra1 as the first described 'spatial rheostat' controlling the Src/FAK pathway. Ambra1 regulates the targeting of active phospho-Src away from focal adhesions into autophagic structures that cancer cells use to survive adhesion stress. Ambra1 binds to both FAK and Src in cancer cells. When FAK is present, Ambra1 is recruited to focal adhesions, promoting FAK-regulated cancer cell direction-sensing and invasion. However, when Ambra1 cannot bind to FAK, abnormally high levels of phospho-Src and phospho-FAK accumulate at focal adhesions, positively regulating adhesion and invasive migration. Spatial control of active Src requires the trafficking proteins Dynactin one and IFITM3, which we identified as Ambra1 binding partners by interaction proteomics. We conclude that Ambra1 is a core component of an intracellular trafficking network linked to tight spatial control of active Src and FAK levels, and so crucially regulates their cancer-associated biological outputs.
PXD006132	28364001	Morphoproteomic Characterization of Lung Squamous Cell Carcinoma Fragmentation, a Histological Marker of Increased Tumor Invasiveness. 	Human- lung squamous cell carcinoma LC-MS/MS Orbitrap Fusion	Fusion, lung squamous cell carcinoma	Accurate stratification of tumors is imperative for adequate cancer management. In addition to staging, morphologic subtyping allows stratification of patients into additional prognostic groups. In this study, we used an image-based computational method on pan-cytokeratin IHC stainings to quantify tumor fragmentation (TF), a measure of tumor invasiveness of lung squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC). In two independent clinical cohorts from tissue microarrays (TMA: n = 208 patients) and whole sections (WS: n = 99 patients), TF was associated with poor prognosis and increased risk of blood vessel infiltration. A third cohort from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA: n = 335 patients) confirmed the poor prognostic value of TF using a similar human-based score on hematoxylin-eosin staining. Integration of RNA-seq data from TCGA and LC-MS/MS proteomics from WS revealed an upregulation of extracellular matrix remodeling and focal adhesion processes in tumors with high TF, supporting their increased invasive potential. This proposed histologic parameter is an independent and unfavorable prognostic marker that could be established as a new grading parameter for LSCC. Cancer Res; 77(10); 2585-93. (c)2017 AACR.
PXD004897	28365442	Loss of Cln3 impacts protein secretion in the social amoeba Dictyostelium. 	Effect of Cln3-deficiency on protein secretion in Dictyostelium	Batten disease, CLN3, Development, Dictyostelium discoideum, Protein secretion, neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis	Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL), also referred to as Batten disease, is the most common form of childhood neurodegeneration. Mutations in CLN3 cause the most prevalent subtype of the disease, which manifests during early childhood and is currently untreatable. The precise function of the CLN3 protein is still not known, which has inhibited the development of targeted therapies. In the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, loss of the CLN3 homolog, Cln3, reduces adhesion during early development, which delays streaming and aggregation. The results of the present study indicate that this phenotype may be at least partly due to aberrant protein secretion in cln3(-) cells. It is well-established that Cln3 localizes primarily to the contractile vacuole (CV) system in Dictyostelium, and to a lesser extent, compartments of the endocytic pathway. Intriguingly, the CV system has been linked to the secretion of proteins that do not contain a signal peptide for secretion (i.e., unconventional protein secretion). Proteins that do contain a signal peptide are secreted via a conventional mechanism involving the endoplasmic reticulum, transport through the Golgi, and secretion via vesicle release. In this study, Cln3 was observed to co-localize with the Golgi marker wheat germ agglutinin suggesting that Cln3 participates in both secretion mechanisms. Chimeras of wild-type (WT) and cln3(-) cells displayed delayed streaming and aggregation, and interestingly, cln3(-) cells starved in conditioned media (CM) harvested from starving WT cells showed near normal timing of streaming and aggregation suggesting aberrant protein secretion in Cln3-deficient cells. Based on these observations, LC-MS/MS was used to reveal the protein content of CM from starved cells (mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004897). A total of 450 proteins were detected in WT and cln3(-) CM, of which 3 were absent in cln3(-) CM. Moreover, 12 proteins that were present in cln3(-) CM were absent in WT CM. Label-free quantification identified 42 proteins that were present in significantly higher amounts in cln3(-) CM compared to WT, and 3 proteins that were present in significantly reduced amounts. A GO term enrichment analysis showed that a majority of the affected proteins are linked to endocytosis, vesicle-mediated transport, proteolysis, and metabolism. In total, the results of this study indicate that Cln3 functions in both conventional and unconventional protein secretion and that loss of Cln3 results in deregulated secretion during early development. Importantly, this is the first evidence in any system linking CLN3 function to protein secretion.
PXD005863	28366643	Histone Variant H2A.L.2 Guides Transition Protein-Dependent Protamine Assembly in Male Germ Cells. 	Identification of TH2B partners	TH2B, co-immunoprecipitation, nanoLC-MS/MS	Histone replacement by transition proteins (TPs) and protamines (Prms) constitutes an essential step for the successful production of functional male gametes, yet nothing is known on the underlying functional interplay between histones, TPs, and Prms. Here, by studying spermatogenesis in the absence of a spermatid-specific histone variant, H2A.L.2, we discover a fundamental mechanism involved in the transformation of nucleosomes into nucleoprotamines. H2A.L.2 is synthesized at the same time as TPs and enables their loading onto the nucleosomes. TPs do not displace histones but rather drive the recruitment and processing of Prms, which are themselves responsible for histone eviction. Altogether, the incorporation of H2A.L.2 initiates and orchestrates a series of successive transitional states that ultimately shift to the fully compacted genome of the mature spermatozoa. Hence, the current view of histone-to-nucleoprotamine transition should be revisited and include an additional step with H2A.L.2 assembly prior to the action of TPs and Prms.
PXD005897	28368372	ERCC1-XPF cooperates with CTCF and cohesin to facilitate the developmental silencing of imprinted genes. 	ERCC1-XPF Cooperates with CTCF and the Cohesin to Facilitate the Developmental Silencing of Imprinted Genes	AP-MS, ERCC1-XPF, NER, in vivo biotinylation tagging, label-free, levers	Inborn defects in DNA repair are associated with complex developmental disorders whose causal mechanisms are poorly understood. Using an in vivo biotinylation tagging approach in mice, we show that the nucleotide excision repair (NER) structure-specific endonuclease ERCC1-XPF complex interacts with the insulator binding protein CTCF, the cohesin subunits SMC1A and SMC3 and with MBD2; the factors co-localize with ATRX at the promoters and control regions (ICRs) of imprinted genes during postnatal hepatic development. Loss of Ercc1 or exposure to MMC triggers the localization of CTCF to heterochromatin, the dissociation of the CTCF-cohesin complex and ATRX from promoters and ICRs, altered histone marks and the aberrant developmental expression of imprinted genes without altering DNA methylation. We propose that ERCC1-XPF cooperates with CTCF and cohesin to facilitate the developmental silencing of imprinted genes and that persistent DNA damage triggers chromatin changes that affect gene expression programs associated with NER disorders.
PXD005915	28369980	The costa of trichomonads: A complex macromolecular cytoskeleton structure made of uncommon proteins. 	The costa of trichomonads: A complex macromolecular cytoskeleton structure made of uncommon proteins	Trichomonas vaginalis, Tritrichomonas foetus, coiled-coils, cytoskeleton	BACKGROUND INFORMATION: The costa is a prominent striated fibre that is found in protozoa of the Trichomonadidae family that present an undulating membrane. It is composed primarily of proteins that have not yet been explored. In this study, we used cell fractionation to obtain a highly enriched costa fraction whose structure and composition was further analysed by electron microscopy and mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Electron microscopy of negatively stained samples revealed that the costa, which is a periodic structure with alternating electron-dense and electron-lucent bands, displays three distinct regions, named the head, neck and body. Fourier transform analysis showed that the electron-lucent bands present sub-bands with a regular pattern. An analysis of the costa fraction via one- and two-dimensional electrophoresis and liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) allowed the identification of 54 hypothetical proteins. Fourteen of those proteins were considered to be major components of the fraction. CONCLUSIONS: The costa of T. foetus is a complex and organised cytoskeleton structure made of a large number of proteins which is assembled into filamentous structures. Some of these proteins exhibit uncharacterised domains and no function related according to gene ontology, suggesting that the costa structure may be formed by a new class of proteins that differ from those previously described in other organisms. Seven of these proteins contain prefoldin domains displaying coiled-coil regions. This propriety is shared with proteins of the striated fibres of other protozoan as well as in intermediate filaments. SIGNIFICANCE: Our observations suggest the presence of a new class of the cytoskeleton filaments in T. foetus. We believe that our data could auxiliate in determining the specific locations of these proteins in the distinct regions that compose the costa, as well as to define the functional roles of each component. Therefore, our study will help in the better understanding of the organisation and function of this structure in unicellular organisms.
PXD005330	28373035	Mung bean (Vigna radiata (L.)) coat extract modulates macrophage functions to enhance antigen presentation: A proteomic study. 	Immunomodulation  by mung bean	immune response, macophage, mung bean	The immunomodulatory effect of mung bean is mainly attributed to antioxidant properties of flavonoids; however, the precise machinery for biological effect on animal cells remains uncertain. To understand the physiological change produced by mung bean consumption, proteomic and metabolomic techniques were used. In vitro assay confirmed the importance of synergistic interaction among multiple flavonoids by IL-6 expression. Proteomic analysis detected that the abundance of 190 proteins was changed in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated RAW264.7 cells by treatment with coat extract. Pathway mapping revealed that a range of proteins were regulated including an interferon-responsive antiviral enzyme (2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthetase), antigen processing factors (immunoglobulin heavy chain-binding protein and protein disulfide-isomerase), and proteins related to proteasomal degradation. Major histocompatibility complex pathway was activated. These results suggest that mung bean consumption enhances immune response toward a Th2-promoting polarization. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This study highlighted the immunomodulation of RAW264.7 cells in response to treatment with mung bean seed coat extract, using gel-free proteomic technique. The mechanism of immunomodulation by mung bean has not been described until today except for a report which identified HMGB1 suppression as a pathway underlying the protective effect against sepsis. This study suggested that the mung bean is involved in the regulation of antigen processing and presentation, and thus shifts immune response from acute febrile illness to specific/systemic and long-lasting immunity to protect the host.
PXD005881	28373284	Pathogenic Acinetobacter species have a functional type I secretion system and contact-dependent inhibition systems. 	Acinetobacter nosocomialis type I secretome	LC-MS, Proteomcis, Type II secretion	Pathogenic Acinetobacter species, including Acinetobacter baumannii and Acinetobacter nosocomialis, are opportunistic human pathogens of increasing relevance worldwide. Although their mechanisms of drug resistance are well studied, the virulence factors that govern Acinetobacter pathogenesis are incompletely characterized. Here we define the complete secretome of A. nosocomialis strain M2 in minimal medium and demonstrate that pathogenic Acinetobacter species produce both a functional type I secretion system (T1SS) and a contact-dependent inhibition (CDI) system. Using bioinformatics, quantitative proteomics, and mutational analyses, we show that Acinetobacter uses its T1SS for exporting two putative T1SS effectors, an Repeats-in-Toxin (RTX)-serralysin-like toxin, and the biofilm-associated protein (Bap). Moreover, we found that mutation of any component of the T1SS system abrogated type VI secretion activity under nutrient-limited conditions, indicating a previously unrecognized cross-talk between these two systems. We also demonstrate that the Acinetobacter T1SS is required for biofilm formation. Last, we show that both A. nosocomialis and A. baumannii produce functioning CDI systems that mediate growth inhibition of sister cells lacking the cognate immunity protein. The Acinetobacter CDI systems are widely distributed across pathogenic Acinetobacter species, with many A. baumannii isolates harboring two distinct CDI systems. Collectively, these data demonstrate the power of differential, quantitative proteomics approaches to study secreted proteins, define the role of previously uncharacterized protein export systems, and observe cross-talk between secretion systems in the pathobiology of medically relevant Acinetobacter species.
PXD004436	28373295	Proteomic Analysis of Regulatory T Cells Reveals the Importance of Themis1 in the Control of Their Suppressive Function. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of mouse CD4+Foxp3+ regulatory T cells and CD4+Foxp3- conventional T cells	Foxp3, Regulatory T cells, expression proteomics, label-free, mouse primary T cell	Regulatory T cells (Treg) represent a minor subpopulation of T lymphocytes that is crucial for the maintenance of immune homeostasis. Here, we present a large-scale quantitative mass spectrometry study that defines a specific proteomic "signature" of Treg. Treg and conventional T lymphocyte (Tconv) subpopulations were sorted by flow cytometry and subjected to global proteomic analysis by single-run nanoLC-MS/MS on a fast-sequencing Q-Exactive mass spectrometer. Besides "historical" proteins that characterize Treg, our study identified numerous new proteins that are up- or downregulated in Treg versus Tconv. We focused on Themis1, a protein particularly under-represented in Treg, and recently described as being involved in the pathogenesis of immune diseases. Using a transgenic mouse model overexpressing Themis1, we provided in vivo and in vitro evidence of its importance for Treg suppressive functions, in an animal model of inflammatory bowel disease and in coculture assays. We showed that this enhanced suppressive activity in vitro is associated with an accumulation of Tregs. Thus, our study highlights the usefulness of label free quantitative methods to better characterize the Treg cell lineage and demonstrates the potential role of Themis1 in the suppressive functions of these cells.
PXD006085	28373296	A Proteomic Approach to Identify Alterations in the Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier (SUMO) Network during Controlled Mechanical Ventilation in Rat Diaphragm Muscle. 	A proteomic approach to identify alterations in the SUMO network during controlled mechanical ventilation in rat diaphragm muscle	Diaphragm, Mechanical Ventilation, SUMO, SUMO biomarkers, Skeletal Muscle	The small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) is as a regulator of many cellular functions by reversible conjugation to a broad number of substrates. Under endogenous or exogenous perturbations, the SUMO network becomes a fine sensor of stress conditions by alterations in the expression level of SUMO enzymes and consequently changing the status of SUMOylated proteins. The diaphragm is the major inspiratory muscle, which is continuously active under physiological conditions, but its structure and function is severely affected when passively displaced for long extents during mechanical ventilation (MV). An iatrogenic condition called Ventilator-Induced Diaphragm Dysfunction (VIDD) is a major cause of failure to wean patients from ventilator support but the molecular mechanisms underlying this dysfunction are not fully understood. Using a unique experimental Intensive Care Unit (ICU) rat model allowing long-term MV, diaphragm muscles were collected in rats control and exposed to controlled MV (CMV) for durations varying between 1 and 10 days. Endogenous SUMOylated diaphragm proteins were identified by mass spectrometry and validated with in vitro SUMOylation systems. Contractile, calcium regulator and mitochondrial proteins were of specific interest due to their putative involvement in VIDD. Differences were observed in the abundance of SUMOylated proteins between glycolytic and oxidative muscle fibers in control animals and high levels of SUMOylated proteins were present in all fibers during CMV. Finally, previously reported VIDD biomarkers and therapeutic targets were also identified in our datasets which may play an important role in response to muscle weakness seen in ICU patients. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006085. Username: reviewer26663@ebi.ac.uk, Password: rwcP5W0o.
PXD005620	28376875	TGFBR2-dependent alterations of exosomal cargo and functions in DNA mismatch repair-deficient HCT116 colorectal cancer cells. 	TGFBR2-dependent Alterations of Exosomal Cargo in DNA Mismatch Repair-deficient HCT116 Colorectal Cancer Cells	Colorectal Cancer, DNA Mismatch Repair Deficiency, Exosomes, Microsatellite Instability, Transforming Growth Factor Beta Receptor Type 2	BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancers (CRCs) that lack DNA mismatch repair function exhibit the microsatellite unstable (MSI) phenotype and are characterized by the accumulation of frameshift mutations at short repetitive DNA sequences (microsatellites). These tumors recurrently show inactivating frameshift mutations in the tumor suppressor Transforming Growth Factor Beta Receptor Type 2 (TGFBR2) thereby abrogating downstream signaling. How altered TGFBR2 signaling affects exosome-mediated communication between MSI tumor cells and their environment has not been resolved. Here, we report on molecular alterations of exosomes shed by MSI cells and the biological response evoked in recipient cells. METHODS: Exosomes were isolated and characterized by electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking, and western blot analysis. TGFBR2-dependent effects on the cargo and functions of exosomes were studied in a MSI CRC model cell line enabling reconstituted and inducible TGFBR2 expression and signaling. Microsatellite frameshift mutations in exosomal and cellular DNA were examined by PCR-based DNA fragment analysis and exosomal protein profiles were identified by mass spectrometry. Uptake of fluorescent-labeled exosomes by hepatoma recipient cells was monitored by confocal microscopy. TGFBR2-dependent exosomal effects on secreted cytokine levels of recipient cells were analyzed by Luminex technology and ELISA. RESULTS: Frameshift mutation patterns in microsatellite stretches of TGFBR2 and other MSI target genes were found to be reflected in the cargo of MSI CRC-derived exosomes. At the proteome level, reconstituted TGFBR2 expression and signaling uncovered two protein subsets exclusively occurring in exosomes derived from TGFBR2-deficient (14 proteins) or TGFBR2-proficient (five proteins) MSI donor cells. Uptake of these exosomes by recipient cells caused increased secretion (2-6 fold) of specific cytokines (Interleukin-4, Stem Cell Factor, Platelet-derived Growth Factor-B), depending on the TGFBR2 expression status of the tumor cell. CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that the coding MSI phenotype of DNA mismatch repair-deficient CRC cells is maintained in their exosomal DNA. Moreover, we uncovered that a recurrent MSI tumor driver mutation like TGFBR2 can reprogram the protein content of MSI cell-derived exosomes and in turn modulate the cytokine secretion profile of recipient cells. Apart from its diagnostic potential, these TGFBR2-dependent exosomal molecular and proteomic signatures might help to understand the signaling routes used by MSI tumors. Fricke et al. uncovered coding microsatellite instability-associated mutations of colorectal tumor driver genes like TGFBR2 in MSI tumor cellderived exosomes. Depending on the TGFBR2 expression status of their donor cells, shed exosomes show distinct proteomic signatures and promote altered cytokine secretion profiles in recipient cells.
PXD006087	28377412	Astrocyte-shed extracellular vesicles regulate the peripheral leukocyte response to inflammatory brain lesions. 	Astrocyte-shed extracellular vesicles regulate the peripheral leukocyte response to inflammatory brain lesions	Extracellular vesicles, IL-1beta, brain injury, neuroinflammation	Brain injury induces a peripheral acute cytokine response that directs the transmigration of leukocytes into the brain. Because this brain-to-peripheral immune communication affects patient recovery, understanding its regulation is important. Using a mouse model of inflammatory brain injury, we set out to find a soluble mediator for this phenomenon. We found that extracellular vesicles (EVs) shed from astrocytes in response to intracerebral injection of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) rapidly entered into peripheral circulation and promoted the transmigration of leukocytes through modulation of the peripheral acute cytokine response. Bioinformatic analysis of the protein and microRNA cargo of EVs identified peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) as a primary molecular target of astrocyte-shed EVs. We confirmed in mice that astrocytic EVs promoted the transmigration of leukocytes into the brain by inhibiting PPARalpha, resulting in the increase of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) activity that triggered the production of cytokines in liver. These findings expand our understanding of the mechanisms regulating communication between the brain and peripheral immune system and identify astrocytic EVs as a molecular regulator of the immunological response to inflammatory brain damage.
PXD005473	28380054	Meioc maintains an extended meiotic prophase I in mice. 	MEIOC interacting proteins during meiotic prophase I		The meiosis-specific chromosomal events of homolog pairing, synapsis, and recombination occur over an extended meiotic prophase I that is many times longer than prophase of mitosis. Here we show that, in mice, maintenance of an extended meiotic prophase I requires the gene Meioc, a germ-cell specific factor conserved in most metazoans. In mice, Meioc is expressed in male and female germ cells upon initiation of and throughout meiotic prophase I. Mouse germ cells lacking Meioc initiate meiosis: they undergo pre-meiotic DNA replication, they express proteins involved in synapsis and recombination, and a subset of cells progress as far as the zygotene stage of prophase I. However, cells in early meiotic prophase-as early as the preleptotene stage-proceed to condense their chromosomes and assemble a spindle, as if having progressed to metaphase. Meioc-deficient spermatocytes that have initiated synapsis mis-express CYCLIN A2, which is normally expressed in mitotic spermatogonia, suggesting a failure to properly transition to a meiotic cell cycle program. MEIOC interacts with YTHDC2, and the two proteins pull-down an overlapping set of mitosis-associated transcripts. We conclude that when the meiotic chromosomal program is initiated, Meioc is simultaneously induced so as to extend meiotic prophase. Specifically, MEIOC, together with YTHDC2, promotes a meiotic (as opposed to mitotic) cell cycle program via post-transcriptional control of their target transcripts.
PXD005895	28380375	A Class of Reactive Acyl-CoA Species Reveals the Non-enzymatic Origins of Protein Acylation. 	A class of reactive acyl-CoA species reveals the nonenzymatic origins of protein acylation	Glutarylation, HMGylation, Nonenzymatic protein acylation	The mechanisms underlying the formation of acyl protein modifications remain poorly understood. By investigating the reactivity of endogenous acyl-CoA metabolites, we found a class of acyl-CoAs that undergo intramolecular catalysis to form reactive intermediates that non-enzymatically modify proteins. Based on this mechanism, we predicted, validated, and characterized a protein modification: 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl(HMG)-lysine. In a model of altered HMG-CoA metabolism, we found evidence of two additional protein modifications: 3-methylglutaconyl(MGc)-lysine and 3-methylglutaryl(MG)-lysine. Using quantitative proteomics, we compared the "acylomes" of two reactive acyl-CoA species, namely HMG-CoA and glutaryl-CoA, which are generated in different pathways. We found proteins that are uniquely modified by each reactive metabolite, as well as common proteins and pathways. We identified the tricarboxylic acid cycle as a pathway commonly regulated by acylation and validated malate dehydrogenase as a key target. These data uncover a fundamental relationship between reactive acyl-CoA species and proteins and define a new regulatory paradigm in metabolism.
PXD005896	28380376	SIRT4 Is a Lysine Deacylase that Controls Leucine Metabolism and Insulin Secretion. 	SIRT4 Is a Lysine Deacylase that Controls Leucine Metabolism and Insulin Secretion	Insulin Secretion, Leucine Metabolism, Protein acylation, Sirt4	Sirtuins are NAD(+)-dependent protein deacylases that regulate several aspects of metabolism and aging. In contrast to the other mammalian sirtuins, the primary enzymatic activity of mitochondrial sirtuin 4 (SIRT4) and its overall role in metabolic control have remained enigmatic. Using a combination of phylogenetics, structural biology, and enzymology, we show that SIRT4 removes three acyl moieties from lysine residues: methylglutaryl (MG)-, hydroxymethylglutaryl (HMG)-, and 3-methylglutaconyl (MGc)-lysine. The metabolites leading to these post-translational modifications are intermediates in leucine oxidation, and we show a primary role for SIRT4 in controlling this pathway in mice. Furthermore, we find that dysregulated leucine metabolism in SIRT4KO mice leads to elevated basal and stimulated insulin secretion, which progressively develops into glucose intolerance and insulin resistance. These findings identify a robust enzymatic activity for SIRT4, uncover a mechanism controlling branched-chain amino acid flux, and position SIRT4 as a crucial player maintaining insulin secretion and glucose homeostasis during aging.
PXD006098	28381614	Dynamic RNA-protein interactions underlie the zebrafish maternal-to-zygotic transition. 	Dynamic RNA-protein interactions underlie the zebrafish maternal-to-zygotic transition	embryo, zebrafish	During the maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT), transcriptionally silent embryos rely on post-transcriptional regulation of maternal mRNAs until zygotic genome activation (ZGA). RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are important regulators of post-transcriptional RNA processing events, yet their identities and functions during developmental transitions in vertebrates remain largely unexplored. Using mRNA interactome capture, we identified 227 RBPs in zebrafish embryos before and during ZGA, hereby named the zebrafish MZT mRNA-bound proteome. This protein constellation consists of many conserved RBPs, some of which are potential stage-specific mRNA interactors that likely reflect the dynamics of RNA-protein interactions during MZT. The enrichment of numerous splicing factors like hnRNP proteins before ZGA was surprising, because maternal mRNAs were found to be fully spliced. To address potentially unique roles of these RBPs in embryogenesis, we focused on Hnrnpa1. iCLIP and subsequent mRNA reporter assays revealed a function for Hnrnpa1 in the regulation of poly(A) tail length and translation of maternal mRNAs through sequence-specific association with 3' UTRs before ZGA. Comparison of iCLIP data from two developmental stages revealed that Hnrnpa1 dissociates from maternal mRNAs at ZGA and instead regulates the nuclear processing of pri-mir-430 transcripts, which we validated experimentally. The shift from cytoplasmic to nuclear RNA targets was accompanied by a dramatic translocation of Hnrnpa1 and other pre-mRNA splicing factors to the nucleus in a transcription-dependent manner. Thus, our study identifies global changes in RNA-protein interactions during vertebrate MZT and shows that Hnrnpa1 RNA-binding activities are spatially and temporally coordinated to regulate RNA metabolism during early development.
PXD005668	28382018	Phosphoproteome Profiling Reveals Circadian Clock Regulation of Posttranslational Modifications in the Murine Hippocampus. 	Murine hippocampal proteome -  Phosphoproteome Profiling Reveals Circadian Clock Regulation of Posttranslational Modifications in the Murine Hippocampus	hippocampus	The circadian clock is an endogenous oscillator that drives daily rhythms in physiology, behavior, and gene expression. The underlying mechanisms of circadian timekeeping are cell-autonomous and involve oscillatory expression of core clock genes that is driven by interconnecting transcription-translation feedback loops (TTFLs). Circadian clock TTFLs are further regulated by posttranslational modifications, in particular, phosphorylation. The hippocampus plays an important role in spatial memory and the conversion of short- to long-term memory. Several studies have reported the presence of a peripheral oscillator in the hippocampus and have highlighted the importance of circadian regulation in memory formation. Given the general importance of phosphorylation in circadian clock regulation, we performed global quantitative proteome and phosphoproteome analyses of the murine hippocampus across the circadian cycle, applying spiked-in labeled reference and high accuracy mass spectrometry (MS). Of the 3,052 proteins and 2,868 phosphosites on 1,368 proteins that were accurately quantified, 1.7% of proteins and 5.2% of phosphorylation events exhibited time-of-day-dependent expression profiles. The majority of circadian phosphopeptides displayed abrupt fluctuations at mid-to-late day without underlying rhythms of protein abundance. Bioinformatic analysis of cyclic phosphorylation events revealed their diverse distribution in different biological pathways, most notably, cytoskeletal organization and neuronal morphogenesis. This study provides the first large-scale, quantitative MS analysis of the circadian phosphoproteome and proteome of the murine hippocampus and highlights the significance of rhythmic regulation at the posttranslational level in this peripheral oscillator. In addition to providing molecular insights into the hippocampal circadian clock, our results will assist in the understanding of genetic factors that underlie rhythms-associated pathological states of the hippocampus.
PXD005241	28382632	A phosphoproteomic landscape of rice (Oryza sativa) tissues. 	A phosphoproteomic landscape of rice (Oryza sativa L.) tissues	phosphoproteomic rice  tissues	Protein phosphorylation is an important posttranslational modification that regulates various plant developmental processes. Here, we report a comprehensive, quantitative phosphoproteomic profile of six rice tissues, including callus, leaf, root, shoot meristem, young panicle and mature panicle from Nipponbare by employing a mass spectrometry (MS)-based, label-free approach. A total of 7171 unique phosphorylation sites in 4792 phosphopeptides from 2657 phosphoproteins were identified, of which 4613 peptides were differentially phosphorylated (DP) among the tissues. Motif-X analysis revealed eight significantly enriched motifs, such as [sP], [Rxxs] and [tP] from the rice phosphosites. Hierarchical clustering analysis divided the DP peptides into 63 subgroups, which showed divergent spatial-phosphorylation patterns among tissues. These clustered proteins are functionally related to nutrition uptake in roots, photosynthesis in leaves and tissue differentiation in panicles. Phosphorylations were specific in the tissues where the target proteins execute their functions, suggesting that phosphorylation might be a key mechanism to regulate the protein activity in different tissues. This study greatly expands the rice phosphoproteomic dataset, and also offers insight into the regulatory roles of phosphorylation in tissue development and functions.
PXD006112	28387123	Improved Reversed Phase Chromatography of Hydrophilic Peptides from Spatial and Temporal Changes in Column Temperature. 	Improved reversed phase chromatography of hydrophilic peptides from spatial and temporal changes in column temperature	BSA, HeLa, hydrophilic peptide, isoaspartic acid, liquid chromatography, temperature	Reversed phase chromatography is an established method for peptide separation and frequently coupled to electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry for proteomic analysis. Column temperature is one parameter that influences peptide retention and elution, but it is often overlooked as its implementation requires additional equipment and method optimization. An apparatus that allows temperature manipulation in three areas of a two-column setup was evaluated for improvements in chromatography. Using commercially available standards, we demonstrate that a low column temperature (0 degreesC) during sample loading enhances the peak shape of several bovine serum albumin hydrophilic peptides. For digested HeLa lysates, approximately 15% more peptide identifications were obtained by increasing the precolumn temperature to 50 degreesC after the 500 ng sample was loaded at a low temperature. This method also identified additional early eluting peptides with grand average of hydropathicity values less than -2. We also investigated the effect of cooler column temperatures on peptides with post-translational modifications. It was possible to minimize the coelution of an isoaspartylated peptide and its unmodified version when the analytical column temperature was decreased to 5 degreesC. Aside from demonstrating the utility of lower temperatures for improved chromatography, its application at specific locations and time points is critical for peptide detection and separation.
PXD005346	28387473	Combining affinity enrichment, cross-linking with photo amino acids, and mass spectrometry for probing protein kinase D2 interactions. 	Incorporation of photo-amino acids in HeLa cells	HeLa cells, Orbitrap Fusion, incorporation, photo-leucine, photo-methionine	We present a novel approach that relies on the affinity capture of protein interaction partners from a complex mixture, followed by their covalent fixation via UV-induced activation of incorporated diazirine photoreactive amino acids (photo-methionine and photo-leucine). The captured protein complexes are enzymatically digested and interacting proteins are identified and quantified by label-free LC/MS analysis. Using HeLa cell lysates with photo-methionine and photo-leucine-labeled proteins, we were able to capture and preserve protein interactions that are otherwise elusive in conventional pull-down experiments. Our approach is exemplified for mapping the protein interaction network of protein kinase D2, but has the potential to be applied to any protein system. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD005346 (photo amino acid incorporation) and PXD005349 (enrichment experiments).
PXD005827	28388405	Trade-off between Transcriptome Plasticity and Genome Evolution in Cephalopods. 	Trade-off between transcriptome plasticity and genome evolution in cephalopods	ADAR, Cephalopods, Epitranscriptome, Genome evolution, Neural plasticity, Proteome diversity, RNA editing, RNA modifications	RNA editing, a post-transcriptional process, allows the diversification of proteomes beyond the genomic blueprint; however it is infrequently used among animals for this purpose. Recent reports suggesting increased levels of RNA editing in squids thus raise the question of the nature and effects of these events. We here show that RNA editing is particularly common in behaviorally sophisticated coleoid cephalopods, with tens of thousands of evolutionarily conserved sites. Editing is enriched in the nervous system, affecting molecules pertinent for excitability and neuronal morphology. The genomic sequence flanking editing sites is highly conserved, suggesting that the process confers a selective advantage. Due to the large number of sites, the surrounding conservation greatly reduces the number of mutations and genomic polymorphisms in protein-coding regions. This trade-off between genome evolution and transcriptome plasticity highlights the importance of RNA recoding as a strategy for diversifying proteins, particularly those associated with neural function. PAPERCLIP.
PXD017570	28388416	An Approach to Spatiotemporally Resolve Protein Interaction Networks in Living Cells. 	An Approach to Spatiotemporally Resolve Protein Interaction Networks in Living Cells - B2AR_DOR	APEX, GPCR, protein-protein interactions, proximity biotinylation	Cells operate through protein interaction networks organized in space and time. Here, we describe an approach to resolve both dimensions simultaneously by using proximity labeling mediated by engineered ascorbic acid peroxidase (APEX). APEX has been used to capture entire organelle proteomes with high temporal resolution, but its breadth of labeling is generally thought to preclude the higher spatial resolution necessary to interrogate specific protein networks. We provide a solution to this problem by combining quantitative proteomics with a system of spatial references. As proof of principle, we apply this approach to interrogate proteins engaged by G-protein-coupled receptors as they dynamically signal and traffic in response to ligand-induced activation. The method resolves known binding partners, as well as previously unidentified network components. Validating its utility as a discovery pipeline, we establish that two of these proteins promote ubiquitin-linked receptor downregulation after prolonged activation.
PXD005853	28389096	Shotgun proteomic analysis to study the decrease of xenograft tumor growth after rosemary extract treatment. 	SHOTGUN PROTEOMIC ANALYSIS TO STUDY THE DECREASE OF XENOGRAFT TUMOR GROWTH AFTER ROSEMARY EXTRACT TREATMENT	colon cancer, dimethyl labeling, quantitative proteomics, rosemary extract, xenograft mice	The antiproliferative activity of Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis) has been widely studied in different in vitro and in vivo models, which demonstrate that rosemary extracts inhibit the cellular proliferation due to its ability to interact with a wide spectrum of molecular targets. However, a comprehensive proteomics study in vivo has not been carried out yet. In the present work, the effects of rosemary extract on xenograft tumor growth has been studied and, for the first time, a shotgun proteomic analysis based on nano-LC-MS/MS together with stable isotope dimethyl labeling (DML) has been applied to investigate the global protein changes in vivo. Our results show that the daily administration of a polyphenol-enriched rosemary extract reduces the progression of colorectal cancer in vivo with the subsequent deregulation of 74 proteins. The bioinformatic analysis of these proteins indicates that the rosemary extract mainly alters the RNA Post-Transcriptional Modification, the Protein Synthesis and the Amino Acid Metabolism functions and suggests the inactivation of the oncogene MYC. These results demonstrate the high utility of the proposed analytical methodology to determine, simultaneously, the expression levels of a large number of protein biomarkers and to generate new hypothesis about the molecular mechanisms of this extract in vivo.
PXD005164	28389918	Quantitative analysis of the cysteine redoxome by iodoacetyl tandem mass tags. 	OxiTMT	TMT, oxidative stress, proteopics, redox	The redox conditions that reign inside a cell have a determining effect on a number of biological processes. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) are key redox players and have been linked to a number of pathologies. They have also been shown to play an important regulating role in cell signaling events. On the proteome level, thiol groups of cysteinyl side chains constitute the major targets of ROS and RNS. A number of analytical techniques based on mass spectrometry have been developed to characterize the cysteine redoxome, often facing a number of technical challenges, mostly related to the lability, heterogeneity, and low abundance of the oxidized forms. Furthermore, any posttranslational modification (PTM) quantification method needs to take the parent protein's expression level into account. While taking all these limitations into consideration, we have developed a quantitative analytical strategy named OxiTMT, based on chemical labeling with iodoacetyl isobaric tandem mass tags (iodoTMT). OxiTMT allowed the generation of quantitative redox data that could be normalized by the protein's expression profile in up to three different conditions. The method was tested on Escherichia coli with or without an oxidative treatment. Results showed the method to be adequate for the analysis of cysteine PTMs with a good coverage of the cysteine redoxome, especially for the low abundant oxidized species. Some of the challenges that face reporter ion quantification of PTMs by mass spectrometry were also assessed. This study serves as a proof of concept of the established protocol and consequent data treatment step. The use of tandem mass tags opens the ways towards the application of the method to the study of tissues and sera. Graphical abstract OxiTMT workflow.
PXD004944	28392779	Complementary Metaproteomic Approaches to Assess the Bacterioplankton Response toward a Phytoplankton Spring Bloom in the Southern North Sea. 	Complementary metaproteomic approaches to assess marine bacteriopankton response towards algal bloom	algal bloom, marine bacterioplankton, metaproteome	Annually recurring phytoplankton spring blooms are characteristic of temperate coastal shelf seas. During these blooms, environmental conditions, including nutrient availability, differ considerably from non-bloom conditions, affecting the entire ecosystem including the bacterioplankton. Accordingly, the emerging ecological niches during bloom transition are occupied by different bacterial populations, with Roseobacter RCA cluster and SAR92 clade members exhibiting high metabolic activity during bloom events. In this study, the functional response of the ambient bacterial community toward a Phaeocystis globosa bloom in the southern North Sea was studied using metaproteomic approaches. In contrast to other metaproteomic studies of marine bacterial communities, this is the first study comparing two different cell lysis and protein preparation methods [using trifluoroethanol (TFE) and in-solution digest as well as bead beating and SDS-based solubilization and in-gel digest (BB GeLC)]. In addition, two different mass spectrometric techniques (ESI-iontrap MS and MALDI-TOF MS) were used for peptide analysis. A total of 585 different proteins were identified, 296 of which were only detected using the TFE and 191 by the BB GeLC method, demonstrating the complementarity of these sample preparation methods. Furthermore, 158 proteins of the TFE cell lysis samples were exclusively detected by ESI-iontrap MS while 105 were only detected using MALDI-TOF MS, underpinning the value of using two different ionization and mass analysis methods. Notably, 12% of the detected proteins represent predicted integral membrane proteins, including the difficult to detect rhodopsin, indicating a considerable coverage of membrane proteins by this approach. This comprehensive approach verified previous metaproteomic studies of marine bacterioplankton, e.g., detection of many transport-related proteins (17% of the detected proteins). In addition, new insights into e.g., carbon and nitrogen metabolism were obtained. For instance, the C1 pathway was more prominent outside the bloom and different strategies for glucose metabolism seem to be applied under the studied conditions. Furthermore, a higher number of nitrogen assimilating proteins were present under non-bloom conditions, reflecting the competition for this limited macro nutrient under oligotrophic conditions. Overall, application of different sample preparation techniques as well as MS methods facilitated a more holistic picture of the marine bacterioplankton response to changing environmental conditions.
PXD005290	28393466	Improving basic and membrane protein MS detection of the culture filtrate proteins from Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv by biomimetic affinity prefractionation. 	Proteomic profiling of culture filtrates from M.tuberculosis H37Rv	Biomimetic affinity chromatography, Culture filtrate proteins of Mycobacterium tubercu, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), low-abundant proteins	The culture filtrate proteins (CFPs) from Mycobacterium tuberculosis have been shown to induce protective immune responses in human and animal models, making them a promising source of candidate targets for tuberculosis drugs, vaccines, and diagnostics. The constituents of the M. tuberculosis CFP proteome are complex and vary with growth conditions. To effectively profile CFPs, gel-based prefractionation is usually performed before MS analysis. In this study, we describe a novel prefractionation approach by which the proteome is divided into seven partially overlapping fractions by biomimetic affinity chromatography (BiAC) using a six-column cascade. The LC-MS/MS analysis of individual fractions identified a total of 541 CFPs, including 61 first-time identifications. Notably, ~1/3 (20/61) of these novel CFPs are membrane proteins, among which nine proteins have 2-14 transmembrane domains. In addition, ~1/4 (14/61) of the CFPs are basic proteins with pI values greater than 9.0. Our data demonstrate that biomimetic affinity chromatography prefractionation markedly improves protein detection by LC-MS/MS, and the coverage of basic and hydrophobic proteins in particular is remarkably increased.
PXD005738	28393831	Determining the bacterial cell biology of Planctomycetes. 	Membrane proteins of Planctopirus limnophila	1D-Gel-LC-MS/MS, Planctomycetes, membrane proteins	Bacteria of the phylum Planctomycetes have been previously reported to possess several features that are typical of eukaryotes, such as cytosolic compartmentalization and endocytosis-like macromolecule uptake. However, recent evidence points towards a Gram-negative cell plan for Planctomycetes, although in-depth experimental analysis has been hampered by insufficient genetic tools. Here we develop methods for expression of fluorescent proteins and for gene deletion in a model planctomycete, Planctopirus limnophila, to analyse its cell organization in detail. Super-resolution light microscopy of mutants, cryo-electron tomography, bioinformatic predictions and proteomic analyses support an altered Gram-negative cell plan for Planctomycetes, including a defined outer membrane, a periplasmic space that can be greatly enlarged and convoluted, and an energized cytoplasmic membrane. These conclusions are further supported by experiments performed with two other Planctomycetes, Gemmata obscuriglobus and Rhodopirellula baltica. We also provide experimental evidence that is inconsistent with endocytosis-like macromolecule uptake; instead, extracellular macromolecules can be taken up and accumulate in the periplasmic space through unclear mechanisms.
PXD003260	28394025	Quantitative analysis of the tomato nuclear proteome during Phytophthora capsici infection unveils regulators of immunity. 	Proteomics assisted studies of the host nuclear proteome identifies candidate regulators of immunity modified during Phytophthora capsici-tomato interactions	Phytophthora, immunity, nucleus, plant-microbe interactions, quantitative proteomics, tomato	Plant-pathogen interactions are complex associations driven by the interplay of host and microbe-encoded factors. With secreted pathogen proteins (effectors) and immune signalling components found in the plant nucleus, this compartment is a battleground where susceptibility is specified. We hypothesized that, by defining changes in the nuclear proteome during infection, we can pinpoint vital components required for immunity or susceptibility. We tested this hypothesis by documenting dynamic changes in the tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) nuclear proteome during infection by the oomycete pathogen Phytophthora capsici. We enriched nuclei from infected and noninfected tissues and quantitatively assessed changes in the nuclear proteome. We then tested the role of candidate regulators in immunity through functional assays. We demonstrated that the host nuclear proteome dynamically changes during P. capsici infection. We observed that known nuclear immunity factors were differentially expressed and, based on this observation, selected a set of candidate regulators that we successfully implicated in immunity to P. capsici. Our work exemplifies a powerful strategy to gain rapid insight into important nuclear processes that underpin complex crop traits such as resistance. We have identified a large set of candidate nuclear factors that may underpin immunity to pathogens in crops.
PXD005988	28394474	Proteomic identification of rainbow trout blood plasma proteins and their relationship to seminal plasma proteins. 	Proteomic identification of rainbow trout blood plasma proteins and their relationship to seminal plasma proteins	blood plasma, fish, innate immunity	The characterisation of fish blood proteomes is important for comparative studies of seminal and blood proteins as well as for the analysis of fish immune mechanisms and pathways. In this study, LC-MS/MS and 2D-DIGE were applied to compare rainbow trout seminal (SP) and blood plasma (BP) proteomes. The 54 differentially abundant proteins identified in SP are involved in a variety of signalling pathways, including protein ubiquitination, liver X receptor/retinoid X receptor (LXR/RXR) and farnesoid X receptor activation, cell cycle and acute phase signalling. These findings may indicate the prevalence of acute phase signalling pathways in trout SP, and its essential role in protecting spermatozoa and reproductive tissues. Our study provides the first in-depth analysis of the trout BP proteome, with a total of 119 proteins identified. The major proteins of rainbow trout BP were recognised as acute phase proteins. Analysis of BP proteins indicated that acute phase response signalling, the complement system, liver X receptor/retinoid X receptor and farnesoid X receptor activation and the coagulation system are the top canonical pathways. This study enhances knowledge of the blood origin of trout SP proteins and understanding of fish reproductive biology. Our results provide new insight into blood proteins specifically important for fish physiology and innate immunity. The mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD005988 and https://doi.org/10.6019/PXD005988.
PXD003651	28396511	Database-augmented Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Exosomes Identifies Claudin 3 as a Putative Prostate Cancer Biomarker. 	CLDN3 in prostate cancer exosomes	Claudin3, exosomes, prostate cancer	In prostate cancer and other malignancies sensitive and robust biomarkers are lacking or have relevant limitations. Prostate specific antigen (PSA), the only biomarker widely used in prostate cancer, is suffering from low specificity. Exosomes offer new perspectives in the discovery of blood-based biomarkers. Here we present a proof-of principle study for a proteomics-based identification pipeline, implementing existing data sources, to exemplarily identify exosome-based biomarker candidates in prostate cancer.Exosomes from malignant PC3 and benign PNT1A cells and from FBS-containing medium were isolated using sequential ultracentrifugation. Exosome and control samples were analyzed on an LTQ-Orbitrap XL mass spectrometer. Proteomic data is available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003651. We developed a scoring scheme to rank 64 proteins exclusively found in PC3 exosomes, integrating data from four public databases and published mass spectrometry data sets. Among the top candidates, we focused on the tight junction protein claudin 3. Retests under serum-free conditions using immunoblotting and immunogold labeling confirmed the presence of claudin 3 on PC3 exosomes. Claudin 3 levels were determined in the blood plasma of patients with localized (n = 58; 42 with Gleason score 6-7, 16 with Gleason score >=8) and metastatic prostate cancer (n = 11) compared with patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (n = 15) and healthy individuals (n = 15) using ELISA, without prior laborious exosome isolation. ANOVA showed different CLDN3 plasma levels in these groups (p = 0.004). CLDN3 levels were higher in patients with Gleason >=8 tumors compared with patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (p = 0.012) and Gleason 6-7 tumors (p = 0.029). In patients with localized tumors CLDN3 levels predicted a Gleason score >= 8 (AUC = 0.705; p = 0.016) and did not correlate with serum PSA.By using the described workflow claudin 3 was identified and validated as a potential blood-based biomarker in prostate cancer. Furthermore this workflow could serve as a template to be used in other cancer entities.
PXD006158	28396520	Cytosine modifications modulate the chromatin architecture of transcriptional enhancers. 	RIME against PBX1 protein in P19.6 mouse embryonal carcinoma cells treated for 48 hours with all-trans retinoic acid	PBX1	Epigenetic mechanisms are believed to play key roles in the establishment of cell-specific transcription programs. Accordingly, the modified bases 5-methylcytosine (5mC) and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) have been observed in DNA of genomic regulatory regions such as enhancers, and oxidation of 5mC into 5hmC by Ten-eleven translocation (TET) proteins correlates with enhancer activation. However, the functional relationship between cytosine modifications and the chromatin architecture of enhancers remains elusive. To gain insights into their function, 5mC and 5hmC levels were perturbed by inhibiting DNA methyltransferases and TETs during differentiation of mouse embryonal carcinoma cells into neural progenitors, and chromatin characteristics of enhancers bound by the pioneer transcription factors FOXA1, MEIS1, and PBX1 were interrogated. In a large fraction of the tested enhancers, inhibition of DNA methylation was associated with a significant increase in monomethylation of H3K4, a characteristic mark of enhancer priming. In addition, at some specific enhancers, 5mC oxidation by TETs facilitated chromatin opening, a process that may stabilize MEIS1 binding to these genomic regions.
PXD004192	28399410	Hoxa9 and Meis1 Cooperatively Induce Addiction to Syk Signaling by Suppressing miR-146a in Acute Myeloid Leukemia. 	Hoxa9 and Meis1 cooperatively induce addiction to Syk signaling by suppressing miR-146a in acute myeloid leukemia	Acute myeloid leukemia, phosphoproteomics, transcriptomics	The transcription factor Meis1 drives myeloid leukemogenesis in the context of Hox gene overexpression but is currently considered undruggable. We therefore investigated whether myeloid progenitor cells transformed by Hoxa9 and Meis1 become addicted to targetable signaling pathways. A comprehensive (phospho)proteomic analysis revealed that Meis1 increased Syk protein expression and activity. Syk upregulation occurs through a Meis1-dependent feedback loop. By dissecting this loop, we show that Syk is a direct target of miR-146a, whose expression is indirectly regulated by Meis1 through the transcription factor PU.1. In the context of Hoxa9 overexpression, Syk signaling induces Meis1, recapitulating several leukemogenic features of Hoxa9/Meis1-driven leukemia. Finally, Syk inhibition disrupts the identified regulatory loop, prolonging survival of mice with Hoxa9/Meis1-driven leukemia.
PXD003872	28400537	YAP-mediated mechanotransduction determines the podocyte's response to damage. 	Response of podocytes to PAN -  YAP-mediated mechanotransduction determines the podocyte's response to damage	Human podocytes PAN	Podocytes are terminally differentiated cells of the kidney filtration barrier. They are subjected to physiological filtration pressure and considerable mechanical strain, which can be further increased in various kidney diseases. When injury causes cytoskeletal reorganization and morphological alterations of these cells, the filtration barrier may become compromised and allow proteins to leak into the urine (a condition called proteinuria). Using time-resolved proteomics, we showed that podocyte injury stimulated the activity of the transcriptional coactivator YAP and the expression of YAP target genes in a rat model of glomerular disease before the development of proteinuria. Although the activities of YAP and its ortholog TAZ are activated by mechanical stress in most cell types, injury reduced YAP and TAZ activity in cultured human and mouse podocyte cell lines grown on stiff substrates. Culturing these cells on soft matrix or inhibiting stress fiber formation recapitulated the damage-induced YAP up-regulation observed in vivo, indicating a mechanotransduction-dependent mechanism of YAP activation in podocytes. YAP overexpression in cultured podocytes increased the abundance of extracellular matrix-related proteins that can contribute to fibrosis. YAP activity was increased in mouse models of diabetic nephropathy, and the YAP target CTGF was highly expressed in renal biopsies from glomerular disease patients. Although overexpression of human YAP in mice induced mild proteinuria, pharmacological inhibition of the interaction between YAP and its partner TEAD in rats ameliorated glomerular disease and reduced damage-induced mechanosignaling in the glomeruli. Thus, perturbation of YAP-dependent mechanosignaling is a potential therapeutic target for treating some glomerular diseases.
PXD005218	28401474	Tracking Effects of SIL1 Increase: Taking a Closer Look Beyond the Consequences of Elevated Expression Level. 	Tracking effects of SIL1 increase: taking a closer look beyond the consequences of elevated expression level	BiP/ GRP78, HYOU1/ GRP170, Marinesco-Sjgren syndrome, chaperonopathy, co-chaperone, neuroprotection	SIL1 acts as a co-chaperone for the major ER-resident chaperone BiP and thus plays a role in many BiP-dependent cellular functions such as protein-folding control and unfolded protein response. Whereas the increase of BiP upon cellular stress conditions is a well-known phenomenon, elevation of SIL1 under stress conditions was thus far solely studied in yeast, and different studies indicated an adverse effect of SIL1 increase. This is seemingly in contrast with the beneficial effect of SIL1 increase in surviving neurons in neurodegenerative disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. Here, we addressed these controversial findings. Applying cell biological, morphological and biochemical methods, we demonstrated that SIL1 increases in various mammalian cells and neuronal tissues upon cellular stress. Investigation of heterozygous SIL1 mutant cells and tissues supported this finding. Moreover, SIL1 protein was found to be stabilized during ER stress. Increased SIL1 initiates ER stress in a concentration-dependent manner which agrees with the described adverse SIL1 effect. However, our results also suggest that protective levels are achieved by the secretion of excessive SIL1 and GRP170 and that moderately increased SIL1 also ameliorates cellular fitness under stress conditions. Our immunoprecipitation results indicate that SIL1 might act in a BiP-independent manner. Proteomic studies showed that SIL1 elevation alters the expression of proteins including crucial players in neurodegeneration, especially in Alzheimer's disease. This finding agrees with our observation of increased SIL1 immunoreactivity in surviving neurons of Alzheimer's disease autopsy cases and supports the assumption that SIL1 plays a protective role in neurodegenerative disorders.
PXD006131	28402676	Optimizing the Parameters Governing the Fragmentation of Cross-Linked Peptides in a Tribrid Mass Spectrometer. 	Optimizing the parameters governing the fragmentation of cross-linked peptides in a tribrid mass spectrometer	Cross-Linking, Fragmentation, Fusion Lumos, LC-MS	We compared the five different ways of fragmentation available on a tribrid mass spectrometer and optimized their collision energies with regard to optimal sequence coverage of cross-linked peptides. We created a library of bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate (BS3/DSS) cross-linked precursors, derived from the tryptic digests of three model proteins (Human Serum Albumin, creatine kinase, and myoglobin). This enabled in-depth targeted analysis of the fragmentation behavior of 1065 cross-linked precursors using the five fragmentation techniques: collision-induced dissociation (CID), beam-type CID (HCD), electron-transfer dissociation (ETD), and the combinations ETciD and EThcD. EThcD gave the best sequence coverage for cross-linked m/z species with high charge density, while HCD was optimal for all others. We tested the resulting data-dependent decision tree against collision energy-optimized single methods on two samples of differing complexity (a mix of eight proteins and a highly complex ribosomal cellular fraction). For the high complexity sample the decision tree gave the highest number of identified cross-linked peptide pairs passing a 5% false discovery rate (on average ~21% more than the second best, HCD). For the medium complexity sample, the higher speed of HCD proved decisive. Currently, acquisition speed plays an important role in allowing the detection of cross-linked peptides against the background of linear peptides. Enrichment of cross-linked peptides will reduce this role and favor methods that provide spectra of higher quality. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006131.
PXD004727	28404849	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Mosquito C6/36 Cells Reveals Host Proteins Involved in Zika Virus Infection. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of ZIKV infected C6/36 cells	C6/36, ZIKV, iTRAQ	Zika virus (ZIKV) is an emerging arbovirus belonging to the genus Flavivirus of the family Flaviviridae During replication processes, flavivirus manipulates host cell systems to facilitate its replication, while the host cells activate antiviral responses. Identification of host proteins involved in the flavivirus replication process may lead to the discovery of antiviral targets. The mosquitoes Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus are epidemiologically important vectors for ZIKV, and effective restrictions of ZIKV replication in mosquitoes will be vital in controlling the spread of virus. In this study, an iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis of ZIKV-infected Aedes albopictus C6/36 cells was performed to investigate host proteins involved in the ZIKV infection process. A total of 3,544 host proteins were quantified, with 200 being differentially regulated, among which CHCHD2 can be upregulated by ZIKV infection in both mosquito C6/36 and human HeLa cells. Our further study indicated that CHCHD2 can promote ZIKV replication and inhibit beta interferon (IFN-beta) production in HeLa cells, suggesting that ZIKV infection may upregulate CHCHD2 to inhibit IFN-I production and thus promote virus replication. Bioinformatics analysis of regulated host proteins highlighted several ZIKV infection-regulated biological processes. Further study indicated that the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) plays roles in the ZIKV entry process and that an FDA-approved inhibitor of the 20S proteasome, bortezomib, can inhibit ZIKV infection in vivo Our study illustrated how host cells respond to ZIKV infection and also provided a candidate drug for the control of ZIKV infection in mosquitoes and treatment of ZIKV infection in patients.IMPORTANCE ZIKV infection poses great threats to human health, and there is no FDA-approved drug available for the treatment of ZIKV infection. During replication, ZIKV manipulates host cell systems to facilitate its replication, while host cells activate antiviral responses. Identification of host proteins involved in the ZIKV replication process may lead to the discovery of antiviral targets. In this study, the first quantitative proteomic analysis of ZIKV-infected cells was performed to investigate host proteins involved in the ZIKV replication process. Bioinformatics analysis highlighted several ZIKV infection-regulated biological processes. Further study indicated that the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) plays roles in the ZIKV entry process and that an FDA-approved inhibitor of the UPS, bortezomib, can inhibit ZIKV infection in vivo Our study not only illustrated how host cells respond to ZIKV infection but also provided a candidate drug for the control of ZIKV infection in mosquitoes and treatment of ZIKV infection in patients.
PXD004034	28404994	Global analysis of glycoproteins identifies markers of endotoxin tolerant monocytes and GPR84 as a modulator of TNFalpha expression. 	Glycoproteomes of naive and LPS stimulated human monocytes  and THP-1 cells	monocytes glycoproteomics	Exposure of human monocytes to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces a temporary insensitivity to subsequent LPS challenges, a cellular state called endotoxin tolerance. In this study, we investigated the LPS-induced global glycoprotein expression changes of tolerant human monocytes and THP-1 cells to identify markers and glycoprotein targets capable to modulate the immunosuppressive state. Using hydrazide chemistry and LC-MS/MS analysis, we analyzed glycoprotein expression changes during a 48 h LPS time course. The cellular snapshots at different time points identified 1491 glycoproteins expressed by monocytes and THP-1 cells. Label-free quantitative analysis revealed transient or long-lasting LPS-induced expression changes of secreted or membrane-anchored glycoproteins derived from intracellular membrane coated organelles or from the plasma membrane. Monocytes and THP-1 cells demonstrated marked differences in glycoproteins differentially expressed in the tolerant state. Among the shared differentially expressed glycoproteins G protein-coupled receptor 84 (GPR84) was identified as being capable of modulating pro-inflammatory TNFalpha mRNA expression in the tolerant cell state when activated with its ligand Decanoic acid.
PXD004819	28408760	Fungal volatile compounds induce production of the secondary metabolite Sodorifen in Serratia plymuthica PRI-2C. 	Terpenes a common language between fungi and bacteria	Fungal-bacterial interactions, Fusarium culmorum sp., Metabolomics, Serratia plymuthica sp., Terpenes, Transcriptomics, Volatile organic compounds	The ability of bacteria and fungi to communicate with each other is a remarkable aspect of the microbial world. It is recognized that volatile organic compounds (VOCs) act as communication signals, however the molecular responses by bacteria to fungal VOCs remain unknown. Here we perform transcriptomics and proteomics analyses of Serratia plymuthica PRI-2C exposed to VOCs emitted by the fungal pathogen Fusarium culmorum. We find that the bacterium responds to fungal VOCs with changes in gene and protein expression related to motility, signal transduction, energy metabolism, cell envelope biogenesis, and secondary metabolite production. Metabolomic analysis of the bacterium exposed to the fungal VOCs, gene cluster comparison, and heterologous co-expression of a terpene synthase and a methyltransferase revealed the production of the unusual terpene sodorifen in response to fungal VOCs. These results strongly suggest that VOCs are not only a metabolic waste but important compounds in the long-distance communication between fungi and bacteria.
PXD005734	28416797	Unification of de novo and acquired ibrutinib resistance in mantle cell lymphoma. 	ABPP of Ibrutinib Resistance in B Cell Malignancies	B-cell cancers, Ibrutinib, activity-based protein profiling	The novel Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitor ibrutinib has demonstrated high response rates in B-cell lymphomas; however, a growing number of ibrutinib-treated patients relapse with resistance and fulminant progression. Using chemical proteomics and an organotypic cell-based drug screening assay, we determine the functional role of the tumour microenvironment (TME) in ibrutinib activity and acquired ibrutinib resistance. We demonstrate that MCL cells develop ibrutinib resistance through evolutionary processes driven by dynamic feedback between MCL cells and TME, leading to kinome adaptive reprogramming, bypassing the effect of ibrutinib and reciprocal activation of PI3K-AKT-mTOR and integrin-beta1 signalling. Combinatorial disruption of B-cell receptor signalling and PI3K-AKT-mTOR axis leads to release of MCL cells from TME, reversal of drug resistance and enhanced anti-MCL activity in MCL patient samples and patient-derived xenograft models. This study unifies TME-mediated de novo and acquired drug resistance mechanisms and provides a novel combination therapeutic strategy against MCL and other B-cell malignancies.
PXD004687	28418008	Quantitative analyses of the global proteome and phosphoproteome reveal the different impacts of propofol and dexmedetomidine on HT22 cells. 	Proteomic Quantification of Phosphorylation in Mouse HT22 Cells	Mouse HT22 Cells, Phosphorylation, SILAC	Propofol and dexmedetomidine are both commonly used anaesthetics. Although they employ two different mechanisms to induce anaesthesia, both compounds influence the hippocampus and the HT22 cell line. HT22 cells are broadly used in neurobiological research. In this study, we assessed the effects of propofol and dexmedetomidine on signalling in HT22 cells. Using the SILAC (stable isotope labelling with amino acids in cell culture) labelling technique, IMAC (immobilized metal affinity chromatography) enrichment and high-resolution LC-MS/MS (liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry) analysis, we investigated the quantitative proteome and phosphoproteome in HT22 cells treated with propofol or dexmedetomidine. In total, 4,527 proteins and 6,824 phosphosites were quantified in cells treated with these two anaesthetics. With the assistance of intensive bioinformatics, the propofol and dexmedetomidine treatments were shown to induce distinct proteome and phosphoproteome profiles in HT22 cells. Consistent with our bioinformatics analysis, dexmedetomidine had a smaller effect than propofol on cell survival. These findings deepen our understanding of drug-induced anaesthesia.
PXD005892	28418254	Evaluating the Characteristics of Reporter Ion Signal Acquired in the Orbitrap Analyzer for Isobaric Mass Tag Proteome Quantification Experiments. 	Investigating Reporter Ion Signal Characteristics in Isobaric Mass Tag Proteome Quantification Experiments	MS3, Orbitrap Fusion, TMT	Multiplexed quantification with isobaric chemical tags (e.g., TMT, iTRAQ) provides a robust and efficient means to comparatively examine proteome dynamics between several biological states using a mass spectrometer (MS). The quantitative nature of isobaric tags necessitates strict validation of the observed ion signals in the chosen MS detector before differential patterns are extracted between biological states. We present an in-depth analysis of isobaric tag data acquired on current generation Orbitrap MS hardware to illustrate pitfalls in acquisition settings that can negatively impact results. We establish, for the first time, the presence of a notch, a region of no observed values, in the reporter ion distributions from isobaric-labeled peptide mixtures acquired on these instruments. We determine that this notch is present in published data across a wide range of instruments of the same or different type and is isolated to the Orbitrap mass analyzer. We demonstrate that the impact of the notch can be minimized using manipulations of Orbitrap scan parameters and on-column injection amounts. Lastly, using a mixture of synthetic standard peptides we investigated the impact on identification rates and quantification precision. Together, these data highlight an important phenomenon that negatively impacts peptide identification and quantification in the Orbitrap analyzer as well as outlining guidelines to follow to ensure minimization of MS-induced artifacts in isobaric tag experiments resulting from the notch.
PXD005890	28418257	Investigating Acquisition Performance on the Orbitrap Fusion When Using Tandem MS/MS/MS Scanning with Isobaric Tags. 	Improving Mass Spectrometer Acquisition when using Tandem MS/MS/MS Scanning with Isobaric Tags	MS3, Orbitrap Fusion, TMT	Methods for isobaric-tagged peptide analysis (e.g., TMT, iTRAQ), such as the synchronous precursor selection (SPS) tandem MS/MS/MS (MS(3)) approach, enable maintenance of reporter ion accuracy and precision by reducing the ratio compression caused by coisolated precursor ions. However, the decreased throughput of the MS(3) approach necessitates careful optimization of acquisition strategies and methods to ensure maximal proteome coverage. We present a systematic analysis of acquisition parameters used to analyze isobaric-tagged peptide samples on current generation Orbitrap mass spectrometer (MS) hardware. In contrast with previously reported works, we demonstrate the limited utility of acquiring reporter ion data in the ion trap analyzer; ion trap acquisition had only a minimal increase in identification depth and reduced quantification precision. We establish that despite the significantly increased scan rate afforded through the use of higher energy collisional dissociation (HCD) in MS(3)-based ion trap isobaric tag analyses, the reduced quantification precision and reporter ion yields negate the potential benefits in proteome coverage. Lastly, using optimized parameter sets, we further demonstrate the limited utility of the ion trap detector versus the Orbitrap for reporter ion detection in an in-depth analysis of a complex proteome sample. Together, these data will serve as a valuable resource to researchers undertaking analysis on current generation Orbitrap instrumentation with isobaric tags.
PXD004321	28420677	Typing and Characterization of Bacteria Using Bottom-up Tandem Mass Spectrometry Proteomics. 	TCUP: Typing and characterization of bacteria using bottom-up tandem mass spectrometry proteomics	bottom-up, proteotyping, tandem mass spectrometry	Methods for rapid and reliable microbial identification are essential in modern healthcare. The ability to detect and correctly identify pathogenic species and their resistance phenotype is necessary for accurate diagnosis and efficient treatment of infectious diseases. Bottom-up tandem mass spectrometry (MS) proteomics enables rapid characterization of large parts of the expressed genes of microorganisms. However, the generated data are highly fragmented, making downstream analyses complex. Here we present TCUP, a new computational method for typing and characterizing bacteria using proteomics data from bottom-up tandem MS. TCUP compares the generated protein sequence data to reference databases and automatically finds peptides suitable for characterization of taxonomic composition and identification of expressed antimicrobial resistance genes. TCUP was evaluated using several clinically relevant bacterial species (Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis, and Haemophilus influenzae), using both simulated data generated by in silico peptide digestion and experimental proteomics data generated by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). The results showed that TCUP performs correct peptide classifications at rates between 90.3 and 98.5% at the species level. The method was also able to estimate the relative abundances of individual species in mixed cultures. Furthermore, TCUP could identify expressed beta-lactamases in an extended spectrum beta-lactamase-producing (ESBL) E. coli strain, even when the strain was cultivated in the absence of antibiotics. Finally, TCUP is computationally efficient, easy to integrate in existing bioinformatics workflows, and freely available under an open source license for both Windows and Linux environments.
PXD005539	28424693	Human Melanoma-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Regulate Dendritic Cell Maturation. 	Human melanoma-derived extracellular vesicles reprogram dendritic cells potentially enabling lymph node metastases	Dendritic cells2, Extracellular vesicles1, Lymphatics3, Metastasis4, Tumor Immunology5	Evolution of melanoma from a primary tumor to widespread metastasis is crucially dependent on lymphatic spread. The mechanisms regulating the initial step in metastatic dissemination via regional lymph nodes remain largely unknown; however, evidence supporting the establishment of a pre-metastatic niche is evolving. We have previously described a dysfunctional immune profile including reduced expression of dendritic cell (DC) maturation markers in the first node draining from the primary tumor, the sentinel lymph node (SLN). Importantly, this phenotype is present prior to evidence of nodal metastasis. Herein, we evaluate melanoma-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) as potential mediators of the premetastatic niche through cargo-specific polarization of DCs. DCs matured in vitro in the presence of melanoma EVs demonstrated significantly impaired expression of CD83 and CD86 as well as decreased expression of Th1 polarizing chemokines Flt3L and IL15 and migration chemokines MIP-1alpha and MIP-1beta compared to liposome-treated DCs. Profiling of melanoma EV cargo identified shared proteomic and RNA signatures including S100A8 and S100A9 protein cargo, which in vitro compromised DC maturation similar to melanoma EVs. Early evidence demonstrates that similar EVs can be isolated from human afferent lymphatic fluid ex vivo. Taken together, here, we propose melanoma EV cargo as a mechanism by which DC maturation is compromised warranting further study to consider this as a potential mechanism enabled by the primary tumor to establish the premetastatic niche in tumor-draining SLNs of patients.
PXD003910	28429720	Noumeavirus replication relies on a transient remote control of the host nucleus. 	Proteomes of Noumeavirus and Melbournevirus particles	giant viruses, nanoLC-MS/MS, particles	Acanthamoeba are infected by a remarkable diversity of large dsDNA viruses, the infectious cycles of which have been characterized using genomics, transcriptomics and electron microscopy. Given their gene content and the persistence of the host nucleus throughout their infectious cycle, the Marseilleviridae were initially assumed to fully replicate in the cytoplasm. Unexpectedly, we find that their virions do not incorporate the virus-encoded transcription machinery, making their replication nucleus-dependent. However, instead of delivering their DNA to the nucleus, the Marseilleviridae initiate their replication by transiently recruiting the nuclear transcription machinery to their cytoplasmic viral factory. The nucleus recovers its integrity after becoming leaky at an early stage. This work highlights the importance of virion proteomic analyses to complement genome sequencing in the elucidation of the replication scheme and evolution of large dsDNA viruses.
PXD004920	28430416	Complementary Benzophenone Cross-Linking/Mass Spectrometry Photochemistry. 	A complimentary benzophenone cross-linking/mass spectrometry photochemistry	Cross-linking/mass spectrometry, Human serum albumin, complimentary chemistry, high-density data, protein chemistry	Use of a heterobifunctional photoactivatable cross-linker, sulfo-SDA (diazirine), has yielded high-density data that facilitated structure modeling of individual proteins. We expand the photoactivatable chemistry toolbox here with a second reagent, sulfo-SBP (benzophenone). This further increases the density of photo-cross-linking to a factor of 20x over conventional cross-linking. Importantly, the two different photoactivatable groups display orthogonal directionality, enabling access to different protein regions, unreachable with a single cross-linker.
PXD006121	28431522	Comparative proteomic analysis of Neisseria meningitidis wildtype and dprA null mutant strains links DNA processing to pilus biogenesis. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of Neisseria meningitidis wildtype and dprA null mutant strains links DNA processing to pilus biogenesis	DNA processing, DprA, Neisseria meningitides, PilG, pilus biogenesis	BACKGROUND: DNA processing chain A (DprA) is a DNA binding protein which is ubiquitous in bacteria, and is required for DNA transformation to various extents among bacterial species. However, the interaction of DprA with competence and recombination proteins is poorly understood. Therefore, the proteomes of whole Neisseria meningitidis (Nm) wildtype and dprA mutant cells were compared. Such a comparative proteomic analysis increases our understanding of the interactions of DprA with other Nm components and may elucidate its potential role beyond DNA processing in transformation. RESULTS: Using label-free quantitative proteomics, a total of 1057 unique Nm proteins were identified, out of which 100 were quantified as differentially abundant (P <= 0.05 and fold change >= |2|) in the dprA null mutant. Proteins involved in homologous recombination (RecA, UvrD and HolA), pilus biogenesis (PilG, PilT1, PilT2, PilM, PilO, PilQ, PilF and PilE), cell division, including core energy metabolism, and response to oxidative stress were downregulated in the Nm dprA null mutant. The mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006121. Immunoblotting and co-immunoprecipitation were employed to validate the association of DprA with PilG. The analysis revealed reduced amounts of PilG in the dprA null mutant and reduced amounts of DprA in the Nm pilG null mutant. Moreover, a number of pilus biogenesis proteins were shown to interact with DprA and /or PilG. CONCLUSIONS: DprA interacts with proteins essential for Nm DNA recombination in transformation, pilus biogenesis, and other functions associated with the inner membrane. Inverse downregulation of Nm DprA and PilG expression in the corresponding mutants indicates a link between DNA processing and pilus biogenesis.
PXD004896	28432195	N-terminal Proteomics Assisted Profiling of the Unexplored Translation Initiation Landscape in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	N-terminomics Proteogenomics	N-terminal COFRADIC, positional proteomics, proteogenomics, ribo-seq, ribosome profiling	Proteogenomics is an emerging research field yet lacking a uniform method of analysis. Proteogenomic studies in which N-terminal proteomics and ribosome profiling are combined, suggest that a high number of protein start sites are currently missing in genome annotations. We constructed a proteogenomic pipeline specific for the analysis of N-terminal proteomics data, with the aim of discovering novel translational start sites outside annotated protein coding regions. In summary, unidentified MS/MS spectra were matched to a specific N-terminal peptide library encompassing protein N termini encoded in the Arabidopsis thaliana genome. After a stringent false discovery rate filtering, 117 protein N termini compliant with N-terminal methionine excision specificity and indicative of translation initiation were found. These include N-terminal protein extensions and translation from transposable elements and pseudogenes. Gene prediction provided supporting protein-coding models for approximately half of the protein N termini. Besides the prediction of functional domains (partially) contained within the newly predicted ORFs, further supporting evidence of translation was found in the recently released Araport11 genome re-annotation of Arabidopsis and computational translations of sequences stored in public repositories. Most interestingly, complementary evidence by ribosome profiling was found for 23 protein N termini. Finally, by analyzing protein N-terminal peptides, an in silico analysis demonstrates the applicability of our N-terminal proteogenomics strategy in revealing protein-coding potential in species with well- and poorly-annotated genomes.
PXD005748	28433889	Quantitative proteomic profiling for clarification of the crucial roles of lysosomes in microbial infections. 	A quantitative proteomic profile revealed the crucial roles of lysosome in the microbial infection	Lysosome, hypoxia, monocyte	Lysosomes play vital roles in both innate and adaptive immunity. It is widely accepted that lysosomes do not function exclusively as a digestive organelle. It is also involved in the process of immune cells against pathogens. However, the changes in the lysosomal proteome caused by infection with various microbes are still largely unknown, and our understanding of the proteome of the purified lysosome is another obstacle that needs to be resolved. Here, we performed a proteomic study on lysosomes enriched from THP1 cells after infection with Listeria monocytogenes (L.m), Herpes Simplex Virus 1 (HSV-1) and Vesicular Stomatitis Virus (VSV). In combination with the gene ontology (GO) analysis, we identified 284 lysosomal-related proteins from a total of 4560 proteins. We also constructed the protein-protein interaction networks for the differentially expressed proteins and revealed the core lysosomal proteins, including SRC in the L. m treated group, SRC, GLB1, HEXA and HEXB in the HSV-1 treated group and GLB1, CTSA, CTSB, HEXA and HEXB in the VSV treated group, which are involved in responding to diverse microbial infections. This study not only reveals variable lysosome responses depending on the bacterial or virus infection, but also provides the evidence based on which we propose a novel approach to proteome research for investigation of the function of the enriched organelles.
PXD006339	28436957	Pyruvate kinase M2 activation may protect against the progression of diabetic glomerular pathology and mitochondrial dysfunction. 	LC-MS/MS proteomics on glomeruli from individuals with extreme duration of type 1 diabetes	50-Year Medalist, Diabetic Nephropathy, Glomeruli, Kidney, Protective Factor, T1DM, Type 1 Diabetes	Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a major cause of end-stage renal disease, and therapeutic options for preventing its progression are limited. To identify novel therapeutic strategies, we studied protective factors for DN using proteomics on glomeruli from individuals with extreme duration of diabetes (l50 years) without DN and those with histologic signs of DN. Enzymes in the glycolytic, sorbitol, methylglyoxal and mitochondrial pathways were elevated in individuals without DN. In particular, pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) expression and activity were upregulated. Mechanistically, we showed that hyperglycemia and diabetes decreased PKM2 tetramer formation and activity by sulfenylation in mouse glomeruli and cultured podocytes. Pkm-knockdown immortalized mouse podocytes had higher levels of toxic glucose metabolites, mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis. Podocyte-specific Pkm2-knockout (KO) mice with diabetes developed worse albuminuria and glomerular pathology. Conversely, we found that pharmacological activation of PKM2 by a small-molecule PKM2 activator, TEPP-46, reversed hyperglycemia-induced elevation in toxic glucose metabolites and mitochondrial dysfunction, partially by increasing glycolytic flux and PGC-1alpha mRNA in cultured podocytes. In intervention studies using DBA2/J and Nos3 (eNos) KO mouse models of diabetes, TEPP-46 treatment reversed metabolic abnormalities, mitochondrial dysfunction and kidney pathology. Thus, PKM2 activation may protect against DN by increasing glucose metabolic flux, inhibiting the production of toxic glucose metabolites and inducing mitochondrial biogenesis to restore mitochondrial function.
PXD006036	28436968	Metabolic control of primed human pluripotent stem cell fate and function by the miR-200c-SIRT2 axis. 	Metabolic control of primed human pluripotent stem cell fate and function by the miR-200c-SIRT2 axis	SIRT2, acetylation, differentiation, human pluripotent stem cells	A hallmark of cancer cells is the metabolic switch from oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) to glycolysis, a phenomenon referred to as the 'Warburg effect', which is also observed in primed human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs). Here, we report that downregulation of SIRT2 and upregulation of SIRT1 is a molecular signature of primed hPSCs and that SIRT2 critically regulates metabolic reprogramming during induced pluripotency by targeting glycolytic enzymes including aldolase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, phosphoglycerate kinase, and enolase. Remarkably, knockdown of SIRT2 in human fibroblasts resulted in significantly decreased OXPHOS and increased glycolysis. In addition, we found that miR-200c-5p specifically targets SIRT2, downregulating its expression. Furthermore, SIRT2 overexpression in hPSCs significantly affected energy metabolism, altering stem cell functions such as pluripotent differentiation properties. Taken together, our results identify the miR-200c-SIRT2 axis as a key regulator of metabolic reprogramming (Warburg-like effect), via regulation of glycolytic enzymes, during human induced pluripotency and pluripotent stem cell function.
PXD003589	28439039	InvS Coordinates Expression of PrgH and FimZ and Is Required for Invasion of Epithelial Cells by Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. 	Proteomic analysis of STnc470 deficient Salmonella Typhimurium cells	Salmonella, effector secretion, small non coding RNAs, virulence	Deep sequencing has revolutionized our understanding of the bacterial RNA world and has facilitated the identification of 280 small RNAs (sRNAs) in Salmonella Despite the suspicions that sRNAs may play important roles in Salmonella pathogenesis, the functions of most sRNAs remain unknown. To advance our understanding of RNA biology in Salmonella virulence, we searched for sRNAs required for bacterial invasion into nonphagocytic cells. After screening 75 sRNAs, we discovered that the ablation of InvS caused a significant decrease of Salmonella invasion into epithelial cells. A proteomic analysis showed that InvS modulated the levels of several type III secreted Salmonella proteins. The level of PrgH, a type III secretion apparatus protein, was significantly lower in the absence of InvS, consistent with the known roles of PrgH in effector secretion and bacterial invasion. We discovered that InvS modulates fimZ expression and hence flagellar gene expression and motility. We propose that InvS coordinates the increase of PrgH and decrease in FimZ that promote efficient Salmonella invasion into nonphagocytic cells.IMPORTANCE Salmonellosis continues to be the most common foodborne infection reported by the CDC in the United States. Central to Salmonella pathogenesis is the ability to invade nonphagocytic cells and to replicate inside host cells. Invasion genes are known to be regulated by protein transcriptional networks, but little is known about the role played by small RNAs (sRNAs) in this process. We have identified a novel sRNA, InvS, that is involved in Salmonella invasion. Our result will likely provide an opportunity to better understand the fundamental question of how Salmonella regulates invasion gene expression and may inform strategies for therapeutic intervention.
PXD004705	28439285	A Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Brassinosteroid-induced Protein Phosphorylation in Rice (Oryza sativa L.). 	A phosphoproteomic analysis of ABA induced protein phosphorylation revealed that Serine 71 is a major phosphosite for bZIP72 in SAPK10-mediated ABA signaling	Abscisic acid, Rice (Oryza sativa L.), phosphoproteome, signaling	The group of polyhydroxysteroid phytohormones referred to as the brassinosteroids (BRs) is known to act on plant development and the stress response. BR signal transduction relies largely on protein phosphorylation. By employing a label-free, MS (Mass Spectrometry)-based phosphoproteomic approach, we report here the largest profiling of 4,034 phosphosites on 1,900 phosphoproteins from rice young seedlings and their dynamic response to BR. 1,821 proteins, including kinases, transcription factors and core components of BR and other hormone signaling pathways, were found to be differentially phosphorylated during the BR treatment. A Western blot analysis verified the differential phosphorylation of five of these proteins, implying that the MS-based phosphoproteomic data were robust. It is proposed that the dephosphorylation of gibberellin (GA) signaling components could represent an important mechanism for the BR-regulated antagonism to GA, and that BR influences the plant architecture of rice by regulating cellulose synthesis via phosphorylation.
PXD006279	28439590	Competition-based, quantitative chemical proteomics in breast cancer cells identifies new target profiles for sulforaphane. 	Competition-based, quantitative chemical proteomics in breast cancer cells identifies new target profiles for sulforaphane	Sulforaphane, cancer, chemical proteomics	Sulforaphane is a small molecule isothiocyanate which exhibits anticancer potential, yet its biological targets remain poorly understood. Here we employ a competition-based chemical proteomics strategy to profile sulforaphane's targets and identify over 500 targets along with their relative affinities. These targets provide a new set of mediators for sulforaphane's bioactivity, and aid understanding of its complex mode of action.
PXD005858	28440293	Exploiting induced pluripotent stem cell-derived macrophages to unravel host factors influencing Chlamydia trachomatis pathogenesis. 	Exploiting induced pluripotent stem cell-derived macrophages to unravel host factors influencing Chlamydia trachomatis pathogenesis	Chlamydia, TMT, iPS cells	Chlamydia trachomatis remains a leading cause of bacterial sexually transmitted infections and preventable blindness worldwide. There are, however, limited in vitro models to study the role of host genetics in the response of macrophages to this obligate human pathogen. Here, we describe an approach using macrophages derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSdMs) to study macrophage-Chlamydia interactions in vitro. We show that iPSdMs support the full infectious life cycle of C. trachomatis in a manner that mimics the infection of human blood-derived macrophages. Transcriptomic and proteomic profiling of the macrophage response to chlamydial infection highlighted the role of the type I interferon and interleukin 10-mediated responses. Using CRISPR/Cas9 technology, we generated biallelic knockout mutations in host genes encoding IRF5 and IL-10RA in iPSCs, and confirmed their roles in limiting chlamydial infection in macrophages. This model can potentially be extended to other pathogens and tissue systems to advance our understanding of host-pathogen interactions and the role of human genetics in influencing the outcome of infections.
PXD004664	28441411	Comparative transcriptome and proteome analysis reveals a global impact of the nitrogen regulators AreA and AreB on secondary metabolism in Fusarium fujikuroi. 	Genome-wide functional analysis of AreA and AreB	Fusarium fujikuroi, Phosphoproteomics, label-free quantification	The biosynthesis of multiple secondary metabolites in the phytopathogenic ascomycete Fusarium fujikuroi is strongly affected by nitrogen availability. Here, we present the first genome-wide transcriptome and proteome analysis that compared the wild type and deletion mutants of the two major nitrogen regulators AreA and AreB. We show that AreB acts not simply as an antagonist of AreA counteracting the expression of AreA target genes as suggested based on the yeast model. Both GATA transcription factors affect a large and diverse set of common as well as specific target genes and proteins, acting as activators and repressors. We demonstrate that AreA and AreB are not only involved in fungal nitrogen metabolism, but also in the control of several complex cellular processes like carbon metabolism, transport and secondary metabolism. We show that both GATA transcription factors can be considered as master regulators of secondary metabolism as they affect the expression of more than half of the 47 putative secondary metabolite clusters identified in the genome of F. fujikuroi. While AreA acts as a positive regulator of many clusters under nitrogen-limiting conditions, AreB is able to activate and repress gene clusters (e.g. bikaverin) under nitrogen limitation and sufficiency. In addition, ChIP analyses revealed that loss of AreA or AreB causes histone modifications at some of the regulated gene clusters.
PXD006135	28441529	Mps1 Regulates Kinetochore-Microtubule Attachment Stability via the Ska Complex to Ensure Error-Free Chromosome Segregation. 	Mps1 regulates kinetochore-microtubule attachment stability via the Ska complex to ensure error-free chromosome segregation	Chemical genetics, Mps1, PP2A-B56, Ska complex, Spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC)	The spindle assembly checkpoint kinase Mps1 not only inhibits anaphase but also corrects erroneous attachments that could lead to missegregation and aneuploidy. However, Mps1's error correction-relevant substrates are unknown. Using a chemically tuned kinetochore-targeting assay, we show that Mps1 destabilizes microtubule attachments (K fibers) epistatically to Aurora B, the other major error-correcting kinase. Through quantitative proteomics, we identify multiple sites of Mps1-regulated phosphorylation at the outer kinetochore. Substrate modification was microtubule sensitive and opposed by PP2A-B56 phosphatases that stabilize chromosome-spindle attachment. Consistently, Mps1 inhibition rescued K-fiber stability after depleting PP2A-B56. We also identify the Ska complex as a key effector of Mps1 at the kinetochore-microtubule interface, as mutations that mimic constitutive phosphorylation destabilized K fibers in vivo and reduced the efficiency of the Ska complex's conversion from lattice diffusion to end-coupled microtubule binding in vitro. Our results reveal how Mps1 dynamically modifies kinetochores to correct improper attachments and ensure faithful chromosome segregation.
PXD003814	28442448	Phosphotyrosine-based-phosphoproteomics scaled-down to biopsy level for analysis of individual tumor biology and treatment selection. 	Phosphoproteomics scaled-down to tumor biopsy level. Part 2: biopsies	CRC, biopsy, colorectal cancer, label-free, pTyr, phosphoproteomics, single-shot	Mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics of cancer cell and tissue lysates provides insight in aberrantly activated signaling pathways and potential drug targets. For improved understanding of individual patient's tumor biology and to allow selection of tyrosine kinase inhibitors in individual patients, phosphoproteomics of small clinical samples should be feasible and reproducible. We aimed to scale down a pTyr-phosphopeptide enrichment protocol to biopsy-level protein input and assess reproducibility and applicability to tumor needle biopsies. To this end, phosphopeptide immunoprecipitation using anti-phosphotyrosine beads was performed using 10, 5 and 1mg protein input from lysates of colorectal cancer (CRC) cell line HCT116. Multiple needle biopsies from 7 human CRC resection specimens were analyzed at the 1mg-level. The total number of phosphopeptides captured and detected by LC-MS/MS ranged from 681 at 10mg input to 471 at 1mg HCT116 protein. ID-reproducibility ranged from 60.5% at 10mg to 43.9% at 1mg. Per 1mg-level biopsy sample, >200 phosphopeptides were identified with 57% ID-reproducibility between paired tumor biopsies. Unsupervised analysis clustered biopsies from individual patients together and revealed known and potential therapeutic targets. SIGNIFICANCE: This study demonstrates the feasibility of label-free pTyr-phosphoproteomics at the tumor biopsy level based on reproducible analyses using 1mg of protein input. The considerable number of identified phosphopeptides at this level is attributed to an effective down-scaled immuno-affinity protocol as well as to the application of ID propagation in the data processing and analysis steps. Unsupervised cluster analysis reveals patient-specific profiles. Together, these findings pave the way for clinical trials in which pTyr-phosphoproteomics will be performed on pre- and on-treatment biopsies. Such studies will improve our understanding of individual tumor biology and may enable future pTyr-phosphoproteomics-based personalized medicine.
PXD005781	28443122	Membrane Proteomics of Arabidopsis Glucosinolate Mutants cyp79B2/B3 and myb28/29. 	Membrane proteomics of Arabidopsis glucosinolate mutants cyp79B2/B3 and myb28/29	ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), TMT, cyp79B2/B3, membrane proteomics, myb28/29	Glucosinolates (Gls) constitute a major group of natural metabolites represented by three major classes (aliphatic, indolic and aromatic) of more than 120 chemical structures. In our previous work, soluble proteins and metabolites in Arabidopsis mutants deficient of aliphatic (myb28/29) and indolic Gls (cyp79B2B3) were analyzed. Here we focus on investigating the changes at the level of membrane proteins in these mutants. Our LC/MS-MS analyses of tandem mass tag (TMT) labeled peptides derived from the cyp79B2/B3 and myb28/29 relative to wild type resulted in the identification of 4,673 proteins, from which 2,171 are membrane proteins. Fold changes and statistical analysis showed 64 increased and 74 decreased in cyp79B2/B3, while 28 increased and 17 decreased in myb28/29. As to the shared protein changes between the mutants, one protein was increased and eight were decreased. Bioinformatics analysis of the changed proteins led to the discovery of three cytochromes in glucosinolate molecular network (GMN): cytochrome P450 86A7 (At1g63710), cytochrome P450 71B26 (At3g26290), and probable cytochrome c (At1g22840). CYP86A7 and CYP71B26 may play a role in hydroxyl-indolic Gls production. In addition, flavone 3'-O-methyltransferase 1 represents an interesting finding as it is likely to participate in the methylation process of the hydroxyl-indolic Gls to form methoxy-indolic Gls. The analysis also revealed additional new nodes in the GMN related to stress and defense activity, transport, photosynthesis, and translation processes. Gene expression and protein levels were found to be correlated in the cyp79B2/B3, but not in the myb28/29.
PXD005131	28444311	Expression of ALS/FTD-linked mutant CCNF in zebrafish leads to increased cell death in the spinal cord and an aberrant motor phenotype. 	Expression of ALS-linked mutant CCNF in zebrafish leads to increased cell death in the spinal cord and an aberrant motor phenotype	amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, motor neurone disease, zebrafish	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rapidly progressive, fatal neurodegenerative disease characterised by the death of upper and lower motor neurons. Approximately 10% of cases have a known family history of ALS and disease-linked mutations in multiple genes have been identified. ALS-linked mutations in CCNF were recently reported, however the pathogenic mechanisms associated with these mutations are yet to be established. To investigate possible disease mechanisms, we developed in vitro and in vivo models based on an ALS-linked missense mutation in CCNF. Proteomic analysis of the in vitro models identified the disruption of several cellular pathways in the mutant model, including caspase-3 mediated cell death. Transient overexpression of human CCNF in zebrafish embryos supported this finding, with fish expressing the mutant protein found to have increased levels of cleaved (activated) caspase-3 and increased cell death in the spinal cord. The mutant CCNF fish also developed a motor neuron axonopathy consisting of shortened primary motor axons and increased frequency of aberrant axonal branching. Importantly, we demonstrated a significant correlation between the severity of the CCNF-induced axonopathy and a reduced motor response to a light stimulus (photomotor response). This is the first report of an ALS-linked CCNF mutation in vivo and taken together with the in vitro model identifies the disruption of cell death pathways as a significant consequence of this mutation. Additionally, this study presents a valuable new tool for use in ongoing studies investigating the pathobiology of ALS-linked CCNF mutations.
PXD006215	28446606	The Behcet's disease-associated variant of the aminopeptidase ERAP1 shapes a low-affinity HLA-B*51 peptidome by differential subpeptidome processing. 	The Behet's Disease associated Hap10 variant of ERAP1 generates a low affinity HLA-B*51 peptidome through differential processing of two subpeptidomes	Antigen processing, Behets disease, ERAP1, HLA-B*51	A low-activity variant of endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1), Hap10, is associated with the autoinflammatory disorder Behcet's disease (BD) in epistasis with HLA-B*51, which is the main risk factor for this disorder. The role of Hap10 in BD pathogenesis is unknown. We sought to define the effects of Hap10 on the HLA-B*51 peptidome and to distinguish these effects from those due to HLA-B*51 polymorphisms unrelated to disease. The peptidome of the BD-associated HLA-B*51:08 subtype expressed in a Hap10-positive cell line was isolated, characterized by mass spectrometry, and compared with the HLA-B*51:01 peptidome from cells expressing more active ERAP1 allotypes. We additionally performed synthetic peptide digestions with recombinant ERAP1 variants and estimated peptide-binding affinity with standard algorithms. In the BD-associated ERAP1 context of B*51:08, longer peptides were generated; of the two major HLA-B*51 subpeptidomes with Pro-2 and Ala-2, the former one was significantly reduced, and the latter was increased and showed more ERAP1-susceptible N-terminal residues. These effects were readily explained by the low activity of Hap10 and the differential susceptibility of X-Pro and X-Ala bonds to ERAP1 trimming and together resulted in a significantly altered peptidome with lower affinity. The differences due to ERAP1 were clearly distinguished from those due to HLA-B*51 subtype polymorphism, which affected residue frequencies at internal positions of the peptide ligands. The alterations in the nature and affinity of HLA-B*51.peptide complexes probably affect T-cell and natural killer cell recognition, providing a sound basis for the joint association of ERAP1 and HLA-B*51 with BD.
PXD003303	28446771	Monitoring global protein thiol-oxidation and protein S-mycothiolation in Mycobacterium smegmatis under hypochlorite stress. 	Monitoring global protein thiol-oxidation and protein S-mycothiolation in Mycobacterium smegmatis under hypochlorite stress	Mycobacterium smegmatis, OxICAT, S-mycothiolation, bacteria, mycothiol, oxidative stress	Mycothiol (MSH) is the major low molecular weight (LMW) thiol in Actinomycetes. Here, we used shotgun proteomics, OxICAT and RNA-seq transcriptomics to analyse protein S-mycothiolation, reversible thiol-oxidations and their impact on gene expression in Mycobacterium smegmatis under hypochlorite stress. In total, 58 S-mycothiolated proteins were identified under NaOCl stress that are involved in energy metabolism, fatty acid and mycolic acid biosynthesis, protein translation, redox regulation and detoxification. Protein S-mycothiolation was accompanied by MSH depletion in the thiol-metabolome. Quantification of the redox state of 1098 Cys residues using OxICAT revealed that 381 Cys residues (33.6%) showed >10% increased oxidations under NaOCl stress, which overlapped with 40 S-mycothiolated Cys-peptides. The absence of MSH resulted in a higher basal oxidation level of 338 Cys residues (41.1%). The RseA and RshA anti-sigma factors and the Zur and NrdR repressors were identified as NaOCl-sensitive proteins and their oxidation resulted in an up-regulation of the SigH, SigE, Zur and NrdR regulons in the RNA-seq transcriptome. In conclusion, we show here that NaOCl stress causes widespread thiol-oxidation including protein S-mycothiolation resulting in induction of antioxidant defense mechanisms in M. smegmatis. Our results further reveal that MSH is important to maintain the reduced state of protein thiols.
PXD005442	28447389	Outer membrane vesicles from Fibrobacter succinogenes S85 contain an array of carbohydrate-active enzymes with versatile polysaccharide-degrading capacity. 	The proteome of Fibrobacter succinogenes S85 outer membrane vesicles	OMV, hydrolytic enzymes, outer membrane vesicles	Fibrobacter succinogenes is an anaerobic bacterium naturally colonising the rumen and cecum of herbivores where it utilizes an enigmatic mechanism to deconstruct cellulose into cellobiose and glucose, which serve as carbon sources for growth. Here, we illustrate that outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) released by F. succinogenes are enriched with carbohydrate-active enzymes and that intact OMVs were able to depolymerize a broad range of linear and branched hemicelluloses and pectin, despite the inability of F. succinogenes to utilize non-cellulosic (pentose) sugars for growth. We hypothesize that the degradative versatility of F. succinogenes OMVs is used to prime hydrolysis by destabilising the tight networks of polysaccharides intertwining cellulose in the plant cell wall, thus increasing accessibility of the target substrate for the host cell. This is supported by observations that OMV-pretreatment of the natural complex substrate switchgrass increased the catalytic efficiency of a commercial cellulose-degrading enzyme cocktail by 2.4-fold. We also show that the OMVs contain a putative multiprotein complex, including the fibro-slime protein previously found to be important in binding to crystalline cellulose. We hypothesize that this complex has a function in plant cell wall degradation, either by catalysing polysaccharide degradation itself, or by targeting the vesicles to plant biomass.
PXD003964	28448822	hSSB1 phosphorylation is dynamically regulated by DNA-PK and PPP-family protein phosphatases. 	hSSB1 DNA-binding is modulated by dynamic DNA-PK-mediated phosphorylation	human / hSSB1 / DNA-PK / PPP family phosphatase / replication stress /  hydroxyurea / Sciex 5600	The maintenance of genomic stability is essential for cellular viability and the prevention of diseases such as cancer. Human single-stranded DNA-binding protein 1 (hSSB1) is a protein with roles in the stabilisation and restart of stalled DNA replication forks, as well as in the repair of oxidative DNA lesions and double-strand DNA breaks. In the latter process, phosphorylation of threonine 117 by the ATM kinase is required for hSSB1 stability and efficient DNA repair. The regulation of hSSB1 in other DNA repair pathways has however remained unclear. Here we report that hSSB1 is also directly phosphorylated by DNA-PK at serine residue 134. While this modification is largely suppressed in undamaged cells by PPP-family protein phosphatases, S134 phosphorylation is enhanced following the disruption of replication forks and promotes cellular survival. Together, these data thereby represent a novel mechanism for hSSB1 regulation following the inhibition of replication.
PXD004442	28450419	Phosphoproteome Analysis Reveals Differential Mode of Action of Sorafenib in Wildtype and Mutated FLT3 Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) Cells. 	Phosphoproteome Analysis Reveals Differential Mode of Action of Sorafenib in Wildtype and Mutated FLT3 AML Cells	Acute myeloid Leukemia, FLT3, Phosphoproteomics, Sorafenib	Constitutively activating internal tandem duplication (ITD) alterations of the receptor tyrosine kinase FLT3 (Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3) are common in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and classifies FLT3 as an attractive therapeutic target. So far, applications of FLT3 small molecule inhibitors have been investigated primarily in FLT3-ITD(+) patients. Only recently, a prolonged event-free survival has been observed in AML patients who were treated with the multikinase inhibitor sorafenib in addition to standard therapy. Here, we studied the sorafenib effect on proliferation in a panel of 13 FLT3-ITD(-) and FLT3-ITD(+) AML cell lines. Sorafenib IC50 values ranged from 0.001 to 5.6 mum, whereas FLT3-ITD(+) cells (MOLM-13, MV4-11) were found to be more sensitive to sorafenib than FLT3-ITD(-) cells. However, we identified two FLT3-ITD(-) cell lines (MONO-MAC-1 and OCI-AML-2) which were also sorafenib sensitive. Phosphoproteome analyses revealed that the affected pathways differed in sorafenib sensitive FLT3-ITD(-) and FLT3-ITD(+) cells. In MV4-11 cells sorafenib suppressed mTOR signaling by direct inhibition of FLT3. In MONO-MAC-1 cells sorafenib inhibited the MEK/ERK pathway. These data suggest that the FLT3 status in AML patients might not be the only factor predicting response to treatment with sorafenib.
PXD004286	28450420	Validation, Identification, and Biological Consequences of the Site-specific O-GlcNAcylation Dynamics of Carbohydrate-responsive Element-binding Protein (ChREBP). 	LC-MS/MS Data for Identification of ChREBP O-GlcNAcylation	ChREBP, O-GlcNAc	O-GlcNAcylation of carbohydrate-responsive element-binding protein (ChREBP) is believed as an important modulator of ChREBP activities, however little direct evidence of O-GlcNAcylation on ChREBP and no exact O-GlcNAcylation sites have been reported so far. Here, we validate O-GlcNAcylation on ChREBP in cell-free coupled transcription/translation system and in cells by chemoenzymatic and metabolic labeling, respectively. Moreover, for the first time, we identify O-GlcNAcylation on Ser614 in the C-terminus of ChREBP by mass spectrometry and validate two important sites, Thr517 and Ser839 for O-GlcNAcylation and their function via molecular and chemical biological method. Under high glucose conditions, Ser514 phosphorylation enhances ChREBP O-GlcNAcylation, maintaining the transcriptional activity of ChREBP; Ser839 O-GlcNAcylation is essential for Mlx-heterodimerization and DNA-binding activity enhancement, consequently inducing transcriptional activity. Ser839 O-GlcNAcylation is also crucial for ChREBP nuclear export partially by strengthening interactions with CRM1 and 14-3-3. This work is a detailed study of ChREBP O-GlcNAcylation and highlights the biological consequences of the site-specific O-GlcNAcylation dynamics of ChREBP.
PXD002615	28455001	The influence of AICAR - direct activator of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) - on liver proteome in apoE-knockout mice. 	Mouse liver LC-MS/MS -  The influence of AICAR - direct activator of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) - on liver proteome in apoE-knockout mice	HCD, Liver, iTRAQ	There is a growing body of evidence that altered functioning of apoE may aggravate cellular energy homeostasis and stress response, leading to oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and inflammation, leading to hypercholesterolemia, dyslipidemia, liver steatosis and neurodegeneration. One of the key cellular responses to mitochondria and ER-stress related processes and cellular energy imbalance is AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), considered as a cellular master energy sensor and critical regulator of mitochondrial homeostasis. The aim of our study was to use differential proteomics and transcriptomics approach to elucidate the effect of direct AMPK activator AICAR on liver proteome in apoE(-/-) mice - experimental model of atherosclerosis and moderate nonalcoholic steatosis. We applied Isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantitation (iTRAQ) labeling and two-dimensional chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (2DLC-MS/MS) MudPIT strategy, as well as RT-PCR to investigate the changes in mitochondrial and cytosolic proteins and transcripts expression in 6-month old AICAR-treated apoE(-/-). AICAR elicited induction of proteins related to mitochondrial beta-oxidation, protein degradation and energy producing pathways (i.a. tricarboxylic acid cycle members and mitochondrial adenylate kinase 2). On the other hand, AICAR repressed inflammatory and pro-apoptotic markers in the apoE(-/-) mice liver, alongside reduction in several peroxisomal proteins, possibly suggesting induction of anti-oxidative pexophagy.
PXD002394	28455291	Hyper-phosphorylation of Sequestosome-1 Distinguishes Resistance to Cisplatin in Patient Derived High Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer Cells. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of cisplatin resistance in patient derived serous ovarian cancer	MS/MS, cisplatin, ovarian cancer, phosphoproteomic, resistance	Platinum-resistance is a major limitation to effective chemotherapy regimens in high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC). To better understand the mechanisms involved we characterized the proteome and phosphoproteome in cisplatin sensitive and resistant HGSOC primary cells using a mass spectrometry-based proteomic strategy. PCA analysis identified a distinctive phosphoproteomic signature between cisplatin sensitive and resistant cell lines. The most phosphorylated protein in cisplatin resistant cells was sequestosome-1 (p62/SQSTM1). Changes in expression of apoptosis and autophagy related proteins Caspase-3 and SQSTM1, respectively, were validated by Western blot analysis. A significant increase in apoptosis in the presence of cisplatin was observed in only the sensitive cell line while SQSTM1 revealed increased expression in the resistant cell line relative to sensitive cell line. Furthermore, site-specific phosphorylation on 20 amino acid residues of SQSTM1 was detected indicating a hyper-phosphorylation phenotype. This elevated hyper-phosphorylation of SQSTM1 in resistant HGSOC cell lines was validated with Western blot analysis. Immunofluoresence staining of s28-pSQSTM1 showed inducible localization to autophagosomes upon cisplatin treatment in the sensitive cell line while being constitutively expressed to autophagosomes in the resistant cell. Furthermore, SQSTM1 expression was localized in cancer cells of clinical high-grade serous tumors. Here, we propose hyper-phosphorylation of SQSTM1 as a marker and a key proteomic change in cisplatin resistance development in ovarian cancers by activating the autophagy pathway and influencing down-regulation of apoptosis.
PXD004415	28464451	Quantitative phosphoproteome analysis of cisplatin-induced apoptosis in Jurkat T cells. 	Quantitative phosphoproteome analysis of cisplatin-induced apoptosis in Jurkat T cells	: apoptosis, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), cisplatin, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation	Protein phosphorylation is one of the most important post-translational modifications (PTMs) due to its vital role in cellular functions and signaling pathways. Protein phosphorylation is also known to be involved in the regulation of apoptosis. Previously, we have performed a SILAC-based analysis of tyrosine phosphorylated peptides of cisplatin-induced apoptotic Jurkat T cells. Here, we analyzed the global phosphorylation profile by enrichment of serine/threonine/tyrosine phosphorylated peptides using TiO2 beads. More than 7000 phosphopeptides of more than 2500 phosphoproteins were identified in four biological replicates. Using two different normalized collision energy (NCE) values for fragmentation by higher-energy collisional dissociation (HCD) revealed complementary results. HCD with NCE 25 accounted for 31% and NCE 35 for 12% uniquely identified phosphopeptides, whereas 57% were found at both NCEs. Different peptide lengths and amino acid compositions were observed at different NCE. A phosphopeptide database was generated out of the results obtained using the Swiss-Prot protein database in order to find differences in regulation of specific phosphorylated sites within multiphosphorylated proteins. Several members of the MAPK signaling pathway were found to be upregulated in apoptotic compared to control cells. Changes of phosphorylation of the transcription factors JUN and ATF2 during apoptosis was confirmed by Western blotting.
PXD004455	28467696	Proteome profile of spinneret from the silkworm, Bombyx mori. 	Silkworm spinneret LC-MSMS	Silkworm, insect tissue, spinneret	The silkworm spinneret is an important tissue for silk fibrillogenesis and spinning. All biochemical processes during silk fibrillogenesis are correlated with silk properties. Understanding the role of spinneret in silk fibrillogenesis may help to reveal the mechanism of silk fibrillogenesis as well as improve silk quality for commercial purposes. Thus, we profiled the proteome of silkworm spinneret. A total of 1572 proteins and 232 differential abundance proteins were identified. Silk fibrillogenesis-related proteins, such as cuticle proteins, ion-transporting proteins, muscular proteins, and energy metabolic proteins, were abundant in spinneret. Metabolic pathway and GO enrichment analyses revealed that the identified proteins were involved in energy metabolism, chitin binding, and cuticle construction. Active energy metabolism may provide abundant energy for the muscle contraction as well as ion and water exchange. The chitin binding and cuticle construction process may provide sufficient shear forces for silk formation. Our data suggest that silkworm spinneret provides a suitable physiological and biochemical environment for silk fibrillogenesis. These proteins are potential targets for improving silk quality in the silk industry. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004455.
PXD004466	28467808	A systematic approach for peptide characterization of B-cell receptor in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells. 	Cellular Ig sequencing	BCR, immunoglobulin, nUPLC-MS/MS	A wide variety of immunoglobulins (Ig) is produced by the immune system thanks to different mechanisms (V(D)J recombination, somatic hypermutation, and antigen selection). The profiling of Ig sequences (at both DNA and peptide levels) are of great relevance to developing targeted vaccines or treatments for specific diseases or infections. Thus, genomics and proteomics techniques (such as Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) and mass spectrometry (MS)) have notably increased the knowledge in Ig sequencing and serum Ig peptide profiling in a high-throughput manner. However, the peptide characterization of membrane-bound Ig (e.g., B-cell receptors, BCR) is still a challenge mainly due to the poor recovery of mentioned Ig.Herein, we have evaluated three different sample processing methods for peptide sequencing of BCR belonging to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells identifying up to 426 different peptide sequences (MS/MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004466). Moreover, as a consequence of the results here obtained, recommended guidelines have been described for BCR-sequencing of B-CLL samples by MS approaches.For this purpose, an in-house algorithm has been designed and developed to compare the MS/MS results with those obtained by molecular biology in order to integrate both proteomics and genomics results and establish the steps to follow when sequencing membrane-bound Ig by MS/MS.
PXD005935	28467828	Dominant protection from HLA-linked autoimmunity by antigen-specific regulatory T cells. 	HLA DR1 and DR15 ligands isolated from transgenic mice	DR1, DR15, Goodpasture's disease, HLA class II	Susceptibility and protection against human autoimmune diseases, including type I diabetes, multiple sclerosis, and Goodpasture disease, is associated with particular human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles. However, the mechanisms underpinning such HLA-mediated effects on self-tolerance remain unclear. Here we investigate the molecular mechanism of Goodpasture disease, an HLA-linked autoimmune renal disorder characterized by an immunodominant CD4(+) T-cell self-epitope derived from the alpha3 chain of type IV collagen (alpha3135-145). While HLA-DR15 confers a markedly increased disease risk, the protective HLA-DR1 allele is dominantly protective in trans with HLA-DR15 (ref. 2). We show that autoreactive alpha3135-145-specific T cells expand in patients with Goodpasture disease and, in alpha3135-145-immunized HLA-DR15 transgenic mice, alpha3135-145-specific T cells infiltrate the kidney and mice develop Goodpasture disease. HLA-DR15 and HLA-DR1 exhibit distinct peptide repertoires and binding preferences and present the alpha3135-145 epitope in different binding registers. HLA-DR15-alpha3135-145 tetramer(+) T cells in HLA-DR15 transgenic mice exhibit a conventional T-cell phenotype (Tconv) that secretes pro-inflammatory cytokines. In contrast, HLA-DR1-alpha3135-145 tetramer(+) T cells in HLA-DR1 and HLA-DR15/DR1 transgenic mice are predominantly CD4(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells (Treg cells) expressing tolerogenic cytokines. HLA-DR1-induced Treg cells confer resistance to disease in HLA-DR15/DR1 transgenic mice. HLA-DR15(+) and HLA-DR1(+) healthy human donors display altered alpha3135-145-specific T-cell antigen receptor usage, HLA-DR15-alpha3135-145 tetramer(+) Foxp3(-) Tconv and HLA-DR1-alpha3135-145 tetramer(+) Foxp3(+)CD25(hi)CD127(lo) Treg dominant phenotypes. Moreover, patients with Goodpasture disease display a clonally expanded alpha3135-145-specific CD4(+) T-cell repertoire. Accordingly, we provide a mechanistic basis for the dominantly protective effect of HLA in autoimmune disease, whereby HLA polymorphism shapes the relative abundance of self-epitope specific Treg cells that leads to protection or causation of autoimmunity.
PXD004637	28467900	Label-free Analysis of CD8(+) T Cell Subset Proteomes Supports a Progressive Differentiation Model of Human-Virus-Specific T Cells. 	Label-free analysis of CD8+ T cell subset proteomes supports a progressive differentiation model of virus-specific T cells in humans	CD8+ T cells	Pathogens trigger T cells to express distinct sets of effector proteins. To better understand the molecular mechanisms that drive functional specification, we used high-resolution mass spectrometry and label-free protein quantification to measure proteomic differences between the seven largest circulating human CD8(+) T cell subsets. Hierarchical clustering of the proteomes placed naive and CD45RA-expressing effector-type T cells at the extremes of the spectrum, with central memory and other effector memory stages located in between. Prominent differences between the subsets included expression of specific granzymes, signaling proteins, and molecules involved in metabolic regulation and cell adhesion. Remarkably, whereas most of the proteomic relationships between the subsets occurred in linear variations, a small proportion of proteins was regulated only in discrete subsets. The data obtained from this proteome analysis correspond best to a progressive differentiation model in which specific stable traits are gradually acquired during development.
PXD005120	28467905	Huntingtin Inclusions Trigger Cellular Quiescence, Deactivate Apoptosis, and Lead to Delayed Necrosis. 	Huntingtin inclusions trigger cellular quiescence, deactivate apoptosis and lead to delayed necrosis	Huntingtin, Huntingtons disease, aggregation, apoptosis, inclusion, mechanism of death	Competing models exist in the literature for the relationship between mutant Huntingtin exon 1 (Httex1) inclusion formation and toxicity. In one, inclusions are adaptive by sequestering the proteotoxicity of soluble Httex1. In the other, inclusions compromise cellular activity as a result of proteome co-aggregation. Using a biosensor of Httex1 conformation in mammalian cell models, we discovered a mechanism that reconciles these competing models. Newly formed inclusions were composed of disordered Httex1 and ribonucleoproteins. As inclusions matured, Httex1 reconfigured into amyloid, and other glutamine-rich and prion domain-containing proteins were recruited. Soluble Httex1 caused a hyperpolarized mitochondrial membrane potential, increased reactive oxygen species, and promoted apoptosis. Inclusion formation triggered a collapsed mitochondrial potential, cellular quiescence, and deactivated apoptosis. We propose a revised model where sequestration of soluble Httex1 inclusions can remove the trigger for apoptosis but also co-aggregate other proteins, which curtails cellular metabolism and leads to a slow death by necrosis.
PXD005992	28474680	The essential role of YAP O-GlcNAcylation in high-glucose-stimulated liver tumorigenesis. 	Immunoprecipitation of YAP -  The essential role of YAP O-GlcNAcylation in high-glucose-stimulated liver tumorigenesis	liver YAP O-GlcNAcylation	O-GlcNAcylation has been implicated in the tumorigenesis of various tissue origins, but its function in liver tumorigenesis is not clear. Here, we demonstrate that O-GlcNAcylation can enhance the expression, stability and function of Yes-associated protein (YAP), the downstream transcriptional regulator of the Hippo pathway and a potent oncogenic factor in liver cancer. O-GlcNAcylation induces transformative phenotypes of liver cancer cells in a YAP-dependent manner. An O-GlcNAc site of YAP was identified at Thr241, and mutating this site decreased the O-GlcNAcylation, stability, and pro-tumorigenic capacities of YAP, while increasing YAP phosphorylation. Importantly, we found via in vitro cell-based and in vivo mouse model experiments that O-GlcNAcylation of YAP was required for high-glucose-induced liver tumorigenesis. Interestingly, a positive feedback between YAP and global cellular O-GlcNAcylation is also uncovered. We conclude that YAP O-GlcNAcylation is a potential therapeutic intervention point for treating liver cancer associated with high blood glucose levels and possibly diabetes.
PXD005706	28476026	Inhibition of pH regulation as a therapeutic strategy in hypoxic human breast cancer cells. 	Inhibition of pH regulation as a therapeutic strategy in hypoxic human breast cancer cells	Breast, CAIX, Hypoxic, irradiation	Hypoxic cancer cells exhibit resistance to many therapies. This study compared the therapeutic effect of targeting the pH regulatory proteins (CAIX, NHE1 and V-ATPase) that permit cancer cells to adapt to hypoxic conditions, using both 2D and 3D culture models. Drugs targeting CAIX, NHE1 and V-ATPase exhibited anti-proliferative effects in MCF-7, MDA-MB-231 and HBL-100 breast cancer cell lines in 2D. Protein and gene expression analysis in 2D showed that CAIX was the most hypoxia-inducible protein of the 3 targets. However, the expression of CAIX differed between the 3 cell lines. This difference in CAIX expression in hypoxia was consistent with a varying activity of FIH-1 between the cell lines. 3D expression analysis demonstrated that both CAIX and NHE1 were up-regulated in the hypoxic areas of multicellular tumor spheroids. However, the induction of CAIX expression in hypoxia was again cell line dependent. 3D invasion assays conducted with spheroids showed that CAIX inhibition significantly reduced the invasion of cells. Finally, the capability of both NHE1 and CAIX inhibitors to combine effectively with irradiation was exhibited in clonogenic assays. Proteomic-mass-spectrometric analysis indicated that CAIX inhibition might be combining with irradiation through stimulating apoptotic cell death. Of the three proteins, CAIX represents the target with the most promise for the treatment of breast cancer.
PXD003628	28477369	Sorting nexin 27 interactome in T-lymphocytes identifies zona occludens-2 dynamic redistribution at the immune synapse. 	SNX27 interactome during immune synapse formation	PDZ, SNX27, T-lymphocyte, ZO-2, immune synapse	T Lymphocyte recognition of antigens leads to the formation of a highly organized structure termed immune synapse (IS) by analogy with the neuronals synapse. Sorting nexin 27 (SNX27) controls the endosomal traffic of PSD95, Dlg1, ZO-1 (PDZ) domain-interacting proteins, and its alteration is associated with impaired synaptic function and neurological diseases. In T-lymphocytes, SNX27-positive vesicles polarize to the IS, the identity of SNX27 interactors in these conditions nonetheless remains unknown. Here we used proteomics to analyze the SNX27 interactome purified from IS-forming T cells, and confirmed the conserved nature of the SNX27/WASH/retromer association in hematopoietic cells. Furthermore, our comparative interactome analysis of SNX27 wild-type and a mutant-deficient for PDZ cargo recognition identified the epithelial cell-cell junction protein zona occludens-2 (ZO-2) as an IS component. Biochemistry and microscopy approaches in T cells confirmed SNX27/ZO-2 PDZ-dependent interaction, and demonstrated its role controlling the dynamic localization of ZO-2 at the IS. This study broadens our knowledge of SNX27 function in T lymphocytes, and suggests that pathways that delimit polarized structures in nervous and epithelial systems also participate in IS regulation.
PXD006367	28481548	Cross-Sectional Association of Salivary Proteins with Age, Sex, Body Mass Index, Smoking, and Education. 	Cross-sectional association of salivary proteins with age, sex, body mass index, smoking, and education	label free quantitation, population-based study, protein signatures, whole saliva proteomics	Whole saliva is gaining more and more attention as a diagnostic tool to study disease-specific changes in human subjects. Prior to the actual disease-related analyses, it is important to understand the influence of various demographic variables and coupled phenotypes on salivary protein signatures. In a cross-sectional approach, we analyzed the influence of age, sex, body mass index (BMI), smoking, and education on salivary protein signatures in whole saliva samples of 187 individuals. Subjects were randomly selected from the population-based Study of Health in Pomerania (SHIP-Trend). Stimulated whole saliva was collected, and proteins were precipitated and proteolytically digested. Samples were analyzed by label-free tandem mass spectrometry. Of the 602 human proteins identified in at least 40% of the saliva samples, we used 304 proteins, which could be identified with at least two unique peptides, for statistical analyses. Univariate and multivariate linear models were used to reveal associations with the phenotypes. The largest number of proteins was associated with smoking status. Moreover, age had a distinct influence on the salivary protein composition. The study discloses the influence of common phenotypes on the salivary protein pattern of human subjects. These results should be considered when studying disease-related proteome signatures in saliva.
PXD005732	28483926	Some Gram-negative Lipoproteins Keep Their Surface Topology When Transplanted from One Species to Another and Deliver Foreign Polypeptides to the Bacterial Surface. 	Gram negative promiscuous lipoproteins keep surface topology when transplanted from one species to another and can deliver foreign polypeptides to the bacterial surface	2D-PAGE, Escherichia coli, OMV	In Gram-negative bacteria, outer membrane-associated lipoproteins can either face the periplasm or protrude out of the bacterial surface. The mechanisms involved in lipoprotein transport through the outer membrane are not fully elucidated. Some lipoproteins reach the surface by using species-specific transport machinery. By contrast, a still poorly characterized group of lipoproteins appears to always cross the outer membrane, even when transplanted from one organism to another. To investigate such lipoproteins, we tested the expression and compartmentalization in E. coli of three surface-exposed lipoproteins, two from Neisseria meningitidis (Nm-fHbp and NHBA) and one from Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans (Aa-fHbp). We found that all three lipoproteins were lipidated and compartmentalized in the E. coli outer membrane and in outer membrane vesicles. Furthermore, fluorescent antibody cell sorting analysis, proteolytic surface shaving, and confocal microscopy revealed that all three proteins were also exposed on the surface of the outer membrane. Removal or substitution of the first four amino acids following the lipidated cysteine residue and extensive deletions of the C-terminal regions in Nm-fHbp did not prevent the protein from reaching the surface of the outer membrane. Heterologous polypeptides, fused to the C termini of Nm-fHbp and NHBA, were efficiently transported to the E. coli cell surface and compartmentalized in outer membrane vesicles, demonstrating that these lipoproteins can be exploited in biotechnological applications requiring Gram-negative bacterial surface display of foreign polypeptides.
PXD005786	28484033	Ectopic protein interactions within BRD4-chromatin complexes drive oncogenic megadomain formation in NUT midline carcinoma. 	Oncogenic BRD4-NUT protein interactions	BioTAP-XL, ZNF532-NUT, hyperacetylation, topological domains	To investigate the mechanism that drives dramatic mistargeting of active chromatin in NUT midline carcinoma (NMC), we have identified protein interactions unique to the BRD4-NUT fusion oncoprotein compared with wild-type BRD4. Using cross-linking, affinity purification, and mass spectrometry, we identified the EP300 acetyltransferase as uniquely associated with BRD4 through the NUT fusion in both NMC and non-NMC cell types. We also discovered ZNF532 associated with BRD4-NUT in NMC patient cells but not detectable in 293T cells. EP300 and ZNF532 are both implicated in feed-forward regulatory loops leading to propagation of the oncogenic chromatin complex in BRD4-NUT patient cells. Adding key functional significance to our biochemical findings, we independently discovered a ZNF532-NUT translocation fusion in a newly diagnosed NMC patient. ChIP sequencing of the major players NUT, ZNF532, BRD4, EP300, and H3K27ac revealed the formation of ZNF532-NUT-associated hyperacetylated megadomains, distinctly localized but otherwise analogous to those found in BRD4-NUT patient cells. Our results support a model in which NMC is dependent on ectopic NUT-mediated interactions between EP300 and components of BRD4 regulatory complexes, leading to a cascade of misregulation.
PXD005766	28484215	Expression proteomics study to determine metallodrug targets and optimal drug combinations. 	Proteomics to determine metallodrug targets and optimal drug combinations	Cancer, FITExP, drug targets	The emerging technique termed functional identification of target by expression proteomics (FITExP) has been shown to identify the key protein targets of anti-cancer drugs. Here, we use this approach to elucidate the proteins involved in the mechanism of action of two ruthenium(II)-based anti-cancer compounds, RAPTA-T and RAPTA-EA in breast cancer cells, revealing significant differences in the proteins upregulated. RAPTA-T causes upregulation of multiple proteins suggesting a broad mechanism of action involving suppression of both metastasis and tumorigenicity. RAPTA-EA bearing a GST inhibiting ethacrynic acid moiety, causes upregulation of mainly oxidative stress related proteins. The approach used in this work could be applied to the prediction of effective drug combinations to test in cancer chemotherapy clinical trials.
PXD006217	28485144	Hydrophobic Interaction Chromatography for Bottom-Up Proteomics Analysis of Single Proteins and Protein Complexes. 	Hydrophobic interaction chromatography for bottom-up proteomics	HIC	Hydrophobic interaction chromatography (HIC) is a robust standard analytical method to purify proteins while preserving their biological activity. It is widely used to study post-translational modifications of proteins and drug-protein interactions. In the current manuscript we employed HIC to separate proteins, followed by bottom-up LC-MS/MS experiments. We used this approach to fractionate antibody species followed by comprehensive peptide mapping as well as to study protein complexes in human cells. HIC-reversed-phase chromatography (RPC)-mass spectrometry (MS) is a powerful alternative to fractionate proteins for bottom-up proteomics experiments making use of their distinct hydrophobic properties.
PXD005730	28485388	Charting organellar importomes by quantitative mass spectrometry. 	Charting Organellar Importomes by Quantitative Mass Spectrometry - ERV1 organelle-enriched fractions	ImportOmics, RNAi-mediated protein knockdown, Stable dimethyl labeling, Trypanosoma brucei, mitochondria, organellar protein import	Protein import into organelles is essential for all eukaryotes and facilitated by multi-protein translocation machineries. Analysing whether a protein is transported into an organelle is largely restricted to single constituents. This renders knowledge about imported proteins incomplete, limiting our understanding of organellar biogenesis and function. Here we introduce a method that enables charting an organelle's importome. The approach relies on inducible RNAi-mediated knockdown of an essential subunit of a translocase to impair import and quantitative mass spectrometry. To highlight its potential, we established the mitochondrial importome of Trypanosoma brucei, comprising 1,120 proteins including 331 new candidates. Furthermore, the method allows for the identification of proteins with dual or multiple locations and the substrates of distinct protein import pathways. We demonstrate the specificity and versatility of this ImportOmics method by targeting import factors in mitochondria and glycosomes, which demonstrates its potential for globally studying protein import and inventories of organelles.
PXD005679	28487390	Activation of the Amino Acid Response Pathway Blunts the Effects of Cardiac Stress. 	Proteome expression changes upon Halofuginone treatment	halofuginone, primary cardiac fibroblasts	BACKGROUND: The amino acid response (AAR) is an evolutionarily conserved protective mechanism activated by amino acid deficiency through a key kinase, general control nonderepressible 2. In addition to mobilizing amino acids, the AAR broadly affects gene and protein expression in a variety of pathways and elicits antifibrotic, autophagic, and anti-inflammatory activities. However, little is known regarding its role in cardiac stress. Our aim was to investigate the effects of halofuginone, a prolyl-tRNA synthetase inhibitor, on the AAR pathway in cardiac fibroblasts, cardiomyocytes, and in mouse models of cardiac stress and failure. METHODS AND RESULTS: Consistent with its ability to inhibit prolyl-tRNA synthetase, halofuginone elicited a general control nonderepressible 2-dependent activation of the AAR pathway in cardiac fibroblasts as evidenced by activation of known AAR target genes, broad regulation of the transcriptome and proteome, and reversal by l-proline supplementation. Halofuginone was examined in 3 mouse models of cardiac stress: angiotensin II/phenylephrine, transverse aortic constriction, and acute ischemia reperfusion injury. It activated the AAR pathway in the heart, improved survival, pulmonary congestion, left ventricle remodeling/fibrosis, and left ventricular function, and rescued ischemic myocardium. In human cardiac fibroblasts, halofuginone profoundly reduced collagen deposition in a general control nonderepressible 2-dependent manner and suppressed the extracellular matrix proteome. In human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes, halofuginone blocked gene expression associated with endothelin-1-mediated activation of pathologic hypertrophy and restored autophagy in a general control nonderepressible 2/eIF2alpha-dependent manner. CONCLUSIONS: Halofuginone activated the AAR pathway in the heart and attenuated the structural and functional effects of cardiac stress.
PXD004150	28487411	A microRNA-129-5p/Rbfox crosstalk coordinates homeostatic downscaling of excitatory synapses. 	protein turnover during homeostatic plasticity	neuron SILAC homeostatic plasticity	Synaptic downscaling is a homeostatic mechanism that allows neurons to reduce firing rates during chronically elevated network activity. Although synaptic downscaling is important in neural circuit development and epilepsy, the underlying mechanisms are poorly described. We performed small RNA profiling in picrotoxin (PTX)-treated hippocampal neurons, a model of synaptic downscaling. Thereby, we identified eight microRNAs (miRNAs) that were increased in response to PTX, including miR-129-5p, whose inhibition blocked synaptic downscaling in vitro and reduced epileptic seizure severity in vivo Using transcriptome, proteome, and bioinformatic analysis, we identified the calcium pump Atp2b4 and doublecortin (Dcx) as miR-129-5p targets. Restoring Atp2b4 and Dcx expression was sufficient to prevent synaptic downscaling in PTX-treated neurons. Furthermore, we characterized a functional crosstalk between miR-129-5p and the RNA-binding protein (RBP) Rbfox1. In the absence of PTX, Rbfox1 promoted the expression of Atp2b4 and Dcx. Upon PTX treatment, Rbfox1 expression was downregulated by miR-129-5p, thereby allowing the repression of Atp2b4 and Dcx. We therefore identified a novel activity-dependent miRNA/RBP crosstalk during synaptic scaling, with potential implications for neural network homeostasis and epileptogenesis.
PXD006102	28488443	iTRAQ and RNA-Seq Analyses Provide New Insights into Regulation Mechanism of Symbiotic Germination of Dendrobium officinale Seeds (Orchidaceae). 	Dendrobium officinale seed symbiotic germination iTRAQ	Orchidaceae seed, iTRAQ, mycorrhizal symbiosis	Mycorrhizal fungi colonize orchid seeds and induce germination. This so-called symbiotic germination is a critical developmental process in the lifecycle of all orchid species. However, the molecular changes that occur during orchid seed symbiotic germination remain largely unknown. To better understand the molecular mechanism of orchid seed germination, we performed a comparative transcriptomic and proteomic analysis of the Chinese traditional medicinal orchid Dendrobium officinale to explore the change in protein expression at the different developmental stages during asymbiotic and symbiotic germination and identify the key proteins that regulate the symbiotic germination of orchid seeds. Among 2256 identified plant proteins, 308 were differentially expressed across three developmental stages during asymbiotic and symbiotic germination, and 229 were differentially expressed during symbiotic germination compared to asymbiotic development. Of these, 32 proteins were coup-regulated at both the proteomic and transcriptomic levels during symbiotic germination compared to asymbiotic germination. Our results suggest that symbiotic germination of D. officinale seeds shares a common signaling pathway with asymbiotic germination during the early germination stage. However, compared to asymbiotic germination, fungal colonization of orchid seeds appears to induce higher and earlier expression of some key proteins involved in lipid and carbohydrate metabolism and thus improves the efficiency of utilization of stored substances present in the embryo. This study provides new insight into the molecular basis of orchid seed germination.
PXD005506	28489815	Common genetic variation drives molecular heterogeneity in human iPSCs. 	HipSci project proteomics batch 1, comprising 6 IPS cell lines from 3 donors	IPS cells, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells Initiative, TMT, Tandem Mass Tag, pluripotent	Technology utilizing human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) has enormous potential to provide improved cellular models of human disease. However, variable genetic and phenotypic characterization of many existing iPS cell lines limits their potential use for research and therapy. Here we describe the systematic generation, genotyping and phenotyping of 711 iPS cell lines derived from 301 healthy individuals by the Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells Initiative. Our study outlines the major sources of genetic and phenotypic variation in iPS cells and establishes their suitability as models of complex human traits and cancer. Through genome-wide profiling we find that 5-46% of the variation in different iPS cell phenotypes, including differentiation capacity and cellular morphology, arises from differences between individuals. Additionally, we assess the phenotypic consequences of genomic copy-number alterations that are repeatedly observed in iPS cells. In addition, we present a comprehensive map of common regulatory variants affecting the transcriptome of human pluripotent cells.
PXD001821	28490445	Serological Epithelial Component Proteins Identify Intestinal Complications in Crohn's Disease. 	Human Blood Serum LC-MS/MS -  Serological epithelial component proteins identify intestinal complications in Crohn's Disease	Human Serum LC-MS/MS	Crohn's Disease (CD) is a relapsing inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract that affects a young working age population and is increasing in developing countries. Half of all sufferers will experience stricturing or fistulizing intestinal complications that require extensive surgical interventions and neither genes nor clinical risk factors can predict this debilitating natural history. We applied discovery and verification phase studies as part of an NCI-FDA modeled biomarker pipeline to identify differences in the low-mass (<25kDa) blood-serum proteome between CD behavioral phenotypes. A significant enrichment of epithelial component proteins was identified in CD patients with intestinal complications using quantitative proteomic profiling with label-free Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). DAVID 6.7 (NIH) was used for functional annotation analysis of detected proteins and immunoblotting and multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) to verify a priori findings in a secondary independent cohort of complicated CD (CCD), uncomplicated inflammatory CD (ICD), Th1/17 pathway inflammation controls (rheumatoid arthritis), inflammatory bowel disease controls (ulcerative colitis), and healthy controls. Seventy-six high-confidence serum proteins were modulated in CCD versus ICD by LC-MS/MS (p < 0.05, FDR q<0.01), annotating to pathways of epithelial barrier homeostasis (p < 0.01). In verification phase, a putative serology panel developed from discovery proteomics data consisting of desmoglein-1, desmoplakin, and fatty acid-binding protein 5 (FABP5) distinguished CCD from all other groups (p = 0.041) and discriminated complication in CD (70% sensitivity and 72.5% specificity at score >=1.907, AUC = 0.777, p = 0.007). An MRM assay secondarily confirmed increased FABP5 levels in CCD (p < 0.001). In a longitudinal subanalysis-cohort, FABP5 levels were stable over a two-month period with no behavioral changes (p = 0.099). These studies along the biomarker development pipeline provide substantial proof-of-principle that a blood test can be developed specific to transmural intestinal injury. Data are available via the PRIDE proteomics data repository under identifier PXD001821 and PeptideAtlas with identifier PASS00661.
PXD005311	28490779	Large scale phosphoprotein profiling to explore Drosophila cold acclimation regulatory mechanisms. 	Large scale phosphoprotein profiling to unravel Drosophila cold acclimation regulatory mechanisms	Phosphorylation network, SIMAC, acclimation, fruit fly	The regulatory mechanisms involved in the acquisition of thermal tolerance are unknown in insects. Reversible phosphorylation is a widespread post-translational modification that can rapidly alter proteins function(s). Here, we conducted a large-scale comparative screening of phosphorylation networks in adult Drosophila flies that were cold-acclimated versus control. Using a modified SIMAC method followed by a multiple MS analysis strategy, we identified a large collection of phosphopeptides (about 1600) and phosphoproteins (about 500) in both groups, with good enrichment efficacy (80%). The saturation curves from the four biological replicates revealed that the phosphoproteome was rather well covered under our experimental conditions. Acclimation evoked a strong phosphoproteomic signal characterized by large sets of unique and differential phosphoproteins. These were involved in several major GO superclusters of which cytoskeleton organization, positive regulation of transport, cell cycle, and RNA processing were particularly enriched. Data suggest that phosphoproteomic changes in response to acclimation were mainly localized within cytoskeletal network, and particularly within microtubule associated complexes. This study opens up novel research avenues for exploring the complex regulatory networks that lead to acquired thermal tolerance.
PXD005090	28493397	A recurrent de novo mutation in ACTG1 causes isolated ocular coloboma. 	Assessing actin-pathway interactions in variants identified in patients with ocular coloboma	ACTG1, GFP-TRAP, HEK293, LCP1, TWF1, actin	Ocular coloboma (OC) is a defect in optic fissure closure and is a common cause of severe congenital visual impairment. Bilateral OC is primarily genetically determined and shows marked locus heterogeneity. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was used to analyze 12 trios (child affected with OC and both unaffected parents). This identified de novo mutations in 10 different genes in eight probands. Three of these genes encoded proteins associated with actin cytoskeleton dynamics: ACTG1, TWF1, and LCP1. Proband-only WES identified a second unrelated individual with isolated OC carrying the same ACTG1 allele, encoding p.(Pro70Leu). Both individuals have normal neurodevelopment with no extra-ocular signs of Baraitser-Winter syndrome. We found this mutant protein to be incapable of incorporation into F-actin. The LCP1 and TWF1 variants each resulted in only minor disturbance of actin interactions, and no further plausibly causative variants were identified in these genes on resequencing 380 unrelated individuals with OC.
PXD006441	28495502	Multipronged quantitative proteomics reveals serum proteome alterations in breast cancer intrinsic subtypes. 	Multipronged quantitative proteomics reveals serum proteome alterations in breast cancer intrinsic subtypes	Breast Cancer, DIGE, SWATH, Serum Biomarkers, iTRAQ	Being molecularly heterogeneous, breast cancer tends to be a complicated oncological disease with high incidence rates throughout the world. The primary aim of this study was to identify the set of serum proteins with discriminatory capabilities towards the four major subtypes of breast cancer. We employed multipronged quantitative proteomic approaches like 2D-DIGE, iTRAQ and SWATH-MS and identified 307 differentially regulated proteins. Luminal A subtype consisted of 24, Luminal B subtype 38, HER2 Enriched subtype 17 and Triple negative breast cancer subtype 10 differentially regulated subtype specific proteins. These specific proteins were further subjected to bioinformatic tools which revealed the involvement in platelet degranulation, fibrinolysis, lipid metabolism, immune response, complement activation, blood coagulation, glycolysis and cancer signaling pathways in the subtypes of the breast cancer. The significant discrimination efficiency of the models generated through multivariate statistical analysis was decent to distinguish each of the four subtypes from controls. Further, some of the statistically significant differentially regulated proteins were verified and validated by immunoblotting and mass spectrometry based selected reaction monitoring (SRM) approach. Our Multipronged proteomics approaches revealed panel of serum proteins specifically altered for individual subtypes of breast cancer. The mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006441. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Worldwide, breast cancer continues to be one of the leading causes of cancer related deaths in women and it encompasses four major molecular subtypes. As breast cancer treatment majorly depends on identification of specific subtype, it is important to diagnosis the disease at subtype level. Our results using multipronged quantitative proteomics identified 307 differentially regulated proteins in which 24 were specific for Luminal A, 38 for Luminal B, 17 for HER2 enriched and 10 proteins were specific for TN subtype. Bioinformatic analysis of these proteins revealed certain biological processes and pathways altered at subtype level and validation experiments of some of these proteins using immunoblotting and SRM assays are consistent with discovery data. This is the first comprehensive proteomic study on serum proteome alterations at subtype level which will not only help to distinguish subtype of breast cancer but also contribute to a better understanding of the molecular characteristic of breast cancer at individual subtype level.
PXD006025	28496455	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of the Graft Unions in Hickory (Carya cathayensis) Provides Insights into Response Mechanisms to Grafting Process. 	hickory LC-MS/MS -  Comparative Proteomic Analysis of the Graft Unions in Hickory (Carya cathayensis) Provides Insights into Response Mechanisms to Grafting Process	TMT, flavonoid biosynthesis, graft, hickory, secondary metabolism	Hickory (Carya cathayensis), a tree with high nutritional and economic value, is widely cultivated in China. Grafting greatly reduces the juvenile phase length and makes the large scale cultivation of hickory possible. To reveal the response mechanisms of this species to grafting, we employed a proteomics-based approach to identify differentially expressed proteins in the graft unions during the grafting process. Our study identified 3723 proteins, of which 2518 were quantified. A total of 710 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were quantified and these were involved in various molecular functional and biological processes. Among these DEPs, 341 were up-regulated and 369 were down-regulated at 7 days after grafting compared with the control. Four auxin-related proteins were down-regulated, which was in agreement with the transcription levels of their encoding genes. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis showed that the 'Flavonoid biosynthesis' pathway and 'starch and sucrose metabolism' were both significantly up-regulated. Interestingly, five flavonoid biosynthesis-related proteins, a flavanone 3-hyfroxylase, a cinnamate 4-hydroxylase, a dihydroflavonol-4-reductase, a chalcone synthase, and a chalcone isomerase, were significantly up-regulated. Further experiments verified a significant increase in the total flavonoid contents in scions, which suggests that graft union formation may activate flavonoid biosynthesis to increase the content of a series of downstream secondary metabolites. This comprehensive analysis provides fundamental information on the candidate proteins and secondary metabolism pathways involved in the grafting process for hickory.
PXD006272	28497289	Systematic analysis of the lysine acetylome reveals diverse functions of lysine acetylation in the oleaginous yeast Yarrowia lipolytica. 	Systematic analysis of the lysine acetylome reveals diverse functions of lysine acetylation in the oleaginous yeast Yarrowia lipolytica	Acetylproteome, Lipid biosynthesis, Lysine acetylation, Oleaginous yeast, Yarrowia lipolytica	Lysine acetylation of proteins, a major post-translational modification, plays a critical regulatory role in almost every aspects in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Yarrowia lipolytica, an oleaginous yeast, is considered as a model for bio-oil production due to its ability to accumulate a large amount of lipids. However, the function of lysine acetylation in this organism is elusive. Here, we performed a global acetylproteome analysis of Y. lipolytica ACA-DC 50109. In total, 3163 lysine acetylation sites were identified in 1428 proteins, which account for 22.1% of the total proteins in the cell. Fifteen conserved acetylation motifs were detected. The acetylated proteins participate in a wide variety of biological processes. Notably, a total of 65 enzymes involved in lipid biosynthesis were found to be acetylated. The acetylation sites are distributed in almost every type of conserved domains in the multi-enzymatic complexes of fatty acid synthetases. The provided dataset probably illuminates the crucial role of reversible acetylation in oleaginous microorganisms, and serves as an important resource for exploring the physiological role of lysine acetylation in eukaryotes.
PXD005085	28500030	Translating Divergent Environmental Stresses into a Common Proteome Response through Hik33 in a Model Cyanobacterium. 	Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 WT and hik33 (sll0698) proteomic research, proteomic data of normal culture conditions.	Hik33 mutant, Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803	The histidine kinase Hik33 plays important roles in mediating cyanobacterial response to divergent types of abiotic stresses including cold, salt, high light (HL), and osmotic stresses. However, how these functions are regulated by Hik33 remains to be addressed. Using a hik33-deficient strain (Deltahik33) of Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 (Synechocystis) and quantitative proteomics, we found that Hik33 depletion induces differential protein expression highly similar to that induced by divergent types of stresses. This typically includes downregulation of proteins in photosynthesis and carbon assimilation that are necessary for cell propagation, and upregulation of heat shock proteins, chaperons, and proteases that are important for cell survival. This observation indicates that depletion of Hik33 alone mimics divergent types of abiotic stresses, and that Hik33 could be important for preventing abnormal stress response in the normal condition. Moreover, we found the majority of proteins of plasmid origin were significantly upregulated in Deltahik33, though their biological significance remains to be addressed. Together, the systematically characterized Hik33-regulated cyanobacterial proteome, which is largely involved in stress responses, builds the molecular basis for Hik33 as a general regulator of stress responses.
PXD006074	28500257	ZBTB48 is both a vertebrate telomere-binding protein and a transcriptional activator. 	ZBTB48 is both a vertebrate telomere-binding protein and a transcriptional activator	HeLa, U2OS, ZBTB48, knock-out	Telomeres constitute the ends of linear chromosomes and together with the shelterin complex form a structure essential for genome maintenance and stability. In addition to the constitutive binding of the shelterin complex, other direct, yet more transient interactions are mediated by the CST complex and HOT1/HMBOX1, while subtelomeric variant repeats are recognized by NR2C/F transcription factors. Recently, the Kruppel-like zinc finger protein ZBTB48/HKR3/TZAP has been described as a novel telomere-associated factor in the vertebrate lineage. Here, we show that ZBTB48 binds directly both to telomeric and to subtelomeric variant repeat sequences. ZBTB48 is found at telomeres of human cancer cells regardless of the mode of telomere maintenance and it acts as a negative regulator of telomere length. In addition to its telomeric function, we demonstrate through a combination of RNAseq, ChIPseq and expression proteomics experiments that ZBTB48 acts as a transcriptional activator on a small set of target genes, including mitochondrial fission process 1 (MTFP1). This discovery places ZBTB48 at the interface of telomere length regulation, transcriptional control and mitochondrial metabolism.
PXD003979	28500387	Thermal adaptation strategies of the extremophile bacterium Thermus filiformis based on multi-omics analysis. 	Thermus filiformis proteome analysis	thermoadaptation, thermophile	Thermus filiformis is an aerobic thermophilic bacterium isolated from a hot spring in New Zealand. The experimental study of the mechanisms of thermal adaptation is important to unveil response strategies of the microorganism to stress. In this study, the main pathways involved on T. filiformis thermoadaptation, as well as, thermozymes with potential biotechnological applications were revealed based on omics approaches. The strategy adopted in this study disclosed that pathways related to the carbohydrate metabolism were affected in response to thermoadaptation. High temperatures triggered oxidative stress, leading to repression of genes involved in glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. During heat stress, the glucose metabolism occurred predominantly via the pentose phosphate pathway instead of the glycolysis pathway. Other processes, such as protein degradation, stringent response, and duplication of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases, were also related to T. filiformis thermoadaptation. The heat-shock response influenced the carotenoid profile of T. filiformis, favoring the synthesis of thermozeaxanthins and thermobiszeaxanthins, which are related to membrane stabilization at high temperatures. Furthermore, antioxidant enzymes correlated with free radical scavenging, including superoxide dismutase, catalase and peroxidase, and metabolites, such as oxaloacetate and alpha-ketoglutarate, were accumulated at 77 degreesC.
PXD015018	28501198	Introducing plasma/serum glycodepletion for the targeted proteomics analysis of cytolysis biomarkers. 	Introducing plasma/serum glycodepletion for the targeted proteomics analysis of cytolysis biomarkers	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	A major class of clinical biomarkers is constituted of intracellular proteins which are leaking into the blood following ischemia, exposure to toxic xenobiotics or mechanical aggression. Their ectopic presence in plasma/serum is an indicator of tissue damage and raises a warning signal. These proteins, referred to as cytolysis biomarkers, are generally of cytoplasmic origin and as such, are devoid of glycosylation. In contrast, most plasma/serum proteins originate from the hepatic secretory pathway and are heavily glycosylated (at the exception of albumin). Recent advances in targeted proteomics have supported the parallelized evaluation of new blood biomarkers. However, these analytical methods must be combined with prefractionation strategies that reduce the complexity of plasma/serum matrix. In this article, we present the glycodepletion method, which reverses the hydrazide-based glycocapture concept to remove plasma/serum glycoproteins from plasma/serum matrix and facilitates the detection of cytolysis biomarkers. Glycodepletion was integrated to a targeted proteomics pipeline to evaluate 4 liver cytolysis biomarker candidates in the context of acetaminophen-induced acute hepatitis.
PXD005906	28502737	Gel-free/label-free proteomic, photosynthetic, and biochemical analysis of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata [L.] Walp.) resistance against Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV). 	Gel-free/label-free proteomic, biochemical and photosynthetic anaysis of cowpea resistance against  Cowpea severe mosaic virus	biochemistry, cowpea, gel-free/label-free proteomic, incompatible interaction, physiology	Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) causes significant losses in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) production. In this present study biochemical, physiological, and proteomic analysis were done to identify pathways and defense proteins that are altered during the incompatible interaction between the cowpea genotype BRS-Marataoa and CPSMV. The leaf protein extracts from mock- (MI) and CPSMV-inoculated plantlets (V) were evaluated at 2 and 6days post-inoculation (DPI). Data support the assumptions that increases in biochemical (high hydrogen peroxide, antioxidant enzymes, and secondary compounds) and physiological responses (high photosynthesis index and chlorophyll content), confirmed by label-free comparative proteomic approach, in which quantitative changes in proteasome proteins, proteins related to photosynthesis, redox homeostasis, regulation factors/RNA processing proteins were observed may be implicated in the resistance of BRS-Marataoa to CPSMV. This pioneering study provides information for the selection of specific pathways and proteins, altered in this incompatible relationship, which could be chosen as targets for detailed studies to advance our understanding of the molecular, physiological, and biochemistry basis of the resistance mechanism of cowpea and design approachs to engineer plants that are more productive. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This is a pioneering study in which an incompatible relationship between a resistant cowpea and Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) was conducted to comparatively evaluate proteomic profiles by Gel-free/label-free methodology and some physiological and biochemical parameters to shed light on how a resistant cowpea cultivar deals with the virus attack. Specific proteins and associated pathways were altered in the cowpea plants challenged with CPSMV and will contribute to our knowledge on the biological process tailored by cowpea in response to CPSMV.
PXD005114	28503907	Proteomics analysis for asymmetric inheritance of preexisting proteins between mother and daughter cells in budding yeast. 	Asymmetrically inherited older proteins in budding yeast (synchronized culture method-1)	Asymmetric inheritance, Budding yeast, Protein aging, Replicative aging	In budding yeast, a mother cell can produce a finite number of daughter cells over its life. The accumulation of a variety of types of damaged components has an impact on the aging process. Asymmetrical inheritance during cell division causes these aberrant intracellular constituents to be retained in mother cells and prevents them from segregating to daughter cells. However, the understanding of asymmetrical inheritance of individual proteins that are damaged or old age, and their relevance to the aging process, has been limited. The aim of this study is to propose a proteomics strategy for asymmetrical inheritance of preexisting proteins between mother and daughter cells. During synchronous culture for one generation, newly synthesized proteins were labeled with stable isotope amino acids to discriminate preexisting proteins originally expressed in mother cells, followed by separation of mother and daughter cells using a conventional method based on biotin labeling. Isotope incorporation ratios for individual proteins were quantified using mass spectrometry. We successfully identified 21 proteins whose preexisting versions were asymmetrically inherited in mother cells, including plasma membrane transporter involved in the aging process and organelle-anchoring proteins related to the stress response to misfolded proteins. Thus, our approach would be useful for making catalog of asymmetrically inherited proteins.
PXD006054	28504706	The mitochondrial respiratory chain is essential for haematopoietic stem cell function. 	Mitochondrial respiratory chain is essential for hematopoietic stem cell function	HSC, Histone Modifications, Metabolism, Mitochondria, Stem Cell	Adult and fetal haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) display a glycolytic phenotype, which is required for maintenance of stemness; however, whether mitochondrial respiration is required to maintain HSC function is not known. Here we report that loss of the mitochondrial complex III subunit Rieske iron-sulfur protein (RISP) in fetal mouse HSCs allows them to proliferate but impairs their differentiation, resulting in anaemia and prenatal death. RISP-null fetal HSCs displayed impaired respiration resulting in a decreased NAD(+)/NADH ratio. RISP-null fetal HSCs and progenitors exhibited an increase in both DNA and histone methylation associated with increases in 2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG), a metabolite known to inhibit DNA and histone demethylases. RISP inactivation in adult HSCs also impaired respiration resulting in loss of quiescence concomitant with severe pancytopenia and lethality. Thus, respiration is dispensable for adult or fetal HSC proliferation, but essential for fetal HSC differentiation and maintenance of adult HSC quiescence.
PXD011053	28508553	A targeted proteomic assay for the measurement of plasma proteoforms related to human aging phenotypes. 	Proteoform-SRM (Semba et al. 2017)	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Circulating polypeptides and proteins have been implicated in reversing or accelerating aging phenotypes, including growth/differentiation factor 8 (GDF8), GDF11, eotaxin, and oxytocin. These proteoforms, which are defined as the protein products arising from a single gene due to alternative splicing and PTMs, have been challenging to study. Both GDF8 and GDF11 have known antagonists such as follistatin (FST), and WAP, Kazal, immunoglobulin, Kunitz, and NTR domain-containing proteins 1 and 2 (WFIKKN1, WFIKKN2). We developed a novel multiplexed SRM assay using LC-MS/MS to measure five proteins related to GDF8 and GDF11 signaling, and in addition, eotaxin, and oxytocin. Eighteen peptides consisting of 54 transitions were monitored and validated in pooled human plasma. In 24 adults, the mean (SD) concentrations (ng/mL) were as follows: GDF8 propeptide, 11.0 (2.4); GDF8 mature protein, 25.7 (8.0); GDF11 propeptide, 21.3 (10.9); GDF11 mature protein, 16.5 (12.4); FST, 29.8 (7.1); FST cleavage form FST303, 96.4 (69.2); WFIKKN1, 38.3 (8.3); WFIKKN2, 32.2 (10.5); oxytocin, 1.9 (0.9); and eotaxin, 2.3 (0.5). This novel multiplexed SRM assay should facilitate the study of the relationships of these proteoforms with major aging phenotypes.
PXD005592	28508578	Proteomic characterization of EL4 lymphoma-derived tumors upon chemotherapy treatment reveals potential roles for lysosomes and caspase-6 during tumor cell death in vivo. 	Mouse EL4 Tumor Proteome Comparison via LC-MSMS	Chemotherapy, EL4 Lymphoma, Mouse Tumor, Tumor Death	The murine mouse lymphoblastic lymphoma cell line (EL4) tumor model is an established in vivo apoptosis model for the investigation of novel cancer imaging agents and immunological treatments due to the rapid and significant response of the EL4 tumors to cyclophosphamide and etoposide combination chemotherapy. Despite the utility of this model system in cancer research, little is known regarding the molecular details of in vivo tumor cell death. Here, we report the first in-depth quantitative proteomic analysis of the changes that occur in these tumors upon cyclophosphamide and etoposide treatment in vivo. Using a label-free quantitative proteomic approach a total of 5838 proteins were identified in the treated and untreated tumors, of which 875 were determined to change in abundance with statistical significance. Initial analysis of the data reveals changes that may have been predicted, such as the downregulation of ribosomes, but demonstrates the robustness of the dataset. Analysis of the dataset also reveals the unexpected downregulation of caspase-3 and an upregulation of caspase-6 in addition to a global upregulation of lysosomal proteins in the bulk of the tumor.
PXD006026	28508642	Identification of Alternative Splice Variants Using Unique Tryptic Peptide Sequences for Database Searches. 	Identification of alternative splice variants using unique isoform-specific tryptic peptide sequences for database searches	alternative splicing, isoforms, phosphorylation, protein species, proteoform	Alternative splicing is a mechanism in eukaryotes by which different forms of mRNAs are generated from the same gene. Identification of alternative splice variants requires the identification of peptides specific for alternative splice forms. For this purpose, we generated a human database that contains only unique tryptic peptides specific for alternative splice forms from Swiss-Prot entries. Using this database allows an easy access to splice variant-specific peptide sequences that match to MS data. Furthermore, we combined this database without alternative splice variant-1-specific peptides with human Swiss-Prot. This combined database can be used as a general database for searching of LC-MS data. LC-MS data derived from in-solution digests of two different cell lines (LNCaP, HeLa) and phosphoproteomics studies were analyzed using these two databases. Several nonalternative splice variant-1-specific peptides were found in both cell lines, and some of them seemed to be cell-line-specific. Control and apoptotic phosphoproteomes from Jurkat T cells revealed several nonalternative splice variant-1-specific peptides, and some of them showed clear quantitative differences between the two states.
PXD002646	28509920	Insights into chemoselectivity principles in metal oxide affinity chromatography using tailored nanocast metal oxide microspheres and mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics. 	A systematic evaluation of nanocast metal oxide microspheres for phosphoproteomics applications	HEK293, Orbitrap Elite, Phosphoproteomics, phosphopeptide enrichment	The ability to comprehensively characterize biological samples, including tissues and body fluids, opens up new possibilities to diagnose and treat diseases and to better understand fundamental biological processes. For this purpose, suitable experimental workflows need to be designed. In this context, materials with particular chemoselective properties are used for the enrichment of certain classes of (bio)molecules. Metal oxides such as titanium dioxide have become the materials of choice for the large-scale study of protein phosphorylation in phosphoproteomics. Despite their widespread use, the main factors influencing their performance (for example, affinity and specificity) are not completely understood. This understanding is, however, crucial to develop improved materials and methods. Here, we used the nanocasting method to prepare microspheres of seven metal oxides with comparable textural properties, allowing an objective comparison of the materials and their binding properties. We evaluated these materials with samples of different complexity, ranging from synthetic peptides to whole cell lysates, using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry as a readout. A set of more than 7000 identified phosphopeptides allowed us to study differences between the metal oxide sorbents in detail. Importantly, the performance of the affinity materials was found to be mainly correlated with the oxides' isoelectric points (IEPs), with the materials that enriched the highest number of phosphopeptides having an IEP of around 6. This included the widely used TiO2 and ZrO2, but also In2O3 that was not previously known to possess affinity to phosphates. This finding supports the conclusion that the IEP has a stronger influence than the particular type of metal oxide and contrasts earlier reports that compared a limited number of materials with often unknown textural properties. Taken together, we introduce new metal oxides suitable for phosphopeptide enrichment, provide deeper insight into the properties that affect their performance, and offer a strategy to optimize enrichment protocols and materials.
PXD004358	28512129	Mammalian O-mannosylation of cadherins and plexins is independent of protein O-mannosyltransferases 1 and 2. 	Human O-Mannosylation independent of POMT1/2	Glycoproteomics, Mannosyltransferase, O-Glycosylation, O-Mannose	Protein O-mannosylation is found in yeast and metazoans, and a family of conserved orthologous protein O-mannosyltransferases is believed to initiate this important post-translational modification. We recently discovered that the cadherin superfamily carries O-linked mannose (O-Man) glycans at highly conserved residues in specific extracellular cadherin domains, and it was suggested that the function of E-cadherin was dependent on the O-Man glycans. Deficiencies in enzymes catalyzing O-Man biosynthesis, including the two human protein O-mannosyltransferases, POMT1 and POMT2, underlie a subgroup of congenital muscular dystrophies designated alpha-dystroglycanopathies, because deficient O-Man glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan disrupts laminin interaction with alpha-dystroglycan and the extracellular matrix. To explore the functions of O-Man glycans on cadherins and protocadherins, we used a combinatorial gene-editing strategy in multiple cell lines to evaluate the role of the two POMTs initiating O-Man glycosylation and the major enzyme elongating O-Man glycans, the protein O-mannose beta-1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase, POMGnT1. Surprisingly, O-mannosylation of cadherins and protocadherins does not require POMT1 and/or POMT2 in contrast to alpha-dystroglycan, and moreover, the O-Man glycans on cadherins are not elongated. Thus, the classical and evolutionarily conserved POMT O-mannosylation pathway is essentially dedicated to alpha-dystroglycan and a few other proteins, whereas a novel O-mannosylation process in mammalian cells is predicted to serve the large cadherin superfamily and other proteins.
PXD005979	28512450	Host Plant Compatibility Shapes the Proteogenome of Frankia coriariae. 	Proteogenome of Frankia coriariae cells	microorganism, nitrogen-fixation, plant interaction, rhizosphere	Molecular signaling networks in the actinorhizal rhizosphere select host-compatible Frankia strains, trigger the infection process and eventually the genesis of nitrogen-fixing nodules. The molecular triggers involved remain difficult to ascertain. Root exudates (RE) are highly dynamic substrates that play key roles in establishing the rhizosphere microbiome. RE are known to induce the secretion by rhizobia of Nod factors, polysaccharides, and other proteins in the case of legume symbiosis. Next-generation proteomic approach was here used to decipher the key bacterial signals matching the first-step recognition of host plant stimuli upon treatment of Frankia coriariae strain BMG5.1 with RE derived from compatible (Coriaria myrtifolia), incompatible (Alnus glutinosa), and non-actinorhizal (Cucumis melo) host plants. The Frankia proteome dynamics were mainly driven by host compatibility. Both metabolism and signal transduction were the dominant activities for BMG5.1 under the different RE conditions tested. A second set of proteins that were solely induced by C. myrtifolia RE and were mainly linked to cell wall remodeling, signal transduction and host signal processing activities. These proteins may footprint early steps in receptive recognition of host stimuli before subsequent events of symbiotic recruitment.
PXD006317	28514666	A Temporal Proteomic Map of Epstein-Barr Virus Lytic Replication in B Cells. 	A Temporal Proteomic Map of Epstein-Barr Virus Lytic Replication in B-cells	B-cell receptor, Epstein-Barr virus, complement, herpesvirus, host-pathogen interaction, immune evasion, lytic replication, quantitative proteomics, tandem mass tag, viral evasion	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) replication contributes to multiple human diseases, including infectious mononucleosis, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, B cell lymphomas, and oral hairy leukoplakia. We performed systematic quantitative analyses of temporal changes in host and EBV proteins during lytic replication to gain insights into virus-host interactions, using conditional Burkitt lymphoma models of type I and II EBV infection. We quantified profiles of >8,000 cellular and 69 EBV proteins, including >500 plasma membrane proteins, providing temporal views of the lytic B cell proteome and EBV virome. Our approach revealed EBV-induced remodeling of cell cycle, innate and adaptive immune pathways, including upregulation of the complement cascade and proteasomal degradation of the B cell receptor complex, conserved between EBV types I and II. Cross-comparison with proteomic analyses of human cytomegalovirus infection and of a Kaposi-sarcoma-associated herpesvirus immunoevasin identified host factors targeted by multiple herpesviruses. Our results provide an important resource for studies of EBV replication.
PXD001674	28515092	Human CD62L(dim) neutrophils identified as a separate subset by proteome profiling and in vivo pulse-chase labeling. 	Immune suppressive neutrophils are a separate subset developing parallel to normal neutrophils	LC-MS, Neutrophils	During acute inflammation, 3 neutrophil subsets are found in the blood: neutrophils with a conventional segmented nucleus, neutrophils with a banded nucleus, and T-cell-suppressing CD62L(dim) neutrophils with a high number of nuclear lobes. In this study, we compared the in vivo kinetics and proteomes of banded, mature, and hypersegmented neutrophils to determine whether these cell types represent truly different neutrophil subsets or reflect changes induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) activation. Using in vivo pulse-chase labeling of neutrophil DNA with 6,6-(2)H2-glucose, we found that (2)H-labeled banded neutrophils appeared much earlier in blood than labeled CD62L(dim) and segmented neutrophils, which shared similar label kinetics. Comparison of the proteomes by cluster analysis revealed that CD62L(dim) neutrophils were clearly separate from conventional segmented neutrophils despite having similar kinetics in peripheral blood. Interestingly, the conventional segmented cells were more related at a proteome level to banded cells despite a 2-day difference in maturation time. The differences between CD62L(dim) and mature neutrophils are unlikely to have been a direct result of LPS-induced activation, because of the extremely low transcriptional capacity of CD62L(dim) neutrophils and the fact that neutrophils do not directly respond to the low dose of LPS used in the study (2 ng/kg body weight). Therefore, we propose CD62L(dim) neutrophils are a truly separate neutrophil subset that is recruited to the bloodstream in response to acute inflammation. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT01766414.
PXD005731	28516729	Proteome analysis of Duck Tembusu virus (DTMUV)-infected BHK-21 cells. 	BHK-21 cell iTRAQ -  Proteome analysis of Duck Tembusu virus (DTMUV)-infected BHK-21 cells	BHK-21 cell, DTMUV infection, iTRAQ	Duck Tembusu virus (DTMUV) is a newly emerging pathogenic flavivirus that has caused huge economic losses to the duck industry in China since 2010. Moreover, the infection has spread rapidly, posing a potential public health concern. In this study, iTRAQ approach was first used to quantitatively identify differentially expressed cellular proteins in DTMUV-infected BHK-21 cells which are usually employed to produce veterinary vaccines for DTMUV, as well as other flaviviruses by serial passage. We identified 192 differentially expressed cellular proteins, including 11 upregulated and eight downregulated proteins at 24 h postinfection (hpi), as well as 25 upregulated and 151 downregulated proteins at 48 hpi, of which TLR9, DDX3X, and DDX5 may play important roles in virus propagation. Further, DDX3X could inhibit DTMUV replication by modulating the IFN pathway via TBK1. In conclusion, our study is the first to analyze the protein profile of DTMUV-infected cells by quantitative proteomics. We believe that our findings provide valuable information in better understanding the host response to DTMUV infection. These findings are particularly important in the development of vaccine-based strategies.
PXD006287	28516784	In-Culture Cross-Linking of Bacterial Cells Reveals Large-Scale Dynamic Protein-Protein Interactions at the Peptide Level. 	In culture cross-linking of bacterial cells reveals large scale dynamic protein-protein interactions at the peptide level.	BAMG (bis(succinimidyl)-3-azidomethyl-glutarate), Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli, RNA polymerase, in vivo cross-linking, membrane permeability, transcription., translation	Identification of dynamic protein-protein interactions at the peptide level on a proteomic scale is a challenging approach that is still in its infancy. We have developed a system to cross-link cells directly in culture with the special lysine cross-linker bis(succinimidyl)-3-azidomethyl-glutarate (BAMG). We used the Gram-positive model bacterium Bacillus subtilis as an exemplar system. Within 5 min extensive intracellular cross-linking was detected, while intracellular cross-linking in a Gram-negative species, Escherichia coli, was still undetectable after 30 min, in agreement with the low permeability in this organism for lipophilic compounds like BAMG. We were able to identify 82 unique interprotein cross-linked peptides with <1% false discovery rate by mass spectrometry and genome-wide database searching. Nearly 60% of the interprotein cross-links occur in assemblies involved in transcription and translation. Several of these interactions are new, and we identified a binding site between the delta and beta' subunit of RNA polymerase close to the downstream DNA channel, providing a clue into how delta might regulate promoter selectivity and promote RNA polymerase recycling. Our methodology opens new avenues to investigate the functional dynamic organization of complex protein assemblies involved in bacterial growth. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006287.
PXD005719	28523741	Comparative membrane proteomics analyses of breast cancer cell lines to understand the molecular mechanism of breast cancer brain metastasis. 	Comparative Membrane Proteomics Analyses of Breast Cancer Cell Lines to Understand the Molecular Mechanism of Breast Cancer Brain Metastasis	Breast cancer brain metastasis, Differential expression analysis, Membrane enrichment	Breast cancer is the leading type of cancer in women. Breast cancer brain metastasis is currently considered an issue of concern among breast cancer patients. Membrane proteins play important roles in breast cancer brain metastasis, involving cell adhesion and penetration of blood-brain barrier. To understand the mechanism of breast cancer brain metastasis, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was employed in conjunction with enrichment of membrane proteins to analyze the proteomes from five different breast cancer and a brain cancer cell lines. Quantitative proteomic data of all cell lines were compared with MDA-MB-231BR which is a brain seeking breast cancer cell line, thus representing brain metastasis characteristics. Label-free proteomics of the six cell lines facilitates the identification of 1238 proteins and the quantification of 899 proteins of which more than 70% were membrane proteins. Unsupervised principal component analysis (PCA) of the label-free proteomics data resulted in a distinct clustering of cell lines, suggesting quantitative differences in the expression of several proteins among the different cell lines. Unique protein expressions in 231BR were observed for 28 proteins. The up-regulation of STAU1, AT1B3, NPM1, hnRNP Q, and hnRNP K and the down-regulation of TUBB4B and TUBB5 were noted in 231BR relative to 231 (precursor cell lines from which 231BR is derived). These proteins might contribute to the breast cancer brain metastasis. Ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) supported the great brain metastatic propensity of 231BR and suggested the importance of the up-regulation of integrin proteins and down-regulation of EPHA2 in brain metastasis.
PXD003039	28526873	Role of S-Palmitoylation by ZDHHC13 in Mitochondrial function and Metabolism in Liver. 	Mouse Liver S-Palmitoylation ZDHHC13 LC-MS/MS	Liver, S-Palmitoylation, ZDHHC13	Palmitoyltransferase (PAT) catalyses protein S-palmitoylation which adds 16-carbon palmitate to specific cysteines and contributes to various biological functions. We previously reported that in mice, deficiency of Zdhhc13, a member of the PAT family, causes severe phenotypes including amyloidosis, alopecia, and osteoporosis. Here, we show that Zdhhc13 deficiency results in abnormal liver function, lipid abnormalities, and hypermetabolism. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying these disease phenotypes, we applied a site-specific quantitative approach integrating an alkylating resin-assisted capture and mass spectrometry-based label-free strategy for studying the liver S-palmitoylome. We identified 2,190 S-palmitoylated peptides corresponding to 883 S-palmitoylated proteins. After normalization using the membrane proteome with TMT10-plex labelling, 400 (31%) of S-palmitoylation sites on 254 proteins were down-regulated in Zdhhc13-deficient mice, representing potential ZDHHC13 substrates. Among these, lipid metabolism and mitochondrial dysfunction proteins were overrepresented. MCAT and CTNND1 were confirmed to be specific ZDHHC13 substrates. Furthermore, we found impaired mitochondrial function in hepatocytes of Zdhhc13-deficient mice and Zdhhc13-knockdown Hep1-6 cells. These results indicate that ZDHHC13 is an important regulator of mitochondrial activity. Collectively, our study allows for a systematic view of S-palmitoylation for identification of ZDHHC13 substrates and demonstrates the role of ZDHHC13 in mitochondrial function and metabolism in liver.
PXD007599	28529881	Iso-Seq analysis of Nepenthes ampullaria, Nepenthes rafflesiana and Nepenthes x hookeriana for hybridisation study in pitcher plants. 	Pitcher fluid protein profiling from Nepenthes spp.	LC-MS, Nepenthes, carnivorous, enzymes, orbitrap, pithcer fluid	Tropical pitcher plants in the species-rich Nepenthaceae family of carnivorous plants possess unique pitcher organs. Hybridisation, natural or artificial, in this family is extensive resulting in pitchers with diverse features. The pitcher functions as a passive insect trap with digestive fluid for nutrient acquisition in nitrogen-poor habitats. This organ shows specialisation according to the dietary habit of different Nepenthes species. In this study, we performed the first single-molecule real-time isoform sequencing (Iso-Seq) analysis of full-length cDNA from Nepenthes ampullaria which can feed on leaf litter, compared to carnivorous Nepenthes rafflesiana, and their carnivorous hybrid Nepenthes x hookeriana. This allows the comparison of pitcher transcriptomes from the parents and the hybrid to understand how hybridisation could shape the evolution of dietary habit in Nepenthes. Raw reads have been deposited to SRA database with the accession numbers SRX2692198 (N. ampullaria), SRX2692197 (N. rafflesiana), and SRX2692196 (N. x hookeriana).
PXD005857	28530236	pSILAC mass spectrometry reveals ZFP91 as IMiD-dependent substrate of the CRL4(CRBN) ubiquitin ligase. 	pSILAC mass spectrometry reveals ZFP91 as novel IMiD dependent substrate of the CRL4CRBN ligase - PART 2	SILAC, imids, lenalidomide, zfp91	Thalidomide and its derivatives lenalidomide and pomalidomide (IMiDs) are effective treatments of haematologic malignancies. It was shown that IMiDs impart gain-of-function properties to the CUL4-RBX1-DDB1-CRBN (CRL4(CRBN)) ubiquitin ligase that enable binding, ubiquitination and degradation of key therapeutic targets such as IKZF1, IKZF3 and CSNK1A1. While these substrates have been implicated as efficacy targets in multiple myeloma (MM) and 5q deletion associated myelodysplastic syndrome (del(5q)-MDS), other targets likely exist. Using a pulse-chase SILAC mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach, we demonstrate that lenalidomide induces the ubiquitination and degradation of ZFP91. We establish ZFP91 as a bona fide IMiD-dependent CRL4(CRBN) substrate and further show that ZFP91 harbours a zinc finger (ZnF) motif, related to the IKZF1/3 ZnF, critical for IMiD-dependent CRBN binding. These findings demonstrate that single time point pulse-chase SILAC mass spectrometry-based proteomics (pSILAC MS) is a sensitive approach for target identification of small molecules inducing selective protein degradation.
PXD005405	28530406	Comparative Evaluation of Small Molecular Additives and Their Effects on Peptide/Protein Identification. 	Comparative evaluation of small molecular additives and their effects on peptide/protein identification	LC-MRM quantification, small molecular additive	Detergents and salts are widely used in lysis buffers to enhance protein extraction from biological samples, facilitating in-depth proteomic analysis. However, these detergents and salt additives must be efficiently removed from the digested samples prior to LC-MS/MS analysis to obtain high-quality mass spectra. Although filter-aided sample preparation (FASP), acetone precipitation (AP), followed by in-solution digestion, and strong cation exchange-based centrifugal proteomic reactors (CPRs) are commonly used for proteomic sample processing, little is known about their efficiencies at removing detergents and salt additives. In this study, we (i) developed an integrative workflow for the quantification of small molecular additives in proteomic samples, developing a multiple reaction monitoring (MRM)-based LC-MS approach for the quantification of six additives (i.e., Tris, urea, CHAPS, SDS, SDC, and Triton X-100) and (ii) systematically evaluated the relationships between the level of additive remaining in samples following sample processing and the number of peptides/proteins identified by mass spectrometry. Although FASP outperformed the other two methods, the results were complementary in terms of peptide/protein identification, as well as the GRAVY index and amino acid distributions. This is the first systematic and quantitative study of the effect of detergents and salt additives on protein identification. This MRM-based approach can be used for an unbiased evaluation of the performance of new sample preparation methods. Data are available via ProteomeXchange under identifier PXD005405.
PXD005403	28535754	A comprehensive proteogenomic study of the human Brucella vaccine strain 104 M. 	B. abortus 104M LC-MS/MS	B. abortus 104M	BACKGROUND: Brucella spp. are Gram-negative, facultative intracellular pathogens that cause brucellosis in both humans and animals. The B. abortus vaccine strain 104 M is the only vaccine available in China for the prevention of brucellosis in humans. Although the B. abortus 104 M genome has been fully sequenced, the current genome annotations are not yet complete. In addition, the main mechanisms underpinning its residual toxicity and vaccine-induced immune protection have yet to be elucidated. Mapping the proteome of B. abortus 104 M will help to improve genome annotation quality, thereby facilitating a greater understanding of its biology. RESULTS: In this study, we utilized a proteogenomic approach that combined subcellular fractionation and peptide fractionation to perform a whole-proteome analysis and genome reannotation of B. abortus 104 M using high-resolution mass spectrometry. In total, 1,729 proteins (56.3% of 3,072) including 218 hypothetical proteins were identified using the culture conditions that were employed this study. The annotations of the B. abortus 104 M genome were also refined following identification and validation by reverse transcription-PCR. In addition, 14 pivotal virulence factors and 17 known protective antigens known to be involved in residual toxicity and immune protection were confirmed at the protein level following induction by the 104 M vaccine. Moreover, a further insight into the cell biology of multichromosomal bacteria was obtained following the elucidation of differences in protein expression levels between the small and large chromosomes. CONCLUSIONS: The work presented in this report used a proteogenomic approach to perform whole-proteome analysis and genome reannotation in B. abortus 104 M; this work helped to improve genome annotation quality. Our analysis of virulence factors, protective antigens and other protein effectors provided the basis for further research to elucidate the mechanisms of residual toxicity and immune protection induced by the 104 M vaccine. Finally, the potential link between replication dynamics, gene function, and protein expression levels in this multichromosomal bacterium was detailed.
PXD005871	28537268	Global mapping of CARM1 substrates defines enzyme specificity and substrate recognition. 	CARM1 substrate identification	Arginine methylation, MCF7, MDA-MB-231, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, bottom-up	Protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs) introduce arginine methylation, a post-translational modification with the increasingly eminent role in normal physiology and disease. PRMT4 or coactivator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1) is a propitious target for cancer therapy; however, few CARM1 substrates are known, and its mechanism of substrate recognition is poorly understood. Here we employed a quantitative mass spectrometry approach to globally profile CARM1 substrates in breast cancer cell lines. We identified >130 CARM1 protein substrates and validated in vitro >90% of sites they encompass. Bioinformatics analyses reveal enrichment of proline-containing motifs, in which both methylation sites and their proximal sequences are frequently targeted by somatic mutations in cancer. Finally, we demonstrate that the N-terminus of CARM1 is involved in substrate recognition and nearly indispensable for substrate methylation. We propose that development of CARM1-specific inhibitors should focus on its N-terminus and predict that other PRMTs may employ similar mechanism for substrate recognition.
PXD006263	28538182	Targeting Metabolic Reprogramming by Influenza Infection for Therapeutic Intervention. 	Targeting metabolic reprogramming by influenza infection for therapeutic intervention	BEZ235, PET scan, influenza, metabolism, respiratory viral infection	Influenza is a worldwide health and financial burden posing a significant risk to the immune-compromised, obese, diabetic, elderly, and pediatric populations. We identified increases in glucose metabolism in the lungs of pediatric patients infected with respiratory pathogens. Using quantitative mass spectrometry, we found metabolic changes occurring after influenza infection in primary human respiratory cells and validated infection-associated increases in c-Myc, glycolysis, and glutaminolysis. We confirmed these findings with a metabolic drug screen that identified the PI3K/mTOR inhibitor BEZ235 as a regulator of infectious virus production. BEZ235 treatment ablated the transient induction of c-Myc, restored PI3K/mTOR pathway homeostasis measured by 4E-BP1 and p85 phosphorylation, and reversed infection-induced changes in metabolism. Importantly, BEZ235 reduced infectious progeny but had no effect on the early stages of viral replication. BEZ235 significantly increased survival in mice, while reducing viral titer. We show metabolic reprogramming of host cells by influenza virus exposes targets for therapeutic intervention.
PXD005183	28539326	Systematic Evaluation of Protein Reduction and Alkylation Reveals Massive Unspecific Side Effects by Iodine-containing Reagents. 	Systematic Evaluation of Protein Reduction and Alkylation reveals Massive Unspecific Side Effects by Iodine-containing Reagents	Alkylation, Reduction	Reduction and alkylation of cysteine residues is part of virtually any proteomics workflow. Despite its frequent use, up to date no systematic investigation of the impact of different conditions on the outcome of proteomics studies has been performed. In this study, we compared common reduction reagents (dithiothreitol, tris-(2-carboxyethyl)-phosphine, and beta-mercaptoethanol) and alkylation reagents (iodoacetamide, iodoacetic acid, acrylamide, and chloroacetamide). Using in-gel digests as well as SAX fractionated in-solution digests of cytosolic fractions of HeLa cells, we evaluated 13 different reduction and alkylation conditions resulting in considerably varying identification rates. We observed strong differences in offsite alkylation reactions at 7 amino acids as well as at the peptide N terminus, identifying single and double adducts of all reagents. Using dimethyl labeling, mass tolerant searches, and synthetic peptide experiments, we identified alkylation of methionine residues by iodine-containing alkylation reagents as one of the major factors for the differences. We observed differences of more than 9-fold in numbers of identified methionine-containing peptide spectral matches for in-gel digested samples between iodine- and noniodine-containing alkylation reagents. This was because of formation of carbamidomethylated and carboxymethylated methionine side chains and a resulting prominent neutral loss during ESI ionization or in MS/MS fragmentation, strongly decreasing identification rates of methionine-containing peptides. We achieved best results with acrylamide as alkylation reagent, whereas the highest numbers of peptide spectral matches were obtained when reducing with dithiothreitol and beta-mercaptoethanol for the in-solution and the in-gel digested samples, respectively.
PXD006055	28539327	Quantitative Phospho-proteomic Analysis of TNFalpha/NFkappaB Signaling Reveals a Role for RIPK1 Phosphorylation in Suppressing Necrotic Cell Death. 	Quantitative Phospho-proteomic Analysis of TNFalpha/NFB Signaling Reveals a Role for RIPK1 Phosphorylation in Suppressing Necrotic Cell Death	Cell death, Cellular Signaling, Inflammatory response, Phosphoproteome	TNFalpha is a potent inducer of inflammation due to its ability to promote gene expression, in part via the NFkappaB pathway. Moreover, in some contexts, TNFalpha promotes Caspase-dependent apoptosis or RIPK1/RIPK3/MLKL-dependent necrosis. Engagement of the TNF Receptor Signaling Complex (TNF-RSC), which contains multiple kinase activities, promotes phosphorylation of several downstream components, including TAK1, IKKalpha/IKKbeta, IkappaBalpha, and NFkappaB. However, immediate downstream phosphorylation events occurring in response to TNFalpha signaling are poorly understood at a proteome-wide level. Here we use Tandem Mass Tagging-based proteomics to quantitatively characterize acute TNFalpha-mediated alterations in the proteome and phosphoproteome with or without inhibition of the cIAP-dependent survival arm of the pathway with a SMAC mimetic. We identify and quantify over 8,000 phosphorylated peptides, among which are numerous known sites in the TNF-RSC, NFkappaB, and MAP kinase signaling systems, as well as numerous previously unrecognized phosphorylation events. Functional analysis of S320 phosphorylation in RIPK1 demonstrates a role for this event in suppressing its kinase activity, association with CASPASE-8 and FADD proteins, and subsequent necrotic cell death during inflammatory TNFalpha stimulation. This study provides a resource for further elucidation of TNFalpha-dependent signaling pathways.
PXD006301	28540588	Proteomic analysis of the phycobiliprotein antenna of the cryptophyte alga Guillardia theta cultured under different light intensities. 	Expression of the phycobiliprotein antenna of the cryptophyte alga Guillardia theta	Gulillarida theta, LC_MS/MS, Plant, cryptophyte, phycobiliprotein	Plants and algae have developed various light-harvesting mechanisms for optimal delivery of excitation energy to the photosystems. Cryptophyte algae have evolved a novel soluble light-harvesting antenna utilizing phycobilin pigments to complement the membrane-intrinsic Chl a/c-binding LHC antenna. This new antenna consists of the plastid-encoded beta-subunit, a relic of the ancestral phycobilisome, and a novel nuclear-encoded alpha-subunit unique to cryptophytes. Together, these proteins form the active alpha1beta.alpha2beta-tetramer. In all cryptophyte algae investigated so far, the alpha-subunits have duplicated and diversified into a large gene family. Although there is transcriptional evidence for expression of all these genes, the X-ray structures determined to date suggest that only two of the alpha-subunit genes might be significantly expressed at the protein level. Using proteomics, we show that in phycoerythrin 545 (PE545) of Guillardia theta, the only cryptophyte with a sequenced genome, all 20 alpha-subunits are expressed when the algae grow under white light. The expression level of each protein depends on the intensity of the growth light, but there is no evidence for a specific light-dependent regulation of individual members of the alpha-subunit family under the growth conditions applied. GtcpeA10 seems to be a special member of the alpha-subunit family, because it consists of two similar N- and C-terminal domains, which likely are the result of a partial tandem gene duplication. The proteomics data of this study have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium and have the dataset identifiers PXD006301 and 10.6019/PXD006301.
PXD006030	28541047	Multitargeted Flavonoid Inhibition of the Pathogenic Bacterium Staphylococcus aureus: A Proteomic Characterization. 	MULTI-TARGETED FLAVONOID INHIBITION OF THE PATHOGENIC  BACTERIUM STAPHYLOCOCCUS AUREUS: A Proteomic Characterization	LC-MS/MS proteomics, Staphylococcus aureus, antibacterial flavonoids, multi-targeted bacterial inhibition	Growth inhibition of the pathogen Staphylococcus aureus with currently available antibiotics is problematic in part due to bacterial biofilm protection. Although recently characterized natural products, including 3',4',5-trihydroxy-6,7-dimethoxy-flavone [1], 3',4',5,6,7-pentahydroxy-flavone [2], and 5-hydroxy-4',7-dimethoxy-flavone [3], exhibit both antibiotic and biofilm inhibitory activities, the mode of action of such hydroxylated flavonoids with respect to S. aureus inhibition is yet to be characterized. Enzymatic digestion and high-resolution MS analysis of differentially expressed proteins from S. aureus with and without exposure to antibiotic flavonoids (1-3) allowed for the characterization of global protein alterations induced by metabolite treatment. A total of 56, 92, and 110 proteins were differentially expressed with bacterial exposure to 1, 2, or 3, respectively. The connectivity of the identified proteins was characterized using a search tool for the retrieval of interacting genes/proteins (STRING) with multitargeted S. aureus inhibition of energy metabolism and biosynthesis by the assayed flavonoids. Identifying the mode of action of natural products as antibacterial agents is expected to provide insight into the potential use of flavonoids alone or in combination with known therapeutic agents to effectively control S. aureus infection.
PXD004980	28541577	eIF1 modulates the recognition of suboptimal translation initiation sites and steers gene expression via uORFs. 	eIF1 modulates the recognition of sub-optimal translation start sites and steers gene expression control mediated by uORFs.	Q-Exactive HF, alternative translation initiation, eIF1, eIF1B, label-free shotgun proteomics	Alternative translation initiation mechanisms such as leaky scanning and reinitiation potentiate the polycistronic nature of human transcripts. By allowing for reprogrammed translation, these mechanisms can mediate biological responses to stimuli. We combined proteomics with ribosome profiling and mRNA sequencing to identify the biological targets of translation control triggered by the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 1 (eIF1), a protein implicated in the stringency of start codon selection. We quantified expression changes of over 4000 proteins and 10 000 actively translated transcripts, leading to the identification of 245 transcripts undergoing translational control mediated by upstream open reading frames (uORFs) upon eIF1 deprivation. Here, the stringency of start codon selection and preference for an optimal nucleotide context were largely diminished leading to translational upregulation of uORFs with suboptimal start. Interestingly, genes affected by eIF1 deprivation were implicated in energy production and sensing of metabolic stress.
PXD006466	28542244	A quantitative label-free analysis of the extracellular proteome of human supraspinatus tendon reveals damage to the pericellular and elastic fibre niches in torn and aged tissue. 	A quantitative label-free analysis of the extracellular proteome of human supraspinatus reveals damage to the pericellular and elastic fibre niches in torn and aged tendons	Label-Free, Supraspinatus	Tears of the human supraspinatus tendon are common and often cause painful and debilitating loss of function. Progressive failure of the tendon leading to structural abnormality and tearing is accompanied by numerous cellular and extra-cellular matrix (ECM) changes in the tendon tissue. This proteomics study aimed to compare torn and aged rotator cuff tissue to young and healthy tissue, and provide the first ECM inventory of human supraspinatus tendon generated using label-free quantitative LC-MS/MS. Employing two digestion protocols (trypsin and elastase), we analysed grain-sized tendon supraspinatus biopsies from older patients with torn tendons and from healthy, young controls. Our findings confirm measurable degradation of collagen fibrils and associated proteins in old and torn tendons, suggesting a significant loss of tissue organisation. A particularly marked reduction of cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) raises the possibility of using changes in levels of this glycoprotein as a marker of abnormal tissue, as previously suggested in horse models. Surprisingly, and despite using an elastase digestion for validation, elastin was not detected, suggesting that it is not highly abundant in human supraspinatus tendon as previously thought. Finally, we identified marked changes to the elastic fibre, fibrillin-rich niche and the pericellular matrix. Further investigation of these regions may yield other potential biomarkers and help to explain detrimental cellular processes associated with tendon ageing and tendinopathy.
PXD006459	28542436	Stress-induced release of Oct-1 from the nuclear envelope is mediated by JNK phosphorylation of lamin B1. 	Human lamin B1: stress-induced phosphorylation	lamin, nuclear envelope, post translational modification	The nuclear lamina can bind and sequester transcription factors (TFs), a function lost if the lamina is abnormal, with missing or mutant lamin proteins. We now show that TF sequestration is not all-or-nothing, but a dynamic physiological response to external signals. We show that the binding of the ubiquitous TF, Oct-1, to lamin B1 was reversed under conditions of cellular stress caused, inter alia, by the chemical methylating agent methylmethanesulfonate (MMS). A search for lamin B1 post-translational modifications that might mediate changes in Oct-1 binding using kinase inhibitors uncovered a role for c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Phosphoproteomic and site-directed mutagenesis analyses of lamin B1 isolated from control and MMS-treated nuclei identified T575 as a JNK site phosphorylated after stress. A new phospho-T575 specific anti-peptide antibody confirmed increased interphase cellular T575 phosphorylation after cell exposure to certain stress conditions, enabling us to conclude that lamin B1 acts as an interphase kinase target, releasing Oct-1 to execute a protective response to stress.
PXD005058	28542564	The PET and LIM1-2 domains of testin contribute to intramolecular and homodimeric interactions. 	Proteomics exploiting modular baits with different subcellular locations reveal hydrogen peroxide-inducible clone 5 protein (HIC-5) and a glucocorticoid receptor variant as novel testin partners	GR, HIC-5, IP, Testin, iMixPro	The focal adhesion protein testin is a modular scaffold and tumour suppressor that consists of an N-terminal cysteine rich (CR) domain, a PET domain of unknown function and three C-terminal LIM domains. Testin has been proposed to have an open and a closed conformation based on the observation that its N-terminal half and C-terminal half directly interact. Here we extend the testin conformational model by demonstrating that testin can also form an antiparallel homodimer. In support of this extended model we determined that the testin region (amino acids 52-233) harbouring the PET domain interacts with the C-terminal LIM1-2 domains in vitro and in cells, and assign a critical role to tyrosine 288 in this interaction.
PXD006193	28544567	Chemoproteomics-Aided Medicinal Chemistry for the Discovery of EPHA2 Inhibitors. 	Discovery of dedicated EPHA2 inhibitors - Medicinal chemistry meets chemical proteomics	EPH receptor, chemical proteomics, drug discovery, inhibitors, selectivity profiling	The receptor tyrosine kinase EPHA2 has gained attention as a therapeutic drug target for cancer and infectious diseases. However, EPHA2 research and EPHA2-based therapies have been hampered by the lack of selective small-molecule inhibitors. Herein we report the synthesis and evaluation of dedicated EPHA2 inhibitors based on the clinical BCR-ABL/SRC inhibitor dasatinib as a lead structure. We designed hybrid structures of dasatinib and the previously known EPHA2 binders CHEMBL249097, PD-173955, and a known EPHB4 inhibitor in order to exploit both the ATP pocket entrance as well as the ribose pocket as binding epitopes in the kinase EPHA2. Medicinal chemistry and inhibitor design were guided by a chemical proteomics approach, allowing early selectivity profiling of the newly synthesized inhibitor candidates. Concomitant protein crystallography of 17 inhibitor co-crystals delivered detailed insight into the atomic interactions that underlie the structure-affinity relationship. Finally, the anti-proliferative effect of the inhibitor candidates was confirmed in the glioblastoma cell line SF-268. In this work, we thus discovered a novel EPHA2 inhibitor candidate that features an improved selectivity profile while maintaining potency against EPHA2 and anticancer activity in SF-268 cells.
PXD004530	28545058	A systematic genomic screen implicates nucleocytoplasmic transport and membrane growth in nuclear size control. 	Nucleocytoplasmic transport and membrane growth control nuclear size	Nuclear Cell Ratio, Nuclear Size, SILAC	How cells control the overall size and growth of membrane-bound organelles is an important unanswered question of cell biology. Fission yeast cells maintain a nuclear size proportional to cellular size, resulting in a constant ratio between nuclear and cellular volumes (N/C ratio). We have conducted a genome-wide visual screen of a fission yeast gene deletion collection for viable mutants altered in their N/C ratio, and have found that defects in both nucleocytoplasmic mRNA transport and lipid synthesis alter the N/C ratio. Perturbing nuclear mRNA export results in accumulation of both mRNA and protein within the nucleus, and leads to an increase in the N/C ratio which is dependent on new membrane synthesis. Disruption of lipid synthesis dysregulates nuclear membrane growth and results in an enlarged N/C ratio. We propose that both properly regulated nucleocytoplasmic transport and nuclear membrane growth are central to the control of nuclear growth and size.
PXD006209	28546582	Control of amino acid transport coordinates metabolic reprogramming in T-cell malignancy. 	Control of amino-acid transport coordinates metabolic reprogramming in T cell malignancy	HIF, PTEN, T cells, T-ALL	This study explores the regulation and importance of System L amino acid transport in a murine model of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) caused by deletion of phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN). There has been a strong focus on glucose transport in leukemias but the present data show that primary T-ALL cells have increased transport of multiple nutrients. Specifically, increased leucine transport in T-ALL fuels mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) activity which then sustains expression of hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF1alpha) and c-Myc; drivers of glucose metabolism in T cells. A key finding is that PTEN deletion and phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P3) accumulation is insufficient to initiate leucine uptake, mTORC1 activity, HIF1alpha or c-Myc expression in T cells and hence cannot drive T-ALL metabolic reprogramming. Instead, a key regulator for leucine transport in T-ALL is identified as NOTCH. Mass spectrometry based proteomics identifies SLC7A5 as the predominant amino acid transporter in primary PTEN(-/-) T-ALL cells. Importantly, expression of SLC7A5 is critical for the malignant transformation induced by PTEN deletion. These data reveal the importance of regulated amino acid transport for T-cell malignancies, highlighting how a single amino acid transporter can have a key role.
PXD005369	28547791	An Organoruthenium Anticancer Agent Shows Unexpected Target Selectivity For Plectin. 	Targeting the Scaffold Protein Plectin by an Organometallic as a Strategy to Inhibit Tumour Invasiveness- cytoplasmic proteins of arsenic trioxide treated HCT 116 epithelial cells, 3h	Chemical Proteomics, Mechanism of Action, Metallodrugs, Organometallics, Plectin, Response Profiling, Ruthenium, Target Identification	Organometallic metal(arene) anticancer agents require ligand exchange for their anticancer activity and this is generally believed to confer low selectivity for potential cellular targets. However, using an integrated proteomics-based target-response profiling approach as a potent hypothesis-generating procedure, we found an unexpected target selectivity of a ruthenium(arene) pyridinecarbothioamide (plecstatin) for plectin, a scaffold protein and cytolinker, which was validated in a plectin knock-out model in vitro. Plectin targeting shows potential as a strategy to inhibit tumor invasiveness as shown in cultured tumor spheroids while oral administration of plecstatin-1 to mice reduces tumor growth more efficiently in the invasive B16 melanoma than in the CT26 colon tumor model.
PXD004453	28547889	Comparison between chaotropic and detergent-based sample preparation workflow in tendon for mass spectrometry analysis. 	Comparison of Protein Extraction Methods in Tendon Mass Spectrometry Analysis	Tendon	Exploring the tendon proteome is a challenging but important task for understanding the mechanisms of physiological/pathological processes during ageing and disease and for the development of new treatments. Several extraction methods have been utilised for tendon mass spectrometry, however different extraction methods have not been simultaneously compared. In the present study we compared protein extraction in tendon with two chaotropic agents, guanidine hydrochloride (GnHCl) and urea, a detergent, RapiGest(TM), and their combinations for shotgun mass spectrometry. An initial proteomic analysis was performed following urea, GnHCl, and RapiGest(TM) extraction of equine superficial digital flexor tendon (SDFT) tissue. Subsequently, another proteomic analysis was performed following extraction with GnHCl, Rapigest(TM), and their combinations. Between the two chaotropic agents, GnHCl extracted more proteins, whilst a greater number of proteins were solely identified after Rapigest(TM) extraction. Protein extraction with a combination of GnHCl followed by RapiGest(TM) on the insoluble pellet demonstrated, after label-free quantification, increased abundance of identified collagen proteins and low sample to sample variability. In contrast, GnHCl extraction on its own showed increased abundance of identified proteoglycans and cellular proteins. Therefore, the selection of protein extraction method for tendon tissue for mass spectrometry analysis should reflect the focus of the study.
PXD003674	28550165	Characterization of the CLASP2 Protein Interaction Network Identifies SOGA1 as a Microtubule-Associated Protein. 	The CLASP2 Protein Interaction Network in Adipocytes Links CLIP2 to AGAP3, CLASP2 to G2L1, MARK2, and SOGA1, and Identifies SOGA1 as a Microtubule-Associated Protein	AGAP3, AP-MS, CLASP2, CLIP2, G2L1, Interactome, MARK2, SAINT, SOGA1	CLASP2 is a microtubule-associated protein that undergoes insulin-stimulated phosphorylation and co-localization with reorganized actin and GLUT4 at the plasma membrane. To gain insight to the role of CLASP2 in this system, we developed and successfully executed a streamlined interactome approach and built a CLASP2 protein network in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Using two different commercially available antibodies for CLASP2 and an antibody for epitope-tagged, overexpressed CLASP2, we performed multiple affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry (AP-MS) experiments in combination with label-free quantitative proteomics and analyzed the data with the bioinformatics tool Significance Analysis of Interactome (SAINT). We discovered that CLASP2 coimmunoprecipitates (co-IPs) the novel protein SOGA1, the microtubule-associated protein kinase MARK2, and the microtubule/actin-regulating protein G2L1. The GTPase-activating proteins AGAP1 and AGAP3 were also enriched in the CLASP2 interactome, although subsequent AGAP3 and CLIP2 interactome analysis suggests a preference of AGAP3 for CLIP2. Follow-up MARK2 interactome analysis confirmed reciprocal co-IP of CLASP2 and revealed MARK2 can co-IP SOGA1, glycogen synthase, and glycogenin. Investigating the SOGA1 interactome confirmed SOGA1 can reciprocal co-IP both CLASP2 and MARK2 as well as glycogen synthase and glycogenin. SOGA1 was confirmed to colocalize with CLASP2 and with tubulin, which identifies SOGA1 as a new microtubule-associated protein. These results introduce the metabolic function of these proposed novel protein networks and their relationship with microtubules as new fields of cytoskeleton-associated protein biology.
PXD005464	28554894	Fam60a defines a variant Sin3a-Hdac complex in embryonic stem cells required for self-renewal. 	SIN3A Acetylation Complex -  Fam60a defines a variant Sin3a-Hdac complex in embryonic stem cells required for self-renewal	Embryonic stem cell, Fam60a, Self-renewal, Sin3a complex	Sin3a is the central scaffold protein of the prototypical Hdac1/2 chromatin repressor complex, crucially required during early embryonic development for the growth of pluripotent cells of the inner cell mass. Here, we compare the composition of the Sin3a-Hdac complex between pluripotent embryonic stem (ES) and differentiated cells by establishing a method that couples two independent endogenous immunoprecipitations with quantitative mass spectrometry. We define the precise composition of the Sin3a complex in multiple cell types and identify the Fam60a subunit as a key defining feature of a variant Sin3a complex present in ES cells, which also contains Ogt and Tet1. Fam60a binds on H3K4me3-positive promoters in ES cells, together with Ogt, Tet1 and Sin3a, and is essential to maintain the complex on chromatin. Finally, we show that depletion of Fam60a phenocopies the loss of Sin3a, leading to reduced proliferation, an extended G1-phase and the deregulation of lineage genes. Taken together, Fam60a is an essential core subunit of a variant Sin3a complex in ES cells that is required to promote rapid proliferation and prevent unscheduled differentiation.
PXD006325	28555641	A parts list for fungal cellulosomes revealed by comparative genomics. 	A Parts List for Fungal Cellulosomes Revealed by Comparative Genomics	anaerobic, cellulosomes, fungi	Cellulosomes are large, multiprotein complexes that tether plant biomass-degrading enzymes together for improved hydrolysis(1). These complexes were first described in anaerobic bacteria, where species-specific dockerin domains mediate the assembly of enzymes onto cohesin motifs interspersed within protein scaffolds(1). The versatile protein assembly mechanism conferred by the bacterial cohesin-dockerin interaction is now a standard design principle for synthetic biology(2,3). For decades, analogous structures have been reported in anaerobic fungi, which are known to assemble by sequence-divergent non-catalytic dockerin domains (NCDDs)(4). However, the components, modular assembly mechanism and functional role of fungal cellulosomes remain unknown(5,6). Here, we describe a comprehensive set of proteins critical to fungal cellulosome assembly, including conserved scaffolding proteins unique to the Neocallimastigomycota. High-quality genomes of the anaerobic fungi Anaeromyces robustus, Neocallimastix californiae and Piromyces finnis were assembled with long-read, single-molecule technology. Genomic analysis coupled with proteomic validation revealed an average of 312 NCDD-containing proteins per fungal strain, which were overwhelmingly carbohydrate active enzymes (CAZymes), with 95 large fungal scaffoldins identified across four genera that bind to NCDDs. Fungal dockerin and scaffoldin domains have no similarity to their bacterial counterparts, yet several catalytic domains originated via horizontal gene transfer with gut bacteria. However, the biocatalytic activity of anaerobic fungal cellulosomes is expanded by the inclusion of GH3, GH6 and GH45 enzymes. These findings suggest that the fungal cellulosome is an evolutionarily chimaeric structure-an independently evolved fungal complex that co-opted useful activities from bacterial neighbours within the gut microbiome.
PXD006136	28556443	SWATH-based quantitative proteomics reveals the mechanism of enhanced Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus-resistance in silkworm reared on UV-B treated mulberry leaves. 	SWATH-based quantitative proteomics reveals the mechanism of enhanced Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus-resistance in silkworm reared on UV-B treated mulberry leaves	UV-B treated mulberry leaves, moracin N, silkworm (Bombyx mori)	Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus (BmNPV) is one of the most acute infectious diseases in silkworm, which has led to great economic loss in sericulture. Previous study showed that the content of secondary metabolites in mulberry leaves, particularly for moracin N, was increased after UV-B irradiation. In this study, the BmNPV resistance of silkworms reared on UV-B treated and moracin N spread mulberry leaves was improved. To uncover the mechanism of enhanced BmNPV resistance, silkworm midguts from UV-B treated mulberry leaves (BUM) and moracin N (BNM) groups were analyzed by SWATH-based proteomic technique. Of note, the abundance of ribosomal proteins in BUM and BNM groups was significantly changed to maintain the synthesis of total protein levels and cell survival. While, cytochrome c oxidase subunit II, calcium ATPase and programmed cell death 4 involved in apoptotic process were up-regulated in BNM group. Expressions of lipase-1, serine protease precursor, Rab1 protein, and histone genes were increased significantly in BNM group. These results suggest that moracin N might be the main active component in UV-B treated mulberry leaves which could improve the BmNPV-resistance of silkworm through promoting apoptotic cell death, enhancing the organism immunity, and regulating the intercellular environment of cells in silkworm. It also presents an innovative process to reduce the mortality rate of silkworms infected with BmNPV.
PXD005096	28556466	Microproteomics with microfluidic-based cell sorting: Application to 1000 and 100 immune cells. 	Microproteomics application for the limited number of cells	Cell-sorting, THP-1, microproteomics, shotgun proteomics	Ultimately, cell biology seeks to define molecular mechanisms underlying cellular functions. However, heterogeneity within cell populations must be considered for optimal assay design and data interpretation. Although single-cell analyses are desirable for addressing this issue, practical considerations, including assay sensitivity, limit their broad application. Therefore, omics studies on small numbers of cells in defined subpopulations represent a viable alternative for elucidating cell functions at the molecular level. MS-based proteomics allows in-depth proteome exploration, although analyses of small numbers of cells have not been pursued due to loss during the multistep procedure involved. Thus, optimization of the proteomics workflow to facilitate the analysis of rare cells would be useful. Here, we report a microproteomics workflow for limited numbers of immune cells using non-damaging, microfluidic chip-based cell sorting and MS-based proteomics. Samples of 1000 or 100 THP-1 cells were sorted, and after enzymatic digestion, peptide mixtures were subjected to nano-LC-MS analysis. We achieved reasonable proteome coverage from as few as 100-sorted cells, and the data obtained from 1000-sorted cells were as comprehensive as those obtained using 1 mug of whole cell lysate. With further refinement, our approach could be useful for studying cell subpopulations or limited samples, such as clinical specimens.
PXD004924	28559428	Bypass of Activation Loop Phosphorylation by Aspartate 836 in Activation of the Endoribonuclease Activity of Ire1. 	Identification of autophosphorylationsites in recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ire1	Ire1, phosphorylation, protein kinase, unfolded protein response	The bifunctional protein kinase-endoribonuclease Ire1 initiates splicing of the mRNA for the transcription factor Hac1 when unfolded proteins accumulate in the endoplasmic reticulum. Activation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ire1 coincides with autophosphorylation of its activation loop at S840, S841, T844, and S850. Mass spectrometric analysis of Ire1 expressed in Escherichia coli identified S837 as another potential phosphorylation site in vivo Mutation of all five potential phosphorylation sites in the activation loop decreased, but did not completely abolish, splicing of HAC1 mRNA, induction of KAR2 and PDI1 mRNAs, and expression of a beta-galactosidase reporter activated by Hac1(i) Phosphorylation site mutants survive low levels of endoplasmic reticulum stress better than IRE1 deletions strains. In vivo clustering and inactivation of Ire1 are not affected by phosphorylation site mutants. Mutation of D836 to alanine in the activation loop of phosphorylation site mutants nearly completely abolished HAC1 splicing, induction of KAR2, PDI1, and beta-galactosidase reporters, and survival of ER stress, but it had no effect on clustering of Ire1. By itself, the D836A mutation does not confer a phenotype. These data argue that D836 can partially substitute for activation loop phosphorylation in activation of the endoribonuclease domain of Ire1.
PXD006200	28561026	R2TP/Prefoldin-like component RUVBL1/RUVBL2 directly interacts with ZNHIT2 to regulate assembly of U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein. 	R2TP_BioID-MS -  R2TP/Prefoldin-like component RUVBL1/RUVBL2 directly interacts with ZNHIT2 to regulate assembly of U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein	BioID, Flp-In T-REx HEK 293, R2TP/PFDN, U5 snRNP, ZNHIT2	The R2TP/Prefoldin-like (R2TP/PFDL) complex has emerged as a cochaperone complex involved in the assembly of a number of critical protein complexes including snoRNPs, nuclear RNA polymerases and PIKK-containing complexes. Here we report on the use of multiple target affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry to identify two additional complexes that interact with R2TP/PFDL: the TSC1-TSC2 complex and the U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP). The interaction between R2TP/PFDL and the U5 snRNP is mostly mediated by the previously uncharacterized factor ZNHIT2. A more general function for the zinc-finger HIT domain in binding RUVBL2 is exposed. Disruption of ZNHIT2 and RUVBL2 expression impacts the protein composition of the U5 snRNP suggesting a function for these proteins in promoting the assembly of the ribonucleoprotein. A possible implication of R2TP/PFDL as a major effector of stress-, energy- and nutrient-sensing pathways that regulate anabolic processes through the regulation of its chaperoning activity is discussed.
PXD006119	28561066	WIPI3 and WIPI4 beta-propellers are scaffolds for LKB1-AMPK-TSC signalling circuits in the control of autophagy. 	Human WIPI interactome (LC-MSMS)	WIPI1, WIPI2, WIPI3, WIPI4, autophagy	Autophagy is controlled by AMPK and mTOR, both of which associate with ULK1 and control the production of phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PtdIns3P), a prerequisite for autophagosome formation. Here we report that WIPI3 and WIPI4 scaffold the signal control of autophagy upstream of PtdIns3P production and have a role in the PtdIns3P effector function of WIPI1-WIPI2 at nascent autophagosomes. In response to LKB1-mediated AMPK stimulation, WIPI4-ATG2 is released from a WIPI4-ATG2/AMPK-ULK1 complex and translocates to nascent autophagosomes, controlling their size, to which WIPI3, in complex with FIP200, also contributes. Upstream, WIPI3 associates with AMPK-activated TSC complex at lysosomes, regulating mTOR. Our WIPI interactome analysis reveals the scaffold functions of WIPI proteins interconnecting autophagy signal control and autophagosome formation. Our functional kinase screen uncovers a novel regulatory link between LKB1-mediated AMPK stimulation that produces a direct signal via WIPI4, and we show that the AMPK-related kinases NUAK2 and BRSK2 regulate autophagy through WIPI4.
PXD006293	28566324	Multi-omics analysis identifies ATF4 as a key regulator of the mitochondrial stress response in mammals. 	Multi-omics analysis identifies ATF4 as a key regulator of the mitochondrial stress response in mammals	ATF4, Orbitral Fusion, mitochondria, omics	Mitochondrial stress activates a mitonuclear response to safeguard and repair mitochondrial function and to adapt cellular metabolism to stress. Using a multiomics approach in mammalian cells treated with four types of mitochondrial stressors, we identify activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) as the main regulator of the stress response. Surprisingly, canonical mitochondrial unfolded protein response genes mediated by ATF5 are not activated. Instead, ATF4 activates the expression of cytoprotective genes, which reprogram cellular metabolism through activation of the integrated stress response (ISR). Mitochondrial stress promotes a local proteostatic response by reducing mitochondrial ribosomal proteins, inhibiting mitochondrial translation, and coupling the activation of the ISR with the attenuation of mitochondrial function. Through a trans-expression quantitative trait locus analysis, we provide genetic evidence supporting a role for Fh1 in the control of Atf4 expression in mammals. Using gene expression data from mice and humans with mitochondrial diseases, we show that the ATF4 pathway is activated in vivo upon mitochondrial stress. Our data illustrate the value of a multiomics approach to characterize complex cellular networks and provide a versatile resource to identify new regulators of mitochondrial-related diseases.
PXD006360	28566488	A fossil protein chimera; difficulties in discriminating dinosaur peptide sequences from modern cross-contamination. 	Ostrich bone proteome	Ostrich, Struthio, bone	A decade ago, reports that organic-rich soft tissue survived from dinosaur fossils were apparently supported by proteomics-derived sequence information of exceptionally well-preserved bone. This initial claim to the sequencing of endogenous collagen peptides from an approximately 68 Myr Tyrannosaurus rex fossil was highly controversial, largely on the grounds of potential contamination from either bacterial biofilms or from laboratory practice. In a subsequent study, collagen peptide sequences from an approximately 78 Myr Brachylophosaurus canadensis fossil were reported that have remained largely unchallenged. However, the endogeneity of these sequences relies heavily on a single peptide sequence, apparently unique to both dinosaurs. Given the potential for cross-contamination from modern bone analysed by the same team, here we extract collagen from bone samples of three individuals of ostrich, Struthio camelus The resulting LC-MS/MS data were found to match all of the proposed sequences for both the original Tyrannosaurus and Brachylophosaurus studies. Regardless of the true nature of the dinosaur peptides, our finding highlights the difficulty of differentiating such sequences with confidence. Our results not only imply that cross-contamination cannot be ruled out, but that appropriate measures to test for endogeneity should be further evaluated.
PXD006655	28569067	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Posterior Silk Glands of Wild and Domesticated Silkworms Reveals Functional Evolution during Domestication. 	Proteomic analysis of posterior silk gland of wild silkworm during developmental stages	LTQ-Orbitrap, posterior silk gland, shotgun LC-MS/MS, wild silkworm	The wild silkworm Bombyx mandarina was domesticated to produce silk in China approximately 5000 years ago. Silk production is greatly improved in the domesticated silkworm B. mori, but the molecular basis of the functional evolution of silk gland remains elusive. We performed shotgun proteomics with label-free quantification analysis and identified 1012 and 822 proteins from the posterior silk glands (PSGs) of wild silkworms on the third and fifth days of the fifth instar, respectively, with 128 of these differentially expressed. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that, with the development of the PSG, the up-regulated proteins were mainly involved in the ribosome pathway, similar to what we previously reported for B. mori. Additionally, we screened 50 proteins with differential expression between wild and domesticated silkworms that might be involved in domestication at the two stages. Interestingly, the up-regulated proteins in domesticated compared to wild silkworms were enriched in the ribosome pathway, which is closely related to cell size and translation capacity. Together, these results suggest that functional evolution of the PSG during domestication was driven by reinforcing the advantageous pathways to increase the synthesis efficiency of silk proteins in each cell and thereby improve silk yield.
PXD006212	28569760	Strength of Neisseria meningitidis binding to endothelial cells requires highly-ordered CD147/beta2-adrenoceptor clusters assembled by alpha-actinin-4. 	Strength of Neisseria meningitidis binding to endothelial cells requires highly-ordered CD147/beta2-adrenoceptor clusters assembled by alpha-actinin-4	CD147, Neisseria meningitidis, basigin, endothelial cells, nano-LC/MS/MS tandem mass spectrometry	Neisseria meningitidis (meningococcus) is an invasive bacterial pathogen that colonizes human vessels, causing thrombotic lesions and meningitis. Establishment of tight interactions with endothelial cells is crucial for meningococci to resist haemodynamic forces. Two endothelial receptors, CD147 and the beta2-adrenergic receptor (beta2AR), are sequentially engaged by meningococci to adhere and promote signalling events leading to vascular colonization, but their spatiotemporal coordination is unknown. Here we report that CD147 and beta2AR form constitutive hetero-oligomeric complexes. The scaffolding protein alpha-actinin-4 directly binds to the cytosolic tail of CD147 and governs the assembly of CD147-beta2AR complexes in highly ordered clusters at bacterial adhesion sites. This multimolecular assembly process increases the binding strength of meningococci to endothelial cells under shear stress, and creates molecular platforms for the elongation of membrane protrusions surrounding adherent bacteria. Thus, the specific organization of cellular receptors has major impacts on host-pathogen interaction.
PXD006389	28572091	The Ser/Thr Protein Kinase Protein-Protein Interaction Map of M. tuberculosis. 	The Ser/Thr Protein Kinase Protein-Protein Interaction Map of M. tuberculosis	Cell wall, MurC, Protein-protein interaction, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, Ser/Thr protein kinase	Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is the causative agent of tuberculosis, the leading cause of death among all infectious diseases. There are 11 eukaryotic-like serine/threonine protein kinases (STPKs) in Mtb, which are thought to play pivotal roles in cell growth, signal transduction and pathogenesis. However, their underlying mechanisms of action remain largely uncharacterized. In this study, using a Mtb proteome microarray, we have globally identified the binding proteins in Mtb for all of the STPKs, and constructed the first STPK protein interaction (KPI) map that includes 492 binding proteins and 1,027 interactions. Bioinformatics analysis showed that the interacting proteins reflect diverse functions, including roles in two-component system, transcription, protein degradation, and cell wall integrity. Functional investigations confirmed that PknG regulates cell wall integrity through key components of peptidoglycan (PG) biosynthesis, e.g. MurC. The global STPK-KPIs network constructed here is expected to serve as a rich resource for understanding the key signaling pathways in Mtb, thus facilitating drug development and effective control of Mtb.
PXD006390	28572092	Cylindromatosis Tumor Suppressor Protein (CYLD) Deubiquitinase is Necessary for Proper Ubiquitination and Degradation of the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor. 	EGF-dependent ubiquitinome, phosphorylation and interactome analysis in control and CYLD-deficient cells	CYLD, EGFR, HeLA, PRM, Ubiquitin, phosphorylation	Cylindromatosis tumor suppressor protein (CYLD) is a deubiquitinase, best known as an essential negative regulator of the NFkB pathway. Previous studies have suggested an involvement of CYLD in epidermal growth factor (EGF)-dependent signal transduction as well, as it was found enriched within the tyrosine-phosphorylated complexes in cells stimulated with the growth factor. EGF receptor (EGFR) signaling participates in central cellular processes and its tight regulation, partly through ubiquitination cascades, is decisive for a balanced cellular homeostasis. Here, using a combination of mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomic approaches with biochemical and immunofluorescence strategies, we demonstrate the involvement of CYLD in the regulation of the ubiquitination events triggered by EGF. Our data show that CYLD regulates the magnitude of ubiquitination of several major effectors of the EGFR pathway by assisting the recruitment of the ubiquitin ligase Cbl-b to the activated EGFR complex. Notably, CYLD facilitates the interaction of EGFR with Cbl-b through its Tyr15 phosphorylation in response to EGF, which leads to fine-tuning of the receptor's ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. This represents a previously uncharacterized strategy exerted by this deubiquitinase and tumors suppressor for the negative regulation of a tumorigenic signaling pathway.
PXD005144	28573829	Comparative proteomic profiling of the serum differentiates pancreatic cancer from chronic pancreatitis. 	Chronic pancreatitis vs pancreatic cancer LC-MS	Chronic pancreatitis, LC-MS, Multivariate data analysis, label-free qunatification, pancreatic cancer, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Finland ranks sixth among the countries having highest incidence rate of pancreatic cancer with mortality roughly equaling incidence. The average age of diagnosis for pancreatic cancer is 69 years in Nordic males, whereas the average age of diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis is 40-50 years, however, many cases overlap in age. By radiology, the evaluation of a pancreatic mass, that is, the differential diagnosis between chronic pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer is often difficult. Preoperative needle biopsies are difficult to obtain and are demanding to interpret. New blood based biomarkers are needed. The accuracy of the only established biomarker for pancreatic cancer, CA 19-9 is rather poor in differentiating between benign and malignant mass of the pancreas. In this study, we have performed mass spectrometry analysis (High Definition MS(E) ) of serum samples from patients with chronic pancreatitis (13) and pancreatic cancer (22). We have quantified 291 proteins and performed detailed statistical analysis such as principal component analysis, orthogonal partial least square discriminant analysis and receiver operating curve analysis. The proteomic signature of chronic pancreatitis versus pancreatic cancer samples was able to separate the two groups by multiple statistical techniques. Some of the enriched pathways in the proteomic dataset were LXR/RXR activation, complement and coagulation systems and inflammatory response. We propose that multiple high-confidence biomarker candidates in our pilot study including Inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H2 (Area under the curve, AUC: 0.947), protein AMBP (AUC: 0.951) and prothrombin (AUC: 0.917), which should be further evaluated in larger patient series as potential new biomarkers for differential diagnosis.
PXD004324	28575236	Monitoring of the spatial and temporal dynamics of BER/SSBR pathway proteins, including MYH, UNG2, MPG, NTH1 and NEIL1-3, during DNA replication. 	Identification of BER/SSBR proteins and the DNA glycosylases MPG, UNG2, MYH, NTH1, NEIL1 and NEIL3 in replisomes Batch 3	BER, SSBR, batch 3, iPOND, label free, orbitrap, quantification, replication, replisome	Base lesions in DNA can stall the replication machinery or induce mutations if bypassed. Consequently, lesions must be repaired before replication or in a post-replicative process to maintain genomic stability. Base excision repair (BER) is the main pathway for repair of base lesions and is known to be associated with DNA replication, but how BER is organized during replication is unclear. Here we coupled the iPOND (isolation of proteins on nascent DNA) technique with targeted mass-spectrometry analysis, which enabled us to detect all proteins required for BER on nascent DNA and to monitor their spatiotemporal orchestration at replication forks. We demonstrate that XRCC1 and other BER/single-strand break repair (SSBR) proteins are enriched in replisomes in unstressed cells, supporting a cellular capacity of post-replicative BER/SSBR. Importantly, we identify for the first time the DNA glycosylases MYH, UNG2, MPG, NTH1, NEIL1, 2 and 3 on nascent DNA. Our findings suggest that a broad spectrum of DNA base lesions are recognized and repaired by BER in a post-replicative process.
PXD006106	28575672	A Class of Environmental and Endogenous Toxins Induces BRCA2 Haploinsufficiency and Genome Instability. 	Aldehyde exposure unmasks genome instability in cells heterozygous for clinically relevant BRCA2 mutations	Aldehyde, Hela, SWATH	Mutations truncating a single copy of the tumor suppressor, BRCA2, cause cancer susceptibility. In cells bearing such heterozygous mutations, we find that a cellular metabolite and ubiquitous environmental toxin, formaldehyde, stalls and destabilizes DNA replication forks, engendering structural chromosomal aberrations. Formaldehyde selectively depletes BRCA2 via proteasomal degradation, a mechanism of toxicity that affects very few additional cellular proteins. Heterozygous BRCA2 truncations, by lowering pre-existing BRCA2 expression, sensitize to BRCA2 haploinsufficiency induced by transient exposure to natural concentrations of formaldehyde. Acetaldehyde, an alcohol catabolite detoxified by ALDH2, precipitates similar effects. Ribonuclease H1 ameliorates replication fork instability and chromosomal aberrations provoked by aldehyde-induced BRCA2 haploinsufficiency, suggesting that BRCA2 inactivation triggers spontaneous mutagenesis during DNA replication via aberrant RNA-DNA hybrids (R-loops). These findings suggest a model wherein carcinogenesis in BRCA2 mutation carriers can be incited by compounds found pervasively in the environment and generated endogenously in certain tissues with implications for public health.
PXD005461	28576849	Proteome-wide Identification of Glycosylation-dependent Interactors of Galectin-1 and Galectin-3 on Mesenchymal Retinal Pigment Epithelial (RPE) Cells. 	Galectin-1 and Galectin-3 interactors	galectin, interactors, pull-down, retina	Identification of interactors is a major goal in cell biology. Not only protein-protein but also protein-carbohydrate interactions are of high relevance for signal transduction in biological systems. Here, we aim to identify novel interacting binding partners for the beta-galactoside-binding proteins galectin-1 (Gal-1) and galectin-3 (Gal-3) relevant in the context of the eye disease proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR). PVR is one of the most common failures after retinal detachment surgeries and is characterized by the migration, adhesion, and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition of retinal pigment epithelial cells (RPE) and the subsequent formation of sub- and epiretinal fibrocellular membranes. Gal-1 and Gal-3 bind in a dose- and carbohydrate-dependent manner to mesenchymal RPE cells and inhibit cellular processes like attachment and spreading. Yet knowledge about glycan-dependent interactors of Gal-1 and Gal-3 on RPE cells is very limited, although this is a prerequisite for unraveling the influence of galectins on distinct cellular processes in RPE cells. We identify here 131 Gal-3 and 15 Gal-1 interactors by galectin pulldown experiments combined with quantitative proteomics. They mainly play a role in multiple binding processes and are mostly membrane proteins. We focused on two novel identified interactors of Gal-1 and Gal-3 in the context of PVR: the low-density lipoprotein receptor LRP1 and the platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta PDGFRB. Addition of exogenous Gal-1 and Gal-3 induced cross-linking with LRP1/PDGFRB and integrin-beta1 (ITGB1) on the cell surface of human RPE cells and induced ERK/MAPK and Akt signaling. Treatment with kifunensine, an inhibitor of complex-type N-glycosylation, weakened the binding of Gal-1 and Gal-3 to these interactors and prevented lattice formation. In conclusion, the identified specific glycoprotein ligands shed light into the highly specific binding of galectins to dedifferentiated RPE cells and the resulting prevention of PVR-associated cellular events.
PXD006726	28576864	LIN-41 and OMA Ribonucleoprotein Complexes Mediate a Translational Repression-to-Activation Switch Controlling Oocyte Meiotic Maturation and the Oocyte-to-Embryo Transition in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	OMA-1, LIN-41 IPMS -  LIN-41 and OMA Ribonucleoprotein Complexes Mediate a Translational Repression-to-Activation Switch Controlling Oocyte Meiotic Maturation and the Oocyte-to-Embryo Transition in Caenorhabditis elegans	OMA-1 LIN-41 ribonucleoprotein complex	An extended meiotic prophase is a hallmark of oogenesis. Hormonal signaling activates the CDK1/cyclin B kinase to promote oocyte meiotic maturation, which involves nuclear and cytoplasmic events. Nuclear maturation encompasses nuclear envelope breakdown, meiotic spindle assembly, and chromosome segregation. Cytoplasmic maturation involves major changes in oocyte protein translation and cytoplasmic organelles and is poorly understood. In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, sperm release the major sperm protein (MSP) hormone to promote oocyte growth and meiotic maturation. Large translational regulatory ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes containing the RNA-binding proteins OMA-1, OMA-2, and LIN-41 regulate meiotic maturation downstream of MSP signaling. To understand the control of translation during meiotic maturation, we purified LIN-41-containing RNPs and characterized their protein and RNA components. Protein constituents of LIN-41 RNPs include essential RNA-binding proteins, the GLD-2 cytoplasmic poly(A) polymerase, the CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex, and translation initiation factors. RNA sequencing defined messenger RNAs (mRNAs) associated with both LIN-41 and OMA-1, as well as sets of mRNAs associated with either LIN-41 or OMA-1 Genetic and genomic evidence suggests that GLD-2, which is a component of LIN-41 RNPs, stimulates the efficient translation of many LIN-41-associated transcripts. We analyzed the translational regulation of two transcripts specifically associated with LIN-41 which encode the RNA regulators SPN-4 and MEG-1 We found that LIN-41 represses translation of spn-4 and meg-1, whereas OMA-1 and OMA-2 promote their expression. Upon their synthesis, SPN-4 and MEG-1 assemble into LIN-41 RNPs prior to their functions in the embryo. This study defines a translational repression-to-activation switch as a key element of cytoplasmic maturation.
PXD003608	28580786	Quantitative Performance Evaluator for Proteomics (QPEP): Web-based Application for Reproducible Evaluation of Proteomics Preprocessing Methods. 	Latin Squares Spike-in Dataset for Comparisons of Statistical Methods	Spike-in, benchmarking, bias, iTRAQ, variance	Tandem mass spectrometry is one of the most popular techniques for quantitation of proteomes. There exists a large variety of options in each stage of data preprocessing that impact the bias and variance of the summarized protein-level values. Using a newly released data set satisfying a replicated Latin squares design, a diverse set of performance metrics has been developed and implemented in a web-based application, Quantitative Performance Evaluator for Proteomics (QPEP). QPEP has the flexibility to allow users to apply their own method to preprocess this data set and share the results, allowing direct and straightforward comparison of new methodologies. Application of these new metrics to three case studies highlights that (i) the summarization of peptides to proteins is robust to the choice of peptide summary used, (ii) the differences between iTRAQ labels are stronger than the differences between experimental runs, and (iii) the commercial software ProteinPilot performs equivalently well at between-sample normalization to more complicated methods developed by academics. Importantly, finding (ii) underscores the benefits of using the principles of randomization and blocking to avoid the experimental measurements being confounded by technical factors. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003608.
PXD006251	28580955	Ndfip1 restricts mTORC1 signalling and glycolysis in regulatory T cells to prevent autoinflammatory disease. 	Ndfip1 restricts mTORC1 signalling and glycolysis in regulatory T cells to prevent autoinflammatory disease	Ndfip1, Regulatory T cells (Treg cells), central Regulatory T cells (cTreg cells), effector-type Regulatory T cells (eTreg cells)	Foxp3(+) T regulatory (Treg) cells suppress immune cell activation and establish normal immune homeostasis. How Treg cells maintain their identity is not completely understood. Here we show that Ndfip1, a coactivator of Nedd4-family E3 ubiquitin ligases, is required for Treg cell stability and function. Ndfip1 deletion in Treg cells results in autoinflammatory disease. Ndfip1-deficient Treg cells are highly proliferative and are more likely to lose Foxp3 expression to become IL-4-producing TH2 effector cells. Proteomic analyses indicate altered metabolic signature of Ndfip1-deficient Treg cells and metabolic profiling reveals elevated glycolysis and increased mTORC1 signalling. Ndfip1 restricts Treg cell metabolism and IL-4 production via distinct mechanisms, as IL-4 deficiency does not prevent hyperproliferation or elevated mTORC1 signalling in Ndfip1-deficient Treg cells. Thus, Ndfip1 preserves Treg lineage stability and immune homeostasis by preventing the expansion of highly proliferative and metabolically active Treg cells and by preventing pathological secretion of IL-4 from Treg cells.
PXD004802	28582408	Proteome-wide profiling of protein lysine acetylation in Aspergillus flavus. 	Proteome-wide profiling of protein lysine acetylation in Aspergillus flavus	acetylation aspergillus flavus	Protein lysine acetylation is a prevalent post-translational modification that plays pivotal roles in various biological processes in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Aspergillus flavus, as an aflatoxin-producing fungus, has attracted tremendous attention due to its health impact on agricultural commodities. Here, we performed the first lysine-acetylome mapping in this filamentous fungus using immune-affinity-based purification integrated with high-resolution mass spectrometry. Overall, we identified 1383 lysine-acetylation sites in 652 acetylated proteins, which account for 5.18% of the total proteins in A. flavus. According to bioinformatics analysis, the acetylated proteins are involved in various cellular processes involving the ribosome, carbon metabolism, antibiotic biosynthesis, secondary metabolites, and the citrate cycle and are distributed in diverse subcellular locations. Additionally, we demonstrated for the first time the acetylation of fatty acid synthase alpha and beta encoded by aflA and aflB involved in the aflatoxin-biosynthesis pathway (cluster 54), as well as backbone enzymes from secondary metabolite clusters 20 and 21 encoded by AFLA_062860 and AFLA_064240, suggesting important roles for acetylation associated with these processes. Our findings illustrating abundant lysine acetylation in A. flavus expand our understanding of the fungal acetylome and provided insight into the regulatory roles of acetylation in secondary metabolism.
PXD005400	28583764	Proteomic composition and immunomodulatory properties of urinary bladder matrix scaffolds in homeostasis and injury. 	Composition and immune environment of urinary bladder matrix scaffolds	ECM, collagen, urinary bladder	Urinary bladder matrix (UBM) is used clinically for management of wounds and reinforcement of surgical soft tissue repair, among other applications. UBM consists of the lamina propria and basal lamina of the porcine urinary bladder, and is decellularized as part of the process to manufacture the medical device. UBM is composed mainly of Collagen I, but also contains a wide variety of fibrillar and basement membrane collagens, glycoproteins, proteoglycans and ECM-associated factors. Upon application of the biomaterial in a traumatic or non-traumatic setting in a mouse model, there is a cascade of immune cells that respond to the damaged tissue and biomaterial. Here, through the use of multicolor flow cytometry, we describe the various cells that infiltrate the UBM scaffold in a subcutaneous and volumetric muscle injury model. A wide variety of immune cells are found in the UBM scaffold immune microenvironment (SIM) including F4/80(+) macrophages, CD11c(+) dendritic cells, CD3(+) T cells and CD19(+) B cells. A systemic IL-4 upregulation and a local M2-macrophage response were observed in the proximity of the implanted UBM. The recruitment and activation of these cells is dependent upon signals from the scaffold and communication between the different cell types present.
PXD005548	28584245	Immune signatures of pathogenesis in the peritoneal compartment during early infection of sheep with Fasciola hepatica. 	Molecular and cellular profile of pathogenesis in the peritoneal compartment during early infection of sheep with Fasciola hepatica	Fasciola hepatica, acute infection, immunopathology, liver fluke	Immune signatures of sheep acutely-infected with Fasciola hepatica, an important pathogen of livestock and humans were analysed within the peritoneal compartment to investigate early infection. Within the peritoneum, F. hepatica antibodies coincided with an intense innate and adaptive cellular immune response, with infiltrating leukocytes and a marked eosinophilia (49%). However, while cytokine qPCR analysis revealed IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-23 and TGFbeta were elevated, these were not statistically different at 18 days post-infection compared to uninfected animals indicating that the immune response is muted and not yet skewed to a Th2 type response that is associated with chronic disease. Proteomic analysis of the peritoneal fluid identified infection-related proteins, including several structural proteins derived from the liver extracellular matrix, connective tissue and epithelium, and proteins related to the immune system. Periostin and vascular cell adhesion protein 1 (VCAM-1), molecules that mediate leukocyte infiltration and are associated with inflammatory disorders involving marked eosinophilia (e.g. asthma), were particularly elevated in the peritoneum. Immuno-histochemical studies indicated that the source of periostin and VCAM-1 was the inflamed sheep liver tissue. This study has revealed previously unknown aspects of the immunology and pathogenesis associated with acute fascioliasis in the peritoneum and liver.
PXD005981	28585528	Tailoring protein nanomechanics with chemical reactivity. 	Tailoring protein nanomechanics with chemical reactivity	cysteine modifications	The nanomechanical properties of elastomeric proteins determine the elasticity of a variety of tissues. A widespread natural tactic to regulate protein extensibility lies in the presence of covalent disulfide bonds, which significantly enhance protein stiffness. The prevalent in vivo strategy to form disulfide bonds requires the presence of dedicated enzymes. Here we propose an alternative chemical route to promote non-enzymatic oxidative protein folding via disulfide isomerization based on naturally occurring small molecules. Using single-molecule force-clamp spectroscopy, supported by DFT calculations and mass spectrometry measurements, we demonstrate that subtle changes in the chemical structure of a transient mixed-disulfide intermediate adduct between a protein cysteine and an attacking low molecular-weight thiol have a dramatic effect on the protein's mechanical stability. This approach provides a general tool to rationalize the dynamics of S-thiolation and its role in modulating protein nanomechanics, offering molecular insights on how chemical reactivity regulates protein elasticity.
PXD006294	28586477	Affinity purification with metabolomic and proteomic analysis unravels diverse roles of nucleoside diphosphate kinases. 	New insight into interactome of plant NDPKs	A. thaliana, NDPK, affinity purification, glutathionylation, metabolites, plant, proteinmetabolite interactions, proteinprotein interactions	Interactions between metabolites and proteins play an integral role in all cellular functions. Here we describe an affinity purification (AP) approach in combination with LC/MS-based metabolomics and proteomics that allows, to our knowledge for the first time, analysis of protein-metabolite and protein-protein interactions simultaneously in plant systems. More specifically, we examined protein and small-molecule partners of the three (of five) nucleoside diphosphate kinases present in the Arabidopsis genome (NDPK1-NDPK3). The bona fide role of NDPKs is the exchange of terminal phosphate groups between nucleoside diphosphates (NDPs) and triphosphates (NTPs). However, other functions have been reported, which probably depend on both the proteins and small molecules specifically interacting with the NDPK. Using our approach we identified 23, 17, and 8 novel protein partners of NDPK1, NDPK2, and NDPK3, respectively, with nucleotide-dependent proteins such as actin and adenosine kinase 2 being enriched. Particularly interesting, however, was the co-elution of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and reduced glutathione (GSH) with the affinity-purified NDPK1 complexes. Following up on this finding, we could demonstrate that NDPK1 undergoes glutathionylation, opening a new paradigm of NDPK regulation in plants. The described results extend our knowledge of NDPKs, the key enzymes regulating NDP/NTP homeostasis.
PXD004953	28587595	Proteomic analysis by iTRAQ-MRM of soybean resistance to Lamprosema Indicate. 	Proteomic Analysis by iTRAQ-MRM of Soybean Resistance to Lamprosema Indicate	Lamprosema indicate (Fabricius), MRM, differential expressed protein, iTRAQ, soybean	BACKGROUND: Lamprosema indicate is a major leaf feeding insect pest to soybean, which has caused serious yield losses in central and southern China. To explore the defense mechanisms of soybean resistance to Lamprosema indicate, a highly resistant line (Gantai-2-2) and a highly susceptible line (Wan 82-178) were exposed to Lamprosema indicate larval feedings for 0 h and 48 h, and the differential proteomic analyses of these two lines were carried out. RESULTS: The results showed that 31 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in the Gantai-2-2 when comparing 48 h feeding with 0 h feeding, and 53 DEPs were identified in the Wan 82-178. 28 DEPs were identified when comparing Gantai-2-2 with Wan 82-178 at 0 h feeding. The bioinformatic analysis results showed that most of the DEPs were associated with ribosome, linoleic acid metabolism, flavonoid biosynthesis, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, peroxisome, stilbenoid, diarylheptanoid and gingerol biosynthesis, glutathione metabolism, pant hormone signal transduction, and flavone and flavonol biosynthesis, as well as other resistance related metabolic pathways. The MRM analysis showed that the iTRAQ results were reliable. CONCLUSIONS: According to the analysis of the DEPs results, the soybean defended or resisted the Lamprosema indicate damage by the induction of a synthesis of anti-digestive proteins which inhibit the growth and development of insects, reactive oxygen species scavenging, signaling pathways, secondary metabolites synthesis, and so on.
PXD005768	28588230	Characterization of developmental defects in the forebrain resulting from hyperactivated mTOR signaling by integrative analysis of transcriptomic and proteomic data. 	Proteogenomic characterization of developmental defects in the forebrain resulting from hyperactivated mTOR signaling	Brain, forebrain	Hyperactivated mTOR signaling in the developing brain has been implicated in multiple forms of pathology including tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC). To date, various phenotypic defects such as cortical lamination irregularity, subependymal nodule formation, dysmorphic astrocyte differentiation and dendritic malformation have been described for patients and animal models. However, downstream networks affected in the developing brain by hyperactivated mTOR signaling have yet to be characterized. Here, we present an integrated analysis of transcriptomes and proteomes generated from wild-type and Tsc1/Emx1-Cre forebrains. This led to comprehensive lists of genes and proteins whose expression levels were altered by hyperactivated mTOR signaling. Further incorporation of TSC patient data followed by functional enrichment and network analyses pointed to changes in molecular components and cellular processes associated with neuronal differentiation and morphogenesis as the key downstream events underlying developmental and morphological defects in TSC. Our results provide novel and fundamental molecular bases for understanding hyperactivated mTOR signaling-induced brain defects which can in turn facilitate identification of potential diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets for mTOR signaling-related neurological disorders.
PXD005501	28588593	Salinity-Induced Palmella Formation Mechanism in Halotolerant Algae Dunaliella salina Revealed by Quantitative Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics. 	Salinity-induced Palmella Formation Mechanism in Dunaliella salina Revealed by Phosphoproteomics	Dunaliella salina, Palmella formation, Phosphoproteomics, Salinity stress	Palmella stage is critical for some unicellular algae to survive in extreme environments. The halotolerant algae Dunaliella salina is a good single-cell model for studying plant adaptation to high salinity. To investigate the molecular adaptation mechanism in salinity shock-induced palmella formation, we performed a comprehensive physiological, proteomics and phosphoproteomics study upon palmella formation of D. salina using dimethyl labeling and Ti(4+)-immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography (IMAC) proteomic approaches. We found that 151 salinity-responsive proteins and 35 salinity-responsive phosphoproteins were involved in multiple signaling and metabolic pathways upon palmella formation. Taken together with photosynthetic parameters and enzyme activity analyses, the patterns of protein accumulation and phosphorylation level exhibited the mechanisms upon palmella formation, including dynamics of cytoskeleton and cell membrane curvature, accumulation and transport of exopolysaccharides, photosynthesis and energy supplying (i.e., photosystem II stability and activity, cyclic electron transport, and C4 pathway), nuclear/chloroplastic gene expression regulation and protein processing, reactive oxygen species homeostasis, and salt signaling transduction. The salinity-responsive protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks implied that signaling and protein synthesis and fate are crucial for modulation of these processes. Importantly, the 3D structure of phosphoprotein clearly indicated that the phosphorylation sites of eight proteins were localized in the region of function domain.
PXD005751	28589555	Common and Distinctive Functions of the Hippo Effectors Taz and Yap in Skeletal Muscle Stem Cell Function. 	Muscle stems cell LC-MS	TAZ, YAP, muscle	Hippo pathway downstream effectors Yap and Taz play key roles in cell proliferation and regeneration, regulating gene expression especially via Tead transcription factors. To investigate their role in skeletal muscle stem cells, we analyzed Taz in vivo and ex vivo in comparison with Yap. Small interfering RNA knockdown or retroviral-mediated expression of wild-type human or constitutively active TAZ mutants in satellite cells showed that TAZ promoted proliferation, a function shared with YAP. However, at later stages of myogenesis, TAZ also enhanced myogenic differentiation of myoblasts, whereas YAP inhibits such differentiation. Functionally, while muscle growth was mildly affected in Taz (gene Wwtr1(-/-) ) knockout mice, there were no overt effects on regeneration. Conversely, conditional knockout of Yap in satellite cells of Pax7(Cre-ERT2/+) : Yap(fl) degrees(x/fl) degrees(x) :Rosa26(Lacz) mice produced a regeneration deficit. To identify potential mechanisms, microarray analysis showed many common TAZ/YAP target genes, but TAZ also regulates some genes independently of YAP, including myogenic genes such as Pax7, Myf5, and Myod1 (ArrayExpress-E-MTAB-5395). Proteomic analysis revealed many novel binding partners of TAZ/YAP in myogenic cells, but TAZ also interacts with proteins distinct from YAP that are often involved in myogenesis and aspects of cytoskeleton organization (ProteomeXchange-PXD005751). Neither TAZ nor YAP bind members of the Wnt destruction complex but both regulated expression of Wnt and Wnt-cross talking genes with known roles in myogenesis. Finally, TAZ operates through Tead4 to enhance myogenic differentiation. In summary, Taz and Yap have overlapping functions in promoting myoblast proliferation but Taz then switches to enhance myogenic differentiation. Stem Cells 2017;35:1958-1972.
PXD004027	28589936	Variation in auxin sensing guides AUX/IAA transcriptional repressor ubiquitylation and destruction. 	Variation in auxin sensing guides AUX/IAA repressor ubiquitylation  and destruction	AUX/IAA, SCF-type E3 ligase, TIR1/AFBs, auxin, phytohormone, proteolysis, ubiquitination, ubiquitylation	Auxin is a small molecule morphogen that bridges SCF(TIR1/AFB)-AUX/IAA co-receptor interactions leading to ubiquitylation and proteasome-dependent degradation of AUX/IAA transcriptional repressors. Here, we systematically dissect auxin sensing by SCF(TIR1)-IAA6 and SCF(TIR1)-IAA19 co-receptor complexes, and assess IAA6/IAA19 ubiquitylation in vitro and IAA6/IAA19 degradation in vivo. We show that TIR1-IAA19 and TIR1-IAA6 have distinct auxin affinities that correlate with ubiquitylation and turnover dynamics of the AUX/IAA. We establish a system to track AUX/IAA ubiquitylation in IAA6 and IAA19 in vitro and show that it occurs in flexible hotspots in degron-flanking regions adorned with specific Lys residues. We propose that this signature is exploited during auxin-mediated SCF(TIR1)-AUX/IAA interactions. We present evidence for an evolving AUX/IAA repertoire, typified by the IAA6/IAA19 ohnologues, that discriminates the range of auxin concentrations found in plants. We postulate that the intrinsic flexibility of AUX/IAAs might bias their ubiquitylation and destruction kinetics enabling specific auxin responses.
PXD004779	28590090	Motile hepatocellular carcinoma cells preferentially secret sugar metabolism regulatory proteins via exosomes. 	Malignant hepatocellular carcinoma cells enrich translation regulatory proteins in exosomes	Exosome, Super SILAC, Translatomics, signaling pathway	Exosomes are deliverers of critically functional proteins, capable of transforming target cells in numerous cancers, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We hypothesize that the motility of HCC cells can be featured by comparative proteome of exosomes. Hence, we performed the super-SILAC-based MS analysis on the exosomes secreted by three human HCC cell lines, including the non-motile Hep3B cell, and the motile 97H and LM3 cells. More than 1400 exosomal proteins were confidently quantified in each MS analysis with highly biological reproducibility. We justified that 469 and 443 exosomal proteins represented differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the 97H/Hep3B and LM3/Hep3B comparisons, respectively. These DEPs focused on sugar metabolism-centric canonical pathways per ingenuity pathway analysis, which was consistent with the gene ontology analysis on biological process enrichment. These pathways included glycolysis I, gluconeogenesis I and pentose phosphate pathways; and the DEPs enriched in these pathways could form a tightly connected network. By analyzing the relative abundance of proteins and translating mRNAs, we found significantly positive correlation between exosomes and cells. The involved exosomal proteins were again focusing on sugar metabolism. In conclusion, motile HCC cells tend to preferentially export more sugar metabolism-associated proteins via exosomes that differentiate them from non-motile HCC cells.
PXD005932	28591806	Quantitative Proteomics of Intestinal Mucosa From Male Mice Lacking Intestinal Epithelial Insulin Receptors. 	Quantitative proteomics of intestinal mucosa from male mice lacking intestinal epithelial insulin receptors	InsR, TMT, in vivo, intestinal mucosa	The goal of the present study was to determine whether loss of the insulin receptor alters the molecular landscape of the intestinal mucosa, using intestinal-epithelial insulin receptor knockout (IE-irKO) mice and both genetic (IRfl/fl and Villin-cre) controls. Quantitative proteomic analysis by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry was applied to jejunal and colonic mucosa from mice fed a normal chow diet and mice fed a Western diet (WD). Jejunal mucosa from IE-irKO mice demonstrated alterations in all intestinal cell lineages: Paneth, goblet, absorptive, and enteroendocrine cells. Only goblet and absorptive cells were affected in the colon. Also, a marked effect of WD consumption was found on the gut proteome. A substantial reduction was detected in Paneth cell proteins with antimicrobial activity, including lysozyme C-1, angiogenin-4, cryptdin-related sequence 1C-3 and -2, alpha-defensin 17, and intelectin-1a. The key protein expressed by goblet cells, mucin-2, was also reduced in the IE-irKO mice. Proteins involved in lipid metabolism, including aldose reductase-related protein 1, 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase, apolipoprotein A-II, and pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase isozyme 4, were increased in the mucosa of WD-fed IE-irKO mice compared with controls. In contrast, expression of the nutrient-responsive gut hormones, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and neurotensin, was reduced in the jejunal mucosa of IE-irKO mice, and the expression of proteins of the P-type adenosine triphosphatases and the solute carrier-transporter family was reduced in the colon of WD-fed IE-irKO mice. In conclusion, IE-irKO mice display a distinct molecular phenotype, suggesting a biological role of insulin and its receptor in determining differentiated cell specificity in the intestinal epithelium.
PXD006371	28594924	Multiple extracellular vesicle types in peritoneal dialysis effluent are prominent and contain known biomarkers. 	Multiple Extracellular Vesicle Types in Peritoneal Dialysis Effluent are Prominent and Contain Known Biomarkers	Peritoneal Dialysis, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, extracellular vesicles	Peritoneal dialysis inevitability results in activation of inflammatory processes and its efficiency is highly variable between patients. An improved method to isolate biomarkers and study pathophysiological mechanisms in peritoneal dialysis effluent (PDE) is expected to be of much benefit for the development of this treatment approach and help with patient management. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are released as part of normal cellular processes. Their proteome is expected to reflect both type and health of their cell of origin. Although there is a significant interest in using EVs for "liquid biopsies", little is reported of their presence or composition in plentiful dialysis waste fluids, including peritoneal dialysis effluent (PDE). Here we determined the presence of EVs in PDE and subsequently characterized their proteome. EVs were first isolated from PDE using differential centrifugation, then a further enrichment using size exclusion chromatography (SEC) was performed. The presence of EVs was demonstrated using transmission electron microscopy, and their particle counts were investigated using nanoparticle tracking analysis and dynamic light scattering. Using tandem mass spectrometry, marker proteins from three types of EVs i.e. apoptotic bodies, ectosomes, and exosomes were identified. The proteomic results demonstrated that the isolation of EVs by differential centrifugation helped enrich for over 2,000 proteins normally masked by abundant proteins in PDE such as albumin and SEC markedly further improved the isolation of low abundant proteins. Gene ontology analysis of all identified proteins showed the marked enrichment of exosome and membrane-associated proteins. Over 3,700 proteins were identified in total, including many proteins with known roles in peritoneal pathophysiology. This study demonstrated the prominence of EVs in PDE and their potential value as a source of biomarkers for peritoneal dialysis patients.
PXD005190	28596291	DDX54 regulates transcriptome dynamics during DNA damage response. 	DDX54 regulates transcriptome dynamics during DNA damage response, DDX54 co-IP	DNA damage, RBPome, co-IP	The cellular response to genotoxic stress is mediated by a well-characterized network of DNA surveillance pathways. The contribution of post-transcriptional gene regulatory networks to the DNA damage response (DDR) has not been extensively studied. Here, we systematically identified RNA-binding proteins differentially interacting with polyadenylated transcripts upon exposure of human breast carcinoma cells to ionizing radiation (IR). Interestingly, more than 260 proteins, including many nucleolar proteins, showed increased binding to poly(A)(+) RNA in IR-exposed cells. The functional analysis of DDX54, a candidate genotoxic stress responsive RNA helicase, revealed that this protein is an immediate-to-early DDR regulator required for the splicing efficacy of its target IR-induced pre-mRNAs. Upon IR exposure, DDX54 acts by increased interaction with a well-defined class of pre-mRNAs that harbor introns with weak acceptor splice sites, as well as by protein-protein contacts within components of U2 snRNP and spliceosomal B complex, resulting in lower intron retention and higher processing rates of its target transcripts. Because DDX54 promotes survival after exposure to IR, its expression and/or mutation rate may impact DDR-related pathologies. Our work indicates the relevance of many uncharacterized RBPs potentially involved in the DDR.
PXD005941	28596424	S100-A9 protein in exosomes from chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells promotes NF-kappaB activity during disease progression. 	CLL exosomes -  S100-A9 protein in exosomes from chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells promotes NF-B activity during disease progression	plasma-derived exosomes CLL	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an incurable disease characterized by accumulation of clonal B lymphocytes, resulting from a complex balance between cell proliferation and apoptotic death. Continuous crosstalk between cancer cells and local/distant host environment is required for effective tumor growth. Among the main actors of this dynamic interplay between tumoral cells and their microenvironment are the nano-sized vesicles called exosomes. Emerging evidence indicates that secretion, composition, and functional capacity of exosomes are altered as tumors progress to an aggressive phenotype. In CLL, no data exist exploring the specific changes in the proteomic profile of plasma-derived exosomes from patients during disease evolution. We hereby report for the first time different proteomic profiles of plasma exosomes, both between indolent and progressive CLLs as well as within the individual patients at the onset of disease and during its progression. Next, we focus on the changes of the exosome protein cargoes, which are found exclusively in patients with progressive CLL after disease progression. The alterations in the proteomic cargoes underline different networks specific for leukemia progression related to inflammation, oxidative stress, and NF-kappaB and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/AKT pathway activation. Finally, our results suggest a preponderant role for the protein S100-A9 as an activator of the NFkappaB pathway during CLL progression and suggest that the leukemic clone can generate an autoactivation loop through S100-A9 expression, NF-kappaB activation, and exosome secretion. Collectively, our data propose a new pathway for NF-kappaB activation in CLL and highlight the importance of exosomes as extracellular mediators promoting tumor progression in CLL.
PXD004452	28601559	An Optimized Shotgun Strategy for the Rapid Generation of Comprehensive Human Proteomes. 	HeLa proteome of 12,250 protein-coding genes	ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, cell lines, deep proteomes, hela, immunopeptidomics, machine learning, shotgun proteomics, tissue	This study investigates the challenge of comprehensively cataloging the complete human proteome from a single-cell type using mass spectrometry (MS)-based shotgun proteomics. We modify a classical two-dimensional high-resolution reversed-phase peptide fractionation scheme and optimize a protocol that provides sufficient peak capacity to saturate the sequencing speed of modern MS instruments. This strategy enables the deepest proteome of a human single-cell type to date, with the HeLa proteome sequenced to a depth of ~584,000 unique peptide sequences and ~14,200 protein isoforms (~12,200 protein-coding genes). This depth is comparable with next-generation RNA sequencing and enables the identification of post-translational modifications, including ~7,000 N-acetylation sites and ~10,000 phosphorylation sites, without the need for enrichment. We further demonstrate the general applicability and clinical potential of this proteomics strategy by comprehensively quantifying global proteome expression in several different human cancer cell lines and patient tissue samples.
PXD006069	28602620	Integrin alpha7 Is a Functional Marker and Potential Therapeutic Target in Glioblastoma. 	Functional marker in glioblastoma	cancer stem cells, glioblastoma, glioma cell invasion, high throughput antibody screening, integrin alpha 7, stem cell marker	Functionally relevant markers of glioblastoma stem-like cells (GSCs) have potential for therapeutic targeting to treat this aggressive disease. Here we used generation and screening of thousands of monoclonal antibodies to search for receptors and signaling pathways preferentially enriched in GSCs. We identified integrin alpha7 (ITGA7) as a major laminin receptor in GSCs and in primary high-grade glioma specimens. Analyses of mRNA profiles in comprehensive datasets revealed that high ITGA7 expression negatively correlated with survival of patients with both low- and high-grade glioma. In vitro and in vivo analyses showed that ITGA7 plays a key functional role in growth and invasiveness of GSCs. We also found that targeting of ITGA7 by RNAi or blocking mAbs impaired laminin-induced signaling, and it led to a significant delay in tumor engraftment plus a strong reduction in tumor size and invasion. Our data, therefore, highlight ITGA7 as a glioblastoma biomarker and candidate therapeutic target.
PXD005976	28603765	Dataset to delineate changes in association between Akt1 and its interacting partners as a function of active state of Akt1 protein. 	Delineating changing partners of Akt1 protein as a function of its active state in HEK-293 Cells	APMS, Akt1, Interactome, SILAC	Akt1 is a multi-functional protein, implicated in multiple human solid tumors. Pertaining to its key role in cell survival, Akt1 is under focus for development of targeted therapies. Functional diversity of Akt1 is a result of its interactions with other proteins; which changes with changing context. This investigation was designed to capture the dynamics of Akt1 Interactome as a function of its active state. Delineating dynamic changes in association of Akt1 with its interactors could help us comprehend how it changes as a function of inhibition of its active form. Similar information on changes in Akt1 interactome as of now is not well explored. Akt1 expressing HEK293 cells were cultured in light and heavy labeled SILAC media. Normal lysine and arginine were incorporated as light labels while for heavy labeling the isotopes were 8 and 10 Da heavier. Light labeled cells represented the indigenous state of Akt1 interactome while heavy labeled cells represented Akt1 interactome in presence of its allosteric inhibitor, MK-2206. Equal number of cells from both conditions were pooled, lysed and subjected to Affinity Purification coupled to Mass Spectroscopy (AP-MS). Additionally, SILAC labeling aided in quantitative estimation of changing association of a number of proteins which were common to the two experimental conditions, with Akt1. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005976.
PXD006056	28604659	Inference and quantification of peptidoforms in large sample cohorts by SWATH-MS. 	Inference and quantification of peptidoforms in large sample cohorts by SWATH-MS: Phosphopeptide-enriched data set	IPF, OpenSWATH, benchmark, phosphopeptides	Consistent detection and quantification of protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) across sample cohorts is a prerequisite for functional analysis of biological processes. Data-independent acquisition (DIA) is a bottom-up mass spectrometry approach that provides complete information on precursor and fragment ions. However, owing to the convoluted structure of DIA data sets, confident, systematic identification and quantification of peptidoforms has remained challenging. Here, we present inference of peptidoforms (IPF), a fully automated algorithm that uses spectral libraries to query, validate and quantify peptidoforms in DIA data sets. The method was developed on data acquired by the DIA method SWATH-MS and benchmarked using a synthetic phosphopeptide reference data set and phosphopeptide-enriched samples. IPF reduced false site-localization by more than sevenfold compared with previous approaches, while recovering 85.4% of the true signals. Using IPF, we quantified peptidoforms in DIA data acquired from >200 samples of blood plasma of a human twin cohort and assessed the contribution of heritable, environmental and longitudinal effects on their PTMs.
PXD006268	28604699	CMG2/ANTXR2 regulates extracellular collagen VI which accumulates in hyaline fibromatosis syndrome. 	Comparative proteomics of non-nodular and nodular skin tissues from a Hyaline Fibromatosis Syndrome patient.	Collagen, Extracellular matrix, Hyaline Fibromatosis Syndrome, Skin	Loss-of-function mutations in capillary morphogenesis gene 2 (CMG2/ANTXR2), a transmembrane surface protein, cause hyaline fibromatosis syndrome (HFS), a severe genetic disorder that is characterized by large subcutaneous nodules, gingival hypertrophy and severe painful joint contracture. Here we show that CMG2 is an important regulator of collagen VI homoeostasis. CMG2 loss of function promotes accumulation of collagen VI in patients, leading in particular to nodule formation. Similarly, collagen VI accumulates massively in uteri of Antxr2(-/-) mice, which do not display changes in collagen gene expression, and leads to progressive fibrosis and sterility. Crossing Antxr2(-/-) with Col6a1(-/-) mice leads to restoration of uterine structure and reversion of female infertility. We also demonstrate that CMG2 may act as a signalling receptor for collagen VI and mediates its intracellular degradation.
PXD003469	28607076	Functional proteogenomics reveals biomarkers and therapeutic targets in lymphomas. 	Functional Proteogenomics Reveals Biomarkers and Therapeutic Targets in Lymphomas	B-cell lymphoma, MS/MS, glycoproteomics	Identification of biomarkers and therapeutic targets is a critical goal of precision medicine. N-glycoproteins are a particularly attractive class of proteins that constitute potential cancer biomarkers and therapeutic targets for small molecules, antibodies, and cellular therapies. Using mass spectrometry (MS), we generated a compendium of 1,091 N-glycoproteins (from 40 human primary lymphomas and cell lines). Hierarchical clustering revealed distinct subtype signatures that included several subtype-specific biomarkers. Orthogonal immunological studies in 671 primary lymphoma tissue biopsies and 32 lymphoma-derived cell lines corroborated MS data. In anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive (ALK(+)) anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL), integration of N-glycoproteomics and transcriptome sequencing revealed an ALK-regulated cytokine/receptor signaling network, including vulnerabilities corroborated by a genome-wide clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic screen. Functional targeting of IL-31 receptor beta, an ALCL-enriched and ALK-regulated N-glycoprotein in this network, abrogated ALK(+)ALCL growth in vitro and in vivo. Our results highlight the utility of functional proteogenomic approaches for discovery of cancer biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
PXD006734	28608391	The chloroplast-localized small heat shock protein Hsp21 associates with the thylakoid membranes in heat-stressed plants. 	Thylakoid membranes from Arabidopsis LC-MSMS	Hsp21, chaperone, heat shock protein, membranes, photosynthesis, quantitative mass spectrometry, stable isotope labelling, stress response, thermomemory, thylakoid	The small heat shock protein (sHsp) chaperones are crucial for cell survival and can prevent aggregation of client proteins that partially unfold under destabilizing conditions. Most investigations on the chaperone activity of sHsps are based on a limited set of thermosensitive model substrate client proteins since the endogenous targets are often not known. There is a high diversity among sHsps with a single conserved beta-sandwich fold domain defining the family, the alpha-crystallin domain, whereas the N-terminal and C-terminal regions are highly variable in length and sequence among various sHsps and conserved only within orthologues. The endogenous targets are probably also varying among various sHsps, cellular compartments, cell type and organism. Here we have investigated Hsp21, a non-metazoan sHsp expressed in the chloroplasts in green plants which experience huge environmental fluctuations not least in temperature. We describe how Hsp21 can also interact with the chloroplast thylakoid membranes, both when isolated thylakoid membranes are incubated with Hsp21 protein and when plants are heat-stressed. The amount of Hsp21 associated with the thylakoid membranes was precisely determined by quantitative mass spectrometry after metabolic (15) N-isotope labeling of either recombinantly expressed and purified Hsp21 protein or intact Arabidopsis thaliana plants. We found that Hsp21 is among few proteins that become associated with the thylakoid membranes in heat-stressed plants, and that approximately two thirds of the pool of chloroplast Hsp21 is affected. We conclude that for a complete picture of the role of sHsps in plant stress resistance also their association with the membranes should be considered.
PXD006568	28610761	Comparative proteomic analysis provides insight into the biological role of protein phosphatase inhibitor-2 from Arabidopsis. 	Comparative proteomics of reduced protein phosphatase inhibitor-2 expression in the loss of function mutant Arabidopsis	PPI-2, comparative proteomics, phosphatase inhibitor, protein-protein interaction, ribosome biogenesis, type-1 phosphatase	Protein phosphatase inhibitor-2 (PPI-2) is a conserved eukaryotic effector protein that inhibits type one protein phosphatases (TOPP). A transfer-DNA knockdown of AtPPI-2 resulted in stunted growth in both vegetative and reproductive phases of Arabidopsis development. At the cellular level, AtPPI-2 knockdown had 35 to 40% smaller cells in developing roots and leaves. This developmental phenotype was rescued by transgenic expression of the AtPPI-2 cDNA behind a constitutive promoter. Comparative proteomics of developing leaves of wild type (WT) and AtPPI-2 mutant revealed reduced levels of proteins associated with chloroplast development, ribosome biogenesis, transport, and cell cycle regulation processes. Decreased abundance of several ribosomal proteins, a DEAD box RNA helicase family protein (AtRH3), Clp protease (ClpP3) and proteins associated with cell division suggests a bottleneck in chloroplast ribosomal biogenesis and cell cycle regulation in AtPPI-2 mutant plants. In contrast, eight out of nine Arabidopsis TOPP isoforms were increased at the transcript level in AtPPI-2 leaves compared to WT. A protein-protein interaction network revealed that >75% of the differentially accumulated proteins have at least secondary and/or tertiary connections with AtPPI-2. Collectively, these data reveal a potential basis for the growth defects of AtPPI-2 and support the presumed role of AtPPI-2 as a master regulator for TOPPs, which regulate diverse growth and developmental processes. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Comparative label-free proteomics was used to characterize an AtPPI-2T-DNA knockdown mutant. The complex, reduced growth phenotype supports the notion that AtPPI-2 is a global regulator of TOPPs, and possibly other proteins. Comparative proteomics revealed a range of differences in protein abundance from various cellular processes such as chloroplast development, ribosome biogenesis, and transporter activity in the AtPPI-2 mutant relative to WT Arabidopsis. Collectively the results of proteomic analysis and the protein-protein network suggest that AtPPI-2 is involved in a wide range of biological processes either directly or indirectly including plastid biogenesis, translational mechanisms, and cell cycle regulation. The proposed protein interaction network comprises a testable model underlying changes in protein abundance in the AtPPI-2 mutant, and provides a better framework for future studies.
PXD006434	28611063	Global proteomic analysis of advanced glycation end products in the Arabidopsis proteome provides evidence for age-related glycation hot spots. 	Advanced glycation end products as markers of ageing in plants: glycation hotspots in the plant proteome	AGEs, Glycation, Plant Proteomics	Glycation is a post-translational modification resulting from the interaction of protein amino and guanidino groups with carbonyl compounds. Initially, amino groups react with reducing carbohydrates, yielding Amadori and Heyns compounds. Their further degradation results in formation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs), also originating from alpha-dicarbonyl products of monosaccharide autoxidation and primary metabolism. In mammals, AGEs are continuously formed during the life of the organism, accumulate in tissues, are well-known markers of aging, and impact age-related tissue stiffening and atherosclerotic changes. However, the role of AGEs in age-related molecular alterations in plants is still unknown. To fill this gap, we present here a comprehensive study of the age-related changes in the Arabidopsis thaliana glycated proteome, including the proteins affected and specific glycation sites therein. We also consider the qualitative and quantitative changes in glycation patterns in terms of the general metabolic background, pathways of AGE formation, and the status of plant anti-oxidative/anti-glycative defense. Although the patterns of glycated proteins were only minimally influenced by plant age, the abundance of 96 AGE sites in 71 proteins was significantly affected in an age-dependent manner and clearly indicated the existence of age-related glycation hot spots in the plant proteome. Homology modeling revealed glutamyl and aspartyl residues in close proximity (less than 5 Aa) to these sites in three aging-specific and eight differentially glycated proteins, four of which were modified in catalytic domains. Thus, the sites of glycation hot spots might be defined by protein structure that indicates, at least partly, site-specific character of glycation.
PXD005117	28611446	Genome-wide analysis of gene expression and protein secretion of Babesia canis during virulent infection identifies potential pathogenicity factors. 	Analysis of the Babesia canis secreted proteome during virulent infection	Babesia canis, canine babesiosis, pathogenicity factors, secretome, shot-gun MS	Infections of dogs with virulent strains of Babesia canis are characterized by rapid onset and high mortality, comparable to complicated human malaria. As in other apicomplexan parasites, most Babesia virulence factors responsible for survival and pathogenicity are secreted to the host cell surface and beyond where they remodel and biochemically modify the infected cell interacting with host proteins in a very specific manner. Here, we investigated factors secreted by B. canis during acute infections in dogs and report on in silico predictions and experimental analysis of the parasite's exportome. As a backdrop, we generated a fully annotated B. canis genome sequence of a virulent Hungarian field isolate (strain BcH-CHIPZ) underpinned by extensive genome-wide RNA-seq analysis. We find evidence for conserved factors in apicomplexan hemoparasites involved in immune-evasion (e.g. VESA-protein family), proteins secreted across the iRBC membrane into the host bloodstream (e.g. SA- and Bc28 protein families), potential moonlighting proteins (e.g. profilin and histones), and uncharacterized antigens present during acute crisis in dogs. The combined data provides a first predicted and partially validated set of potential virulence factors exported during fatal infections, which can be exploited for urgently needed innovative intervention strategies aimed at facilitating diagnosis and management of canine babesiosis.
PXD006314	28611588	Time-Dependent, HIV-Tat-Induced Perturbation of Human Neurons In Vitro: Towards a Model for the Molecular Pathology of HIV-Associated Neurocognitive Disorders. 	HIV-Tat treatment of human neurons in vitro over time: towards a model for the molecular pathology of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (~90% cell culture confluence dataset)	HIV associated neurocognitive disorders, HIV-Tat, Human neuronal cells, LCMSMS	A significant proportion of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV)-positive individuals are affected by the cognitive, motor and behavioral dysfunction that characterizes HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). While the molecular etiology of HAND remains largely uncharacterized, HIV transactivator of transcription (HIV-Tat) is thought to be an important etiological cause. Here we have used mass spectrometry (MS)-based discovery proteomics to identify the quantitative, cell-wide changes that occur when non-transformed, differentiated human neurons are treated with HIV-Tat over time. We identified over 4000 protein groups (false discovery rate <0.01) in this system with 131, 118 and 45 protein groups differentially expressed at 6, 24 and 48 h post treatment, respectively. Alterations in the expression of proteins involved in gene expression and cytoskeletal maintenance were particularly evident. In tandem with proteomic evidence of cytoskeletal dysregulation we observed HIV-Tat induced functional alterations, including a reduction of neuronal intrinsic excitability as assessed by patch-clamp electrophysiology. Our findings may be relevant for understanding in vivo molecular mechanisms in HAND.
PXD006113	28611809	Proteomic Analysis of Lipid Droplets from Arabidopsis Aging Leaves Brings New Insight into Their Biogenesis and Functions. 	Label free comparative proteome analysis of Arabidopsis lipid droplets from 6 week old leaves	label free, leaf, lipid droplet, oil bodies	Lipid droplets (LDs) are cell compartments specialized for oil storage. Although their role and biogenesis are relatively well documented in seeds, little is known about their composition, structure and function in senescing leaves where they also accumulate. Here, we used a label free quantitative mass spectrometry approach to define the LD proteome of aging Arabidopsis leaves. We found that its composition is highly different from that of seed/cotyledon and identified 28 proteins including 9 enzymes of the secondary metabolism pathways involved in plant defense response. With the exception of the TRIGALACTOSYLDIACYLGLYCEROL2 protein, we did not identify enzymes implicated in lipid metabolism, suggesting that growth of leaf LDs does not occur by local lipid synthesis but rather through contact sites with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) or other membranes. The two most abundant proteins of the leaf LDs are the CALEOSIN3 and the SMALL RUBBER PARTICLE1 (AtSRP1); both proteins have structural functions and participate in plant response to stress. CALEOSIN3 and AtSRP1 are part of larger protein families, yet no other members were enriched in the LD proteome suggesting a specific role of both proteins in aging leaves. We thus examined the function of AtSRP1 at this developmental stage and found that AtSRP1 modulates the expression of CALEOSIN3 in aging leaves. Furthermore, AtSRP1 overexpression induces the accumulation of triacylglycerol with an unusual composition compared to wild-type. We demonstrate that, although AtSRP1 expression is naturally increased in wild type senescing leaves, its overexpression in senescent transgenic lines induces an over-accumulation of LDs organized in clusters at restricted sites of the ER. Conversely, atsrp1 knock-down mutants displayed fewer but larger LDs. Together our results reveal that the abundancy of AtSRP1 regulates the neo-formation of LDs during senescence. Using electron tomography, we further provide evidence that LDs in leaves share tenuous physical continuity as well as numerous contact sites with the ER membrane. Thus, our data suggest that leaf LDs are functionally distinct from seed LDs and that their biogenesis is strictly controlled by AtSRP1 at restricted sites of the ER.
PXD006658	28612519	Glucosyltransferase-dependent and -independent effects of TcdB on the proteome of HEp-2 cells. 	HEp-2 TcdB -  Glucosyltransferase dependent and independent effects of TcdB on the proteome of HEp-2 cells	Clostridium difficile toxin B, Humen, LTQ-Orbitrap Velos, epithelial cell line	Toxin B (TcdB) of the nosocomial pathogen C. difficile has been reported to exhibit a glucosyltransferase-dependent and -independent effect on treated HEp-2 cells at toxin concentration above 0.3 nM. In order to investigate and further characterize both effects epithelial cells were treated with wild type TcdB and glucosyltransferase-deficient TcdBNXN and their proteomes were analyzed by LC-MS. Triplex SILAC labeling was used for quantification. Identification of 5212 and quantification of 4712 protein groups was achieved. Out of these 257 were affected by TcdB treatment, 92 by TcdBNXN treatment and 49 by both. TcdB mainly led to changes in proteins that are related to "GTPase mediated signaling" and the "cytoskeleton" while "chromatin" and "cell cycle" related proteins were altered by both, TcdB and TcdBNXN . The obtained dataset of HEp-2 cell proteome helps us to better understand glucosyltransferase-dependent and -independent mechanisms of TcdB and TcdBNXN , particularly those involved in pyknotic cell death. All proteomics data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with the dataset identifier PXD006658 (https://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD006658).
PXD005447	28614633	Differential sensitivity of total and active soil microbial communities to drought and forest management. 	Proteome data on soil microbial community	Metaproteomics, microbial community, soil	Climate change will affect semiarid ecosystems through severe droughts that increase the competition for resources in plant and microbial communities. In these habitats, adaptations to climate change may consist of thinning-that reduces competition for resources through a decrease in tree density and the promotion of plant survival. We deciphered the functional and phylogenetic responses of the microbial community to 6 years of drought induced by rainfall exclusion and how forest management affects its resistance to drought, in a semiarid forest ecosystem dominated by Pinus halepensis Mill. A multiOMIC approach was applied to reveal novel, community-based strategies in the face of climate change. The diversity and the composition of the total and active soil microbiome were evaluated by 16S rRNA gene (bacteria) and ITS (fungal) sequencing, and by metaproteomics. The microbial biomass was analyzed by phospholipid fatty acids (PLFAs), and the microbially mediated ecosystem multifunctionality was studied by the integration of soil enzyme activities related to the cycles of C, N, and P. The microbial biomass and ecosystem multifunctionality decreased in drought-plots, as a consequence of the lower soil moisture and poorer plant development, but this decrease was more notable in unthinned plots. The structure and diversity of the total bacterial community was unaffected by drought at phylum and order level, but did so at genus level, and was influenced by seasonality. However, the total fungal community and the active microbial community were more sensitive to drought and were related to ecosystem multifunctionality. Thinning in plots without drought increased the active diversity while the total diversity was not affected. Thinning promoted the resistance of ecosystem multifunctionality to drought through changes in the active microbial community. The integration of total and active microbiome analyses avoids misinterpretations of the links between the soil microbial community and climate change.
PXD004635	28615221	Coronin 1A, a novel player in integrin biology, controls neutrophil trafficking in innate immunity. 	Identification of novel Coronin 1A interacting proteins	Co-immunoprecipitation, Coronin 1A, GFP nanotraps, HL-60 cells, MaxQuant	Trafficking of polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) during inflammation critically depends on the beta2 integrins lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 (LFA-1) (CD11a/CD18) and macrophage-1 antigen (CD11b/CD18). Here, we identify coronin 1A (Coro1A) as a novel regulator of beta2 integrins that interacts with the cytoplasmic tail of CD18 and is crucial for induction of PMN adhesion and postadhesion events, including adhesion strengthening, spreading, and migration under flow conditions. Transition of PMN rolling to firm adhesion critically depends on Coro1A by regulating the accumulation of high-affinity LFA-1 in focal zones of adherent cells. Defective integrin affinity regulation in the genetic absence of Coro1A impairs leukocyte adhesion and extravasation in inflamed cremaster muscle venules in comparison with control animals. In a Helicobacter pylori mouse infection model, PMN infiltration into the gastric mucosa is dramatically reduced in Coro1A-/- mice, resulting in an attenuated gastric inflammation. Thus, Coro1A represents an important novel player in integrin biology, with key functions in PMN trafficking during innate immunity.
PXD006006	28615362	Drugging the catalytically inactive state of RET kinase in RET-rearranged tumors. 	Mechanistic insight into RET kinase inhibitors targeting the DFG-out conformation in RET-rearranged cancer	Kinase inhibitor, TMT, phosphoproteome	Oncogenic fusion events have been identified in a broad range of tumors. Among them, RET rearrangements represent distinct and potentially druggable targets that are recurrently found in lung adenocarcinomas. We provide further evidence that current anti-RET drugs may not be potent enough to induce durable responses in such tumors. We report that potent inhibitors, such as AD80 or ponatinib, that stably bind in the DFG-out conformation of RET may overcome these limitations and selectively kill RET-rearranged tumors. Using chemical genomics in conjunction with phosphoproteomic analyses in RET-rearranged cells, we identify the CCDC6-RET(I788N) mutation and drug-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway reactivation as possible mechanisms by which tumors may escape the activity of RET inhibitors. Our data provide mechanistic insight into the druggability of RET kinase fusions that may be of help for the development of effective therapies targeting such tumors.
PXD005304	28615672	Reconstruction of pathway modification induced by nicotinamide using multi-omic network analyses in triple negative breast cancer. 	In-depth proteomics analysis of nicotinamide responses in triple negative breast cancer cells	MDA-MB-231, TMT, TNBC, nicotinamide, quantitative proteomics	Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is characterized by an aggressive biological behavior in the absence of a specific target agent. Nicotinamide has recently been proven to be a novel therapeutic agent for skin tumors in an ONTRAC trial. We performed combinatory transcriptomic and in-depth proteomic analyses to characterize the network of molecular interactions in TNBC cells treated with nicotinamide. The multi-omic profiles revealed that nicotinamide drives significant functional alterations related to major cellular pathways, including the cell cycle, DNA replication, apoptosis and DNA damage repair. We further elaborated the global interaction networks of molecular events via nicotinamide-inducible expression changes at the mRNA and functional protein levels. This approach indicated that nicotinamide treatment rewires interaction networks toward dysfunction in DNA damage repair and away from a pro-growth state in TNBC. To our knowledge, the high-resolution network interactions identified in the present study provide the first evidence to comprehensively support the hypothesis of nicotinamide as a novel therapeutic agent in TNBC.
PXD004989	28615994	Characterisation of the circulating acellular proteome of healthy sheep using LC-MS/MS-based proteomics analysis of serum. 	PROTOTYPE OF THE CIRCULATING ACELLULAR PROTEOME OF HEALTHY SHEEP USING SERUM	Circulating Acellular Proteome, Serum, Sheep, nanoLC-nanoESI-MS/MS	BACKGROUND: Unlike humans, there is currently no publicly available reference mass spectrometry-based circulating acellular proteome data for sheep, limiting the analysis and interpretation of a range of physiological changes and disease states. The objective of this study was to develop a robust and comprehensive method to characterise the circulating acellular proteome in ovine serum. METHODS: Serum samples from healthy sheep were subjected to shotgun proteomic analysis using nano liquid chromatography nano electrospray ionisation tandem mass spectrometry (nanoLC-nanoESI-MS/MS) on a quadrupole time-of-flight instrument (TripleTOF(R) 5600+, SCIEX). Proteins were identified using ProteinPilot(TM) (SCIEX) and Mascot (Matrix Science) software based on a minimum of two unmodified highly scoring unique peptides per protein at a false discovery rate (FDR) of 1% software by searching a subset of the Universal Protein Resource Knowledgebase (UniProtKB) database (http://www.uniprot.org). PeptideShaker (CompOmics, VIB-UGent) searches were used to validate protein identifications from ProteinPilot(TM) and Mascot. RESULTS: ProteinPilot(TM) and Mascot identified 245 and 379 protein groups (IDs), respectively, and PeptideShaker validated 133 protein IDs from the entire dataset. Since Mascot software is considered the industry standard and identified the most proteins, these were analysed using the Protein ANalysis THrough Evolutionary Relationships (PANTHER) classification tool revealing the association of 349 genes with 127 protein pathway hits. These data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004989. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrated for the first time the feasibility of characterising the ovine circulating acellular proteome using nanoLC-nanoESI-MS/MS. This peptide spectral data contributes to a protein library that can be used to identify a wide range of proteins in ovine serum.
PXD006436	28619761	Exhaled breath condensate biomarkers for the early diagnosis of lung cancer using proteomics. 	Exhaled breath condensate biomarkers for the early diagnosis of lung cancer using proteomics	biomarkers, exhaled breath condensate, lung cancer	We explored whether the proteomic analysis of exhaled breath condensate (EBC) may provide biomarkers for noninvasive screening for the early detection of lung cancer (LC). EBC was collected from 192 individuals [49 control (C), 49 risk factor-smoking (S), 46 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and 48 LC]. With the use of liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry, 348 different proteins with a different pattern among the four groups were identified in EBC samples. Significantly more proteins were identified in the EBC from LC compared with other groups (C: 12.4 +/- 1.3; S: 15.3 +/- 1; COPD: 14 +/- 1.6; LC: 24.2 +/- 3.6; P = 0.0001). Furthermore, the average number of proteins identified per sample was significantly higher in LC patients, and receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) analysis showed an area under the curve of 0.8, indicating diagnostic value. Proteins frequently detected in EBC, such as dermcidin and hornerin, along with others much less frequently detected, such as hemoglobin and histones, were identified. Cytokeratins (KRTs) were the most abundant proteins in EBC samples, and levels of KRT6A, KRT6B, and KRT6C isoforms were significantly higher in samples from LC patients (P = 0.0031, 0.0011, and 0.0009, respectively). Moreover, the amount of most KRTs in EBC samples from LC patients showed a significant positive correlation with tumor size. Finally, we used a random forest algorithm to generate a robust model using EBC protein data for the diagnosis of patients with LC where the area under the ROC curve obtained indicated a good classification (82%). Thus this study demonstrates that the proteomic analysis of EBC samples is an appropriated approach to develop biomarkers for the diagnosis of lung cancer.
PXD005551	28623370	Rho-kinase inhibitor Y-27632 and hypoxia synergistically enhance chondrocytic phenotype and modify S100 protein profiles in human chondrosarcoma cells. 	Rho-kinase inhibitor Y-27632 and hypoxia synergistically enhance chondrocytic phenotype and change the S100 protein profile in human chondrosarcoma cells	LC/MS, chondrosarcoma	Articular chondrocytes are slowly dividing cells that tend to lose their cell type-specific phenotype and ability to produce structurally and functionally correct cartilage tissue when cultured. Thus, culture conditions, which enhance the maintenance of chondrocyte phenotype would be very useful for cartilage research. Here we show that Rho-kinase inhibition by Y-27632 under hypoxic conditions efficiently maintains and even enhances chondrocyte-specific extracellular matrix production by chondrocytic cells. The effects of long-term Y-27632 exposure to human chondrosarcoma 2/8 cell phenotype maintenance and extracellular matrix production were studied at normoxia and at a 5% low oxygen atmosphere. Y-27632 treatment at normoxia induced ACAN and COL2A1 gene up-regulation and a minor increase of sulfated glycosaminoglycans (sGAGs), while type II collagen expression was not significantly up-regulated. A further increase in expression of ACAN and COL2A1 was achieved with Y-27632 treatment and hypoxia. The production of sGAGs increased by 65.8%, and ELISA analysis revealed a 6-fold up-regulation of type II collagen. Y-27632 also induced the up-regulation of S100-A1 and S100-B proteins and modified the expression of several other S100 protein family members, such as S100-A4, S100-A6, S100-A13 and S100-A16. The up-regulation of S100-A1 and S100-B proteins is suggested to enhance the chondrocytic phenotype of these cells.
PXD006757	28625565	The CEP19-RABL2 GTPase Complex Binds IFT-B to Initiate Intraflagellar Transport at the Ciliary Base. 	CEP19-RABL2 GTPase complex in ciliary transport	Bardet-Biedl syndrome, CEP19-RABL2B complex, Cilia, GTPase, Genetics', Human Genetics, centriole, centrosome, ciliopathy, intraflagellar transport, metabolic syndrome, microtubules, obesity	Highly conserved intraflagellar transport (IFT) protein complexes direct both the assembly of primary cilia and the trafficking of signaling molecules. IFT complexes initially accumulate at the base of the cilium and periodically enter the cilium, suggesting an as-yet-unidentified mechanism that triggers ciliary entry of IFT complexes. Using affinity-purification and mass spectrometry of interactors of the centrosomal and ciliopathy protein, CEP19, we identify CEP350, FOP, and the RABL2B GTPase as proteins organizing the first known mechanism directing ciliary entry of IFT complexes. We discover that CEP19 is recruited to the ciliary base by the centriolar CEP350/FOP complex and then specifically captures GTP-bound RABL2B, which is activated via its intrinsic nucleotide exchange. Activated RABL2B then captures and releases its single effector, the intraflagellar transport B holocomplex, from the large pool of pre-docked IFT-B complexes, and thus initiates ciliary entry of IFT.
PXD005483	28625833	Colorectal Cancer Cell Line Proteomes Are Representative of Primary Tumors and Predict Drug Sensitivity. 	Integrative proteogenomic characterization of colorectal cancer cell lines and primary tumors	cell lines, colorectal cancer, drug sensitivity, mutation, transcriptome	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Proteomics holds promise for individualizing cancer treatment. We analyzed to what extent the proteomic landscape of human colorectal cancer (CRC) is maintained in established CRC cell lines and the utility of proteomics for predicting therapeutic responses. METHODS: Proteomic and transcriptomic analyses were performed on 44 CRC cell lines, compared against primary CRCs (n=95) and normal tissues (n=60), and integrated with genomic and drug sensitivity data. RESULTS: Cell lines mirrored the proteomic aberrations of primary tumors, in particular for intrinsic programs. Tumor relationships of protein expression with DNA copy number aberrations and signatures of post-transcriptional regulation were recapitulated in cell lines. The 5 proteomic subtypes previously identified in tumors were represented among cell lines. Nonetheless, systematic differences between cell line and tumor proteomes were apparent, attributable to stroma, extrinsic signaling, and growth conditions. Contribution of tumor stroma obscured signatures of DNA mismatch repair identified in cell lines with a hypermutation phenotype. Global proteomic data showed improved utility for predicting both known drug-target relationships and overall drug sensitivity as compared with genomic or transcriptomic measurements. Inhibition of targetable proteins associated with drug responses further identified corresponding synergistic or antagonistic drug combinations. Our data provide evidence for CRC proteomic subtype-specific drug responses. CONCLUSIONS: Proteomes of established CRC cell line are representative of primary tumors. Proteomic data tend to exhibit improved prediction of drug sensitivity as compared with genomic and transcriptomic profiles. Our integrative proteogenomic analysis highlights the potential of proteome profiling to inform personalized cancer medicine.
PXD005777	28626882	Quantitative proteome analysis of plasma microparticles for the characterization of HCV-induced hepatic cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Quantitative proteome analysis of plasma microparticles for characterization of HCV-induced hepatic cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma	hepatitis C virus, hepatocellular carcinoma, label-free proteomics, liver cirrhosis, plasma microparticles	PURPOSE: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary malignant liver tumor and a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Cirrhosis induced by hepatitis-C virus (HCV) infection is the most critical risk factor for HCC. However, the mechanism of HCV-induced carcinogenesis is not fully understood. Plasma microparticles (PMP) contribute to numerous physiological and pathological processes and contain proteins whose composition correlates to the respective pathophysiological conditions. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We analyzed PMP from 22 HCV-induced cirrhosis patients, 16 HCV-positive HCC patients with underlying cirrhosis and 18 healthy controls. PMP were isolated using ultracentrifugation and analyzed via label-free LC-MS/MS. RESULTS: We identified 840 protein groups and quantified 507 proteins. 159 proteins were found differentially abundant between the three experimental groups. PMP in both disease entities displayed remarkable differences in the proteome composition compared to healthy controls. Conversely, the proteome difference between both diseases was minimal. GO analysis revealed that PMP isolated from both diseases were significantly enriched in proteins involved in complement activation, while endopeptidase activity was downregulated exclusively in HCC patients. CONCLUSION: This study reports for the first time a quantitative proteome analysis for PMP from patients with HCV-induced cirrhosis and HCC. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005777.
PXD006252	28627741	Proteomics approach to identify novel metastatic bone markers from the secretome of PC-3 prostate cancer cells. 	RWPE-PC3 secretome -  Proteomics approach to identify novel metastatic bone markers from the secretome of PC-3 prostate cancer cells	Prostate cancer, Secretome, TMT labeling	Prostate cancer is the leading type of cancer diagnosed, and the most frequent cause of worldwide male cancer-related deaths annually. The limitations of current prostate cancer screening tests demand the identification of novel biomarkers for the early diagnosis of prostate cancer bone metastasis. In the present study, we performed a proteomic analysis of secreted proteins from the prostate cancer bone metastasis cell line, PC-3, and the normal prostate cell line, RWPE-1. We thus quantified 917 proteins, of which 68 were found to be secreted at higher levels by PC-3 than by RWPE-1 cells via LC-MS/MS. To characterize the highly secreted proteins in the PC-3 cell line and thereby identify biomarker proteins, we divided the quantifiable proteins into four quantitative categories (Q1-Q4). The KEGG lysine degradation and osteoclast differentiation pathways were demonstrated to be enriched in the highly secreted Q4 protein group. Transforming growth factor (TGF) beta family proteins related to osteoclast differentiation were identified as key regulators of PC-3 cell proliferation. Immunoblotting was used to confirm the observed high level of pentraxin, follistatin, TGF-beta family members, and serpin B3 secretion by PC-3 cells. From the collective results of the present study, we suggest that serpin B3 is a promising novel biomarker candidate for the diagnosis of prostate cancer bone metastasis.
PXD005351	28628098	Short-chain alkanes fuel mussel and sponge Cycloclasticus symbionts from deep-sea gas and oil seeps. 	Proteomics of Cycloclasticus endosymbiont of deep-sea mussel Bathymodiolus heckerae from Campeche Knolls, southern Gulf of Mexico	1D-LC, Cycloclasticus, chemosynthetic symbiosis, metaproteome, metaproteomics	Cycloclasticus bacteria are ubiquitous in oil-rich regions of the ocean and are known for their ability to degrade polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). In this study, we describe Cycloclasticus that have established a symbiosis with Bathymodiolus heckerae mussels and poecilosclerid sponges from asphalt-rich, deep-sea oil seeps at Campeche Knolls in the southern Gulf of Mexico. Genomic and transcriptomic analyses revealed that, in contrast to all previously known Cycloclasticus, the symbiotic Cycloclasticus appears to lack the genes needed for PAH degradation. Instead, these symbionts use propane and other short-chain alkanes such as ethane and butane as carbon and energy sources, thus expanding the limited range of substrates known to power chemosynthetic symbioses. Analyses of short-chain alkanes in the environment of the Campeche Knolls symbioses revealed that these are present at high concentrations (in the muM to mM range). Comparative genomic analyses revealed high similarities between the genes used by the symbiotic Cycloclasticus to degrade short-chain alkanes and those of free-living Cycloclasticus that bloomed during the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Our results indicate that the metabolic versatility of bacteria within the Cycloclasticus clade is higher than previously assumed, and highlight the expanded role of these keystone species in the degradation of marine hydrocarbons.
PXD006058	28628250	Grain subproteome responses to nitrogen and sulfur supply in diploid wheat Triticum monococcum ssp. monococcum. 	Grain proteome response to nitrogen and sulfur supply in einkorn (Triticum monococcum)	Triticum monococcum, albumin globulin, grain, nitrogen, nuclear proteome, sulfur	Wheat grain storage proteins (GSPs) make up most of the protein content of grain and determine flour end-use value. The synthesis and accumulation of GSPs depend highly on nitrogen (N) and sulfur (S) availability and it is important to understand the underlying control mechanisms. Here we studied how the einkorn (Triticum monococcum ssp. monococcum) grain proteome responds to different amounts of N and S supply during grain development. GSP composition at grain maturity was clearly impacted by nutrition treatments, due to early changes in the rate of GSP accumulation during grain filling. Large-scale analysis of the nuclear and albumin-globulin subproteomes during this key developmental phase revealed that the abundance of 203 proteins was significantly modified by the nutrition treatments. Our results showed that the grain proteome was highly affected by perturbation in the N:S balance. S supply strongly increased the rate of accumulation of S-rich alpha/beta-gliadin and gamma-gliadin, and the abundance of several other proteins involved in glutathione metabolism. Post-anthesis N supply resulted in the activation of amino acid metabolism at the expense of carbohydrate metabolism and the activation of transport processes including nucleocytoplasmic transit. Protein accumulation networks were analyzed. Several central actors in the response were identified whose variation in abundance was related to variation in the amounts of many other proteins and are thus potentially important for GSP accumulation. This detailed analysis of grain subproteomes provides information on how wheat GSP composition can possibly be controlled in low-level fertilization condition.
PXD005420	28629911	Combined Mass Spectrometry Imaging and Top-down Microproteomics Reveals Evidence of a Hidden Proteome in Ovarian Cancer. 	Ovarian serous cancer tumor microenvironment investigated by MALDI MSI associated to Top-down microproteomic: Evidence of a hidden proteome as novel potential target	Alternative Proteins, MALDI Imaging, Top Down micro-proteomics	BACKGROUND: Recently, it was demonstrated that proteins can be translated from alternative open reading frames (altORFs), increasing the size of the actual proteome. Top-down mass spectrometry-based proteomics allows the identification of intact proteins containing post-translational modifications (PTMs) as well as truncated forms translated from reference ORFs or altORFs. METHODS: Top-down tissue microproteomics was applied on benign, tumor and necrotic-fibrotic regions of serous ovarian cancer biopsies, identifying proteins exhibiting region-specific cellular localization and PTMs. The regions of interest (ROIs) were determined by MALDI mass spectrometry imaging and spatial segmentation. FINDINGS: Analysis with a customized protein sequence database containing reference and alternative proteins (altprots) identified 15 altprots, including alternative G protein nucleolar 1 (AltGNL1) found in the tumor, and translated from an altORF nested within the GNL1 canonical coding sequence. Co-expression of GNL1 and altGNL1 was validated by transfection in HEK293 and HeLa cells with an expression plasmid containing a GNL1-FLAG((V5)) construct. Western blot and immunofluorescence experiments confirmed constitutive co-expression of altGNL1-V5 with GNL1-FLAG. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our approach provides means to evaluate protein changes in the case of serous ovarian cancer, allowing the detection of potential markers that have never been considered.
PXD005559	28630087	Paucimannose-Rich N-glycosylation of Spatiotemporally Regulated Human Neutrophil Elastase Modulates Its Immune Functions. 	Proteome profiling of human neutrophil granule subsets, secretory vesicles, and cell membrane	human neutrophil granules, quantitative proteomic profiling, secretory vesicles	Human neutrophil elastase (HNE) is an important N-glycosylated serine protease in the innate immune system, but the structure and immune-modulating functions of HNE N-glycosylation remain undescribed. Herein, LC-MS/MS-based glycan, glycopeptide and glycoprotein profiling were utilized to first determine the heterogeneous N-glycosylation of HNE purified from neutrophil lysates and then from isolated neutrophil granules of healthy individuals. The spatiotemporal expression of HNE during neutrophil activation and the biological importance of its N-glycosylation were also investigated using immunoblotting, cell surface capture, native MS, receptor interaction, protease inhibition, and bacteria growth assays. Site-specific HNE glycoprofiling demonstrated that unusual paucimannosidic N-glycans, particularly Manalpha1,6Manbeta1,4GlcNAcbeta1,4(Fucalpha1,6)GlcNAcbeta, predominantly occupied Asn124 and Asn173. The equally unusual core fucosylated monoantenna complex-type N-sialoglycans also decorated these two fully occupied sites. In contrast, the mostly unoccupied Asn88 carried nonfucosylated paucimannosidic N-glycans probably resulting from low glycosylation site solvent accessibility. Asn185 was not glycosylated. Subcellular- and site-specific glycoprofiling showed highly uniform N-glycosylation of HNE residing in distinct neutrophil compartments. Stimulation-induced cell surface mobilization demonstrated a spatiotemporal regulation, but not cell surface-specific glycosylation signatures, of HNE in activated human neutrophils. The three glycosylation sites of HNE were located distal to the active site indicating glycan functions other than interference with HNE enzyme activity. Functionally, the paucimannosidic HNE glycoforms displayed preferential binding to human mannose binding lectin compared with the HNE sialoglycoforms, suggesting a glycoform-dependent involvement of HNE in complement activation. The heavily N-glycosylated HNE protease inhibitor, alpha1-antitrypsin, displayed concentration-dependent complex formation and preferred glycoform-glycoform interactions with HNE. Finally, both enzymatically active HNE and isolated HNE N-glycans demonstrated low micromolar concentration-dependent growth inhibition of clinically-relevant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, suggesting some bacteriostatic activity is conferred by the HNE N-glycans. Taken together, these observations support that the unusual HNE N-glycosylation, here reported for the first time, is involved in modulating multiple immune functions central to inflammation and infection.
PXD005343	28630322	TCTE1 is a conserved component of the dynein regulatory complex and is required for motility and metabolism in mouse spermatozoa. 	Proteome of Tcte1 deficient mouse sperm	TMT6, Tcte1, sperm	Flagella and cilia are critical cellular organelles that provide a means for cells to sense and progress through their environment. The central component of flagella and cilia is the axoneme, which comprises the "9+2" microtubule arrangement, dynein arms, radial spokes, and the nexin-dynein regulatory complex (N-DRC). Failure to properly assemble components of the axoneme leads to defective flagella and in humans leads to a collection of diseases referred to as ciliopathies. Ciliopathies can manifest as severe syndromic diseases that affect lung and kidney function, central nervous system development, bone formation, visceral organ organization, and reproduction. T-Complex-Associated-Testis-Expressed 1 (TCTE1) is an evolutionarily conserved axonemal protein present from Chlamydomonas (DRC5) to mammals that localizes to the N-DRC. Here, we show that mouse TCTE1 is testis-enriched in its expression, with its mRNA appearing in early round spermatids and protein localized to the flagellum. TCTE1 is 498 aa in length with a leucine rich repeat domain at the C terminus and is present in eukaryotes containing a flagellum. Knockout of Tcte1 results in male sterility because Tcte1-null spermatozoa show aberrant motility. Although the axoneme is structurally normal in Tcte1 mutant spermatozoa, Tcte1-null sperm demonstrate a significant decrease of ATP, which is used by dynein motors to generate the bending force of the flagellum. These data provide a link to defining the molecular intricacies required for axoneme function, sperm motility, and male fertility.
PXD005419	28632769	Combining 'omics and microscopy to visualize interactions between the Asian citrus psyllid vector and the Huanglongbing pathogen Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus in the insect gut. 	Asian citrus psyllid gut LC-MSMS	ACP, Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus, Diaphorina citri, Wolbachia, citrus, gut, psyllid	Huanglongbing, or citrus greening disease, is an economically devastating bacterial disease of citrus. It is associated with infection by the gram-negative bacterium Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus (CLas). CLas is transmitted by Diaphorina citri, the Asian citrus psyllid (ACP). For insect transmission to occur, CLas must be ingested during feeding on infected phloem sap and cross the gut barrier to gain entry into the insect vector. To investigate the effects of CLas exposure at the gut-pathogen interface, we performed RNAseq and mass spectrometry-based proteomics to analyze the transcriptome and proteome, respectively, of ACP gut tissue. CLas exposure resulted in changes in pathways involving the TCA cycle, iron metabolism, insecticide resistance and the insect's immune system. We identified 83 long non-coding RNAs that are responsive to CLas, two of which appear to be specific to the ACP. Proteomics analysis also enabled us to determine that Wolbachia, a symbiont of the ACP, undergoes proteome regulation when CLas is present. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) confirmed that Wolbachia and CLas inhabit the same ACP gut cells, but do not co-localize within those cells. Wolbachia cells are prevalent throughout the gut epithelial cell cytoplasm, and Wolbachia titer is more variable in the guts of CLas exposed insects. CLas is detected on the luminal membrane, in puncta within the gut epithelial cell cytoplasm, along actin filaments in the gut visceral muscles, and rarely, in association with gut cell nuclei. Our study provides a snapshot of how the psyllid gut copes with CLas exposure and provides information on pathways and proteins for targeted disruption of CLas-vector interactions at the gut interface.
PXD002895	28634120	Highly reproducible improved label-free quantitative analysis of cellular phosphoproteome by optimization of LC-MS/MS gradient and analytical column construction. 	Standard Pressure LC-MS/MS Using 1.9um C18 Particles Column at Room Temperature	Fritless Column, Jurkat, Single-run Proteomics	Expanding the sequencing depth of the peptides with a statistically significant quantitative change derived from a biological stimulation is critical. Here we demonstrate that optimization of LC gradient and analytical column construction can reveal over 30,000 unique peptides and 23,000 phosphopeptides at high confidence. The quantitative reproducibility of different analytical workflows was evaluated by comparing the phosphoproteome of CD3/4 stimulated and unstimulated T-cells as a model system. A fritless, 50cm-long column packed with 1.9mum particles operated with a standard pressure HPLC significantly improved the sequencing depth 51% and decreased the selected ion chromatogram peak spreading. Most importantly, under the optimal workflow we observed an improvement of over 300% in detection of significantly changed phosphopeptides in the stimulated cells compared with the other workflows. The discovery power of the optimized column configuration was illustrated by identification of significantly altered phosphopeptides harboring novel sites from proteins previously established as important in T cell signaling including A-Raf, B-Raf, c-Myc, CARMA1, Fyn, ITK, LAT, NFAT1/2/3, PKCalpha, PLCgamma1/2, RAF1, and SOS1. Taken together, our results reveal the analytical power of optimized chromatography using sub 2mum particles for the analysis of the T cell phosphoproteome to reveal a vast landscape of significantly altered phosphorylation changes in response to T cell receptor stimulation.
PXD005568	28634367	Proteomic analysis reveals large amounts of decomposition enzymes and major metabolic pathways involved in algicidal process of Trametes versicolor F21a. 	Proteomic analysis reveals large amounts of decomposition enzymes and major metabolic pathways involved in algicidal process of Trametes versicolor F21a	Trametes versicolor F21a	A recent algicidal mode indicates that fungal mycelia can wrap and eliminate almost all co-cultivated algal cells within a short time span. However, the underlying molecular mechanism is rarely understood. We applied proteomic analysis to investigate the algicidal process of Trametes versicolor F21a and identified 3,754 fungal proteins. Of these, 30 fungal enzymes with endo- or exoglycosidase activities such as beta-1,3-glucanase, alpha-galactosidase, alpha-glucosidase, alginate lyase and chondroitin lyase were significantly up-regulated. These proteins belong to Glycoside Hydrolases, Auxiliary Activities, Carbohydrate Esterases and Polysaccharide Lyases, suggesting that these enzymes may degrade lipopolysaccharides, peptidoglycans and alginic acid of algal cells. Additionally, peptidase, exonuclease, manganese peroxidase and cytochrome c peroxidase, which decompose proteins and DNA or convert other small molecules of algal cells, could be other major decomposition enzymes. Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis demonstrated that pyruvate metabolism and tricarboxylic acid cycle pathways play a critical role in response to adverse environment via increasing energy production to synthesize lytic enzymes or uptake molecules. Carbon metabolism, selenocompound metabolism, sulfur assimilation and metabolism, as well as several amino acid biosynthesis pathways could play vital roles in the synthesis of nutrients required by fungal mycelia.
PXD006254	28636386	MsViz: A Graphical Software Tool for In-Depth Manual Validation and Quantitation of Post-translational Modifications. 	Phosphorylation of OSBL8 protein in interphase vs mitotic human cells	OSBL8, QExactive, phosphorylation, tandem mass spectrometry	Mass spectrometry (MS) has become the tool of choice for the large scale identification and quantitation of proteins and their post-translational modifications (PTMs). This development has been enabled by powerful software packages for the automated analysis of MS data. While data on PTMs of thousands of proteins can nowadays be readily obtained, fully deciphering the complexity and combinatorics of modification patterns even on a single protein often remains challenging. Moreover, functional investigation of PTMs on a protein of interest requires validation of the localization and the accurate quantitation of its changes across several conditions, tasks that often still require human evaluation. Software tools for large scale analyses are highly efficient but are rarely conceived for interactive, in-depth exploration of data on individual proteins. We here describe MsViz, a web-based and interactive software tool that supports manual validation of PTMs and their relative quantitation in small- and medium-size experiments. The tool displays sequence coverage information, peptide-spectrum matches, tandem MS spectra and extracted ion chromatograms through a single, highly intuitive interface. We found that MsViz greatly facilitates manual data inspection to validate PTM location and quantitate modified species across multiple samples.
PXD003975	28637836	Bacterial Cellulose Shifts Transcriptome and Proteome of Cultured Endothelial Cells Towards Native Differentiation. 	Molecular characterization of HUVEC in vivo and in vitro	HUVEC, transcriptomics	Preserving the native phenotype of primary cells in vitro is a complex challenge. Recently, hydrogel-based cellular matrices have evolved as alternatives to conventional cell culture techniques. We developed a bacterial cellulose-based aqueous gel-like biomaterial, dubbed Xellulin, which mimics a cellular microenvironment and seems to maintain the native phenotype of cultured and primary cells. When applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), it allowed the continuous cultivation of cell monolayers for more than one year without degradation or dedifferentiation. To investigate the impact of Xellulin on the endothelial cell phenotype in detail, we applied quantitative transcriptomics and proteomics and compared the molecular makeup of native HUVEC, HUVEC on collagen-coated Xellulin and collagen-coated cell culture plastic (polystyrene).Statistical analysis of 12,475 transcripts and 7831 proteins unveiled massive quantitative differences of the compared transcriptomes and proteomes. K-means clustering followed by network analysis showed that HUVEC on plastic upregulate transcripts and proteins controlling proliferation, cell cycle and protein biosynthesis. In contrast, HUVEC on Xellulin maintained, by and large, the expression levels of genes supporting their native biological functions and signaling networks such as integrin, receptor tyrosine kinase MAP/ERK and PI3K signaling pathways, while decreasing the expression of proliferation associated proteins. Moreover, CD34-an endothelial cell differentiation marker usually lost early during cell culture - was re-expressed within 2 weeks on Xellulin but not on plastic. And HUVEC on Xellulin showed a significantly stronger functional responsiveness to a prototypic pro-inflammatory stimulus than HUVEC on plastic.Taken together, this is one of the most comprehensive transcriptomic and proteomic studies of native and propagated HUVEC, which underscores the importance of the morphology of the cellular microenvironment to regulate cellular differentiation, and demonstrates, for the first time, the potential of Xellulin as versatile tool promoting an in vivo-like phenotype in primary and propagated cell culture.
PXD005544	28638726	Downregulation of antigen presentation-associated pathway proteins is linked to poor outcome in triple-negative breast cancer patient tumors. 	Downregulation of antigen presentation-associated pathway proteins in poor outcome triple-negative breast cancer patient tumors	MHC class I antigen presentation pathway, Triple-negative breast cancer, basal-like breast cancer, biomarker, formalin-fixed paraffin embedded, major histocompatibility complex	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a heterogeneous subtype with varying disease outcomes. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) are frequent in TNBC and have been shown to correlate with outcome, suggesting an immunogenic component in this subtype. However, other factors intrinsic to the cancer cells may also influence outcome. To identify proteins and molecular pathways associated with recurrence in TNBC, 34 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) primary TNBC tumors were investigated by global proteomic profiling using mass spectrometry. Approximately, half of the patients were lymph node-negative and remained free of local or distant metastasis within 10 y follow-up, while the other half developed distant metastasis. Proteomic profiling identified >4,000 proteins, of which 63 exhibited altered expression in primary tumors of recurrence versus recurrence-free patients. Importantly, downregulation of proteins in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I antigen presentation pathways were enriched, including TAP1, TAP2, CALR, HLA-A, ERAP1 and TAPBP, and were associated with significantly shorter recurrence-free and overall survival. In addition, proteins involved in cancer cell proliferation and growth, including GBP1, RAD23B, WARS and STAT1, also exhibited altered expression in primary tumors of recurrence versus recurrence-free patients. The association between the antigen-presentation pathway and outcome were validated in a second sample set of 10 primary TNBC tumors and corresponding metastases using proteomics and in a large public gene expression database of 249 TNBC and 580 basal-like breast cancer cases. Our study demonstrates that downregulation of antigen presentation is a key mechanism for TNBC cells to avoid immune surveillance, allowing continued growth and spread.
PXD004784	28641008	Hypoxia-Induced Changes in the Fibroblast Secretome, Exosome, and Whole-Cell Proteome Using Cultured, Cardiac-Derived Cells Isolated from Neonatal Mice. 	Hypoxia-induced changes in the fibroblast secretome, exosome, and whole-cell proteome using cultured, cardiac-derived cells isolated from neonatal mice	Cardiac fibroblast, Exosome, Secretome	Cardiac fibroblasts (CFs) represent a major subpopulation of cells in the developing and adult heart. Cardiomyocyte (CM) and CF intercellular communication occurs through paracrine interactions and modulate myocyte development and stress response. Detailed proteomic analysis of the CF secretome in normal and stressed conditions may offer insights into the role of CF in heart development and disease. Primary neonatal mouse CFs were isolated and cultured for 24 h in 21% (normoxic) or 2% (hypoxic) O2. Conditioned medium was separated to obtain exosomes (EXO) and EXO-depleted secretome fractions. Multidimensional protein identification technology was performed on secreted fractions. Whole cell lysate data were also generated to provide subcellular context to the secretome. Proteomic analysis identified 6163 unique proteins in total. Statistical (QSpec) analysis identified 494 proteins differentially expressed between fractions and oxygen conditions. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis revealed hypoxic conditions selectively increase expression of proteins with extracellular matrix and signaling annotations. Finally, we subjected CM pretreated with CF secreted factors to hypoxia/reoxygenation. Viability assays suggested altered viability due to CF-derived factors. CF secretome proteomics revealed differential expression based on mode of secretion and oxygen levels in vitro.
PXD004895	28643940	Proteomic profiling of extracellular vesicles secreted from Toxoplasma gondii. 	PROTEOMIC PROFILING OF EXTRACELLULAR VESICLES OBTAINED FROM Toxoplasma gondii AND TOXOPLASMA-INFECTED CELLS	Toxoplasma gondii, extracellular vesicles	Toxoplasma gondii infects a wide range of hosts worldwide, including humans and domesticated animals causing toxoplasmosis disease. Recently, exosomes, small extracellular vesicles (EV) that contain nucleic acids, proteins, and lipids derived from their original cells were linked with disease protection. The effect of EVs derived from T. gondii on the immune response and its relevance in a physiological context is unknown. Here we disclose the first proteomic profiling of T. gondii EVs compared to EVs isolated from a human foreskin fibroblast infected cell line cultured in a vesicle-free medium. Our results reveal a broad range of canonical exosomes proteins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD004895.
PXD005165	28644030	A PLC-gamma1 Feedback Pathway Regulates Lck Substrate Phosphorylation at the T-Cell Receptor and SLP-76 Complex. 	PLC-gamma1 Can Regulate T-Cell Activation by Positive and Negative Feedback via Lck	PLC-gamma1, Phospholipase C, Phosphoproteomics, TCR signaling	Phospholipase C gamma 1 (PLC-gamma1) occupies a critically important position in the T-cell signaling pathway. While its functions as a regulator of both Ca(2+) signaling and PKC-family kinases are well characterized, PLC-gamma1's role in the regulation of early T-cell receptor signaling events is incompletely understood. Activation of the T-cell receptor leads to the formation of a signalosome complex between SLP-76, LAT, PLC-gamma1, Itk, and Vav1. Recent studies have revealed the existence of both positive and negative feedback pathways from SLP-76 to the apical kinase in the pathway, Lck. To determine if PLC-gamma1 contributes to the regulation of these feedback networks, we performed a quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of PLC-gamma1-deficient T cells. These data revealed a previously unappreciated role for PLC-gamma1 in the positive regulation of Zap-70 and T-cell receptor tyrosine phosphorylation. Conversely, PLC-gamma1 negatively regulated the phosphorylation of SLP-76-associated proteins, including previously established Lck substrate phosphorylation sites within this complex. While the positive and negative regulatory phosphorylation sites on Lck were largely unchanged, Tyr(192) phosphorylation was elevated in Jgamma1. The data supports a model wherein Lck's targeting, but not its kinase activity, is altered by PLC-gamma1, possibly through Lck Tyr(192) phosphorylation and increased association of the kinase with protein scaffolds SLP-76 and TSAd.
PXD005571	28646562	Argininosuccinate synthase 1 (ASS1): A marker of unclassified hepatocellular adenoma and high bleeding risk. 	Proteomic analysis of Hepatocellular Adenoma	Hepatocellular Adenoma, Liver, arginine metabolism, hemorrhage risk, quantitative proteome	Hepatocellular adenomas (HCAs) are rare benign tumors divided into three main subgroups defined by pathomolecular features, HNF1A (H-HCA), mutated beta-catenin (b-HCA), and inflammatory (IHCA). In the case of unclassified HCAs (UHCAs), which are currently identified by default, a high risk of bleeding remains a clinical issue. The objective of this study was to explore UHCA proteome with the aim to identify specific biomarkers. Following dissection of the tumoral (T) and nontumoral (NT) tissue on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded HCA tissue sections using laser capture methodology, we performed mass spectrometry analysis to compare T and NT protein expression levels in H-HCA, IHCA, b-HCA, UHCA, and focal nodular hyperplasia. Using this methodology, we searched for proteins which are specifically deregulated in UHCA. We demonstrate that proteomic profiles allow for discriminating known HCA subtypes through identification of classical biomarkers in each HCA subgroup. We observed specific up-regulation of the arginine synthesis pathway associated with overexpression of argininosuccinate synthase (ASS1) and arginosuccinate lyase in UHCA. ASS1 immunohistochemistry identified all the UHCA, of which 64.7% presented clinical bleeding manifestations. Interestingly, we demonstrated that the significance of ASS1 was not restricted to UHCA, but also encompassed certain hemorrhagic cases in other HCA subtypes, particularly IHCA. CONCLUSION: ASS1 + HCA combined with a typical hematoxylin and eosin stain aspect defined a new HCA subgroup at a high risk of bleeding. (Hepatology 2017;66:2016-2028).
PXD005739	28648085	Specifying RNA-Binding Regions in Proteins by Peptide Cross-Linking and Affinity Purification. 	RNA-binding protein regions in human cells	Human cell lines	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) allow cells to carry out pre-RNA processing and post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression, and aberrations in RBP functions have been linked to many diseases, including neurological disorders and cancer. Human cells encode thousands of RNA-binding proteins with unique RNA-binding properties. These properties are regulated through modularity of a large variety of RNA-binding domains, rendering RNA-protein interactions difficult to study. Recently, the introduction of proteomics methods has provided novel insights into RNA-binding proteins at a systems level. However, determining the exact protein sequence regions that interact with RNA remains challenging and laborious, especially considering that many RBPs lack canonical RNA-binding domains. Here we describe a streamlined proteomic workflow called peptide cross-linking and affinity purification (pCLAP) that allows rapid characterization of RNA-binding regions in proteins. pCLAP is based upon the combined use of UV cross-linking and enzymatic digestion of RNA-bound proteins followed by single-shot mass spectrometric analysis. To benchmark our method, we identified the binding regions for polyadenylated RNA-binding proteins in HEK293 cells, allowing us to map the mRNA interaction regions of more than 1000 RBPs with very high reproducibility from replicate single-shot analyses. Our results show specific enrichment of many known RNA-binding regions on many known RNA-binding proteins, confirming the specificity of our approach.
PXD006461	28648777	mTORC2 Regulates Amino Acid Metabolism in Cancer by Phosphorylation of the Cystine-Glutamate Antiporter xCT. 	mTORC2 regulates amino acid metabolism in cancer by phosphorylation of the cystine-glutamate antiporter xCT	mTORC2, xCT	Mutations in cancer reprogram amino acid metabolism to drive tumor growth, but the molecular mechanisms are not well understood. Using an unbiased proteomic screen, we identified mTORC2 as a critical regulator of amino acid metabolism in cancer via phosphorylation of the cystine-glutamate antiporter xCT. mTORC2 phosphorylates serine 26 at the cytosolic N terminus of xCT, inhibiting its activity. Genetic inhibition of mTORC2, or pharmacologic inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) kinase, promotes glutamate secretion, cystine uptake, and incorporation into glutathione, linking growth factor receptor signaling with amino acid uptake and utilization. These results identify an unanticipated mechanism regulating amino acid metabolism in cancer, enabling tumor cells to adapt to changing environmental conditions.
PXD005714	28648780	The Histone Acetyltransferase Mst2 Protects Active Chromatin from Epigenetic Silencing by Acetylating the Ubiquitin Ligase Brl1. 	The histone acetyltransferase Mst2 protects active chromatin from epigenetic silencing by acetylating the ubiquitin ligase Brl1	Brl1, MS3, Mst2, acetylation, acetylome, heterochromatin	Faithful propagation of functionally distinct chromatin states is crucial for maintaining cellular identity, and its breakdown can lead to diseases such as cancer. Whereas mechanisms that sustain repressed states have been intensely studied, regulatory circuits that protect active chromatin from inactivating signals are not well understood. Here we report a positive feedback loop that preserves the transcription-competent state of RNA polymerase II-transcribed genes. We found that Pdp3 recruits the histone acetyltransferase Mst2 to H3K36me3-marked chromatin. Thereby, Mst2 binds to all transcriptionally active regions genome-wide. Besides acetylating histone H3K14, Mst2 also acetylates Brl1, a component of the histone H2B ubiquitin ligase complex. Brl1 acetylation increases histone H2B ubiquitination, which positively feeds back on transcription and prevents ectopic heterochromatin assembly. Our work uncovers a molecular pathway that secures epigenome integrity and highlights the importance of opposing feedback loops for the partitioning of chromatin into transcriptionally active and inactive states.
PXD006455	28649982	Structural and regulatory diversity shape HLA-C protein expression levels. 	HLA-C*05:01 and HLA-C*07:02 from 721.221 cells	HLA Class I, HLA-C, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Expression of HLA-C varies widely across individuals in an allele-specific manner. This variation in expression can influence efficacy of the immune response, as shown for infectious and autoimmune diseases. MicroRNA binding partially influences differential HLA-C expression, but the additional contributing factors have remained undetermined. Here we use functional and structural analyses to demonstrate that HLA-C expression is modulated not just at the RNA level, but also at the protein level. Specifically, we show that variation in exons 2 and 3, which encode the alpha1/alpha2 domains, drives differential expression of HLA-C allomorphs at the cell surface by influencing the structure of the peptide-binding cleft and the diversity of peptides bound by the HLA-C molecules. Together with a phylogenetic analysis, these results highlight the diversity and long-term balancing selection of regulatory factors that modulate HLA-C expression.
PXD004867	28650319	Somatostatin binds to the human amyloid beta peptide and favors the formation of distinct oligomers. 	The human amyloid beta peptide interactome	Alzheimer's disease, affinity purification, amyloid beta, brain, frontal lobe, orbitrap	The amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) is a key player in the etiology of Alzheimer disease (AD), yet a systematic investigation of its molecular interactions has not been reported. Here we identified by quantitative mass spectrometry proteins in human brain extract that bind to oligomeric Abeta1-42 (oAbeta1-42) and/or monomeric Abeta1-42 (mAbeta1-42) baits. Remarkably, the cyclic neuroendocrine peptide somatostatin-14 (SST14) was observed to be the most selectively enriched oAbeta1-42 binder. The binding interface comprises a central tryptophan within SST14 and the N-terminus of Abeta1-42. The presence of SST14 inhibited Abeta aggregation and masked the ability of several antibodies to detect Abeta. Notably, Abeta1-42, but not Abeta1-40, formed in the presence of SST14 oligomeric assemblies of 50 to 60 kDa that were visualized by gel electrophoresis, nanoparticle tracking analysis and electron microscopy. These findings may be relevant for Abeta-directed diagnostics and may signify a role of SST14 in the etiology of AD.
PXD006049	28650437	Antigen-capturing nanoparticles improve the abscopal effect and cancer immunotherapy. 	Proteomic analysis of antigen-capturing nanoparticles	cancer immunotherapy, nanoparticles	Immunotherapy holds tremendous promise for improving cancer treatment. To administer radiotherapy with immunotherapy has been shown to improve immune responses and can elicit the 'abscopal effect'. Unfortunately, response rates for this strategy remain low. Herein we report an improved cancer immunotherapy approach that utilizes antigen-capturing nanoparticles (AC-NPs). We engineered several AC-NP formulations and demonstrated that the set of protein antigens captured by each AC-NP formulation is dependent on the NP surface properties. We showed that AC-NPs deliver tumour-specific proteins to antigen-presenting cells (APCs) and significantly improve the efficacy of alphaPD-1 (anti-programmed cell death 1) treatment using the B16F10 melanoma model, generating up to a 20% cure rate compared with 0% without AC-NPs. Mechanistic studies revealed that AC-NPs induced an expansion of CD8(+) cytotoxic T cells and increased both CD4(+)T/Treg and CD8(+)T/Treg ratios (Treg, regulatory T cells). Our work presents a novel strategy to improve cancer immunotherapy with nanotechnology.
PXD006327	28650464	beta-catenin downregulates Dicer to promote ovarian cancer metastasis. 	B-catenin downregulates Dicer to promote ovarian cancer metastasis	Dicer, metastasis, microRNA, ovarian cancer, beta-catenin	Ovarian cancer is a nearly uniform lethal disease and its highly aggressive metastatic phenotype portends a poor prognosis. Lack of a well-controlled, relevant experimental model has been a major obstacle to identifying key molecules causing metastasis. Here we describe the creation of a new isogenic model of spontaneous human ovarian cancer metastasis exhibiting opposite phenotypes-highly metastatic (HM) and non-metastatic (NM)-both in vitro and in vivo. HM was unique in its ability to metastasize consistently to the peritoneum, mimicking the major dissemination route of human ovarian cancer. In contrast, NM failed to form detectable metastases, although it was equally tumorigenic. Using comparative label-free quantitative liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), we identified beta-catenin, which we demonstrated for the first time as having a direct role in the pathogenesis of ovarian cancer metastasis. Our studies also revealed a previously unrecognized role of beta-catenin in the downregulation of multiple microRNAs (miRNAs) through attenuating miRNA biogenesis by targeting Dicer, a key component of the miRNA-processing machinery. One such downregulated miRNAs was miR-29s involved in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and subsequent stem cell traits. Silencing beta-catenin or overexpressing Dicer or miR-29 mimics in HM significantly reduced the ability of these cells to migrate. beta-catenin-knockdown cells also failed to metastasize in an orthotopic model of ovarian cancer. Meta-analysis revealed an increase in CTNNB1 and a decrease in DICER1 expression levels in the high-risk group. These results uncover beta-catenin as a critical factor in promoting ovarian cancer aggressiveness and a new mechanism linking between beta-catenin and miRNA downregulation underlying this process.
PXD006753	28651603	A systems pharmacology-based approach to identify novel Kv1.3 channel-dependent mechanisms in microglial activation. 	Identification of novel Kv1.3 channel dependent mechanisms in microglial activation	BV2, inflammation, microglia, potassium channel, systems pharmacology	BACKGROUND: Kv1.3 potassium channels regulate microglial functions and are overexpressed in neuroinflammatory diseases. Kv1.3 blockade may selectively inhibit pro-inflammatory microglia in neurological diseases but the molecular and cellular mechanisms regulated by Kv1.3 channels are poorly defined. METHODS: We performed immunoblotting and flow cytometry to confirm Kv1.3 channel upregulation in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated BV2 microglia and in brain mononuclear phagocytes freshly isolated from LPS-treated mice. Quantitative proteomics was performed on BV2 microglia treated with control, LPS, ShK-223 (highly selective Kv1.3 blocker), and LPS+ShK-223. Gene ontology (GO) analyses of Kv1.3-dependent LPS-regulated proteins were performed, and the most representative proteins and GO terms were validated. Effects of Kv1.3-blockade on LPS-activated BV2 microglia were studied in migration, focal adhesion formation, reactive oxygen species production, and phagocytosis assays. In vivo validation of protein changes and predicted molecular pathways were performed in a model of systemic LPS-induced neuroinflammation, employing antigen presentation and T cell proliferation assays. Informed by pathway analyses of proteomic data, additional mechanistic experiments were performed to identify early Kv1.3-dependent signaling and transcriptional events. RESULTS: LPS-upregulated cell surface Kv1.3 channels in BV2 microglia and in microglia and CNS-infiltrating macrophages isolated from LPS-treated mice. Of 144 proteins differentially regulated by LPS (of 3141 proteins), 21 proteins showed rectification by ShK-223. Enriched cellular processes included MHCI-mediated antigen presentation (TAP1, EHD1), cell motility, and focal adhesion formation. In vitro, ShK-223 decreased LPS-induced focal adhesion formation, reversed LPS-induced inhibition of migration, and inhibited LPS-induced upregulation of EHD1, a protein involved in MHCI trafficking. In vivo, intra-peritoneal ShK-223 inhibited LPS-induced MHCI expression by CD11b(+)CD45(low) microglia without affecting MHCI expression or trafficking of CD11b(+)CD45(high) macrophages. ShK-223 inhibited LPS-induced MHCI-restricted antigen presentation to ovalbumin-specific CD8(+) T cells both in vitro and in vivo. Kv1.3 co-localized with the LPS receptor complex and regulated LPS-induced early serine (S727) STAT1 phosphorylation. CONCLUSIONS: We have unraveled novel molecular and functional roles for Kv1.3 channels in pro-inflammatory microglial activation, including a Kv1.3 channel-regulated pathway that facilitates MHCI expression and MHCI-dependent antigen presentation by microglia to CD8(+) T cells. We also provide evidence for neuro-immunomodulation by systemically administered ShK peptides. Our results further strengthen the therapeutic candidacy of microglial Kv1.3 channels in neurologic diseases.
PXD005982	28654018	A Quantitative Acetylomic Analysis of Early Seed Development in Rice (Oryza sativa L.). 	A quantitative acetylomic analysis of early seed development in rice (Oryza sativa L.)	Rice (Oryza sativa L.), acetylome, early seed development, post-translational modification	PKA (protein lysine acetylation) is a critical post-translational modification that regulates various developmental processes, including seed development. However, the acetylation events and dynamics on a proteomic scale in this process remain largely unknown, especially in rice early seed development. We report the first quantitative acetylproteomic study focused on rice early seed development by employing a mass spectral-based (MS-based), label-free approach. A total of 1817 acetylsites on 1688 acetylpeptides from 972 acetylproteins were identified in pistils and seeds at three and seven days after pollination, including 268 acetyproteins differentially acetylated among the three stages. Motif-X analysis revealed that six significantly enriched motifs, such as (DxkK), (kH) and (kY) around the acetylsites of the identified rice seed acetylproteins. Differentially acetylated proteins among the three stages, including adenosine diphosphate (ADP) -glucose pyrophosphorylases (AGPs), PDIL1-1 (protein disulfide isomerase like 1-1), hexokinases, pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) and numerous other regulators that are extensively involved in the starch and sucrose metabolism, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and photosynthesis pathways during early seed development. This study greatly expanded the rice acetylome dataset, and shed novel insight into the regulatory roles of PKA in rice early seed development.
PXD000582	28655597	Identification of Host Proteins Predictive of Early Stage Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection. 	Discovery of plasma/serum protein biomarkers for progression from Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection to disease	biomarker, discovery, disease progression, early detection, serum/plasma, tuberculosis	The objective of this study was to identify blood-based protein biomarkers of early stage Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. We utilized plasma and serum specimens from TB patients and their contacts (age>=12) enrolled in a household contact study in Uganda. In the discovery phase cross-sectional samples from 104 HIV-uninfected persons classified as either active TB, latent Mtb infection (LTBI), tuberculin skin test (TST) converters, or persistent TST-negative were analyzed. Two hundred eighty-nine statistically significant (false discovery rate corrected p<0.05) differentially expressed proteins were identified across all comparisons. Proteins associated with cellular immunity and lipid metabolism were induced early after Mtb infection. One hundred and fifty-nine proteins were selected for a targeted mass spectrometry assay. A set of longitudinal samples from 52 TST-negative subjects who converted to TST-positive or remained TST-negative were analyzed, and multivariate logistic regression was used to identify unique protein panels able to predict TST conversion with cross-validated AUC>0.85. Panel performance was confirmed with an independent validation set of longitudinal samples from 16 subjects. These candidate protein biomarkers may allow for the identification of recently Mtb infected individuals at highest risk for developing active TB and most likely to benefit from preventive therapy.
PXD006766	28657298	Aspergillus niger Prolyl Endoprotease for Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry and Protein Structural Studies. 	Aspergillus niger Prolyl endoprotease (An-PEP) for Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry and Protein Structural Studies	Aspergillus niger, IgG4, Protease, hemoglobin, hydrogen-deuterium exchange, shorgun proteomics	To monitor the structural integrity of therapeutic proteins, hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) is increasingly utilized in the pharmaceutical industry. The successful outcome of HDX-MS analyses depends on the sample preparation conditions, which involve the rapid digestion of proteins at 0 degreesC and pH 2.5. Very few proteases are able to withstand such harsh conditions, with pepsin being the best-known exception, even though its activity is also strongly reduced at 0 degreesC. Here, we evaluate the usage of a prolyl endopeptidase from Aspergillus niger (An-PEP) for HDX-MS. What makes this protease very attractive is that it cleaves preferentially the hardest to digest amino acid, proline. To our surprise, and in contrast to previous reports, An-PEP activity was found optimal around pH 2.5 and could be further enhanced by urea up to 40%. Under typical HDX-MS conditions and using small amounts of enzyme, An-PEP generated an equivalent number of peptides as pepsin, as exemplified by using the two model systems tetrameric human hemoglobin (Hb) and human IgG4. Interestingly, because An-PEP peptides are shorter than pepsin-generated peptides, higher sequence resolution could be achieved, especially for Pro-containing protein regions in the alpha subunit of Hb, revealing new protected Hb regions that were not observed with pepsin. Due to its Pro-preference and resistance to low pH, we conclude that An-PEP is an archetype enzyme for HDX-MS, highly complementary to pepsin, and especially promising for structural studies on Pro-rich proteins or proteins containing Pro-rich binding domains involved in cellular signaling.
PXD004510	28657654	Quantitative proteomics identifies altered O-GlcNAcylation of structural, synaptic and memory-associated proteins in Alzheimer's disease. 	Mapping and Quantification of Brain Protein O-GlcNAcylation in Alzheimer's Disease	Alzheimers disease, O-GlcNAc, brain	Protein modification by O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) is emerging as an important factor in the pathogenesis of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, detailed molecular characterization of this important protein post-translational modification at the proteome level has been highly challenging, owing to its low stoichiometry and labile nature. Herein, we report the most comprehensive, quantitative proteomics analysis for protein O-GlcNAcylation in postmortem human brain tissues with and without AD by the use of isobaric tandem mass tag labelling, chemoenzymatic photocleavage enrichment, and liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. A total of 1850 O-GlcNAc peptides covering 1094 O-GlcNAcylation sites were identified from 530 proteins in the human brain. One hundred and thirty-one O-GlcNAc peptides covering 81 proteins were altered in AD brains as compared with controls (q < 0.05). Moreover, alteration of O-GlcNAc peptide abundance could be attributed more to O-GlcNAcylation level than to protein level changes. The altered O-GlcNAcylated proteins belong to several structural and functional categories, including synaptic proteins, cytoskeleton proteins, and memory-associated proteins. These findings suggest that dysregulation of O-GlcNAcylation of multiple brain proteins may be involved in the development of sporadic AD. Copyright (c) 2017 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
PXD006873	28657729	A Generic HPLC Method for Absolute Quantification of Oxidation in Monoclonal Antibodies and Fc-Fusion Proteins Using UV and MS Detection. 	A Generic HPLC Method for Absolute Quantification of Oxidation in Monoclonal Antibodies and Fc-Fusion Proteins Using UV and MS Detection	IdeS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, Q Exactive, ion-pair reversed-phase	Oxidation of biopharmaceuticals may affect their bioactivity, serum half-life, and (bio)chemical stability. The Fc domain of IgG monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) contains two methionine residues which are susceptible to oxidation. Here, we present a middle-down approach employing the cysteine protease IdeS under reducing conditions to obtain three mAb subunits of approximately 25 kDa: Fc/2, Fd', and LC. These subunits were separated by ion-pair reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (IP-RP-HPLC) and detected by UV spectroscopy as well as Orbitrap mass spectrometry (MS), as well as MS upon all-ion fragmentation (AIF-MS). We evaluated the feasibility of three strategies for absolute quantification of oxidation in the Fc region of hydrogen peroxide-stressed Rituximab, using a single, commercially available software platform both for data acquisition and evaluation: UV spectroscopy, full-scan MS, and monitoring of product ions obtained by AIF-MS. UV spectroscopy showed the lowest limits of quantification (LOQ) (0.96 ng muL(-1)) and featured the lowest relative process standard deviation (Vx0%) of 7.2% compared to MS and AIF-MS with LOQs of 1.24-4.32 ng muL(-1) and relative process standard deviations of 9.0-14%, respectively. Our approach is generic in that it allows monitoring and quantification of oxidation in the Fc regions of fully human and humanized IgG1 mAbs as well as of Fc-fusion proteins. This is exemplified by limits of detection of 1.2%, 1.0%, and 1.2% of oxidation in drug products containing the biopharmaceuticals Rituximab, Adalimumab, and Etanercept, respectively. The presented method is an attractive alternative to conventional time-intensive peptide mapping which is prone to artificial oxidation due to extensive sample preparation.
PXD002703	28658220	Whole-body imaging of lymphovascular niches identifies pre-metastatic roles of midkine. 	Proteomics of Secretomes and Exosomes in Melanoma	Exosomes, Melanoma, Metastasis, Secretomes	Cutaneous melanoma is a type of cancer with an inherent potential for lymph node colonization, which is generally preceded by neolymphangiogenesis. However, sentinel lymph node removal does not necessarily extend the overall survival of patients with melanoma. Moreover, lymphatic vessels collapse and become dysfunctional as melanomas progress. Therefore, it is unclear whether (and how) lymphangiogenesis contributes to visceral metastasis. Soluble and vesicle-associated proteins secreted by tumours and/or their stroma have been proposed to condition pre-metastatic sites in patients with melanoma. Still, the identities and prognostic value of lymphangiogenic mediators remain unclear. Moreover, our understanding of lymphangiogenesis (in melanomas and other tumour types) is limited by the paucity of mouse models for live imaging of distal pre-metastatic niches. Injectable lymphatic tracers have been developed, but their limited diffusion precludes whole-body imaging at visceral sites. Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 (VEGFR3) is an attractive 'lymphoreporter' because its expression is strongly downregulated in normal adult lymphatic endothelial cells, but is activated in pathological situations such as inflammation and cancer. Here, we exploit this inducibility of VEGFR3 to engineer mouse melanoma models for whole-body imaging of metastasis generated by human cells, clinical biopsies or endogenously deregulated oncogenic pathways. This strategy revealed early induction of distal pre-metastatic niches uncoupled from lymphangiogenesis at primary lesions. Analyses of the melanoma secretome and validation in clinical specimens showed that the heparin-binding factor midkine is a systemic inducer of neo-lymphangiogenesis that defines patient prognosis. This role of midkine was linked to a paracrine activation of the mTOR pathway in lymphatic endothelial cells. These data support the use of VEGFR3 reporter mice as a 'MetAlert' discovery platform for drivers and inhibitors of metastasis.
PXD006550	28658951	Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis of Proteome and Peptidome of Human Follicular Fluid Using Multiple Samples from Single Donor with LC-MS and SWATH Methodology. 	Proteome and peptidome of human follicular fluid	Follicular Fluid, SWATH	Human follicular fluid (hFF) is a natural environment of oocyte maturation, and some components of hFF could be used to judge oocyte capability for fertilization and further development. In our pilot small-scale study three samples from four donors (12 samples in total) were analyzed to determine which hFF proteins/peptides could be used to differentiate individual oocytes and which are patient-specific. Ultrafiltration was used to fractionate hFF to high-molecular-weight (HMW) proteome (>10 kDa) and low-molecular-weight (LMW) peptidome (<10 kDa) fractions. HMW and LMW compositions were analyzed using LC-MS in SWATH data acquisition and processing methodology. In total we were able to identify 158 proteins, from which 59 were never reported before as hFF components. 55 (45 not reported before) proteins were found by analyzing LMW fraction, 67 (14 not reported before) were found by analyzing HMW fraction, and 36 were identified in both fractions of hFF. We were able to perform quantitative analysis for 72 proteins from HMW fraction of hFF. We found that concentrations of 11 proteins varied substantially among hFF samples from single donors, and those proteins are promising targets to identify biomarkers useful in oocyte quality assessment.
PXD005752	28659600	Comparative genetic, proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of C. elegans embryos with a focus on ham-1/STOX and pig-1/MELK in dopaminergic neuron development. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic changes in C.elegans embryo as a result of pig-1 mutation	C.elegans, development, embryo, phosphoproteome	Asymmetric cell divisions are required for cellular diversity and defects can lead to altered daughter cell fates and numbers. In a genetic screen for C. elegans mutants with defects in dopaminergic head neuron specification or differentiation, we isolated a new allele of the transcription factor HAM-1 [HSN (Hermaphrodite-Specific Neurons) Abnormal Migration]. Loss of both HAM-1 and its target, the kinase PIG-1 [PAR-1(I)-like Gene], leads to abnormal dopaminergic head neuron numbers. We identified discrete genetic relationships between ham-1, pig-1 and apoptosis pathway genes in dopaminergic head neurons. We used an unbiased, quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach to characterise direct and indirect protein targets and pathways that mediate the effects of PIG-1 kinase loss in C. elegans embryos. Proteins showing changes in either abundance, or phosphorylation levels, between wild-type and pig-1 mutant embryos are predominantly connected with processes including cell cycle, asymmetric cell division, apoptosis and actomyosin-regulation. Several of these proteins play important roles in C. elegans development. Our data provide an in-depth characterisation of the C. elegans wild-type embryo proteome and phosphoproteome and can be explored via the Encyclopedia of Proteome Dynamics (EPD) - an open access, searchable online database.
PXD006355	28659872	Replications of Two Closely Related Groups of Jumbo Phages Show Different Level of Dependence on Host-encoded RNA Polymerase. 	Protein ID of RP31	Ralstonia solanacearum, jumbo phage, KZ-like phages, RP31	Ralstonia solanacearum phages PhiRP12 and PhiRP31 are jumbo phages isolated in Thailand. Here we show that they exhibit similar virion morphology, genome organization and host range. Genome comparisons as well as phylogenetic and proteomic tree analyses support that they belong to the group of PhiKZ-related phages, with their closest relatives being R. solanacearum phages PhiRSL2 and PhiRSF1. Compared with PhiRSL2 and PhiRSF1, PhiRP12 and PhiRP31 possess larger genomes (ca. 280 kbp, 25% larger). The replication of PhiRP12 and PhiRP31 was not affected by rifampicin treatment (20 mug/ml), suggesting that phage-encoded RNAPs function to start and complete the infection cycle of these phages without the need of host-encoded RNAPs. In contrast, PhiRSL2 and PhiRSF1, encoding the same set of RNAPs, did not produce progeny phages in the presence of rifampicin (5 mug/ml). This observation opens the possibility that some PhiRP12/PhiRP31 factors that are absent in PhiRSL2 and PhiRSF1 are involved in their host-independent transcription.
PXD006440	28659875	Predicting Species-Resolved Macronutrient Acquisition during Succession in a Model Phototrophic Biofilm Using an Integrated 'Omics Approach. 	Predicting species-resolved macronutrient acquisition during succession in a model phototrophic biofilm	microbial communities	The principles governing acquisition and interspecies exchange of nutrients in microbial communities and how those exchanges impact community productivity are poorly understood. Here, we examine energy and macronutrient acquisition in unicyanobacterial consortia for which species-resolved genome information exists for all members, allowing us to use multi-omic approaches to predict species' abilities to acquire resources and examine expression of resource-acquisition genes during succession. Metabolic reconstruction indicated that a majority of heterotrophic community members lacked the genes required to directly acquire the inorganic nutrients provided in culture medium, suggesting high metabolic interdependency. The sole primary producer in consortium UCC-O, cyanobacterium Phormidium sp. OSCR, displayed declining expression of energy harvest, carbon fixation, and nitrate and sulfate reduction proteins but sharply increasing phosphate transporter expression over 28 days. Most heterotrophic members likewise exhibited signs of phosphorus starvation during succession. Though similar in their responses to phosphorus limitation, heterotrophs displayed species-specific expression of nitrogen acquisition genes. These results suggest niche partitioning around nitrogen sources may structure the community when organisms directly compete for limited phosphate. Such niche complementarity around nitrogen sources may increase community diversity and productivity in phosphate-limited phototrophic communities.
PXD005497	28663172	METTL21B Is a Novel Human Lysine Methyltransferase of Translation Elongation Factor 1A: Discovery by CRISPR/Cas9 Knockout. 	METTL21B is a novel human lysine methyltransferase of translation elongation factor 1A: discovery by CRISPR/Cas9 knock out	CRISPR, Cas9, Knockout, Methylation, Methyltransferase	Lysine methylation is widespread on human proteins, however the enzymes that catalyze its addition remain largely unknown. This limits our capacity to study the function and regulation of this modification. Here we used the CRISPR/Cas9 system to knockout putative protein methyltransferases METTL21B and METTL23 in K562 cells, to determine if they methylate elongation factor eEF1A. The known eEF1A methyltransferase EEF1AKMT1 was also knocked out as a control. Targeted mass spectrometry revealed the loss of lysine 165 methylation upon knockout of METTL21B, and the expected loss of lysine 79 methylation on knockout of EEF1AKMT1 No loss of eEF1A methylation was seen in the METTL23 knockout. Recombinant METTL21B was shown in vitro to catalyze methylation on lysine 165 in eEF1A1 and eEF1A2, confirming it as the methyltransferase responsible for this methylation site. Proteomic analysis by SILAC revealed specific upregulation of large ribosomal subunit proteins in the METTL21B knockout, and changes to further processes related to eEF1A function in knockouts of both METTL21B and EEF1AKMT1 This indicates that the methylation of lysine 165 in human eEF1A has a very specific role. METTL21B exists only in vertebrates, with its target lysine showing similar evolutionary conservation. We suggest METTL21B be renamed eEF1A-KMT3. This is the first study to specifically generate CRISPR/Cas9 knockouts of putative protein methyltransferase genes, for substrate discovery and site mapping. Our approach should prove useful for the discovery of further novel methyltransferases, and more generally for the discovery of sites for other protein-modifying enzymes.
PXD005237	28663385	Re-examining the role of Cdc14 phosphatase in reversal of Cdk phosphorylation during mitotic exit. 	Re-examining the role of Cdc14 phosphatase in mitotic exit	Cdc14, cdk, cyclin-dependent kinase, mitosis, mitotic exit, phosphoproteomics, protein phosphatase	Inactivation of cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) and reversal of Cdk phosphorylation are universally required for mitotic exit. In budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), Cdc14 is essential for both and thought to be the major Cdk-counteracting phosphatase. However, Cdc14 is not required for mitotic exit in many eukaryotes, despite highly conserved biochemical properties. The question of how similar enzymes could have such disparate influences on mitotic exit prompted us to re-examine the contribution of budding yeast Cdc14. By using an auxin-inducible degron, we show that severe Cdc14 depletion has no effect on the kinetics of mitotic exit and bulk Cdk substrate dephosphorylation, but causes a cell separation defect and is ultimately lethal. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed that Cdc14 is highly selective for distinct Cdk sites in vivo and does not catalyze widespread Cdk substrate dephosphorylation. We conclude that additional phosphatases likely contribute substantially to Cdk substrate dephosphorylation and coordination of mitotic exit in budding yeast, similar to in other eukaryotes, and the critical mitotic exit functions of Cdc14 require trace amounts of enzyme. We propose that Cdc14 plays very specific, and often different, roles in counteracting Cdk phosphorylation in all species.
PXD006190	28664598	Comparison of fractionation proteomics for local SWATH library building. 	Comparison of fractionation proteomics for local SWATH library building	SWATH-MS, comparative study, fractionation proteomics, hESC, library building	For data-independent acquisition by means of sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra (SWATH), a reference library of data-dependent acquisition (DDA) runs is typically used to correlate the quantitative data from the fragment ion spectra with peptide identifications. The quality and coverage of such a reference library is therefore essential when processing SWATH data. In general, library sizes can be increased by reducing the impact of DDA precursor selection with replicate runs or fractionation. However, these strategies can affect the match between the library and SWATH measurement, and thus larger library sizes do not necessarily correspond to improved SWATH quantification. Here, three fractionation strategies to increase local library size were compared to standard library building using replicate DDA injection: protein SDS-PAGE fractionation, peptide high-pH RP-HPLC fractionation and MS-acquisition gas phase fractionation. The impact of these libraries on SWATH performance was evaluated in terms of the number of extracted peptides and proteins, the match quality of the peptides and the extraction reproducibility of the transitions. These analyses were conducted using the hydrophilic proteome of differentiating human embryonic stem cells. Our results show that SWATH quantitative results and interpretations are affected by choice of fractionation technique. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006190.
PXD002552	28665616	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Extensive Changes in the Ubiquitinome after Perturbation of the Proteasome by Targeted dsRNA-Mediated Subunit Knockdown in Drosophila. 	Ubiquitinome UPS -  Quantitative proteomics reveals extensive changes in the ubiquitinome after perturbation of the proteasome by targeted dsRNA mediated subunit knockdown in Drosophila	SILAC, diGly, proteasome, ubiquitinome	The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), a highly regulated mechanism including the active marking of proteins by ubiquitin to be degraded, is critical in regulating proteostasis. Dysfunctioning of the UPS has been implicated in diseases such as cancer and neurodegenerative disorders. Here we investigate the effects of proteasome malfunctioning on global proteome and ubiquitinome dynamics using SILAC proteomics in Drosophila S2 cells. dsRNA-mediated knockdown of specific proteasome target subunits is used to inactivate the proteasome. Upon this perturbation, both the global proteome and the ubiquitinome become modified to a great extent, with the overall impact on the ubiquitinome being the most dramatic. The abundances of ~10% of all proteins are increased, while the abundances of the far majority of over 14 000 detected diGly peptides are increased, suggesting that the pool of ubiquitinated proteins is highly dynamic. Remarkably, several proteins show heterogeneous ubiquitination dynamics, with different lysine residues on the same protein showing either increased or decreased ubiquitination. This suggests the occurrence of simultaneous and functionally different ubiquitination events. This strategy offers a powerful tool to study the response of the ubiquitinome upon interruption of normal UPS activity by targeted interference and opens up new avenues for the dissection of the mode of action of individual components of the proteasome. Because this is to our knowledge the first comprehensive ubiquitinome screen upon proteasome malfunctioning in a fruit fly cell system, this data set will serve as a valuable repository for the Drosophila community.
PXD005267	28667326	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis of Plasmodium vivax Induced Alterations in Human Serum during the Acute and Convalescent Phases of Infection. 	Quantitative Proteomics analysis of Plasmodium vivax induced alterations in human serum during the acute and convalescent phases of infection	LC-MS, Longitudinal	The radial distribution of Plasmodium vivax malaria burden has evoked enormous concern among the global research community. In this study, we have investigated the serum proteome alterations in non-severe vivax malaria patients before and during patient recuperation starting from the early febrile to the defervescence and convalescent stages of the infection. We have also performed an extensive quantitative proteomics analysis to compare the serum proteome profiles of vivax malaria patients with low (LPVM) and moderately-high (MPVM) parasitemia with healthy community controls. Interestingly, some of the serum proteins such as Serum amyloid A, Apolipoprotein A1, C-reactive protein, Titin and Haptoglobin, were found to be sequentially altered with respect to increased parasite counts. Analysis of a longitudinal cohort of malaria patients indicated reversible alterations in serum levels of some proteins such as Haptoglobin, Apolipoprotein E, Apolipoprotein A1, Carbonic anhydrase 1, and Hemoglobin subunit alpha upon treatment; however, the levels of a few other proteins did not return to the baseline even during the convalescent phase of the infection. Here we present the first comprehensive serum proteomics analysis of vivax malaria patients with different levels of parasitemia and during the acute and convalescent phases of the infection.
PXD006313	28671602	Mechanism Investigation of Rifampicin-Induced Liver Injury Using Comparative Toxicoproteomics in Mice. 	Rifampicin-mouse liver proteomics	Rifampicin, TMT labeling, mouse liver, toxicoproteomics	Tuberculosis is one of the top causes of death among curable infectious diseases; it is an airborne infectious disease that killed 1.1 million people worldwide in 2010. Anti-tuberculosis drug-induced liver injury is the primary cause of drug-induced liver injury (DILI). Rifampicin is one of the most common anti-tuberculosis therapies and has well-known hepatotoxicity. To understand the mechanism of rifampicin-induced liver injury, we performed a global proteomic analysis of liver proteins by LC-MS/MS in a mouse model after the oral administration of 177 and 442.5 mg/kg rifampicin (LD10 and LD25) for 14 days. Based on the biochemical parameters in the plasma after rifampicin treatment, the hepatotoxic effect of rifampicin in the mouse liver was defined as a mixed liver injury. In the present study, we identified 1101 proteins and quantified 1038 proteins. A total of 29 and 40 proteins were up-regulated and 27 and 118 proteins were down-regulated in response to 177 and 442.5 mg/kg rifampicin, respectively. Furthermore, we performed Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses to characterize the mechanism of rifampicin-induced hepatotoxicity. In the molecular function category, glutathione transferase activity was up-regulated and proteins related to arachidonic acid metabolism were down-regulated. In the KEGG pathway enrichment-based clustering analysis, the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) signaling pathway, cytochrome P450, glutathione metabolism, chemical carcinogenesis, and related proteins increased dose-dependently in rifampicin-treated livers. Taken together, this study showed in-depth molecular mechanism of rifampicin-induced liver injury by comparative toxicoproteomics approach.
PXD006277	28671696	Spatiotemporal profile of postsynaptic interactomes integrates components of complex brain disorders. 	Developmental profile of core postsynaptic density protein complexes integrates signaling components of brain disorders	PSD, neuron, synaptic	The postsynaptic density (PSD) contains a collection of scaffold proteins used for assembling synaptic signaling complexes. However, it is not known how the core-scaffold machinery associates in protein-interaction networks or how proteins encoded by genes involved in complex brain disorders are distributed through spatiotemporal protein complexes. Here using immunopurification, proteomics and bioinformatics, we isolated 2,876 proteins across 41 in vivo interactomes and determined their protein domain composition, correlation to gene expression levels and developmental integration to the PSD. We defined clusters for enrichment of schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorders, developmental delay and intellectual disability risk factors at embryonic day 14 and adult PSD in mice. Mutations in highly connected nodes alter protein-protein interactions modulating macromolecular complexes enriched in disease risk candidates. These results were integrated into a software platform, Synaptic Protein/Pathways Resource (SyPPRes), enabling the prioritization of disease risk factors and their placement within synaptic protein interaction networks.
PXD006703	28673085	Large-Scale Analysis of Breast Cancer-Related Conformational Changes in Proteins Using SILAC-SPROX. 	Large-Scale Analysis of Breast Cancer-Related Conformational Changes in Proteins using SILAC-SPROX	BT-474, MCF-7, MDA-MB-468, chemical denaturation, protein folding	Proteomic methods for disease state characterization and biomarker discovery have traditionally utilized quantitative mass spectrometry methods to identify proteins with altered expression levels in disease states. Here we report on the large-scale use of protein folding stability measurements to characterize different subtypes of breast cancer using the stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture and stability of proteins from rates of oxidation (SILAC-SPROX) technique. Protein folding stability differences were studied in a comparison of two luminal breast cancer subtypes, luminal-A and -B (i.e., MCF-7 and BT-474 cells, respectively), and in a comparison of a luminal-A and basal subtype of the disease (i.e., MCF-7 and MDA-MB-468 cells, respectively). The 242 and 445 protein hits identified with altered stabilities in these comparative analyses included a large fraction with no significant expression level changes. This suggests thermodynamic stability measurements create a new avenue for protein biomarker discovery. A number of the identified protein hits are known from other biochemical studies to play a role in tumorigenesis and cancer progression. This not only substantiates the biological significance of the protein hits identified using the SILAC-SPROX approach, but it also helps elucidate the molecular basis for their disregulation and/or disfunction in cancer.
PXD006336	28673088	Targeted Feature Detection for Data-Dependent Shotgun Proteomics. 	FeatureFinderIdentification (OpenMS) analysis of the iPRG-2015 dataset	benchmark, feature detection, iPRG-2015, label-free quantification, shotgun proteomics	Label-free quantification of shotgun LC-MS/MS data is the prevailing approach in quantitative proteomics but remains computationally nontrivial. The central data analysis step is the detection of peptide-specific signal patterns, called features. Peptide quantification is facilitated by associating signal intensities in features with peptide sequences derived from MS2 spectra; however, missing values due to imperfect feature detection are a common problem. A feature detection approach that directly targets identified peptides (minimizing missing values) but also offers robustness against false-positive features (by assigning meaningful confidence scores) would thus be highly desirable. We developed a new feature detection algorithm within the OpenMS software framework, leveraging ideas and algorithms from the OpenSWATH toolset for DIA/SRM data analysis. Our software, FeatureFinderIdentification ("FFId"), implements a targeted approach to feature detection based on information from identified peptides. This information is encoded in an MS1 assay library, based on which ion chromatogram extraction and detection of feature candidates are carried out. Significantly, when analyzing data from experiments comprising multiple samples, our approach distinguishes between "internal" and "external" (inferred) peptide identifications (IDs) for each sample. On the basis of internal IDs, two sets of positive (true) and negative (decoy) feature candidates are defined. A support vector machine (SVM) classifier is then trained to discriminate between the sets and is subsequently applied to the "uncertain" feature candidates from external IDs, facilitating selection and confidence scoring of the best feature candidate for each peptide. This approach also enables our algorithm to estimate the false discovery rate (FDR) of the feature selection step. We validated FFId based on a public benchmark data set, comprising a yeast cell lysate spiked with protein standards that provide a known ground-truth. The algorithm reached almost complete (>99%) quantification coverage for the full set of peptides identified at 1% FDR (PSM level). Compared with other software solutions for label-free quantification, this is an outstanding result, which was achieved at competitive quantification accuracy and reproducibility across replicates. The FDR for the feature selection was estimated at a low 1.5% on average per sample (3% for features inferred from external peptide IDs). The FFId software is open-source and freely available as part of OpenMS ( www.openms.org ).
PXD006391	28673974	MRG15-mediated tethering of PALB2 to unperturbed chromatin protects active genes from genotoxic stress. 	PALB2 interactome in asynchronous human cells	DNA repair, Genomic stability	The partner and localiser of BRCA2 (PALB2) plays important roles in the maintenance of genome integrity and protection against cancer. Although PALB2 is commonly described as a repair factor recruited to sites of DNA breaks, recent studies provide evidence that PALB2 also associates with unperturbed chromatin. Here, we investigated the previously poorly described role of chromatin-associated PALB2 in undamaged cells. We found that PALB2 associates with active genes through its major binding partner, MRG15, which recognizes histone H3 trimethylated at lysine 36 (H3K36me3) by the SETD2 methyltransferase. Missense mutations that ablate PALB2 binding to MRG15 confer elevated sensitivity to the topoisomerase inhibitor camptothecin (CPT) and increased levels of aberrant metaphase chromosomes and DNA stress in gene bodies, which were suppressed by preventing DNA replication. Remarkably, the level of PALB2 at genic regions was frequently decreased, rather than increased, upon CPT treatment. We propose that the steady-state presence of PALB2 at active genes, mediated through the SETD2/H3K36me3/MRG15 axis, ensures an immediate response to DNA stress and therefore effective protection of these regions during DNA replication. This study provides a conceptual advance in demonstrating that the constitutive chromatin association of repair factors plays a key role in the maintenance of genome stability and furthers our understanding of why PALB2 defects lead to human genome instability syndromes.
PXD005073	28674151	Kinase activity ranking using phosphoproteomics data (KARP) quantifies the contribution of protein kinases to the regulation of cell viability. 	Kinase activity ranking (KAR) quantifies the contribution of protein kinases to the regulation of cell viability	AML kinase Phosphorylation	Cell survival is regulated by a signaling network driven by the activity of protein kinases; however, determining the contribution that each kinase in the network makes to such regulation remains challenging. Here, we report a computational approach that uses mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics data to rank protein kinases based on their contribution to cell regulation. We found that the scores returned by this algorithm, which we have termed kinase activity ranking using phosphoproteomics data (KARP), were a quantitative measure of the contribution that individual kinases make to the signaling output. Application of KARP to the analysis of eight hematological cell lines revealed that cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) 1/2, casein kinase (CK) 2, extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK), and p21-activated kinase (PAK) were the most frequently highly ranked kinases in these cell models. The patterns of kinase activation were cell-line specific yet showed a significant association with cell viability as a function of kinase inhibitor treatment. Thus, our study exemplifies KARP as an untargeted approach to empirically and systematically identify regulatory kinases within signaling networks.
PXD005410	28674419	Isoelectric point-based fractionation by HiRIEF coupled to LC-MS allows for in-depth quantitative analysis of the phosphoproteome. 	HiRIEF LC-MS allows for in depth quantitative analysis of the phosphoproteome.	10-plex, HiRIEF, IPG, LC-MS, NetworKIN, TMT, cancer, cells, fractionation, isoelectric point, multiplex, phospho-peptides, phospho-sites, phosphoproteomics, qu, quantification, tyrosine	Protein phosphorylation is involved in the regulation of most eukaryotic cells functions and mass spectrometry-based analysis has made major contributions to our understanding of this regulation. However, low abundance of phosphorylated species presents a major challenge in achieving comprehensive phosphoproteome coverage and robust quantification. In this study, we developed a workflow employing titanium dioxide phospho-enrichment coupled with isobaric labeling by Tandem Mass Tags (TMT) and high-resolution isoelectric focusing (HiRIEF) fractionation to perform in-depth quantitative phosphoproteomics starting with a low sample quantity. To benchmark the workflow, we analyzed HeLa cells upon pervanadate treatment or cell cycle arrest in mitosis. Analyzing 300 microg of peptides per sample, we identified 22,712 phosphorylation sites, of which 19,075 were localized with high confidence and 1,203 are phosphorylated tyrosine residues, representing 6.3% of all detected phospho-sites. HiRIEF fractions with the most acidic isoelectric points are enriched in multiply phosphorylated peptides, which represent 18% of all the phospho-peptides detected in the pH range 2.5-3.7. Cross-referencing with the PhosphoSitePlus database reveals 1,264 phosphorylation sites that have not been previously reported and kinase association analysis suggests that a subset of these may be functional during the mitotic phase.
PXD006413	28675162	AMPA-receptor specific biogenesis complexes control synaptic transmission and intellectual ability. 	AMPA-receptor specific biogenesis complexes control synaptic transmission and intellectual ability	AMPA-receptor biogenesis complexes, excitatory synaptic transmission, intellectual disability, proteomic analysis	AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs), key elements in excitatory neurotransmission in the brain, are macromolecular complexes whose properties and cellular functions are determined by the co-assembled constituents of their proteome. Here we identify AMPAR complexes that transiently form in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and lack the core-subunits typical for AMPARs in the plasma membrane. Central components of these ER AMPARs are the proteome constituents FRRS1l (C9orf4) and CPT1c that specifically and cooperatively bind to the pore-forming GluA1-4 proteins of AMPARs. Bi-allelic mutations in the human FRRS1L gene are shown to cause severe intellectual disability with cognitive impairment, speech delay and epileptic activity. Virus-directed deletion or overexpression of FRRS1l strongly impact synaptic transmission in adult rat brain by decreasing or increasing the number of AMPARs in synapses and extra-synaptic sites. Our results provide insight into the early biogenesis of AMPARs and demonstrate its pronounced impact on synaptic transmission and brain function.
PXD006698	28675297	A Human Tyrosine Phosphatase Interactome Mapped by Proteomic Profiling. 	Tyrosine phosphatase interaction network	HEK293T, PTP, TAP	Tyrosine phosphatases play a critical role in many cellular processes and pathogenesis, yet comprehensive analysis of their functional interacting proteins in the cell is limited. By utilizing a proteomic approach, here we present an interaction network of 81 human tyrosine phosphatases built on 1884 high-confidence interactions of which 85% are unreported. Our analysis has linked several phosphatases with new cellular processes and unveiled protein interactions genetically linked to various human diseases including cancer. We validated the functional importance of an identified interaction network by characterizing a distinct novel interaction between PTPN5 and Mob1a. PTPN5 dephosphorylates Mob1a at Y26 residue. Further, we identify that PTPN5 is required for proper midbody abscission during cytokinesis through regulation of Mob1a dephosphorylation. In conclusion, our study provides a valuable resource of tyrosine phosphatase interactions, which can be further utilized to dissect novel cellular functions of these enzymes.
PXD005554	28675934	Characterization of the Extracellular Matrix of Normal and Diseased Tissues Using Proteomics. 	Analysis of ECM-enriched samples using different methods	ECM, breast cancer, ovarian cancer	The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a complex meshwork of insoluble fibrillar proteins and signaling factors interacting together to provide architectural and instructional cues to the surrounding cells. Alterations in ECM organization or composition and excessive ECM deposition have been observed in diseases such as fibrosis, cardiovascular diseases, and cancer. We provide here optimized protocols to solubilize ECM proteins from normal or tumor tissues, digest the proteins into peptides, analyze ECM peptides by mass spectrometry, and interpret the mass spectrometric data. In addition, we present here two novel R-script-based web tools allowing rapid annotation and relative quantification of ECM proteins, peptides, and intensity/abundance in mass spectrometric data output files. We illustrate this protocol with ECMs obtained from two pairs of tissues, which differ in ECM content and cellularity: triple-negative breast cancer and adjacent mammary tissue, and omental metastasis from high-grade serous ovarian cancer and normal omentum. The complete proteomics data set generated in this study has been deposited to the public repository ProteomeXchange with the data set identifier: PXD005554.
PXD005323	28676664	iTRAQ-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of the Inhibitory Effects of Polysaccharides from Viscum coloratum (Kom.) Nakai on HepG2 Cells. 	iTRAQ-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Inhibitory Effects of Polysaccharides from Viscum coloratum (Kom.) Nakai on HepG2 Cells	HepG2, Viscum coloratum, iTRAQ	Viscum coloratum (Kom.) Nakai is one of active medicinal plants, and its active components, especially polysaccharides, have been shown to exhibit bioactivity. In this study, we examined the effects of three polysaccharide fractions from Viscum coloratum (Kom.) Nakai on HepG2 cell growth in a dose-dependent manner by using a CCK-8 assay kit. Flow cytometry analysis showed that VCP2 treatment delayed the cell cycle in the G1 phase and induced apoptosis in HepG2 cells, a result possibly due to the increased expression of p21(Wafl/Cip1) and Cyclin D and the decreased expression of Cyclin E and CDK4. The increased expression of Bad, Smac and Caspase-3 and the decreased expression of Bcl-XL and XIAP may be some of the reasons for the induction of apoptosis in VCP2-treated HepG2 cells. Through iTRAQ and 2D-LC-MSMS, 113 and 198 differentially expressed proteins were identified in normal and VCP2-treated HepG2 and Caco2 cells. The mRNA and protein levels of Histone H3.1, Cytoskeletal 9 and Vitronectin agreed with iTRAQ proteomic results. GO, pathways and the PPI of differentially expressed proteins were further analyzed. These findings broaden the understanding of the anti-tumor mechanisms of mistletoe polysaccharides and provide new clues for screening proteins that are responsive to polysaccharides.
PXD005765	28676677	HLA-E Presents Glycopeptides from the Mycobacterium tuberculosis Protein MPT32 to Human CD8(+) T cells. 	HLA-E Presents Glycopeptides from the Mtb Protein MPT32 to Human CD8 T Cells	CD8 T Cells, HLA-E, Mycobacterium tuberculosis	Infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), the bacterium that causes tuberculosis, remains a global health concern. Both classically and non-classically restricted cytotoxic CD8(+) T cells are important to the control of Mtb infection. We and others have demonstrated that the non-classical MHC I molecule HLA-E can present pathogen-derived peptides to CD8(+) T cells. In this manuscript, we identified the antigen recognized by an HLA-E-restricted CD8(+) T cell clone isolated from an Mtb latently infected individual as a peptide from the Mtb protein, MPT32. Recognition by the CD8(+) T cell clone required N-terminal O-linked mannosylation of MPT32 by a mannosyltransferase encoded by the Rv1002c gene. This is the first description of a post-translationally modified Mtb-derived protein antigen presented in the context of an HLA-E specific CD8(+) T cell immune response. The identification of an immune response that targets a unique mycobacterial modification is novel and may have practical impact in the development of vaccines and diagnostics.
PXD006207	28676819	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Flag Leaves Reveals New Insight into Wheat Heat Adaptation. 	proteomics analysis of wheat flag leaf in heat stress	flag leaf, heat stress, iTRAQ, wheat	Hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) is an important food crop but it is vulnerable to heat. The heat-responsive proteome of wheat remains to be fully elucidated because of previous technical and genomic limitations, and this has hindered our understanding of the mechanisms of wheat heat adaptation and advances in improving thermotolerance. Here, flag leaves of wheat during grain filling stage were subjected to high daytime temperature stress, and 258 heat-responsive proteins (HRPs) were identified with iTRAQ analysis. Enrichment analysis revealed that chlorophyll synthesis, carbon fixation, protein turnover, and redox regulation were the most remarkable heat-responsive processes. The HRPs involved in chlorophyll synthesis and carbon fixation were significantly decreased, together with severe membrane damage, demonstrating the specific effects of heat on photosynthesis of wheat leaves. In addition, the decrease in chlorophyll content may result from the decrease in HRPs involved in chlorophyll precursor synthesis. Further analysis showed that the accumulated effect of heat stress played a critical role in photosynthesis reduction, suggested that improvement in heat tolerance of photosynthesis, and extending heat tolerant period would be major research targets. The significantly accumulation of GSTs and Trxs in response to heat suggested their important roles in redox regulation, and they could be the promising candidates for improving wheat thermotolerance. In summary, our results provide new insight into wheat heat adaption and provide new perspectives on thermotolerance improvement.
PXD006084	28677146	Genes essential for phototrophic growth by a purple alphaproteobacterium. 	Genes essential for phototrophic growth by a purple alphaproteobacterium	bacteria, essential genes, photosynthesis	Tn-seq was used to identify genes essential for phototrophic growth by the purple bacterium Rhodopseudomonas palustris. About 167 genes required for anaerobic growth on acetate in light were identified, 35 of which are annotated as photosynthesis genes. The essentiality of many of these genes by analysing the phenotypes of independently generated mutants that had altered pigmentation was verified. Three genes were identified, two possibly involved in biogenesis of the membrane-bound photosynthetic apparatus and one for phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis, that were not known to be essential for phototrophic growth. Site-directed mutagenesis was used to show that the NADH:quinone oxidoreductase complex IE was essential for phototrophic growth under strictly anaerobic conditions and appeared to play a role in reverse electron transport to generate NADH. A homologous NADH:quinone oxidoreductase complex IA likely operates in the opposite direction to oxidize NADH. The operation of the two enzymes in opposition would allow R. palustris to maintain redox balance. As a complement to the genetic data, proteomics experiments were carried out in which it was found that 408 proteins were present in significantly higher amounts in cells grown anaerobically in light compared with aerobically. Among these were proteins encoded by subset of the phototrophic growth-essential genes.
PXD006412	28677900	Gastrointestinal digestion of hazelnut allergens on molecular level: Elucidation of degradation kinetics and resistant immunoactive peptides using mass spectrometry. 	Gastrointestinal digestion of hazelnut allergens on molecular level: Elucidation of degradation kinetics and resistant immunoactive peptides using mass spectrometry	Allergen, Digestion, Food allergy, Hazelnut	SCOPE: Allergy to hazelnut seeds ranks among the most prevalent food allergies in Europe. The aim of this study was to elucidate the gastrointestinal digestion of hazelnut allergens on molecular level. METHODS AND RESULTS: Hazelnut flour was digested in vitro following the Infogest consensus model. For six allergenic proteins, the time-dependent course of digestion was monitored by SDS-PAGE and HPLC-MS/MS, and degradation products were characterized by a bottom-up proteomics approach. Depending on the molecular structure, a specific biochemical fate was observed for each allergen, and degradation kinetics were traced back to the peptide level. 1183 peptides were characterized, including 130 peptides that carry known IgE-binding epitopes and may represent sensitizers for hazelnut allergy. The kinetics of peptide formation and degradation were determined by label-free quantification and follow a complex multi-stage mechanism. CONCLUSION: We present a comprehensive survey on the gastrointestinal digestion of a relevant allergenic food on level of the peptidome, including the first systematic characterization and quantification of degradation products. This provides information on the differential resistance of plant food allergens and their structural elements undergoing digestion and forms the basis for a deeper understanding of the molecular principles responsible for sensitization to food allergy.
PXD002118	28679031	Effect of social interactions on hippocampal protein expression in animal dominant and submissive model of behavioral disorders. 	Social interaction dependent protein expression dynamics in hippocampus of the animals with strong features of dominance and submissiveness	hippocampus, label free	PURPOSE: Psychiatric conditions, in many cases, arise from social interactions necessary for optimal mental functioning. Dominance and submissiveness are two opposite poles of behavior, stemming from processes of social interactions between members inside one group or species. Extreme dominance and submissiveness expressions in humans is accompanied by mental impairments, including mania and depression. Here, taking advantage of animals bred selectively for traits of dominance and submissiveness, we assess protein expression profiles in dominant and submissive mice in the context of social interaction. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Proteins extracted from hippocampi of naive and social interaction subjected dominant, submissive and wild type mice (15 mice per each group) are quantified using label-free quantitative LC/MS/MS analysis. Complexity of social interaction-related protein expression is resolved by factor analysis and enriched with GO and protein-protein interaction functional network analyses. RESULTS: In total, 1146 proteins exhibiting expression changes in the wild type mice, as well as dominant and submissive mice are enriched in protein datasets responsible for: 1) socially triggered dominance (90 proteins), 2) inherent submissiveness (75 proteins), 3) socially triggered submissiveness (117 proteins), and 4) social interaction triggered protein expression changes, related to resilience/adaptation to stress (69 proteins). Among the most enriched categories, extensive changes are found in proteins related to presynaptic release, ion channel regulation, circadian rhythm, MAPK, ErbB and NF-kB pathways. CONCLUSION: Data extracted from this first extensive proteomic study of a social interaction paradigm may facilitate decoding of molecular mechanisms responsible for pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders.
PXD004043	28679203	Activation of Human Peripheral Blood Eosinophils by Cytokines in a Comparative Time-Course Proteomic/Phosphoproteomic Study. 	Time-course Activation of Human Peripheral Blood Eosinophils by Cytokines	Eosinophils, activation, asthma, cytokines, flow cytometry, phosphoproteomics	Activated eosinophils contribute to airway dysfunction and tissue remodeling in asthma and thus are considered to be important factors in asthma pathology. We report here comparative proteomic and phosphoproteomic changes upon activation of eosinophils using eight cytokines individually and in selected cytokine combinations in time-course reactions. Differential protein and phosphoprotein expressions were determined by mass spectrometry after 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DGE) and by LC-MS/MS. We found that each cytokine-stimulation produced significantly different changes in the eosinophil proteome and phosphoproteome, with phosphoproteomic changes being more pronounced and having an earlier onset. Furthermore, we observed that IL-5, GM-CSF, and IL-3 showed the greatest change in protein expression and phosphorylation, and this expression differed markedly from those of the other five cytokines evaluated. Comprehensive univariate and multivariate statistical analyses were employed to evaluate the comparative results. We also monitored eosinophil activation using flow cytometry (FC) analysis of CD69. In agreement with our proteomic studies, FC indicated that IL-5, GM-CSF, and IL-3 were more effective than the other five cytokines studied in stimulating a cell surface CD69 increase indicative of eosinophil activation. Moreover, selected combinations of cytokines revealed proteomic patterns with many proteins in common with single cytokine expression patterns but also showed a greater effect of the two cytokines employed, indicating a more complex signaling pathway that was reflective of a more typical inflammatory pathology.
PXD001985	28679606	Proteomic profile of cystic fibrosis sputum cells in adults chronically infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	CF sputum LC-MSMS	cystic fibrosis, sputum	Lung disease is the main cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF), and involves chronic infection and perturbed immune responses. Tissue damage is mediated mostly by extracellular proteases, but other cellular proteins may also contribute to damage through their effect on cell activities and/or release into sputum fluid by means of active secretion or cell death.We employed MudPIT (multidimensional protein identification technology) to identify sputum cellular proteins with consistently altered abundance in adults with CF, chronically infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa, compared with healthy controls. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, Gene Ontology, protein abundance and correlation with lung function were used to infer their potential clinical significance.Differentially abundant proteins relate to Rho family small GTPase activity, immune cell movement/activation, generation of reactive oxygen species, and dysregulation of cell death and proliferation. Compositional breakdown identified high abundance of proteins previously associated with neutrophil extracellular traps. Furthermore, negative correlations with lung function were detected for 17 proteins, many of which have previously been associated with lung injury.These findings expand our current understanding of the mechanisms driving CF lung disease and identify sputum cellular proteins with potential for use as indicators of disease status/prognosis, stratification determinants for treatment prescription or therapeutic targets.
PXD005273	28679684	Study of the Plasma Membrane Proteome Dynamics Reveals Novel Targets of the Nitrogen Regulation in Yeast. 	STUDY OF THE PLASMA MEMBRANE PROTEOME DYNAMICS REVEALS NOVEL TARGETS OF THE NITROGEN REGULATION IN YEAST	arrestin, endocytosis, nitrogen sources, transporters, yeast plasma membrane	Yeast cells, to be able to grow on a wide variety of nitrogen sources, regulate the set of nitrogen transporters present at their plasma membrane. Such regulation relies on both transcriptional and post-translational events. Although microarray studies have identified most nitrogen-sensitive genes, nitrogen-induced post-translational regulation has only been studied for very few proteins among which the general amino acid permease Gap1. Adding a preferred nitrogen source to proline-grown cells triggers Gap1 endocytosis and vacuolar degradation in an Rsp5-Bul1/2-dependent manner. Here, we used a proteomic approach to follow the dynamics of the plasma membrane proteome after addition of a preferred nitrogen source. We identified new targets of the nitrogen regulation and four transporters of poor nitrogen sources-Put4, Opt2, Dal5, and Ptr2-that rapidly decrease in abundance. Although the kinetics is different for each transporter, we found that three of them-Put4, Dal5, and Ptr2-are endocytosed, like Gap1, in an Rsp5-dependent manner and degraded in the vacuole. Finally, we showed that Gap1 stabilization at the plasma membrane, through deletion of Bul proteins, regulates the abundance of Put4, Dal5 and Ptr2.
PXD005207	28680058	PfCDPK1 mediated signaling in erythrocytic stages of Plasmodium falciparum. 	PfCDPK1 mediated signaling in erythrocytic stages of Plasmodium falciparum	Orbitrap Fusion, Phosphoproteome	Calcium Dependent Protein Kinases are key effectors of calcium signaling in malaria parasite. PfCDPK1 is critical for asexual development of Plasmodium falciparum, but its precise function and substrates remain largely unknown. Using a conditional knockdown strategy, we here establish that this kinase is critical for the invasion of host erythrocytes. Furthermore, using a multidisciplinary approach involving comparative phosphoproteomics we gain insights into the underlying molecular mechanisms. We identify substrates of PfCDPK1, which includes proteins of Inner Membrane Complex and glideosome-actomyosin motor assembly. Interestingly, PfCDPK1 phosphorylates PfPKA regulatory subunit (PfPKA-R) and regulates PfPKA activity in the parasite, which may be relevant for the process of invasion. This study delineates the signaling network of PfCDPK1 and sheds light on mechanisms via which it regulates invasion.Calcium dependent protein kinase 1 (CDPK1) plays an important role in asexual development of Plasmodium falciparum. Using phosphoproteomics and conditional knockdown of CDPK1, the authors here identify CDPK1 substrates and a cross-talk between CDPK1 and PKA, and show the role of CDPK1 in parasite invasion.
PXD005453	28680592	HIF prolyl hydroxylase PHD3 regulates translational machinery and glucose metabolism in clear cell renal cell carcinoma. 	Human ccRCC cell line 786-O with PHD3 knockdown LC-MS/MS	PHD3, cancer, ccRCC	BACKGROUND: A key feature of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the inactivation of the von Hippel-Lindau tumour suppressor protein (pVHL) that leads to the activation of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) pathway also in well-oxygenated conditions. Important regulator of HIF-alpha, prolyl hydroxylase PHD3, is expressed in high amounts in ccRCC. Although several functions and downstream targets for PHD3 in cancer have been suggested, the role of elevated PHD3 expression in ccRCC is not clear. METHODS: To gain insight into the functions of high PHD3 expression in ccRCC, we used PHD3 knockdown by siRNA in 786-O cells under normoxic and hypoxic conditions and performed discovery mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) of the purified peptide samples. The LC-MS/MS results were analysed by label-free quantification of proteome data using a peptide-level expression-change averaging procedure and subsequent gene ontology enrichment analysis. RESULTS: Our data reveals an intriguingly widespread effect of PHD3 knockdown with 91 significantly regulated proteins. Under hypoxia, the response to PHD3 silencing was wider than under normoxia illustrated by both the number of regulated proteins and by the range of protein expression levels. The main cellular functions regulated by PHD3 expression were glucose metabolism, protein translation and messenger RNA (mRNA) processing. PHD3 silencing led to downregulation of most glycolytic enzymes from glucose transport to lactate production supported by the reduction in extracellular acidification and lactate production and increase in cellular oxygen consumption rate. Moreover, upregulation of mRNA processing-related proteins and alteration in a number of ribosomal proteins was seen as a response to PHD3 silencing. Further studies on upstream effectors of the translational machinery revealed a possible role for PHD3 in regulation of mTOR pathway signalling. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest crucial involvement of PHD3 in the maintenance of key cellular functions including glycolysis and protein synthesis in ccRCC.
PXD006377	28683291	Lack of Glycogenin Causes Glycogen Accumulation and Muscle Function Impairment. 	Lack of glycogenin causes glycogen accumulation and muscle function impairment	glycogenin	Glycogenin is considered essential for glycogen synthesis, as it acts as a primer for the initiation of the polysaccharide chain. Against expectations, glycogenin-deficient mice (Gyg KO) accumulate high amounts of glycogen in striated muscle. Furthermore, this glycogen contains no covalently bound protein, thereby demonstrating that a protein primer is not strictly necessary for the synthesis of the polysaccharide in vivo. Strikingly, in spite of the higher glycogen content, Gyg KO mice showed lower resting energy expenditure and less resistance than control animals when subjected to endurance exercise. These observations can be attributed to a switch of oxidative myofibers toward glycolytic metabolism. Mice overexpressing glycogen synthase in the muscle showed similar alterations, thus indicating that this switch is caused by the excess of glycogen. These results may explain the muscular defects of GSD XV patients, who lack glycogenin-1 and show high glycogen accumulation in muscle.
PXD005574	28684633	Metaproteomics reveals functional differences in intestinal microbiota development of preterm infants. 	Metaproteomics on preterm infant stool	Metaproteomics, Microbiota, Preterm infant, Stool	OBJECTIVE: Development of the gastrointestinal tract and immune system can be modulated by the gut microbiota. Establishment of the intestinal microbiota, in its turn, is affected by host and environmental factors. As such, development of the gut microbiota is greatly impacted in preterm infants, who have an immature gut and are exposed to factors like hospitalization, caesarean section, antibiotics, and respiratory support. DESIGN: We analyzed fecal microbiota composition and activity of ten preterm infants (gestational age 25-30 weeks; birthweight 630-1750 g) during the first six postnatal weeks through metaproteomics (LC-MS/MS) and 16S-rRNA gene sequencing. RESULTS: A gestational-age-dependent microbial signature is observed, enabling microbiota-based differentiation between extremely preterm (25-27 weeks gestation) and very preterm (30 weeks gestation) infants. In very preterm infants, the intestinal microbiota developed toward a Bifidobacterium-dominated community and was associated with high abundance of proteins involved in carbohydrate and energy metabolism. Extremely preterm infants remained predominantly colonized by facultative anaerobes and were associated with proteins involved in membrane transport and translation. Delayed colonization by obligate anaerobes could be associated with antibiotic treatment and respiratory support. CONCLUSION: We speculate that gestational age and its associated intensity of care (e.g. antibiotics and respiratory support) affects intestinal microbiota composition and activity in preterm infants. As the gut microbiota plays a major role in development of the neonate, gestational age and its associated factors could set the stage for early and later life health complications via interference with microbiota development.
PXD005065	28687556	Spatiotemporal Proteomic Profiling of Human Cerebral Development. 	FFPE LFQ proteomics of Human Cerebral Development and CMV Encephalitis Fetal Brains	encephalitis, fetal brain, shotgun proteomics	Mass spectrometry (MS) analysis of human post-mortem central nervous system (CNS) tissue and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-based directed differentiations offer complementary avenues to define protein signatures of neurodevelopment. Methodological improvements of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) protein isolation now enable widespread proteomic analysis of well-annotated archival tissue samples in the context of development and disease. Here, we utilize a shotgun label-free quantification (LFQ) MS method to profile magnetically enriched human cortical neurons and neural progenitor cells (NPCs) derived from iPSCs. We use these signatures to help define spatiotemporal protein dynamics of developing human FFPE cerebral regions. We show that the use of high resolution Q Exactive mass spectrometers now allow simultaneous quantification of >2700 proteins in a single LFQ experiment and provide sufficient coverage to define novel biomarkers and signatures of NPC maintenance and differentiation. Importantly, we show that this abbreviated strategy allows efficient recovery of novel cytoplasmic, membrane-specific and synaptic proteins that are shared between both in vivo and in vitro neuronal differentiation. This study highlights the discovery potential of non-comprehensive high-throughput proteomic profiling of unfractionated clinically well-annotated FFPE human tissue from a diverse array of development and diseased states.
PXD006234	28691068	Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange of Lipoxygenase Uncovers a Relationship between Distal, Solvent Exposed Protein Motions and the Thermal Activation Barrier for Catalytic Proton-Coupled Electron Tunneling. 	Hydrogen exchange soybean lipoxygenase	HDXMS, soybean lipoxygenase	Defining specific pathways for efficient heat transfer from protein-solvent interfaces to their active sites represents one of the compelling and timely challenges in our quest for a physical description of the origins of enzyme catalysis. Enzymatic hydrogen tunneling reactions constitute excellent systems in which to validate experimental approaches to this important question, given the inherent temperature independence of quantum mechanical wave function overlap. Herein, we present the application of hydrogen-deuterium exchange coupled to mass spectrometry toward the spatial resolution of protein motions that can be related to an enzyme's catalytic parameters. Employing the proton-coupled electron transfer reaction of soybean lipoxygenase as proof of principle, we first corroborate the impact of active site mutations on increased local flexibility and, second, uncover a solvent-exposed loop, 15-34 Aa from the reactive ferric center whose temperature-dependent motions are demonstrated to mirror the enthalpic barrier for catalytic C-H bond cleavage. A network that connects this surface loop to the active site is structurally identified and supported by changes in kinetic parameters that result from site-specific mutations.
PXD006155	28691708	An exported protein-interacting complex involved in the trafficking of virulence determinants in Plasmodium-infected erythrocytes. 	An Exported Protein-Interacting Complex involved in the trafficking of virulence determinants in Plasmodium-infected erythrocytes	EPIC, PTEX, PfEMP1, Plasmodium falciparum, protein export	The malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, displays the P. falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP1) on the surface of infected red blood cells (RBCs). We here examine the physical organization of PfEMP1 trafficking intermediates in infected RBCs and determine interacting partners using an epitope-tagged minimal construct (PfEMP1B). We show that parasitophorous vacuole (PV)-located PfEMP1B interacts with components of the PTEX (Plasmodium Translocon of EXported proteins) as well as a novel protein complex, EPIC (Exported Protein-Interacting Complex). Within the RBC cytoplasm PfEMP1B interacts with components of the Maurer's clefts and the RBC chaperonin complex. We define the EPIC interactome and, using an inducible knockdown approach, show that depletion of one of its components, the parasitophorous vacuolar protein-1 (PV1), results in altered knob morphology, reduced cell rigidity and decreased binding to CD36. Accordingly, we show that deletion of the Plasmodium berghei homologue of PV1 is associated with attenuation of parasite virulence in vivo.
PXD003316	28694244	Tumor matrix stiffness promotes metastatic cancer cell interaction with the endothelium. 	Tumor matrix stiffness induces CCN1/CYR61  upregulation of N-Cadherin to promote cancer cell  trans-endothelial migration and metastasis	CCN1, HUVEC, Matrigel, SILAC, protome, stiffness, tumour, vasculature	Tumor progression alters the composition and physical properties of the extracellular matrix. Particularly, increased matrix stiffness has profound effects on tumor growth and metastasis. While endothelial cells are key players in cancer progression, the influence of tumor stiffness on the endothelium and the impact on metastasis is unknown. Through quantitative mass spectrometry, we find that the matricellular protein CCN1/CYR61 is highly regulated by stiffness in endothelial cells. We show that stiffness-induced CCN1 activates beta-catenin nuclear translocation and signaling and that this contributes to upregulate N-cadherin levels on the surface of the endothelium, in vitro This facilitates N-cadherin-dependent cancer cell-endothelium interaction. Using intravital imaging, we show that knockout of Ccn1 in endothelial cells inhibits melanoma cancer cell binding to the blood vessels, a critical step in cancer cell transit through the vasculature to metastasize. Targeting stiffness-induced changes in the vasculature, such as CCN1, is therefore a potential yet unappreciated mechanism to impair metastasis.
PXD003321	28694441	The glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase GapDH of Corynebacterium diphtheriae is redox-controlled by protein S-mycothiolation under oxidative stress. 	Monitoring global protein thiol-oxidation and protein S-mycothiolation in Corynebacterium diphtheriae under hypochlorite stress	OxICAT, S-mycothiolation, bacteria, corynebacterium diphtheria, mycothiol, oxidative stress	Mycothiol (MSH) is the major low molecular weight (LMW) thiol in Actinomycetes and functions in post-translational thiol-modification by protein S-mycothiolation as emerging thiol-protection and redox-regulatory mechanism. Here, we have used shotgun-proteomics to identify 26 S-mycothiolated proteins in the pathogen Corynebacterium diphtheriae DSM43989 under hypochlorite stress that are involved in energy metabolism, amino acid and nucleotide biosynthesis, antioxidant functions and translation. The glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GapDH) represents the most abundant S-mycothiolated protein that was modified at its active site Cys153 in vivo. Exposure of purified GapDH to H2O2 and NaOCl resulted in irreversible inactivation due to overoxidation of the active site in vitro. Treatment of GapDH with H2O2 or NaOCl in the presence of MSH resulted in S-mycothiolation and reversible GapDH inactivation in vitro which was faster compared to the overoxidation pathway. Reactivation of S-mycothiolated GapDH could be catalyzed by both, the Trx and the Mrx1 pathways in vitro, but demycothiolation by Mrx1 was faster compared to Trx. In summary, we show here that S-mycothiolation can function in redox-regulation and protection of the GapDH active site against overoxidation in C. diphtheriae which can be reversed by both, the Mrx1 and Trx pathways.
PXD005255	28694488	Outer membrane vesicles secreted by pathogenic and nonpathogenic Bacteroides fragilis represent different metabolic activities. 	Bacteroides fragilis outer membrane vesicles	Bacteroides fragilis, vesicles	Numerous studies are devoted to the intestinal microbiota and intercellular communication maintaining homeostasis. In this regard, vesicles secreted by bacteria represent one of the most popular topics for research. For example, the outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) of Bacteroides fragilis play an important nutritional role with respect to other microorganisms and promote anti-inflammatory effects on immune cells. However, toxigenic B. fragilis (ETBF) contributes to bowel disease, even causing colon cancer. If nontoxigenic B. fragilis (NTBF) vesicles exert a beneficial effect on the intestine, it is likely that ETBF vesicles can be utilized for potential pathogenic implementation. To confirm this possibility, we performed comparative proteomic HPLC-MS/MS analysis of vesicles isolated from ETBF and NTBF. Furthermore, we performed, for the first time, HPLC-MS/MS and GS-MS comparative metabolomic analysis for the vesicles isolated from both strains with subsequent reconstruction of the vesicle metabolic pathways. We utilized fluxomic experiments to validate the reconstructed biochemical reaction activities and finally observed considerable difference in the vesicle proteome and metabolome profiles. Compared with NTBF OMVs, metabolic activity of ETBF OMVs provides their similarity to micro reactors that are likely to be used for long-term persistence and implementing pathogenic potential in the host.
PXD005523	28696408	A multi-protease, multi-dissociation, bottom-up-to-top-down proteomic view of the Loxosceles intermedia venom. 	A multi-protease, multi-dissociation, bottom-up-to-top-down proteomic view of the Loxosceles intermedia venom	venom loxosceles intermedia	Venoms are a rich source for the discovery of molecules with biotechnological applications, but their analysis is challenging even for state-of-the-art proteomics. Here we report on a large-scale proteomic assessment of the venom of Loxosceles intermedia, the so-called brown spider. Venom was extracted from 200 spiders and fractioned into two aliquots relative to a 10 kDa cutoff mass. Each of these was further fractioned and digested with trypsin (4 h), trypsin (18 h), pepsin (18 h), and chymotrypsin (18 h), then analyzed by MudPIT on an LTQ-Orbitrap XL ETD mass spectrometer fragmenting precursors by CID, HCD, and ETD. Aliquots of undigested samples were also analyzed. Our experimental design allowed us to apply spectral networks, thus enabling us to obtain meta-contig assemblies, and consequently de novo sequencing of practically complete proteins, culminating in a deep proteome assessment of the venom. Data are available via ProteomeXchange, with identifier PXD005523.
PXD006021	28696707	Cyclophilin B Deficiency Causes Abnormal Dentin Collagen Matrix. 	Cyclophilin B deficiency causes abnormal dentin collagen matrix	collagen, cyclophilin B, dentin	Cyclophilin B (CypB) is an endoplasmic reticulum-resident protein that regulates collagen folding, and also contributes to prolyl 3-hydroxylation (P3H) and lysine (Lys) hydroxylation of collagen. In this study, we characterized dentin type I collagen in CypB null (KO) mice, a model of recessive osteogenesis imperfecta type IX, and compared to those of wild-type (WT) and heterozygous (Het) mice. Mass spectrometric analysis demonstrated that the extent of P3H in KO collagen was significantly diminished compared to WT/Het. Lys hydroxylation in KO was significantly diminished at the helical cross-linking sites, alpha1/alpha2(I) Lys-87 and alpha1(I) Lys-930, leading to a significant increase in the under-hydroxylated cross-links and a decrease in fully hydroxylated cross-links. The extent of glycosylation of hydroxylysine residues was, except alpha1(I) Lys-87, generally higher in KO than WT/Het. Some of these molecular phenotypes were distinct from other KO tissues reported previously, indicating the dentin-specific control mechanism through CypB. Histological analysis revealed that the width of predentin was greater and irregular, and collagen fibrils were sparse and significantly smaller in KO than WT/Het. These results indicate a critical role of CypB in dentin matrix formation, suggesting a possible association between recessive osteogenesis imperfecta and dentin defects that have not been clinically detected.
PXD006502	28698233	Reduced Protein Expression in a Virus Attenuated by Codon Deoptimization. 	Reduced protein expression in a virus attenuated by codon deoptimization	Codon deoptimization, codon usage, viral attenuation	A general means of viral attenuation involves the extensive recoding of synonymous codons in the viral genome. The mechanistic underpinnings of this approach remain unclear, however. Using quantitative proteomics and RNA sequencing, we explore the molecular basis of attenuation in a strain of bacteriophage T7 whose major capsid gene was engineered to carry 182 suboptimal codons. We do not detect transcriptional effects from recoding. Proteomic observations reveal that translation is halved for the recoded major capsid gene, and a more modest reduction applies to several coexpressed downstream genes. We observe no changes in protein abundances of other coexpressed genes that are encoded upstream. Viral burst size, like capsid protein abundance, is also decreased by half. Together, these observations suggest that, in this virus, reduced translation of an essential polycistronic transcript and diminished virion assembly form the molecular basis of attenuation.
PXD006613	28700945	Reduced Circulating Insulin Enhances Insulin Sensitivity in Old Mice and Extends Lifespan. 	Reduced circulating insulin enhances insulin sensitivity in old mice and extends lifespan	aging, hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, longevity	The causal relationships between insulin levels, insulin resistance, and longevity are not fully elucidated. Genetic downregulation of insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 (Igf1) signaling components can extend invertebrate and mammalian lifespan, but insulin resistance, a natural form of decreased insulin signaling, is associated with greater risk of age-related disease in mammals. We compared Ins2(+/-) mice to Ins2(+/+) littermate controls, on a genetically stable Ins1 null background. Proteomic and transcriptomic analyses of livers from 25-week-old mice suggested potential for healthier aging and altered insulin sensitivity in Ins2(+/-) mice. Halving Ins2 lowered circulating insulin by 25%-34% in aged female mice, without altering Igf1 or circulating Igf1. Remarkably, decreased insulin led to lower fasting glucose and improved insulin sensitivity in aged mice. Moreover, lowered insulin caused significant lifespan extension, observed across two diverse diets. Our study indicates that elevated insulin contributes to age-dependent insulin resistance and that limiting basal insulin levels can extend lifespan.
PXD006596	28701521	Translational repression of the Drosophila nanos mRNA involves the RNA helicase Belle and RNA coating by Me31B and Trailer hitch. 	Translational repression of the Drosophila nanos mRNA involves the RNA helicase Belle and RNA coating by Me31B and Trailer hitch	Ccr4-not-complex, Cup, Me31B, Smaug, Trailer hitch, deadenylation DEAD-box helicase, nanos, translational repression	Translational repression of maternal mRNAs is an essential regulatory mechanism during early embryonic development. Repression of the Drosophila nanos mRNA, required for the formation of the anterior-posterior body axis, depends on the protein Smaug binding to two Smaug recognition elements (SREs) in the nanos 3' UTR. In a comprehensive mass spectrometric analysis of the SRE-dependent repressor complex, we identified Smaug, Cup, Me31B, Trailer hitch, eIF4E, and PABPC, in agreement with earlier data. As a novel component, the RNA-dependent ATPase Belle (DDX3) was found, and its involvement in deadenylation and repression of nanos was confirmed in vivo. Smaug, Cup, and Belle bound stoichiometrically to the SREs, independently of RNA length. Binding of Me31B and Tral was also SRE-dependent, but their amounts were proportional to the length of the RNA and equimolar to each other. We suggest that "coating" of the RNA by a Me31B*Tral complex may be at the core of repression.
PXD006027	28702092	PAT-H-MS coupled with laser microdissection to study histone post-translational modifications in selected cell populations from pathology samples. 	PAT-H-MS coupled with laser microdissection to study histone post-translational modifications in selected cell populations from pathology samples	PAT-H-MS, epigenetic marker, formalin-fixed paraffin embedded, histone post-translational modifications, laser microdissection	BACKGROUND: Aberrations in histone post-translational modifications (hPTMs) have been linked with various pathologies, including cancer, and could not only represent useful biomarkers but also suggest possible targetable epigenetic mechanisms. We have recently developed an approach, termed pathology tissue analysis of histones by mass spectrometry (PAT-H-MS), that allows performing a comprehensive and quantitative analysis of histone PTMs from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded pathology samples. Despite its great potential, the application of this technique is limited by tissue heterogeneity. METHODS: In this study, we further implemented the PAT-H-MS approach by coupling it with techniques aimed at reducing sample heterogeneity and selecting specific portions or cell populations within the samples, such as manual macrodissection and laser microdissection (LMD). RESULTS: When applied to the analysis of a small set of breast cancer samples, LMD-PAT-H-MS allowed detecting more marked changes between luminal A-like and triple negative patients as compared with the classical approach. These changes included not only the already known H3 K27me3 and K9me3 marks, but also H3 K36me1, which was found increased in triple negative samples and validated on a larger cohort of patients, and could represent a potential novel marker distinguishing breast cancer subtypes. CONCLUSIONS: These results show the feasibility of applying techniques to reduce sample heterogeneity, including laser microdissection, to the PAT-H-MS protocol, providing new tools in clinical epigenetics and opening new avenues for the comprehensive analysis of histone post-translational modifications in selected cell populations.
PXD005969	28705725	Assessing the impact of protein extraction methods for human gut metaproteomics. 	Evaluating the protein extraction methods for gut metaproteomics	bead beating, metaproteomics, microbiome, protein extraction, ultrasonication	Metaproteomics is a promising methodology for the functional characterizations of the gut microbiome. However, the performance of metaproteomic analysis is affected by protein extraction protocols in terms of the amount of protein recovered and the relative abundance of different bacteria observed in microbiome. Currently, there is a lack of consistency on protein extraction methods in published metaproteomics studies. Here we evaluated the effects of different protein extraction methods on human fecal metaproteome characterizations. We found that sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-based lysis buffer obtained higher protein yields and peptide/protein group identifications compared to urea and the non-ionic detergent-based B-Per buffer. The addition of bead beating to any of the extraction buffers increased both protein yields and protein identifications. As well, bead beating led to a significant increase of the relative abundances of Firmicutes and Actinobacteria. We also demonstrated that ultrasonication, another commonly used mechanical disruption approach, performed even better than bead beating for gut microbial protein extractions. Importantly, proteins of the basic metabolic pathways showed significantly higher relative abundances when using ultrasonication. Overall, these results demonstrate that protein extraction protocols markedly impact the metaproteomic results and recommend a protein extraction protocol with both SDS and ultrasonication for metaproteomic studies. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The gut microbiome is emerging as an important factor influencing human health. Metaproteomics is promising for advancing the understanding of the functional roles of the microbiome in disease. However, metaproteomics suffers from a lack of consistent sample preparation procedures. In the present study, protein extraction protocols for fecal microbiome samples were evaluated for their effects on protein yields, peptide identifications, protein group identifications, taxonomic compositions and functional category distributions. While different protocols favor different microbial taxa and protein functions, our results suggest that a protein extraction protocol using sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and ultrasonication provides the best performance for general shotgun metaproteomics studies.
PXD002364	28706003	Phosphorylation-mediated Regulatory Networks in Mycelia of Pyricularia oryzae Revealed by Phosphoproteomic Analyses. 	Phosphoproteome of Magnaporthe oryzae	Rice blast fungus, mycelium, pathogensis, phosphorylation	Protein phosphorylation is known to regulate pathogenesis, mycelial growth, conidiation and stress response in Pyricularia oryzae However, phosphorylation mediated regulatory networks in the fungal pathogen remain largely to be uncovered. In this study, we identified 1621 phosphorylation sites of 799 proteins in mycelia of P. oryzae, including 899 new p-sites of 536 proteins and 47 new p-sites of 31 pathogenicity-related proteins. From the sequences flanking the phosphorylation sites, 19 conserved phosphorylation motifs were identified. Notably, phosphorylation was detected in 7 proteins that function upstream of Pmk1, but not in Pmk1 and its downstream Mst12 and Sfl1 that have been known to regulate appressorium formation and infection hyphal growth of P. oryzae Interestingly, phosphorylation was detected at the site Ser(240) of Pmp1, which is a putative protein phosphatase highly conserved in filamentous fungi but not characterized. We thus generated Deltapmp1 deletion mutants and dominant allele PMP1(S240D) mutants. Phenotyping analyses indicated that Pmp1 is required for virulence, conidiation and mycelial growth. Further, we observed that phosphorylation level of Pmk1 in mycelia was significantly increased in the Deltapmp1 mutant, but decreased in the PMP1(S240D) mutant in comparison with the wild type, demonstrating that Pmp1 phosphorylated at Ser(240) is important for regulating phosphorylation of Pmk1. To our surprise, phosphorylation of Mps1, another MAP kinase required for cell wall integrity and appressorium formation of P. oryzae, was also significantly enhanced in the Deltapmp1 mutant, but decreased in the PMP1(S240D) mutant. In addition, we found that Pmp1 directly interacts with Mps1 and the region AA180-230 of Pmp1 is required for the interaction. In summary, this study sheds new lights on the protein phosphorylation mediated regulatory networks in P. oryzae.
PXD005917	28706004	Feedback Microtubule Control and Microtubule-Actin Cross-talk in Arabidopsis Revealed by Integrative Proteomic and Cell Biology Analysis of KATANIN 1 Mutants. 	Arabidopsis katanin mutants LC-MSMS	katanin	Microtubule organization and dynamics are critical for key developmental processes such as cell division, elongation, and morphogenesis. Microtubule severing is an essential regulator of microtubules and is exclusively executed by KATANIN 1 in Arabidopsis In this study, we comparatively studied the proteome-wide effects in two KATANIN 1 mutants. Thus, shotgun proteomic analysis of roots and aerial parts of single nucleotide mutant fra2 and T-DNA insertion mutant ktn1-2 was carried out. We have detected 42 proteins differentially abundant in both fra2 and ktn1-2 KATANIN 1 dysfunction altered the abundance of proteins involved in development, metabolism, and stress responses. The differential regulation of tubulins and microtubule-destabilizing protein MDP25 implied a feedback microtubule control in KATANIN 1 mutants. Furthermore, deregulation of profilin 1, actin-depolymerizing factor 3, and actin 7 was observed. These findings were confirmed by immunoblotting analysis of actin and by microscopic observation of actin filaments using fluorescently labeled phalloidin. Results obtained by quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that changed protein abundances were not a consequence of altered expression levels of corresponding genes in the mutants. In conclusion, we show that abundances of several cytoskeletal proteins as well as organization of microtubules and the actin cytoskeleton are amended in accordance with defective microtubule severing.
PXD005003	28706005	A Cell Wall Proteome and Targeted Cell Wall Analyses Provide Novel Information on Hemicellulose Metabolism in Flax. 	Flax cell wall proteome -  A cell wall proteome and targeted cell wall analyses provide novel information on hemicellulose metabolism in flax	Flax, cell wall	Experimentally-generated (nanoLC-MS/MS) proteomic analyses of four different flax organs/tissues (inner-stem, outer-stem, leaves and roots) enriched in proteins from 3 different sub-compartments (soluble-, membrane-, and cell wall-proteins) was combined with publically available data on flax seed and whole-stem proteins to generate a flax protein database containing 2996 nonredundant total proteins. Subsequent multiple analyses (MapMan, CAZy, WallProtDB and expert curation) of this database were then used to identify a flax cell wall proteome consisting of 456 nonredundant proteins localized in the cell wall and/or associated with cell wall biosynthesis, remodeling and other cell wall related processes. Examination of the proteins present in different flax organs/tissues provided a detailed overview of cell wall metabolism and highlighted the importance of hemicellulose and pectin remodeling in stem tissues. Phylogenetic analyses of proteins in the cell wall proteome revealed an important paralogy in the class IIIA xyloglucan endo-transglycosylase/hydrolase (XTH) family associated with xyloglucan endo-hydrolase activity.Immunolocalisation, FT-IR microspectroscopy, and enzymatic fingerprinting indicated that flax fiber primary/S1 cell walls contained xyloglucans with typical substituted side chains as well as glucuronoxylans in much lower quantities. These results suggest a likely central role of xyloglucans and endotransglucosylase/hydrolase activity in flax fiber formation and cell wall remodeling processes.
PXD006347	28706187	DELAY OF GERMINATION1 requires PP2C phosphatases of the ABA signalling pathway to control seed dormancy. 	Arabidopsis thaliana DOG1 pull-downs from seed tissues	DOG1, dormancy, germination, seed	The time of seed germination is a major decision point in the life of plants determining future growth and development. This timing is controlled by seed dormancy, which prevents germination under favourable conditions. The plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) and the protein DELAY OF GERMINATION 1 (DOG1) are essential regulators of dormancy. The function of ABA in dormancy is rather well understood, but the role of DOG1 is still unknown. Here, we describe four phosphatases that interact with DOG1 in seeds. Two of them belong to clade A of type 2C protein phosphatases: ABA-HYPERSENSITIVE GERMINATION 1 (AHG1) and AHG3. These phosphatases have redundant but essential roles in the release of seed dormancy epistatic to DOG1. We propose that the ABA and DOG1 dormancy pathways converge at clade A of type 2C protein phosphatases.The DOG1 protein is a major regulator of seed dormancy in Arabidopsis. Here, Nee et al. provide evidence that DOG1 can interact with the type 2C protein phosphatases AHG1 and AHG3 and that this represents the convergence point of the DOG1-regulated dormancy pathway and signalling by the plant hormone abscisic acid.
PXD006326	28706196	Synaptic GAP and GEF Complexes Cluster Proteins Essential for GTP Signaling. 	Synaptic GAP and GEF Complexes Cluster Proteins Essential for GTP  Signaling	GTP, Neuron	GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) and guanine exchange factors (GEFs) play essential roles in regulating the activity of small GTPases. Several GAPs and GEFs have been shown to be present at the postsynaptic density (PSD) within excitatory glutamatergic neurons and regulate the activity of glutamate receptors. However, it is not known how synaptic GAP and GEF proteins are organized within the PSD signaling machinery, if they have overlapping interaction networks, or if they associate with proteins implicated in contributing to psychiatric disease. Here, we determine the interactomes of three interacting GAP/GEF proteins at the PSD, including the RasGAP Syngap1, the ArfGAP Agap2, and the RhoGEF Kalirin, which includes a total of 280 interactions. We describe the functional properties of each interactome and show that these GAP/GEF proteins are highly associated with and cluster other proteins directly involved in GTPase signaling mechanisms. We also utilize Agap2 as an example of GAP/GEFs localized within multiple neuronal compartments and determine an additional 110 interactions involving Agap2 outside of the PSD. Functional analysis of PSD and non-PSD interactomes illustrates both common and unique functions of Agap2 determined by its subcellular location. Furthermore, we also show that these GAPs/GEFs associate with several proteins involved in psychiatric disease.
PXD005780	28709472	Potential and active functions in the gut microbiota of a healthy human cohort. 	Relating human gut metagenome and metaproteome	Metaproteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, gut metagenome, gut metaproteome, machine learning, metaproteomics	BACKGROUND: The study of the gut microbiota (GM) is rapidly moving towards its functional characterization by means of shotgun meta-omics. In this context, there is still no consensus on which microbial functions are consistently and constitutively expressed in the human gut in physiological conditions. Here, we selected a cohort of 15 healthy subjects from a native and highly monitored Sardinian population and analyzed their GMs using shotgun metaproteomics, with the aim of investigating GM functions actually expressed in a healthy human population. In addition, shotgun metagenomics was employed to reveal GM functional potential and to compare metagenome and metaproteome profiles in a combined taxonomic and functional fashion. RESULTS: Metagenomic and metaproteomic data concerning the taxonomic structure of the GM under study were globally comparable. On the contrary, a considerable divergence between genetic potential and functional activity of the human healthy GM was observed, with the metaproteome displaying a higher plasticity, compared to the lower inter-individual variability of metagenome profiles. The taxon-specific contribution to functional activities and metabolic tasks was also examined, giving insights into the peculiar role of several GM members in carbohydrate metabolism (including polysaccharide degradation, glycan transport, glycolysis, and short-chain fatty acid production). Noteworthy, Firmicutes-driven butyrogenesis (mainly due to Faecalibacterium spp.) was shown to be the metabolic activity with the highest expression rate and the lowest inter-individual variability in the study cohort, in line with the previously reported importance of the biosynthesis of this microbial product for the gut homeostasis. CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide detailed and taxon-specific information regarding functions and pathways actively working in a healthy GM. The reported discrepancy between expressed functions and functional potential suggests that caution should be used before drawing functional conclusions from metagenomic data, further supporting metaproteomics as a fundamental approach to characterize the human GM metabolic functions and activities.
PXD005201	28710093	The ciliary membrane-associated proteome reveals actin-binding proteins as key components of cilia. 	Analysis of the cilia membrane proteome by cmAPEX	Cilia, Proximity Labeling	Primary cilia are sensory, antennae-like organelles present on the surface of many cell types. They have been involved in a variety of diseases collectively termed ciliopathies. As cilia are essential regulators of cell signaling, the composition of the ciliary membrane needs to be strictly regulated. To understand regulatory processes at the ciliary membrane, we report the targeting of a genetically engineered enzyme specifically to the ciliary membrane to allow biotinylation and identification of the membrane-associated proteome. Bioinformatic analysis of the comprehensive dataset reveals high-stoichiometric presence of actin-binding proteins inside the cilium. Immunofluorescence stainings and complementary interaction proteomic analyses confirm these findings. Depolymerization of branched F-actin causes further enrichment of the actin-binding and actin-related proteins in cilia, including Myosin 5a (Myo5a). Interestingly, Myo5a knockout decreases ciliation while enhanced levels of Myo5a are observed in cilia upon induction of ciliary disassembly. In summary, we present a novel approach to investigate dynamics of the ciliary membrane proteome in mammalian cells and identify actin-binding proteins as mechanosensitive components of cilia that might have important functions in cilia membrane dynamics.
PXD006362	28712289	Comprehensive Proteomic Analysis of PGC7-Interacting Proteins. 	PGC7-interacting proteins in HEK293T cells	HEK293T, PGC7	Primordial germ cell 7 (PGC7), a maternal factor essential for early development, plays a critical role in the regulation of DNA methylation, transcriptional repression, chromatin condensation, and cell division and the maintenance of cell pluripotentiality. Despite the fundamental roles of PGC7 in these cellular processes, only a few molecular and functional interactions of PGC7 have been reported. Here, a streptavidin-biotin affinity purification technique combined with LC-MS/MS was used to analyze potential proteins that interact with PGC7. In total, 291 potential PGC7-interacting proteins were identified. Through an in-depth bioinformatic analysis of potential interactors, we linked PGC7 to critical cellular processes including translation, RNA processing, cell cycle, and regulation of heterochromatin structure. To better understand the functional interactions of PGC7 with its potential interactors, we constructed a protein-protein interaction network using the STRING database. In addition, we discussed in detail the interactions between PGC7 and some of its newly validated partners. The identification of these potential interactors of PGC7 expands our knowledge on the PGC7 interactome and provides a valuable resource for understanding the diverse functions of this protein.
PXD006024	28712724	Acylglycerol Kinase Mutated in Sengers Syndrome Is a Subunit of the TIM22 Protein Translocase in Mitochondria. 	AGK human LC-MSMS project part II (immunoprecipitation)	AGK, Immunoprecipitation, human cells	Mutations in mitochondrial acylglycerol kinase (AGK) cause Sengers syndrome, which is characterized by cataracts, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and skeletal myopathy. AGK generates phosphatidic acid and lysophosphatidic acid, bioactive phospholipids involved in lipid signaling and the regulation of tumor progression. However, the molecular mechanisms of the mitochondrial pathology remain enigmatic. Determining its mitochondrial interactome, we have identified AGK as a constituent of the TIM22 complex in the mitochondrial inner membrane. AGK assembles with TIMM22 and TIMM29 and supports the import of a subset of multi-spanning membrane proteins. The function of AGK as a subunit of the TIM22 complex does not depend on its kinase activity. However, enzymatically active AGK is required to maintain mitochondrial cristae morphogenesis and the apoptotic resistance of cells. The dual function of AGK as lipid kinase and constituent of the TIM22 complex reveals that disturbances in both phospholipid metabolism and mitochondrial protein biogenesis contribute to the pathogenesis of Sengers syndrome.
PXD004215	28713243	Synaptic Interactome Mining Reveals p140Cap as a New Hub for PSD Proteins Involved in Psychiatric and Neurological Disorders. 	p140Cap Interactome -  Synaptic Interactome Mining Reveals p140Cap as a New Hub for PSD Proteins Involved in Psychiatric and Neurological Disorders	nanoLC-MS/MS, p140Cap, synaptosome	Altered synaptic function has been associated with neurological and psychiatric conditions including intellectual disability, schizophrenia and autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Amongst the recently discovered synaptic proteins is p140Cap, an adaptor that localizes at dendritic spines and regulates their maturation and physiology. We recently showed that p140Cap knockout mice have cognitive deficits, impaired long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), and immature, filopodia-like dendritic spines. Only a few p140Cap interacting proteins have been identified in the brain and the molecular complexes and pathways underlying p140Cap synaptic function are largely unknown. Here, we isolated and characterized the p140Cap synaptic interactome by co-immunoprecipitation from crude mouse synaptosomes, followed by mass spectrometry-based proteomics. We identified 351 p140Cap interactors and found that they cluster to sub complexes mostly located in the postsynaptic density (PSD). p140Cap interactors converge on key synaptic processes, including transmission across chemical synapses, actin cytoskeleton remodeling and cell-cell junction organization. Gene co-expression data further support convergent functions: the p140Cap interactors are tightly co-expressed with each other and with p140Cap. Importantly, the p140Cap interactome and its co-expression network show strong enrichment in genes associated with schizophrenia, autism, bipolar disorder, intellectual disability and epilepsy, supporting synaptic dysfunction as a shared biological feature in brain diseases. Overall, our data provide novel insights into the molecular organization of the synapse and indicate that p140Cap acts as a hub for postsynaptic complexes relevant to psychiatric and neurological disorders.
PXD005929	28713344	Outer Membrane Proteome of Veillonella parvula: A Diderm Firmicute of the Human Microbiome. 	Outer Membrane Proteome of Veillonella parvula: a Diderm Firmicute of the Human Microbiome	Outer Membrane Proteome, Veillonella parvula	Veillonella parvula is a biofilm-forming commensal found in the lungs, vagina, mouth, and gastro-intestinal tract of humans, yet it may develop into an opportunistic pathogen. Furthermore, the presence of Veillonella has been associated with the development of a healthy immune system in infants. Veillonella belongs to the Negativicutes, a diverse clade of bacteria that represent an evolutionary enigma: they phylogenetically belong to Gram-positive (monoderm) Firmicutes yet maintain an outer membrane (OM) with lipopolysaccharide similar to classic Gram-negative (diderm) bacteria. The OMs of Negativicutes have unique characteristics including the replacement of Braun's lipoprotein by OmpM for tethering the OM to the peptidoglycan. Through phylogenomic analysis, we have recently provided bioinformatic annotation of the Negativicutes diderm cell envelope. We showed that it is a unique type of envelope that was present in the ancestor of present-day Firmicutes and lost multiple times independently in this phylum, giving rise to the monoderm architecture; however, little experimental data is presently available for any Negativicutes cell envelope. Here, we performed the first experimental proteomic characterization of the cell envelope of a diderm Firmicute, producing an OM proteome of V. parvula. We initially conducted a thorough bioinformatics analysis of all 1,844 predicted proteins from V. parvula DSM 2008's genome using 12 different localization prediction programs. These results were complemented by protein extraction with surface exposed (SE) protein tags and by subcellular fractionation, both of which were analyzed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. The merging of proteomics and bioinformatics results allowed identification of 78 OM proteins. These include a number of receptors for TonB-dependent transport, the main component of the BAM system for OM protein biogenesis (BamA), the Lpt system component LptD, which is responsible for insertion of LPS into the OM, and several copies of the major OmpM protein. The annotation of V. parvula's OM proteome markedly extends previous inferences on the nature of the cell envelope of Negativicutes, including the experimental evidence of a BAM/TAM system for OM protein biogenesis and of a complete Lpt system for LPS transport to the OM. It also provides important information on the role of OM components in the lifestyle of Veillonella, such as a possible gene cluster for O-antigen synthesis and a large number of adhesins. Finally, many OM hypothetical proteins were identified, which are priority targets for further characterization.
PXD003662	28713355	Respiratory Pathways Reconstructed by Multi-Omics Analysis in Melioribacter roseus, Residing in a Deep Thermal Aquifer of the West-Siberian Megabasin. 	Multiple pathways for aerobic and arsenate respiration of Melioribacter roseus, a metabolically versatile bacterium representing of Ignavibacteriae phylum	Melioribacter roseus	Melioribacter roseus, a representative of recently proposed Ignavibacteriae phylum, is a metabolically versatile thermophilic bacterium, inhabiting subsurface biosphere of the West-Siberian megabasin and capable of growing on various substrates and electron acceptors. Genomic analysis followed by inhibitor studies and membrane potential measurements of aerobically grown M. roseus cells revealed the activity of aerobic respiratory electron transfer chain comprised of respiratory complexes I and IV, and an alternative complex III. Phylogeny reconstruction revealed that oxygen reductases belonged to atypical cc(o/b)o3 -type and canonical cbb3 -type cytochrome oxidases. Also, two molybdoenzymes of M. roseus were affiliated either with Ttr or Psr/Phs clades, but not with typical respiratory arsenate reductases of the Arr clade. Expression profiling, both at transcripts and protein level, allowed us to assign the role of the terminal respiratory oxidase under atmospheric oxygen concentration for the cc(o/b)o3 cytochrome oxidase, previously proposed to serve for oxygen detoxification only. Transcriptomic analysis revealed the involvement of both molybdoenzymes of M. roseus in As(V) respiration, yet differences in the genomic context of their gene clusters allow to hypothesize about their distinct roles in arsenate metabolism with the 'Psr/Phs'-type molybdoenzyme being the most probable candidate respiratory arsenate reductase. Basing on multi-omics data, the pathways for aerobic and arsenate respiration were proposed. Our results start to bridge the vigorously increasing gap between homology-based predictions and experimentally verified metabolic processes, what is especially important for understudied microorganisms of novel lineages from deep subsurface environments of Eurasia, which remained separated from the rest of the biosphere for several geological periods.
PXD004082	28714327	Elevated levels of circulating cell-free DNA and neutrophil proteins are associated with neonatal sepsis and necrotizing enterocolitis in immature mice, pigs and infants. 	Data in support of Circulating neutrophil extracellular trap components including cell-free DNA are associated with neonatal sepsis and necrotizing enterocolitis in newborn, immature infants, pigs and mice	necrotizing enterocolitis, neutrophil extracellular traps, preterm neonates, sepsis	Preterm infants are highly susceptible to late-onset sepsis (LOS) and necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), but disease pathogenesis and specific diagnostic markers are lacking. Circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and immune cell-derived proteins are involved in multiple immune diseases in adults but have not been investigated in preterm neonates. We explored the relation of circulating neutrophil-associated proteins and cfDNA to LOS and/or NEC. Using a clinically relevant preterm pig model of spontaneous LOS and NEC development, we investigated neutrophil-associated proteins and cfDNA in plasma, together with cytokines in gut tissues. The changes in cfDNA levels were further studied in preterm pigs and neonatal mice with induced sepsis, and in preterm infants with or without LOS and/or NEC. Fifteen of 114 preterm pigs spontaneously developed both LOS and NEC, and they showed increased intestinal levels of IL-6 and IL-1beta and plasma levels of cfDNA, neutrophil-associated proteins, and proteins involved in platelet-neutrophil interaction during systemic inflammation. The abundance of neutrophil-associated proteins highly correlated with cfDNA levels. Further, Staphylococcus epidermidis challenge of neonatal mice and preterm pigs increased plasma cfDNA levels and bacterial accumulation in the spleen. In infants, plasma cfDNA levels were elevated at LOS diagnosis and 1-6 d before NEC. In conclusion, elevated levels of plasma cfDNA and neutrophil proteins are associated with LOS and NEC diagnosis.
PXD005320	28714690	Selective Affinity Enrichment of Nitrotyrosine-Containing Peptides for Quantitative Analysis in Complex Samples. 	Proteomics analysis of protein tyrosine nitration	protein tyrosine nitration	Protein tyrosine nitration by oxidative and nitrate stress is important in the pathogenesis of many inflammatory or aging-related diseases. Mass spectrometry analysis of protein nitrotyrosine is very challenging because the non-nitrated peptides suppress the signals of the low-abundance nitrotyrosine (NT) peptides. No validated methods for enrichment of NT-peptides are currently available. Here we report an immunoaffinity enrichment of NT-peptides for proteomics analysis. The effectiveness of this approach was evaluated using nitrated protein standards and whole-cell lysates in vitro. A total of 1881 NT sites were identified from a nitrated whole-cell extract, indicating that this immunoaffinity-MS method is a valid approach for the enrichment of NT-peptides, and provides a significant advance for characterizing the nitrotyrosine proteome. We noted that this method had higher affinity to peptides with N-terminal nitrotyrosine relative to peptides with other nitrotyrosine locations, which raises the need for future study to develop a pan-specific nitrotyrosine antibody for unbiased, proteome-wide analysis of tyrosine nitration. We applied this method to quantify the changes in protein tyrosine nitration in mouse lungs after intranasal poly(I:C) treatment and quantified 237 NT sites. This result indicates that the immunoaffinity-MS method can be used for quantitative analysis of protein nitrotyrosines in complex samples.
