PXD004272	28717187	The inducible blockage of RNAi reveals a role for polyunsaturated fatty acids in the regulation of dsRNA-endocytic capacity in Bactrocera dorsalis. 	Proteomic analysis of the immune response to dsRNA in B.dorsalis	B.dorsalis, RNAi, dsRNA, immune, itraq	Exogenous double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) can trigger gene silencing through the RNA interference (RNAi) pathway. Our previous research established that Bactrocera dorsalis can block RNAi after an initial priming of exposure to dsRNA. However, the mechanism underlying this phenomenon is not yet fully understood. Here, we demonstrate that fatty acid biosynthesis and metabolism pathways play important roles in the blockage of RNAi induced by dsRNA priming. The ratio of linoleic acid (LA) to arachidonic acid (AA) was significantly increased in the hemolymph of B. dorsalis following dsRNA priming, and further, the endocytosis of dsRNA into the midgut cells of B. dorsalis was inhibited in these samples. The expression levels of most genes involved in the fatty acid biosynthesis and metabolism pathways were altered following priming with dsRNA. Furthermore, altering the composition of fatty acids via the injection of AA can facilitate the uptake of ingested dsRNA into the midgut cells of Drosophila melanogaster and successfully induce an RNAi effect, which cannot be achieved via feeding in fruit flies. Our results suggest that polyunsaturated fatty acids are involved in the regulation of the dsRNA-endocytic ability in B. dorsalis.
PXD006221	28718761	The human cytoplasmic dynein interactome reveals novel activators of motility. 	MudPIT analyses of the human proteins biotinylated by proximity to biotin ligase (BioID) fused to the C-terminus of activators of the dynein/dynactin motor	Cytoplasmic dynein-1, activator, cargo specificity, coiled-coil, dynactin	In human cells, cytoplasmic dynein-1 is essential for long-distance transport of many cargos, including organelles, RNAs, proteins, and viruses, towards microtubule minus ends. To understand how a single motor achieves cargo specificity, we identified the human dynein interactome by attaching a promiscuous biotin ligase ('BioID') to seven components of the dynein machinery, including a subunit of the essential cofactor dynactin. This method reported spatial information about the large cytosolic dynein/dynactin complex in living cells. To achieve maximal motile activity and to bind its cargos, human dynein/dynactin requires 'activators', of which only five have been described. We developed methods to identify new activators in our BioID data, and discovered that ninein and ninein-like are a new family of dynein activators. Analysis of the protein interactomes for six activators, including ninein and ninein-like, suggests that each dynein activator has multiple cargos.
PXD005864	28722341	Proteomic Analysis of Neuroblastoma-Derived Exosomes: New Insights into a Metastatic Signature. 	Proteomic analysis of neuroblastoma-derived exosomes LC-MS	Exosomes, Metastasis, Neuroblastoma, Signature	Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most common extracranial pediatric solid tumor. Around 70% of patients with metastatic disease at diagnosis present bone-marrow infiltration, which is considered a marker of poor outcome; however, the mechanism underlying this specific tropism has to be elucidated. Tumor-derived exosomes may support metastatic progression in several tumors by interacting with the microenvironment, and may serve as tumor biomarkers. The main objective of this study is to identify an exosomal signature associated with NB metastatic bone-marrow dissemination. Therefore, the proteomic cargo of exosomes isolated from NB cell lines derived from primary tumor and bone-marrow metastasis is characterized. The comparison among exosomal proteins show 15 proteins exclusively present in primary tumor-derived exosomes, mainly involved in neuronal development, and 6 proteins in metastasis-derived exosomes related to cancer progression. Significant proteins obtain with statistical analysis performed between the two groups, reveal that primary tumor exosomes contain a higher level of proteins involved in extra-cellular matrix (ECM) assembly and adhesion, as well as in neuronal development. Exosomes isolated from bone-marrow metastasis exhibit proteins involved in ameboidal cell migration and mitochondrial activity. This work suggests that proteomic profiling of NB-derived exosomes reflects the tumor stage and may be considered as potential tumor biomarker.
PXD004647	28723574	Proteomic Analysis of the Human Tankyrase Protein Interaction Network Reveals Its Role in Pexophagy. 	Human Tankyrases TAP-LC-MSMS	TAP, Tankyrase	Tankyrase 1 (TNKS) and tankyrase 2 (TNKS2) belong to the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase family of proteins, which use nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide to modify substrate proteins with ADP-ribose modifications. Emerging evidence has revealed the pathological relevance of TNKS and TNKS2, and identified these two enzymes as potential drug targets. However, the cellular functions and regulatory mechanisms of TNKS/2 are still largely unknown. Through a proteomic analysis, we defined the protein-protein interaction network for human TNKS/2 and revealed more than 100 high-confidence interacting proteins with numerous biological functions in this network. Finally, through functional validation, we uncovered a role for TNKS/2 in peroxisome homeostasis and determined that this function is independent of TNKS enzyme activities. Our proteomic study of the TNKS/2 protein interaction network provides a rich resource for further exploration of tankyrase functions in numerous cellular processes.
PXD005140	28724775	N-Degradomic Analysis Reveals a Proteolytic Network Processing the Podocyte Cytoskeleton. 	Human podocyte cell culture degradomics	PAN challenge, TAILS, human podocyte cell culture	Regulated intracellular proteostasis, controlled in part by proteolysis, is essential in maintaining the integrity of podocytes and the glomerular filtration barrier of the kidney. We applied a novel proteomics technology that enables proteome-wide identification, mapping, and quantification of protein N-termini to comprehensively characterize cleaved podocyte proteins in the glomerulus in vivo We found evidence that defined proteolytic cleavage results in various proteoforms of important podocyte proteins, including those of podocin, nephrin, neph1, alpha-actinin-4, and vimentin. Quantitative mapping of N-termini demonstrated perturbation of protease action during podocyte injury in vitro, including diminished proteolysis of alpha-actinin-4. Differentially regulated protease substrates comprised cytoskeletal proteins as well as intermediate filaments. Determination of preferential protease motifs during podocyte damage indicated activation of caspase proteases and inhibition of arginine-specific proteases. Several proteolytic processes were clearly site-specific, were conserved across species, and could be confirmed by differential migration behavior of protein fragments in gel electrophoresis. Some of the proteolytic changes discovered in vitro also occurred in two in vivo models of podocyte damage (WT1 heterozygous knockout mice and puromycin aminonucleoside-treated rats). Thus, we provide direct and systems-level evidence that the slit diaphragm and podocyte cytoskeleton are regulated targets of proteolytic modification, which is altered upon podocyte damage.
PXD006754	28724806	Nicotinamide mononucleotide requires SIRT3 to improve cardiac function and bioenergetics in a Friedreich's ataxia cardiomyopathy model. 	Nicotinamide Mononucleotide Requires SIRT3 to Improve Cardiac Function and Bioenergetics in a Friedreich's Ataxia Cardiomyopathy Model	Acetylation, Friedreich's Ataxia, Heart Failure, NMN, SIRT3	Increasing NAD+ levels by supplementing with the precursor nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) improves cardiac function in multiple mouse models of disease. While NMN influences several aspects of mitochondrial metabolism, the molecular mechanisms by which increased NAD+ enhances cardiac function are poorly understood. A putative mechanism of NAD+ therapeutic action exists via activation of the mitochondrial NAD+-dependent protein deacetylase sirtuin 3 (SIRT3). We assessed the therapeutic efficacy of NMN and the role of SIRT3 in the Friedreich's ataxia cardiomyopathy mouse model (FXN-KO). At baseline, the FXN-KO heart has mitochondrial protein hyperacetylation, reduced Sirt3 mRNA expression, and evidence of increased NAD+ salvage. Remarkably, NMN administered to FXN-KO mice restores cardiac function to near-normal levels. To determine whether SIRT3 is required for NMN therapeutic efficacy, we generated SIRT3-KO and SIRT3-KO/FXN-KO (double KO [dKO]) models. The improvement in cardiac function upon NMN treatment in the FXN-KO is lost in the dKO model, demonstrating that the effects of NMN are dependent upon cardiac SIRT3. Coupled with cardio-protection, SIRT3 mediates NMN-induced improvements in both cardiac and extracardiac metabolic function and energy metabolism. Taken together, these results serve as important preclinical data for NMN supplementation or SIRT3 activator therapy in Friedreich's ataxia patients.
PXD005984	28726418	Quantitative Assessment of the Effects of Trypsin Digestion Methods on Affinity Purification-Mass Spectrometry-based Protein-Protein Interaction Analysis. 	Quantitative assessment of the effects of trypsin digestion methods on immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry-based protein-protein interaction analysis	RelA interactome, protein-protein interaction, trypsin digestion	Affinity purification-mass spectrometry (AP-MS) has become the method of choice for discovering protein-protein interactions (PPIs) under native conditions. The success of AP-MS depends on the efficiency of trypsin digestion and the recovery of the tryptic peptides for MS analysis. Several different protocols have been used for trypsin digestion of protein complexes in AP-MS studies, but no systematic studies have been conducted on the impact of trypsin digestion conditions on the identification of PPIs. Here, we used NFkappaB/RelA and Bromodomain-containing protein 4 (BRD4) as baits and test five distinct trypsin digestion methods (two using "on-beads," three using "elution-digestion" protocols). Although the performance of the trypsin digestion protocols change slightly depending on the different baits, antibodies and cell lines used, we found that elution-digestion methods consistently outperformed on-beads digestion methods. The high-abundance interactors can be identified universally by all five methods, but the identification of low-abundance RelA interactors is significantly affected by the choice of trypsin digestion method. We also found that different digestion protocols influence the selected reaction monitoring (SRM)-MS quantification of PPIs, suggesting that optimization of trypsin digestion conditions may be required for robust targeted analysis of PPIs.
PXD003236	28729385	pyQms enables universal and accurate quantification of mass spectrometry data. 	pyQms - partial labeled proteome gold standard	Gold standard dataset	Quantitative mass spectrometry (MS) is a key technique in many research areas (1), including proteomics, metabolomics, glycomics, and lipidomics. Because all of the corresponding molecules can be described by chemical formulas, universal quantification tools are highly desirable. Here, we present pyQms, an open-source software for accurate quantification of all types of molecules measurable by MS. pyQms uses isotope pattern matching that offers an accurate quality assessment of all quantifications and the ability to directly incorporate mass spectrometer accuracy. pyQms is, due to its universal design, applicable to every research field, labeling strategy, and acquisition technique. This opens ultimate flexibility for researchers to design experiments employing innovative and hitherto unexplored labeling strategies. Importantly, pyQms performs very well to accurately quantify partially labeled proteomes in large scale and high throughput, the most challenging task for a quantification algorithm.
PXD004921	28730805	Integrating Discovery-driven Proteomics and Selected Reaction Monitoring To Develop a Noninvasive Assay for Geoduck Reproductive Maturation. 	Geoduck (Panopea generosa) gonad LC-MS/MS DIA	DIA, geoduck, gonad, panopea, reproduction	Geoduck clams (Panopea generosa) are an increasingly important fishery and aquaculture product along the eastern Pacific coast from Baja California, Mexico, to Alaska. These long-lived clams are highly fecund, although sustainable hatchery production of genetically diverse larvae is hindered by the lack of sexual dimorphism, resulting in asynchronous spawning of broodstock, unequal sex ratios, and low numbers of breeders. The development of assays of gonad physiology could indicate sex and maturation stage as well as be used to assess the status of natural populations. Proteomic profiles were determined for three reproductive maturation stages in both male and female clams using data-dependent acquisition (DDA) of gonad proteins. Gonad proteomes became increasingly divergent between males and females as maturation progressed. The DDA data were used to develop targets analyzed with selected reaction monitoring (SRM) in gonad tissue as well as hemolymph. The SRM assay yielded a suite of indicator peptides that can be used as an efficient assay to determine geoduck gonad maturation status. Application of SRM in hemolymph samples demonstrates that this procedure could effectively be used to assess reproductive status in marine mollusks in a nonlethal manner.
PXD004868	28731282	Altered signaling associated with chronic arsenic exposure in human skin keratinocytes. 	Altered signaling associated with chronic arsenic exposure in human skin keratinocytes	Arsenic, Chronic exposure, HaCaT, SILAC	Modulation of signaling pathways upon chronic arsenic exposure remains poorly studied. Here, we carried out SILAC-based quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis to dissect the signaling induced upon chronic arsenic exposure in human skin keratinocyte cell line, HaCaT. We identified 4171 unique phosphosites derived from 2000 proteins. We observed differential phosphorylation of 406 phosphosites (twofold) corresponding to 305 proteins. Several pathways involved in cytoskeleton maintenance and organization were found to be significantly enriched (p<0.05). Our data revealed altered phosphorylation of proteins associated with adherens junction remodeling and actin polymerization. Kinases such as protein kinase C iota type (PRKCI), mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 1 (MAP3K1), tyrosine-protein kinase BAZ1B (BAZ1B) and STE20 like kinase (SLK) were found to be hyperphosphorylated. Our study provides novel insights into signaling perturbations associated with chronic arsenic exposure in human skin keratinocytes. All MS/MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004868.
PXD006627	28733280	Construction and Optimization of a Heterologous Pathway for Protocatechuate Catabolism in Escherichia coli Enables Bioconversion of Model Aromatic Compounds. 	Optimization of a heterologous pathway for protocatechuate catabolism in Escherichia coli 	Escherichia coli, bioconversion, directed evolution, lignin, protocatechuate catabolism	The production of biofuels from lignocellulose yields a substantial lignin by-product stream that currently has few applications. Biological conversion of lignin-derived compounds into chemicals and fuels has the potential to improve the economics of lignocellulose-derived biofuels, but few microbes are able both to catabolize lignin-derived aromatic compounds and to generate valuable products. While Escherichia coli has been engineered to produce a variety of fuels and chemicals, it is incapable of catabolizing most aromatic compounds. Therefore, we engineered E. coli to catabolize protocatechuate, a common intermediate in lignin degradation, as the sole source of carbon and energy via heterologous expression of a nine-gene pathway from Pseudomonas putida KT2440. We next used experimental evolution to select for mutations that increased growth with protocatechuate more than 2-fold. Increasing the strength of a single ribosome binding site in the heterologous pathway was sufficient to recapitulate the increased growth. After optimization of the core pathway, we extended the pathway to enable catabolism of a second model compound, 4-hydroxybenzoate. These engineered strains will be useful platforms to discover, characterize, and optimize pathways for conversions of lignin-derived aromatics.IMPORTANCE Lignin is a challenging substrate for microbial catabolism due to its polymeric and heterogeneous chemical structure. Therefore, engineering microbes for improved catabolism of lignin-derived aromatic compounds will require the assembly of an entire network of catabolic reactions, including pathways from genetically intractable strains. Constructing defined pathways for aromatic compound degradation in a model host would allow rapid identification, characterization, and optimization of novel pathways. We constructed and optimized one such pathway in E. coli to enable catabolism of a model aromatic compound, protocatechuate, and then extended the pathway to a related compound, 4-hydroxybenzoate. This optimized strain can now be used as the basis for the characterization of novel pathways.
PXD004218	28733325	Protease cleavage site fingerprinting by label-free in-gel degradomics reveals pH-dependent specificity switch of legumain. 	Direct in-gel profiling of protease specificity (DIPPS)	cathepsin, degradomics, legumain, protease, specificity profiling	Determination of protease specificity is of crucial importance for understanding protease function. We have developed the first gel-based label-free proteomic approach (DIPPS-direct in-gel profiling of protease specificity) that enables quick and reliable determination of protease cleavage specificities under large variety of experimental conditions. The methodology is based on in-gel digestion of the gel-separated proteome with the studied protease, enrichment of cleaved peptides by gel extraction, and subsequent mass spectrometry analysis combined with a length-limited unspecific database search. We applied the methodology to profile ten proteases ranging from highly specific (trypsin, endoproteinase GluC, caspase-7, and legumain) to broadly specific (matrix-metalloproteinase-3, thermolysin, and cathepsins K, L, S, and V). Using DIPPS, we were able to perform specificity profiling of thermolysin at its optimal temperature of 75degreesC, which confirmed the applicability of the method to extreme experimental conditions. Moreover, DIPPS enabled the first global specificity profiling of legumain at pH as low as 4.0, which revealed a pH-dependent change in the specificity of this protease, further supporting its broad applicability.
PXD006497	28733330	The helicase, DDX3X, interacts with poly(A)-binding protein 1 (PABP1) and caprin-1 at the leading edge of migrating fibroblasts and is required for efficient cell spreading. 	DDX3X interactome -  The helicase, DDX3X, interacts with poly(A)-binding protein 1 (PABP1) and caprin-1 at the leading edge of migrating fibroblasts and is required for efficient cell spreading	Human MRC5 Q-Exactive mass spectrometer (LC-MS)	DDX3X, a helicase, can interact directly with mRNA and translation initiation factors, regulating the selective translation of mRNAs that contain a structured 5' untranslated region. This activity modulates the expression of mRNAs controlling cell cycle progression and mRNAs regulating actin dynamics, contributing to cell adhesion and motility. Previously, we have shown that ribosomes and translation initiation factors localise to the leading edge of migrating fibroblasts in loci enriched with actively translating ribosomes, thereby promoting steady-state levels of ArpC2 and Rac1 proteins at the leading edge of cells during spreading. As DDX3X can regulate Rac1 levels, cell motility and metastasis, we have examined DDX3X protein interactions and localisation using many complementary approaches. We now show that DDX3X can physically interact and co-localise with poly(A)-binding protein 1 and caprin-1 at the leading edge of spreading cells. Furthermore, as depletion of DDX3X leads to decreased cell motility, this provides a functional link between DDX3X, caprin-1 and initiation factors at the leading edge of migrating cells to promote cell migration and spreading.
PXD005708	28737213	Identification of methylated GnTI-dependent N-glycans in Botryococcus brauni. 	N-Glycoproteomic Analysis of Botryococcus Braunii	Botryococcus braunii, N-glycosylation, algae	In contrast to mammals and vascular plants, microalgae show a high diversity in the N-glycan structures of complex N-glycoproteins. Although homologues for beta1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I (GnTI), a key enzyme in the formation of complex N-glycans, have been identified in several algal species, GnTI-dependent N-glycans have not been detected so far. We have performed an N-glycoproteomic analysis of the hydrocarbon oils accumulating green microalgae Botryococcus braunii. Thereby, the analysis of intact N-glycopeptides allowed the determination of N-glycan compositions. Furthermore, insights into the role of N-glycosylation in B. braunii were gained from functional annotation of the identified N-glycoproteins. In total, 517 unique N-glycosylated peptides have been identified, including intact N-glycopeptides that harbored N-acetylhexosamine (HexNAc) at the nonreducing end. Surprisingly, these GnTI-dependent N-glycans were also found to be modified with (di)methylated hexose. The identification of GnTI-dependent N-glycans in combination with N-glycan methylation in B. braunii revealed an uncommon type of N-glycan processing in this microalgae.
PXD006097	28739495	The Deep Thioredoxome in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii: New Insights into Redox Regulation. 	Identification of thioredoxin targets in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii using an affinity purification approach	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, disulfide bonds, redox proteomics, redox regulation, thioredoxin targets	Thiol-based redox post-translational modifications have emerged as important mechanisms of signaling and regulation in all organisms, and thioredoxin plays a key role by controlling the thiol-disulfide status of target proteins. Recent redox proteomic studies revealed hundreds of proteins regulated by glutathionylation and nitrosylation in the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, while much less is known about the thioredoxin interactome in this organism. By combining qualitative and quantitative proteomic analyses, we have comprehensively investigated the Chlamydomonas thioredoxome and 1188 targets have been identified. They participate in a wide range of metabolic pathways and cellular processes. This study broadens not only the redox regulation to new enzymes involved in well-known thioredoxin-regulated metabolic pathways but also sheds light on cellular processes for which data supporting redox regulation are scarce (aromatic amino acid biosynthesis, nuclear transport, etc). Moreover, we characterized 1052 thioredoxin-dependent regulatory sites and showed that these data constitute a valuable resource for future functional studies in Chlamydomonas. By comparing this thioredoxome with proteomic data for glutathionylation and nitrosylation at the protein and cysteine levels, this work confirms the existence of a complex redox regulation network in Chlamydomonas and provides evidence of a tremendous selectivity of redox post-translational modifications for specific cysteine residues.
PXD005746	28739509	Proteomic analysis of the secretome of human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells primed by pro-inflammatory cytokines. 	Human mesenchimal stem cells secretome	Human MSC secretome	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) represent an impressive opportunity in term of regenerative medicine and immunosuppressive therapy. Although it is clear that upon transplantation MSC exert most of their therapeutic effects through the secretion of bioactive molecules, the effects of a pro-inflammatory recipient environment on MSC secretome have not been characterized. In this study, we used a label free mass spectrometry based quantitative proteomic approach to analyze how pro-inflammatory cytokines modulate the composition of the human MSC secretome. We found that pro-inflammatory cytokines have a strong impact on the secretome of human bone marrow-derived MSC and that the large majority of cytokine-induced proteins are involved in inflammation and/or angiogenesis. Comparative analyses with results recently obtained on mouse MSC secretome stimulated under the same conditions reveals both analogies and differences in the effect of pro-inflammatory cytokines on MSC secretome in the two organisms. In particular, functional analyses confirmed that tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP1) is a key effector molecule responsible for the anti-angiogenic properties of both human and mouse MSC within an inflammatory microenvironment. Mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005746 SIGNIFICANCE: The secretion of a broad range of bioactive molecules is believed to be the main mechanism by which MSC exert specific therapeutic effects. MSC are very versatile and respond to specific environments by producing and releasing a variety of effector molecules. To the best of our knowledge this is the first study aimed at describing the secretome of human MSC primed using a mixture of cytokines, to mimic pro-inflammatory conditions encountered in vivo, by a quantitative high-resolution mass spectrometry based approach. The main output of the study concerns the identification of a list of specific proteins involved in inflammation and angiogenesis which are overrepresented in stimulated MSC secretome. The data complement a previous study on the secretome of mouse MSC stimulated under the same conditions. Comparative analyses reveal analogies and differences in the biological processes affected by overrepresented proteins in the two organisms. In particular, the key role of TIMP-1 for the anti-angiogenic properties of stimulated MSC secretome already observed in mouse is confirmed in human. Overall, these studies represent key steps necessary to characterize the different biology of MSC in the two organisms and design successful pre-clinical experiments as well as clinical trials.
PXD006510	28739580	Structural insights into transcription initiation by yeast RNA polymerase I. 	Crosslinking mass spectrometry of yeast Pol I pre-initiation complex	Core factor, Pol I, Pol I pre-initiation complex, crosslinking, ribosomal RNA, transcription	In eukaryotic cells, RNA polymerase I (Pol I) synthesizes precursor ribosomal RNA (pre-rRNA) that is subsequently processed into mature rRNA. To initiate transcription, Pol I requires the assembly of a multi-subunit pre-initiation complex (PIC) at the ribosomal RNA promoter. In yeast, the minimal PIC includes Pol I, the transcription factor Rrn3, and Core Factor (CF) composed of subunits Rrn6, Rrn7, and Rrn11. Here, we present the cryo-EM structure of the 18-subunit yeast Pol I PIC bound to a transcription scaffold. The cryo-EM map reveals an unexpected arrangement of the DNA and CF subunits relative to Pol I. The upstream DNA is positioned differently than in any previous structures of the Pol II PIC. Furthermore, the TFIIB-related subunit Rrn7 also occupies a different location compared to the Pol II PIC although it uses similar interfaces as TFIIB to contact DNA. Our results show that although general features of eukaryotic transcription initiation are conserved, Pol I and Pol II use them differently in their respective transcription initiation complexes.
PXD007078	28739678	MEIS homeodomain proteins facilitate PARP1/ARTD1-mediated eviction of histone H1. 	MEIS homeodomain proteins facilitate PARP1/ARTD1-mediated eviction of histone H1	MEIS, PARP1, histone H1	Pre-B-cell leukemia homeobox (PBX) and myeloid ecotropic viral integration site (MEIS) proteins control cell fate decisions in many physiological and pathophysiological contexts, but how these proteins function mechanistically remains poorly defined. Focusing on the first hours of neuronal differentiation of adult subventricular zone-derived stem/progenitor cells, we describe a sequence of events by which PBX-MEIS facilitates chromatin accessibility of transcriptionally inactive genes: In undifferentiated cells, PBX1 is bound to the H1-compacted promoter/proximal enhancer of the neuron-specific gene doublecortin (Dcx) Once differentiation is induced, MEIS associates with chromatin-bound PBX1, recruits PARP1/ARTD1, and initiates PARP1-mediated eviction of H1 from the chromatin fiber. These results for the first time link MEIS proteins to PARP-regulated chromatin dynamics and provide a mechanistic basis to explain the profound cellular changes elicited by these proteins.
PXD005280	28741358	Combining De Novo Peptide Sequencing Algorithms, A Synergistic Approach to Boost Both Identifications and Confidence in Bottom-up Proteomics. 	Combining de novo peptide sequencing algorithms, a synergistic approach to boost both identifications and confidence in bottom-up proteomics	De novo peptide sequencing, bottom-up proteomics, false discovery rate	Complex mass spectrometry based proteomics data sets are mostly analyzed by protein database searches. While this approach performs considerably well for sequenced organisms, direct inference of peptide sequences from tandem mass spectra, i.e., de novo peptide sequencing, oftentimes is the only way to obtain information when protein databases are absent. However, available algorithms suffer from drawbacks such as lack of validation and often high rates of false positive hits (FP). Here we present a simple method of combining results from commonly available de novo peptide sequencing algorithms, which in conjunction with minor tweaks in data acquisition ensues lower empirical FDR compared to the analysis using single algorithms. Results were validated using state-of-the art database search algorithms as well specifically synthesized reference peptides. Thus, we could increase the number of PSMs meeting a stringent FDR of 5% more than 3-fold compared to the single best de novo sequencing algorithm alone, accounting for an average of 11 120 PSMs (combined) instead of 3476 PSMs (alone) in triplicate 2 h LC-MS runs of tryptic HeLa digestion.
PXD007058	28741359	Evaluation of Parameters for Confident Phosphorylation Site Localization Using an Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid Mass Spectrometer. 	C4PR_LIV Evaluation of Parameters for Confident Phosphorylation Site Localization using an Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid Mass Spectrometer	Andromeda/PTMscore, Mascot/ptmRS, orbitrap fusion, phosphoproteomics	Confident identification of sites of protein phosphorylation by mass spectrometry (MS) is essential to advance understanding of phosphorylation-mediated signaling events. However, the development of novel instrumentation requires that methods for MS data acquisition and its interrogation be evaluated and optimized for high-throughput phosphoproteomics. Here we compare and contrast eight MS acquisition methods on the novel tribrid Orbitrap Fusion MS platform using both a synthetic phosphopeptide library and a complex phosphopeptide-enriched cell lysate. In addition to evaluating multiple fragmentation regimes (HCD, EThcD, and neutral-loss-triggered ET(ca/hc)D) and analyzers for MS/MS (orbitrap (OT) versus ion trap (IT)), we also compare two commonly used bioinformatics platforms, Andromeda with PTM-score, and MASCOT with ptmRS for confident phosphopeptide identification and, crucially, phosphosite localization. Our findings demonstrate that optimal phosphosite identification is achieved using HCD fragmentation and high-resolution orbitrap-based MS/MS analysis, employing MASCOT/ptmRS for data interrogation. Although EThcD is optimal for confident site localization for a given PSM, the increased duty cycle compared with HCD compromises the numbers of phosphosites identified. Finally, our data highlight that a charge-state-dependent fragmentation regime and a multiple algorithm search strategy are likely to be of benefit for confident large-scale phosphosite localization.
PXD006197	28742275	The proteome and transcriptome of the infectious metacyclic form of Trypanosoma brucei define quiescent cells primed for mammalian invasion. 	The proteome and transcriptome of the infectious metacyclic form of Trypanosoma brucei define quiescent cells primed for mammalian invasion	metacyclics, transcriptome, trypanosoma brucei	The infectious metacyclic forms of Trypanosoma brucei result from a complex development in the tsetse fly vector. When they infect mammals, they cause African sleeping sickness in humans. Due to scarcity of biological material and difficulties of the tsetse fly as an experimental system, very limited information is available concerning the gene expression profile of metacyclic forms. We used an in vitro system based on expressing the RNA binding protein 6 to obtain infectious metacyclics and determined their protein and mRNA repertoires by mass-spectrometry (MS) based proteomics and mRNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) in comparison to non-infectious procyclic trypanosomes. We showed that metacyclics are quiescent cells, and propose this influences the choice of a monocistronic variant surface glycoprotein expression site. Metacyclics have a largely bloodstream-form type transcriptome, and thus are programmed to translate a bloodstream-form type proteome upon entry into the mammalian host and resumption of cell division. Genes encoding cell surface components showed the largest changes between procyclics and metacyclics, observed at both the transcript and protein levels. Genes encoding metabolic enzymes exhibited expression in metacyclics with features of both procyclic and bloodstream forms, suggesting that this intermediate-type metabolism is dictated by the availability of nutrients in the tsetse fly vector.
PXD006660	28743795	Capturing protein communities by structural proteomics in a thermophilic eukaryote. 	Capturing protein communities by structural proteomics in a thermophilic eukaryote	Chaetomium thermophilum, XL-MS, protein communities	The arrangement of proteins into complexes is a key organizational principle for many cellular functions. Although the topology of many complexes has been systematically analyzed in isolation, their molecular sociology in situ remains elusive. Here, we show that crude cellular extracts of a eukaryotic thermophile, Chaetomium thermophilum, retain basic principles of cellular organization. Using a structural proteomics approach, we simultaneously characterized the abundance, interactions, and structure of a third of the C. thermophilum proteome within these extracts. We identified 27 distinct protein communities that include 108 interconnected complexes, which dynamically associate with each other and functionally benefit from being in close proximity in the cell. Furthermore, we investigated the structure of fatty acid synthase within these extracts by cryoEM and this revealed multiple, flexible states of the enzyme in adaptation to its association with other complexes, thus exemplifying the need for in situ studies. As the components of the captured protein communities are known-at both the protein and complex levels-this study constitutes another step forward toward a molecular understanding of subcellular organization.
PXD005995	28744013	The T-cell leukemia-associated ribosomal RPL10 R98S mutation enhances JAK-STAT signaling. 	Label-free differential proteomics analysis of Ba/F3 expressing WT and mutant R98S RPL10	Leukemia, RPL10 R98S, Ribosomal mutation, T-ALL	Several somatic ribosome defects have recently been discovered in cancer, yet their oncogenic mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here we investigated the pathogenic role of the recurrent R98S mutation in ribosomal protein L10 (RPL10 R98S) found in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). The JAK-STAT signaling pathway is a critical controller of cellular proliferation and survival. A proteome screen revealed overexpression of several Jak-Stat signaling proteins in engineered RPL10 R98S mouse lymphoid cells, which we confirmed in hematopoietic cells from transgenic Rpl10 R98S mice and T-ALL xenograft samples. RPL10 R98S expressing cells displayed JAK-STAT pathway hyper-activation upon cytokine stimulation, as well as increased sensitivity to clinically used JAK-STAT inhibitors like pimozide. A mutually exclusive mutation pattern between RPL10 R98S and JAK-STAT mutations in T-ALL patients further suggests that RPL10 R98S functionally mimics JAK-STAT activation. Mechanistically, besides transcriptional changes, RPL10 R98S caused reduction of apparent programmed ribosomal frameshifting at several ribosomal frameshift signals in mouse and human Jak-Stat genes, as well as decreased Jak1 degradation. Of further medical interest, RPL10 R98S cells showed reduced proteasome activity and enhanced sensitivity to clinical proteasome inhibitors. Collectively, we describe modulation of the JAK-STAT cascade as a novel cancer-promoting activity of a ribosomal mutation, and expand the relevance of this cascade in leukemia.
PXD005486	28745510	Statistical Models for the Analysis of Isobaric Tags Multiplexed Quantitative Proteomics. 	Statistical models for the analysis of isobaric Tags multiplexed quantitative proteomics	: Proteomics, Biomarkers, Mixed models, Statistical Models, TMT	Mass spectrometry is being used to identify protein biomarkers that can facilitate development of drug treatment. Mass spectrometry-based labeling proteomic experiments result in complex proteomic data that is hierarchical in nature often with small sample size studies. The generalized linear model (GLM) is the most popular approach in proteomics to compare protein abundances between groups. However, GLM does not address all the complexities of proteomics data such as repeated measures and variance heterogeneity. Linear models for microarray data (LIMMA) and mixed models are two approaches that can address some of these data complexities to provide better statistical estimates. We compared these three statistical models (GLM, LIMMA, and mixed models) under two different normalization approaches (quantile normalization and median sweeping) to demonstrate when each approach is the best for tagged proteins. We evaluated these methods using a spiked-in data set of known protein abundances, a systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) data set, and simulated data from multiplexed labeling experiments that use tandem mass tags (TMT). Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005486. We found median sweeping to be a preferred approach of data normalization, and with this normalization approach there was overlap with findings across all methods with GLM being a subset of mixed models. The conclusion is that the mixed model had the best type I error with median sweeping, whereas LIMMA had the better overall statistical properties regardless of normalization approaches.
PXD006486	28747380	Identification of Differentially Expressed Splice Variants by the Proteogenomic Pipeline Splicify. 	Identification of differentially expressed splice variants by the proteogenomic pipeline SPLICIFY	CRC, colorectal cancer, label-free, proteogenomics, splicing	Proteogenomics, i.e. comprehensive integration of genomics and proteomics data, is a powerful approach identifying novel protein biomarkers. This is especially the case for proteins that differ structurally between disease and control conditions. As tumor development is associated with aberrant splicing, we focus on this rich source of cancer specific biomarkers. To this end, we developed a proteogenomic pipeline, Splicify, which can detect differentially expressed protein isoforms. Splicify is based on integrating RNA massive parallel sequencing data and tandem mass spectrometry proteomics data to identify protein isoforms resulting from differential splicing between two conditions. Proof of concept was obtained by applying Splicify to RNA sequencing and mass spectrometry data obtained from colorectal cancer cell line SW480, before and after siRNA-mediated downmodulation of the splicing factors SF3B1 and SRSF1. These analyses revealed 2172 and 149 differentially expressed isoforms, respectively, with peptide confirmation upon knock-down of SF3B1 and SRSF1 compared with their controls. Splice variants identified included RAC1, OSBPL3, MKI67, and SYK. One additional sample was analyzed by PacBio Iso-Seq full-length transcript sequencing after SF3B1 downmodulation. This analysis verified the alternative splicing identified by Splicify and in addition identified novel splicing events that were not represented in the human reference genome annotation. Therefore, Splicify offers a validated proteogenomic data analysis pipeline for identification of disease specific protein biomarkers resulting from mRNA alternative splicing. Splicify is publicly available on GitHub (https://github.com/NKI-TGO/SPLICIFY) and suitable to address basic research questions using pre-clinical model systems as well as translational research questions using patient-derived samples, e.g. allowing to identify clinically relevant biomarkers.
PXD005583	28747677	Comprehensive analysis of human protein N-termini enables assessment of various protein forms. 	N-terminome profiling in HEK293T	FASP, N-end rule, N-termini, N-terminome, acetylation, alternative translational initiation site, positional proteomics, protein stability, proteoform, translational initiation site	Various forms of protein (proteoforms) are generated by genetic variations, alternative splicing, alternative translation initiation, co- or post-translational modification and proteolysis. Different proteoforms are in part discovered by characterizing their N-terminal sequences. Here, we introduce an N-terminal-peptide-enrichment method, Nrich. Filter-aided negative selection formed the basis for the use of two N-blocking reagents and two endoproteases in this method. We identified 6,525 acetylated (or partially acetylated) and 6,570 free protein N-termini arising from 5,727 proteins in HEK293T human cells. The protein N-termini included translation initiation sites annotated in the UniProtKB database, putative alternative translational initiation sites, and N-terminal sites exposed after signal/transit/pro-peptide removal or unknown processing, revealing various proteoforms in cells. In addition, 46 novel protein N-termini were identified in 5' untranslated region (UTR) sequence with pseudo start codons. Our data showing the observation of N-terminal sequences of mature proteins constitutes a useful resource that may provide information for a better understanding of various proteoforms in cells.
PXD005908	28747692	New criteria for the molecular identification of cereal grains associated with archaeological artefacts. 	Proteomic Identification of Cereal Grains Associated with Archaeological Artefacts	Ancient Proteins, Cereal, Wheat	The domestication and transmission of cereals is one of the most fundamental components of early farming, but direct evidence of their use in early culinary practices and economies has remained frustratingly elusive. Using analysis of a well-preserved Early Bronze Age wooden container from Switzerland, we propose novel criteria for the identification of cereal residues. Using gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS), we identified compounds typically associated with plant products, including a series of phenolic lipids (alkylresorcinols) found only at appreciable concentration in wheat and rye bran. The value of these lipids as cereal grain biomarkers were independently corroborated by the presence of macrobotanical remains embedded in the deposit, and wheat and rye endosperm peptides extracted from residue. These findings demonstrate the utility of a lipid-based biomarker for wheat and rye bran and offer a methodological template for future investigations of wider range of archaeological contexts. Alkylresorcinols provide a new tool for residue analysis which can help explore the spread and exploitation of cereal grains, a fundamental component of the advent and spread of farming.
PXD005619	28749657	Deep Metaproteomics Approach for the Study of Human Microbiomes. 	Deep gut metaproteomics -  A deep metaproteomics approach for the study of human microbiomes	deep, metaproteomics, microbiome, strain	Host-microbiome interactions have been shown to play important roles in human health and diseases. Most of the current studies of the microbiome have been performed by genomic approaches through next-generation sequencing. Technologies, such as metaproteomics, for functional analysis of the microbiome are needed to better understand the intricate host-microbiome interactions. However, significant efforts to improve the depth and resolution of gut metaproteomics are still required. In this study, we combined an efficient sample preparation technique, high resolution mass spectrometry, and metaproteomic bioinformatics tools to perform ultradeep metaproteomic analysis of human gut microbiome from stool. We reported the deepest analysis of the microbiome to date with an average of 20 558 protein groups identified per sample analysis. Moreover, strain resolution taxonomic and pathway analysis using deep metaproteomics revealed strain level variations, in particular for Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, in the microbiome from the different individuals. We also reported that the human proteins identified in stool samples are functionally enriched in extracellular region pathways and in particular those proteins involved in defense response against microbial organisms. Deep metaproteomics is a promising approach to perform in-depth microbiome analysis and simultaneously reveals both human and microbial changes that are not readily apparent using the standard genomic approaches.
PXD004420	28754746	Tumor-derived exosomes modulate PD-L1 expression in monocytes. 	Proteome profiling of blood plasma-derived exosomes in chronic lymphocytic leukemia	CLL, MaxQuant, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, extracellular vesicles, microvesicles, tumor microenvironment	In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), monocytes and macrophages are skewed toward protumorigenic phenotypes, including the release of tumor-supportive cytokines and the expression of immunosuppressive molecules such as programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1). To understand the mechanism driving protumorigenic skewing in CLL, we evaluated the role of tumor cell-derived exosomes in the cross-talk with monocytes. We carried out RNA sequencing and proteome analyses of CLL-derived exosomes and identified noncoding Y RNA hY4 as a highly abundant RNA species that is enriched in exosomes from plasma of CLL patients compared with healthy donor samples. Transfer of CLL-derived exosomes or hY4 alone to monocytes resulted in key CLL-associated phenotypes, including the release of cytokines, such as C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2), CCL4, and interleukin-6, and the expression of PD-L1. These responses were abolished in Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7)-deficient monocytes, suggesting exosomal hY4 as a driver of TLR7 signaling. Pharmacologic inhibition of endosomal TLR signaling resulted in a substantially reduced activation of monocytes in vitro and attenuated CLL development in vivo. Our results indicate that exosome-mediated transfer of noncoding RNAs to monocytes contributes to cancer-related inflammation and concurrent immune escape via PD-L1 expression.
PXD004104	28759574	Differential regulation of germ line apoptosis and germ cell differentiation by CPEB family members in C. elegans. 	Spike-in SILAC MS of C. elegans CPEB homolog mutants.	C. elegans, CPEB proteins, HILIC, MaxQuant, spike-in SILAC	Cytoplasmic polyadenylation element binding (CPEB) proteins are evolutionary conserved RNA-binding proteins that control mRNA polyadenylation and translation. Orthologs in humans and other vertebrates are mainly involved in oogenesis. This is also the case for the C. elegans CPEB family member CPB-3, whereas two further CPEB proteins (CPB-1 and FOG-1) are involved in spermatogenesis. Here we describe the characterisation of a new missense allele of cpb-3 and show that loss of cpb-3 function leads to an increase in physiological germ cell death. To better understand the interaction and effect of C. elegans CPEB proteins on processes such as physiological apoptosis, germ cell differentiation, and regulation of gene expression, we characterised changes in the transcriptome and proteome of C. elegans CPEB mutants. Our results show that, despite their sequence similarities CPEB family members tend to have distinct overall effects on gene expression (both at the transcript and protein levels). This observation is consistent with the distinct phenotypes observed in the various CPEB family mutants.
PXD006188	28759994	Trimodal Mixed Mode Chromatography That Enables Efficient Offline Two-Dimensional Peptide Fractionation for Proteome Analysis. 	Trimodal chromatography enables facile peptide fractionation	2D-LC, Trinity P1, orthogonality, pancreatic cancer, peptide fractionation	Offline two-dimensional chromatography is a common means to achieve deep proteome coverage. To reduce sample complexity and dynamic range and to utilize mass spectrometer (MS) time efficiently, high chromatographic resolution of and good orthogonality between the two dimensions are needed. Ion exchange and high pH reversed phase chromatography are often used for this purpose. However, the former requires desalting to be MS-compatible, and the latter requires fraction pooling to create orthogonality. Here, we report an alternative first-dimension separation technique using a commercial trimodal phase incorporating polar embedded reversed phase, weak anion exchange, and strong cation exchange material. The column is capable of retaining polar and nonpolar peptides alike without noticeable breakthrough. It allows separating ordinary and TMT-labeled peptides under mild acidic conditions using an acetonitrile gradient. The direct MS compatibility of solvents and good orthogonality to online coupled C18 columns enable a straightforward workflow without fraction pooling and desalting while showing comparable performance to the other techniques. The method scales from low to high microgram sample quantity and is amenable to full automation. To demonstrate practical utility, we analyzed the proteomes of 10 human pancreatic cancer cell lines to a depth of >8,700 quantified proteins.
PXD006653	28761088	Shift of EMT gradient in 3D spheroid MSCs for activation of mesenchymal niche function. 	Shift of EMT gradient in 3D spheroid MSCs for activation of mesenchymal niche function	3D-cultured, Cell, Mesenchymal stem cell	Despite the wide use of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) for paracrine support in clinical trials, their variable and heterogeneous supporting activity pose major challenges. While three-dimensional (3D) MSC cultures are emerging as alternative approaches, key changes in cellular characteristics during 3D-spheroid formation remain unclear. Here, we show that MSCs in 3D spheroids undergo further progression towards the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), driven by upregulation of EMT-promoting microRNAs and suppression of EMT-inhibitory miRNAs. The shift of EMT in MSCs is associated with widespread histone modifications mimicking the epigenetic reprogramming towards enhanced chromatin dynamics and stem cell-like properties, but without changes in their surface phenotype. Notably, these molecular shifts towards EMT in 3D MSCs caused enhanced stem cell niche activity, resulting in higher stimulation of hematopoietic progenitor self-renewal and cancer stem cell metastasis. Moreover, miRNA-mediated induction of EMT in 2D MSCs were sufficient to mimic the enhanced niche activity of 3D spheroid MSCs. Thus, the molecular hierarchy in the EMT gradient among phenotypically indistinguishable MSCs revealed the previously unrecognized functional parameters in MSCs, and the EMT-enhanced "naive" mesenchymal state represents an 'activated mesenchymal niche' in 3D spheroid MSCs.
PXD004975	28762254	The Effects of Prenatal Iron Deficiency and Risperidone Treatment on the Rat Frontal Cortex:  A Proteomic Analysis. 	Effects of Iron Deficiency and Risperidone treatment on the rat frontal cortex	LC MSMS, iron defiency, rat, risperidone	Prenatal iron deficiency (pID) has been described to increase the risk for neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism and schizophrenia; however, the precise molecular mechanisms are still unknown. Here, we utilized high-throughput MS to examine the proteomic effects of pID in adulthood on the rat frontal cortex area (FCA). In addition, the FCA proteome was examined in adulthood following risperidone treatment in adolescence to see if these effects could be prevented. We identified 1501 proteins of which 100 were significantly differentially expressed in the FCA at postnatal day 90. Pathway analysis of proteins affected by pID revealed changes in metabolic processes, including the tricyclic acid cycle, mitochondrial dysfunction, and P13K/Akt signaling. Interestingly, most of these protein changes were not present in the adult pID offspring who received risperidone in adolescence. Considering the link between pID and several neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism and schizophrenia these presented results bring new perspectives to understand the role of iron in metabolic pathways and provide novel biomarkers for future studies of pID.
PXD006211	28762273	Systematic Analysis of Lysine Acetylation in the Halophilic Archaeon Haloferax mediterranei. 	Haloferax mediterranei -  Systematic Analysis of Lysine Acetylation in the Halophilic Archaeon Haloferax mediterranei	Haloferax mediterranei	Lysine acetylation is a reversible and highly regulated post-translational modification that plays a critical role in regulating many aspects of cellular processes, both in bacteria and in eukaryotes. However, this modification has not been systematically studied in archaea. Herein, we report the lysine acetylome of a model haloarchaeon, Haloferax mediterranei. Using immunoaffinity enrichment and LC-MS/MS analysis, we identified 1017 acetylation sites in 643 proteins, accounting for 17.3% of the total proteins in this haloarchaeon. Bioinformatics analysis indicated that lysine acetylation mainly distributes in cytoplasm (94%) and participates in protein biosynthesis and carbon metabolism. Specifically, the acetylation of key enzymes in PHBV biosynthesis further suggested that acetylation plays a key role in the energy and carbon storage. In addition, a survey of the acetylome revealed a universal rule in acetylated motifs: a positively charged residue (K, R, or H) located downstream of acetylated lysine at the positions +1, +2, or +3. Interestingly, we identified acetylation in several replication initiation proteins Cdc6; mutation on the acetylated site of Cdc6A destroyed the Autonomous Replication Sequence (ARS) activity of its adjacent origin oriC1. Our study indicates that lysine acetylation is an abundant modification in H. mediterranei, and plays key roles in the processes of replication, protein biosynthesis, central metabolism, and carbon storage. This acetylome of H. mediterranei provides opportunities to explore the physiological role of acetylation in halophilic archaea.
PXD004219	28765563	Quantitative Proteomics of Cerebrospinal Fluid in Paediatric Pneumococcal Meningitis. 	Identification of protein biomarkers for pneumococcal meningitis in children C4PR_LIV	Streptococcus pneumoniae, bacterial meningitis, protein quantification	Streptococcus pneumoniae is responsible for diseases causing major global public health problems, including meningitis, pneumonia and septicaemia. Despite recent advances in antimicrobial therapy, pneumococcal meningitis remains a life-threatening disease. Furthermore, long-term sequelae are a major concern for survivors. Hence, a better understanding of the processes occurring in the central nervous system is crucial to the development of more effective management strategies. We used mass spectrometry based quantitative proteomics to identify protein changes in cerebrospinal fluid from children with Streptococcus pneumoniae infection, compared with children admitted to hospital with bacterial meningitis symptoms but negative diagnosis. Samples were analysed, by label free proteomics, in two independent cohorts (cohort 1: cases (n = 8) and hospital controls (n = 4); cohort 2: cases (n = 8), hospital controls (n = 8)). Over 200 human proteins were differentially expressed in each cohort, of which 65% were common to both. Proteins involved in the immune response and exosome signalling were significantly enriched in the infected samples. For a subset of proteins derived from the proteome analysis, we corroborated the proteomics data in a third cohort (hospital controls (n = 15), healthy controls (n = 5), cases (n = 20)) by automated quantitative western blotting, with excellent agreement with our proteomics findings. Proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004219.
PXD005064	28768414	Quantitative Temporal in Vivo Proteomics Deciphers the Transition of Virus-Driven Myeloid Cells into M2 Macrophages. 	Quantitative Temporal in vivo Proteomics (QTiPs) deciphers the transition of inflammatory CD11b+,Ly6G-,Ly6Chigh myeloid cells into M2-like macrophages	M2-like macrophages, infection, myeloid cells	Myeloid cells play a central role in the context of viral eradication, yet precisely how these cells differentiate throughout the course of acute infections is poorly understood. In this study, we have developed a novel quantitative temporal in vivo proteomics (QTiPs) platform to capture proteomic signatures of temporally transitioning virus-driven myeloid cells directly in situ, thus taking into consideration host-virus interactions throughout the course of an infection. QTiPs, in combination with phenotypic, functional, and metabolic analyses, elucidated a pivotal role for inflammatory CD11b(+), Ly6G(-), Ly6C(high-low) cells in antiviral immune response and viral clearance. Most importantly, the time-resolved QTiPs data set showed the transition of CD11b(+), Ly6G(-), Ly6C(high-low) cells into M2-like macrophages, which displayed increased antigen-presentation capacities and bioenergetic demands late in infection. We elucidated the pivotal role of myeloid cells in virus clearance and show how these cells phenotypically, functionally, and metabolically undergo a timely transition from inflammatory to M2-like macrophages in vivo. With respect to the growing appreciation for in vivo examination of viral-host interactions and for the role of myeloid cells, this study elucidates the use of quantitative proteomics to reveal the role and response of distinct immune cell populations throughout the course of virus infection.
PXD006329	28770303	Functional and structural characterization of synthetic cardosin B-derived rennet. 	Determination of the specificity profiling of native and synthetic cardosin B using proteomic identification of protease cleavage sites (PICS)	Cardosin, PICS	The potential of using a synthetic cardosin-based rennet in cheese manufacturing was recently demonstrated with the development and optimization of production of a recombinant form of cardosin B in Kluyveromyces lactis. With the goal of providing a more detailed characterization of this rennet, we herein evaluate the impact of the plant-specific insert (PSI) on cardosin B secretion in this yeast, and provide a thorough analysis of the specificity requirements as well as the biochemical and structural properties of the isolated recombinant protease. We demonstrate that the PSI domain can be substituted by different linker sequences without substantially affecting protein secretion and milk clotting activity. However, the presence of small portions of the PSI results in dramatic reductions of secretion yields in this heterologous system. Kinetic characterization and specificity profiling results clearly suggest that synthetic cardosin B displays lower catalytic efficiency and is more sequence selective than native cardosin B. Elucidation of the structure of synthetic cardosin B confirms the canonical fold of an aspartic protease with the presence of two high mannose-type, N-linked glycan structures; however, there are some differences in the conformation of the flap region when compared to cardosin A. These subtle variations in catalytic properties and the more stringent substrate specificity of synthetic cardosin B help to explain the observed suitability of this rennet for cheese production.
PXD005597	28771474	A flagellum-specific chaperone facilitates assembly of the core type III export apparatus of the bacterial flagellum. 	FliP subcomplex analysis -  A flagellum-specific chaperone facilitates assembly of the core type III export apparatus of the bacterial flagellum	FliO, FliP, T3SS, assembly, export gate complex	Many bacteria move using a complex, self-assembling nanomachine, the bacterial flagellum. Biosynthesis of the flagellum depends on a flagellar-specific type III secretion system (T3SS), a protein export machine homologous to the export machinery of the virulence-associated injectisome. Six cytoplasmic (FliH/I/J/G/M/N) and seven integral-membrane proteins (FlhA/B FliF/O/P/Q/R) form the flagellar basal body and are involved in the transport of flagellar building blocks across the inner membrane in a proton motive force-dependent manner. However, how the large, multi-component transmembrane export gate complex assembles in a coordinated manner remains enigmatic. Specific for most flagellar T3SSs is the presence of FliO, a small bitopic membrane protein with a large cytoplasmic domain. The function of FliO is unknown, but homologs of FliO are found in >80% of all flagellated bacteria. Here, we demonstrate that FliO protects FliP from proteolytic degradation and promotes the formation of a stable FliP-FliR complex required for the assembly of a functional core export apparatus. We further reveal the subcellular localization of FliO by super-resolution microscopy and show that FliO is not part of the assembled flagellar basal body. In summary, our results suggest that FliO functions as a novel, flagellar T3SS-specific chaperone, which facilitates quality control and productive assembly of the core T3SS export machinery.
PXD005904	28774900	UBE2O remodels the proteome during terminal erythroid differentiation. 	UBE2O remodels the proteome during terminal erythroid differentiation	MS3, TMT, UBE2O, proteasome, red blood cell, ubiquitin	During terminal differentiation, the global protein complement is remodeled, as epitomized by erythrocytes, whose cytosol is ~98% globin. The erythroid proteome undergoes a rapid transition at the reticulocyte stage; however, the mechanisms driving programmed elimination of preexisting cytosolic proteins are unclear. We found that a mutation in the murine Ube2o gene, which encodes a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme induced during erythropoiesis, results in anemia. Proteomic analysis suggested that UBE2O is a broad-spectrum ubiquitinating enzyme that remodels the erythroid proteome. In particular, ribosome elimination, a hallmark of reticulocyte differentiation, was defective in Ube2o(-/-) mutants. UBE2O recognized ribosomal proteins and other substrates directly, targeting them to proteasomes for degradation. Thus, in reticulocytes, the induction of ubiquitinating factors may drive the transition from a complex to a simple proteome.
PXD004734	28775156	The Sharpin interactome reveals a role for Sharpin in lamellipodium formation via the Arp2/3 complex. 	Identification of novel SHARPIN binders	GFP pull-down, SHARPIN	Sharpin, a multifunctional adaptor protein, regulates several signalling pathways. For example, Sharpin enhances signal-induced NF-kappaB signalling as part of the linear ubiquitin assembly complex (LUBAC) and inhibits integrins, the T cell receptor, caspase 1 and PTEN. However, despite recent insights into Sharpin and LUBAC function, a systematic approach to identify the signalling pathways regulated by Sharpin has not been reported. Here, we present the first 'Sharpin interactome', which identifies a large number of novel potential Sharpin interactors in addition to several known ones. These data suggest that Sharpin and LUBAC might regulate a larger number of biological processes than previously identified, such as endosomal trafficking, RNA processing, metabolism and cytoskeleton regulation. Importantly, using the Sharpin interactome, we have identified a novel role for Sharpin in lamellipodium formation. We demonstrate that Sharpin interacts with Arp2/3, a protein complex that catalyses actin filament branching. We have identified the Arp2/3-binding site in Sharpin and demonstrate using a specific Arp2/3-binding deficient mutant that the Sharpin-Arp2/3 interaction promotes lamellipodium formation in a LUBAC-independent fashion.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD003194	28775717	Multi-omics Analysis Sheds Light on the Evolution and the Intracellular Lifestyle Strategies of Spotted Fever Group Rickettsia spp. 	Rickettsia conorii intra cellular bacteria global proteome	HDMSe, Hi3, Rickettsia, Xenopus laevis	Arthropod-borne Rickettsia species are obligate intracellular bacteria which are pathogenic for humans. Within this genus, Rickettsia slovaca and Rickettsia conorii cause frequent and potentially severe infections, whereas Rickettsia raoultii and Rickettsia massiliae cause rare and milder infections. All four species belong to spotted fever group (SFG) rickettsiae. However, R. slovaca and R. raoultii cause scalp eschar and neck lymphadenopathy (SENLAT) and are mainly associated with Dermacentor ticks, whereas the other two species cause Mediterranean spotted fever (MSF) and are mainly transmitted by Rhipicephalus ticks. To identify the potential genes and protein profiles and to understand the evolutionary processes that could, comprehensively, relate to the differences in virulence and pathogenicity observed between these four species, we compared their genomes and proteomes. The virulent and milder agents displayed divergent phylogenomic evolution in two major clades, whereas either SENLAT or MSF disease suggests a discrete convergent evolution of one virulent and one milder agent, despite their distant genetic relatedness. Moreover, the two virulent species underwent strong reductive genomic evolution and protein structural variations, as well as a probable loss of plasmid(s), compared to the two milder species. However, an abundance of mobilome genes was observed only in the less pathogenic species. After infecting Xenopus laevis cells, the virulent agents displayed less up-regulated than down-regulated proteins, as well as less number of identified core proteins. Furthermore, their similar and distinct protein profiles did not contain some genes (e.g., ompA/B and rickA) known to be related to rickettsial adhesion, motility and/or virulence, but may include other putative virulence-, antivirulence-, and/or disease-related proteins. The identified evolutionary forces herein may have a strong impact on intracellular expressions and strategies in these rickettsiae, and that may contribute to the emergence of distinct virulence and diseases in humans. Thus, the current multi-omics data provide new insights into the evolution and fitness of SFG virulence and pathogenicity, and intracellular pathogenic bacteria.
PXD006558	28777000	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Temporal Proteomic Changes in Signaling Pathways during BV2 Mouse Microglial Cell Activation. 	In-depth quantitative proteomics of signal pathways in BV2 microglial cell activation	BV2 activation, dimethylation labeled quantification, quantitative analysis	The development of systematic proteomic quantification techniques in systems biology research has enabled one to perform an in-depth analysis of cellular systems. We have developed a systematic proteomic approach that encompasses the spectrum from global to targeted analysis on a single platform. We have applied this technique to an activated microglia cell system to examine changes in the intracellular and extracellular proteomes. Microglia become activated when their homeostatic microenvironment is disrupted. There are varying degrees of microglial activation, and we chose to focus on the proinflammatory reactive state that is induced by exposure to such stimuli as lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Using an improved shotgun proteomics approach, we identified 5497 proteins in the whole-cell proteome and 4938 proteins in the secretome that were associated with the activation of BV2 mouse microglia by LPS or IFN-gamma. Of the differentially expressed proteins in stimulated microglia, we classified pathways that were related to immune-inflammatory responses and metabolism. Our label-free parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) approach made it possible to comprehensively measure the hyper-multiplex quantitative value of each protein by high-resolution mass spectrometry. Over 450 peptides that corresponded to pathway proteins and direct or indirect interactors via the STRING database were quantified by label-free PRM in a single run. Moreover, we performed a longitudinal quantification of secreted proteins during microglial activation, in which neurotoxic molecules that mediate neuronal cell loss in the brain are released. These data suggest that latent pathways that are associated with neurodegenerative diseases can be discovered by constructing and analyzing a pathway network model of proteins. Furthermore, this systematic quantification platform has tremendous potential for applications in large-scale targeted analyses. The proteomics data for discovery and label-free PRM analysis have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with identifiers <PXD006558> and <PXD006556>, respectively.
PXD006835	28777328	Direct Identification of Functional Amyloid Proteins by Label-Free Quantitative Mass Spectrometry. 	Direct identification of functional amyloid proteins in cell lysate by label-free quantitative mass spectrometry	biofilm, functional amyloids, nanomaterials	Functional amyloids are important structural and functional components of many biofilms, yet our knowledge of these fascinating polymers is limited to a few examples for which the native amyloids have been isolated in pure form. Isolation of the functional amyloids from other cell components represents a major bottleneck in the search for new functional amyloid systems. Here we present a label-free quantitative mass spectrometry method that allows identification of amyloid proteins directly in cell lysates. The method takes advantage of the extreme structural stability and polymeric nature of functional amyloids and the ability of concentrated formic acid to depolymerize the amyloids. An automated data processing pipeline that provides a short list of amyloid protein candidates was developed based on an amyloid-specific sigmoidal abundance signature in samples treated with increasing concentrations of formic acid. The method was evaluated using the Escherichiacoli curli and the Pseudomonas Fap system. It confidently identified the major amyloid subunit for both systems, as well as the minor subunit for the curli system. A few non-amyloid proteins also displayed the sigmoidal abundance signature. However, only one of these contained a sec-dependent signal peptide, which characterizes most of all secreted proteins, including all currently known functional bacterial amyloids.
PXD006583	28777577	Proteomic Analysis of Human Angiogenin Interactions Reveals Cytoplasmic PCNA as a Putative Binding Partner. 	Human Angiogenin Cytoplasmic Interactomics	Angiogenin, Immunoprecipation	Human Angiogenin (hAng) is a member of the ribonuclease A superfamily and a potent inducer of neovascularization. Protein interactions of hAng in the nucleus and cytoplasm of the human umbilical vein cell line EA.hy926 have been investigated by mass spectroscopy. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD006583 and PXD006584. The first gel-free analysis of hAng immunoprecipitates revealed many statistically significant potential hAng-interacting proteins involved in crucial biological pathways. Surprisingly, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), was found to be immunoprecipitated with hAng only in the cytoplasm. The hAng-PCNA interaction and colocalization in the specific cellular compartment was validated with immunoprecipitation, immunoblotting, and immunocytochemistry. The results revealed that PCNA is predominantly localized in the cytoplasm, while hAng is distributed both in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm. hAng and PCNA colocalize in the cytoplasm, suggesting that they may interact in this compartment.
PXD006716	28779096	Quantitative proteomics screen identifies a substrate repertoire of rhomboid protease RHBDL2 in human cells and implicates it in epithelial homeostasis. 	A quantitative proteomics screen identifies a substrate repertoire of rhomboid protease RHBDL2 in human cells and implicates it in epithelial homeostasis.	ectodomain shedding, epithelia, intramembrane protease, rhomboid protease, substrate	Rhomboids are intramembrane serine proteases conserved in all kingdoms of life. They regulate epidermal growth factor receptor signalling in Drosophila by releasing signalling ligands from their transmembrane tethers. Their functions in mammals are poorly understood, in part because of the lack of endogenous substrates identified thus far. We used a quantitative proteomics approach to investigate the substrate repertoire of rhomboid protease RHBDL2 in human cells. We reveal a range of novel substrates that are specifically cleaved by RHBDL2, including the interleukin-6 receptor (IL6R), cell surface protease inhibitor Spint-1, the collagen receptor tyrosine kinase DDR1, N-Cadherin, CLCP1/DCBLD2, KIRREL, BCAM and others. We further demonstrate that these substrates can be shed by endogenously expressed RHBDL2 and that a subset of them is resistant to shedding by cell surface metalloproteases. The expression profiles and identity of the substrates implicate RHBDL2 in physiological or pathological processes affecting epithelial homeostasis.
PXD005818	28781053	Identification of Chlamydomonas Central Core Centriolar Proteins Reveals a Role for Human WDR90 in Ciliogenesis. 	Identification of Chlamydomonas centriolar central core proteins reveals a role for human WDR90 in ciliogenesis	Chlamydomonas, basal bodies, central core, centrioles, ciliogenesis, super-resolution microscopy	Centrioles are evolutionarily conserved macromolecular structures that are fundamental to form cilia, flagella, and centrosomes. Centrioles are 9-fold symmetrical microtubule-based cylindrical barrels comprising three regions that can be clearly distinguished in the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii organelle: an ~100-nm-long proximal region harboring a cartwheel; an ~250-nm-long central core region containing a Y-shaped linker; and an ~150-nm-long distal region ending at the transitional plate. Despite the discovery of many centriolar components, no protein has been localized specifically to the central core region in Chlamydomonas thus far. Here, combining relative quantitative mass spectrometry and super-resolution microscopy on purified Chlamydomonas centrioles, we identified POB15 and POC16 as two proteins of the central core region, the distribution of which correlates with that of tubulin glutamylation. We demonstrated that POB15 is an inner barrel protein within this region. Moreover, we developed an assay to uncover temporal relationships between centriolar proteins during organelle assembly and thus established that POB15 is recruited after the cartwheel protein CrSAS-6 and before tubulin glutamylation takes place. Furthermore, we discovered that two poc16 mutants exhibit flagellar defects, indicating that POC16 is important for flagellum biogenesis. In addition, we discovered that WDR90, the human homolog of POC16, localizes to a region of human centrioles that we propose is analogous to the central core of Chlamydomonas centrioles. Moreover, we demonstrate that WDR90 is required for ciliogenesis, echoing the findings in Chlamydomonas. Overall, our work provides novel insights into the identity and function of centriolar central core components.
PXD006813	28782717	In silico approaches for unveiling novel glycobiomarkers in cancer. 	Bladder Tumours O-Glycoproteomics	STn, bladder cancer, glycoproteomics, siaic acids	Glycosylation is one of the most common and dynamic post-translational modification of cell surface and secreted proteins. Cancer cells display unique glycosylation patterns that decisively contribute to drive oncogenic behavior, including disease progression and dissemination. Moreover, alterations in glycosylation are often responsible for the creation of protein signatures holding significant biomarker value and potential for targeted therapeutics. Accordingly, many analytical protocols have been outlined for the identification of abnormally glycosylated proteins by mass spectrometry. Nevertheless, very few studies undergo a comprehensive mining of the generated data. Herein, we build on bladder cancer O-glycoproteomics datasets resulting from a hyphenated technique comprising enrichment by Vicia villosa agglutinin (VVA) lectin and nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS to propose an in silico step-by-step tutorial (Panther, UniProtKB, NetOGlyc, NetNGlyc, Oncomine, Cytoscape) for biomarker discovery in cancer. We envisage that this approach may be generalized to other mass spectrometry-based analytical approaches, including N-glycoproteomics studies, and different types of cancers. SIGNIFICANCE: The glycoproteome is an important source of cancer biomarkers holding tremendous potential for targeted therapeutics. We now present an in silico roadmap for comprehensive interpretation of big data generated by mass spectrometry-based glycoproteomics envisaging the identification of clinically relevant glycobiomarkers.
PXD002672	28785034	Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid Protein Expression in Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Provides Insights into Pathways Activated in Subjects with Different Outcomes. 	Prediction of Mortality In Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome	2DLC-MS/MS, ARDS, BAL, Biomarkers, GalaxyP, iTRAQ	Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is associated with high mortality. We sought to identify biological pathways in ARDS that differentiate survivors from non-survivors. We studied bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from 36 patients with ARDS (20 survivors, 16 non-survivors). Each sample, obtained within seven days of ARDS onset, was depleted of high abundance proteins and labeled for iTRAQ LC-MS/MS separately. Protein identification and relative quantification was performed employing a target-decoy strategy. A variance weighted t-test was used to identify differential expression. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis was used to determine the canonical pathways that differentiated survivors from non-survivors. We identified 1115 high confidence proteins in the BALF out of which 142 were differentially expressed between survivors and non-survivors. These proteins mapped to multiple pathways distinguishing survivors from non-survivors, including several implicated in lung injury and repair such as coagulation/thrombosis, acute phase response signaling and complement activation. We also identified proteins assigned to fibrosis and ones involved in detoxification of lipid peroxide-mediated oxidative stress to be different in survivors and non-survivors. These results support our previous findings demonstrating early differences in the BALF protein expression in ARDS survivors vs. non-survivors, including proteins that counter oxidative stress and canonical pathways associated with fibrosis.
PXD006338	28785175	Evaluation of a Bead-Free Coimmunoprecipitation Technique for Identification of Virus-Host Protein Interactions Using High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry. 	Evaluation of a bead-free immunoprecipitation technique coupled with tandem mass spectrometry for identification of plant-virus protein interactions (DeBlasio_JBT_2017)	Luteoviridae, Potato leafroll virus, bead-free immunoprecipitation, host-pathogen interactions, molecular virology, phloem-limited, plant-virus interactome, polerovirus, tandem mass spectrometry	Protein interactions between virus and host are essential for viral propagation and movement, as viruses lack most of the proteins required to thrive on their own. Precision methods aimed at disrupting virus-host interactions represent new approaches to disease management but require in-depth knowledge of the identity and binding specificity of host proteins within these interaction networks. Protein coimmunoprecipitation (co-IP) coupled with mass spectrometry (MS) provides a high-throughput way to characterize virus-host interactomes in a single experiment. Common co-IP methods use antibodies immobilized on agarose or magnetic beads to isolate virus-host complexes in solutions of host tissue homogenate. Although these workflows are well established, they can be fairly laborious and expensive. Therefore, we evaluated the feasibility of using antibody-coated microtiter plates coupled with MS analysis as an easy, less expensive way to identify host proteins that interact with Potato leafroll virus (PLRV), an insect-borne RNA virus that infects potatoes. With the use of the bead-free platform, we were able to detect 36 plant and 1 nonstructural viral protein significantly coimmunoprecipitating with PLRV. Two of these proteins, a 14-3-3 signal transduction protein and malate dehydrogenase 2 (mMDH2), were detected as having a weakened or lost association with a structural mutant of the virus, demonstrating that the bead-free method is sensitive enough to detect quantitative differences that can be used to pin-point domains of interaction. Collectively, our analysis shows that the bead-free platform is a low-cost alternative that can be used by core facilities and other investigators to identify plant and viral proteins interacting with virions and/or the viral structural proteins.
PXD006328	28785276	Stress-Related Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases Stimulate the Accumulation of Small Molecules and Proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana Root Exudates. 	Accumulation of small molecules and proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana root exudates by increased activity of stress-related mitogen-activated protein kinases.	metabolite profiling, metabolomics, plant defense, root exudates, roots, signaling	A delicate balance in cellular signaling is required for plants to respond to microorganisms or to changes in their environment. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are one of the signaling modules that mediate transduction of extracellular microbial signals into appropriate cellular responses. Here, we employ a transgenic system that simulates activation of two pathogen/stress-responsive MAPKs to study release of metabolites and proteins into root exudates. The premise is based on our previous proteomics study that suggests upregulation of secretory processes in this transgenic system. An advantage of this experimental set-up is the direct focus on MAPK-regulated processes without the confounding complications of other signaling pathways activated by exposure to microbes or microbial molecules. Using non-targeted metabolomics and proteomics studies, we show that MAPK activation can indeed drive the appearance of dipeptides, defense-related metabolites and proteins in root apoplastic fluid. However, the relative levels of other compounds in the exudates were decreased. This points to a bidirectional control of metabolite and protein release into the apoplast. The putative roles for some of the identified apoplastic metabolites and proteins are discussed with respect to possible antimicrobial/defense or allelopathic properties. Overall, our findings demonstrate that sustained activation of MAPKs alters the composition of apoplastic root metabolites and proteins, presumably to influence the plant-microbe interactions in the rhizosphere. The reported metabolomics and proteomics data are available via Metabolights (Identifier: MTBLS441) and ProteomeXchange (Identifier: PXD006328), respectively.
PXD004183	28787542	ALBA4 modulates its stage-specific interactions and specific mRNA fates during Plasmodium yoelii growth and transmission. 	Identification of Plasmodium yoelii ALBA4 Binding partners by Immunoprecipitation/nano LC-MS/MS	ALBA4, Plasmodium, RNA-binding protein, gametocytes	Transmission of the malaria parasite occurs in an unpredictable moment, when a mosquito takes a blood meal. Plasmodium has therefore evolved strategies to prepare for transmission, including translationally repressing and protecting mRNAs needed to establish the infection. However, mechanisms underlying these critical controls are not well understood, including whether Plasmodium changes its translationally repressive complexes and mRNA targets in different stages. Efforts to understand this have been stymied by severe technical limitations due to substantial mosquito contamination of samples. Here using P. yoelii, for the first time we provide a proteomic comparison of a protein complex across asexual blood, sexual and sporozoite stages, along with a transcriptomic comparison of the mRNAs that are affected in these stages. We find that the Apicomplexan-specific ALBA4 RNA-binding protein acts to regulate development of the parasite's transmission stages, and that ALBA4 associates with both stage-specific and stage-independent partners to produce opposing mRNA fates. These efforts expand our understanding and ability to interrogate both sexual and sporozoite transmission stages and the molecular preparations they evolved to perpetuate their infectious cycle.
PXD005989	28792526	Cryptosporidium parvum vaccine candidates are incompletely modified with O-linked-N-acetylgalactosamine or contain N-terminal N-myristate and S-palmitate. 	Post-translational modifications of vaccine candidates of Cryptosporidium parvum	Cryptosporidium parvum, glycopeptides, lipopeptides, vaccine candidates	Cryptosporidium parvum (studied here) and Cryptosporidium hominis are important causes of diarrhea in infants and immunosuppressed persons. C. parvum vaccine candidates, which are on the surface of sporozoites, include glycoproteins with Ser- and Thr-rich domains (Gp15, Gp40, and Gp900) and a low complexity, acidic protein (Cp23). Here we used mass spectrometry to determine that O-linked GalNAc is present in dense arrays on a glycopeptide with consecutive Ser derived from Gp40 and on glycopeptides with consecutive Thr derived from Gp20, a novel C. parvum glycoprotein with a formula weight of ~20 kDa. In contrast, the occupied Ser or Thr residues in glycopeptides from Gp15 and Gp900 are isolated from one another. Gly at the N-terminus of Cp23 is N-myristoylated, while Cys, the second amino acid, is S-palmitoylated. In summary, C. parvum O-GalNAc transferases, which are homologs of host enzymes, densely modify arrays of Ser or Thr, as well as isolated Ser and Thr residues on C. parvum vaccine candidates. The N-terminus of an immunodominant antigen has lipid modifications similar to those of host cells and other apicomplexan parasites. Mass spectrometric demonstration here of glycopeptides with O-glycans complements previous identification C. parvum O-GalNAc transferases, lectin binding to vaccine candidates, and human and mouse antibodies binding to glycopeptides. The significance of these post-translational modifications is discussed with regards to the function of these proteins and the design of serological tests and vaccines.
PXD006667	28792770	Proteomic Analysis of Brain and Cerebrospinal Fluid from the Three Major Forms of Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis Reveals Potential Biomarkers. 	iTRAQ8 analysis of control and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis human brain samples.	biomarker, brain, cerebrospinal fluid, iTRAQ8, lipofuscinosis	Clinical trials have been conducted for the neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs), a group of neurodegenerative lysosomal diseases that primarily affect children. Whereas clinical rating systems will evaluate long-term efficacy, biomarkers to measure short-term response to treatment would be extremely valuable. To identify candidate biomarkers, we analyzed autopsy brain and matching CSF samples from controls and three genetically distinct NCLs due to deficiencies in palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 (CLN1 disease), tripeptidyl peptidase 1 (CLN2 disease), and CLN3 protein (CLN3 disease). Proteomic and biochemical methods were used to analyze lysosomal proteins, and, in general, we find that changes in protein expression compared with control were most similar between CLN2 disease and CLN3 disease. This is consistent with previous observations of biochemical similarities between these diseases. We also conducted unbiased proteomic analyses of CSF and brain using isobaric labeling/quantitative mass spectrometry. Significant alterations in protein expression were identified in each NCL, including reduced STXBP1 in CLN1 disease brain. Given the confounding variable of post-mortem changes, additional validation is required, but this study provides a useful starting set of candidate NCL biomarkers for further evaluation.
PXD005838	28796482	Sensitive, Robust, and Cost-Effective Approach for Tyrosine Phosphoproteome Analysis. 	A sensitive and cost-effective approach for tyrosine phosphoproteome analysis based on SH2 superbinder	LC MS/MS, SH2 superbinder, pTyr phosphoproteome	Albeit much less abundant than Ser/Thr phosphorylation (pSer/pThr), Tyr phosphorylation (pTyr) is considered as a hallmark in cellular signal transduction. However, its analysis at the proteome level remains challenging. The conventional immunopurification (IP) approach using antibodies specific to pTyr sites is known to have low sensitivity, poor reproducibility and high cost. Our recent study indicated that SH2 domain-derived pTyr-superbinder is a good replacement of pTyr antibody for the specific enrichment of pTyr peptides for phosphoproteomics analysis. In this study, we presented an efficient SH2 superbinder based workflow for the sensitive analysis of tyrosine phosphoproteome. This new method can identify 41% more pTyr peptides than the previous method. Its excellent performance was demonstrated by the analysis of a variety of different samples. For the highly tyrosine phosphorylated sample, for example, pervanadate-treated Jurkat T cells, it identified over 1800 high confident pTyr sites from only 2 mg of proteins. For the unstimulated Jurkat cells, where the pTyr events rarely occurred, it identified 343 high confident pTyr sites from 5 mg of proteins, which was 31% more than that obtained by the antibody-based method. For the heterogeneous sample of tissue, it identified 197 high confident pTyr sites from 5 mg protein digest of mouse skeletal muscle. In general, it is a sensitive, robust and cost-effective approach and would have wide applications in the study of the regulatory role of tyrosine phosphorylation in diverse physiological and pathological processes.
PXD005855	28796780	Transcriptome and proteome analysis of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium systemic infection of wild type and immune-deficient mice. 	Multi-omics Analysis of Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Infection of Wild Type C57BL/6 and Immunodeficient gp91-/-phox Mice	Gel, Salmonella	Salmonella enterica are a threat to public health. Current vaccines are not fully effective. The ability to grow in infected tissues within phagocytes is required for S. enterica virulence in systemic disease. As the infection progresses the bacteria are exposed to a complex host immune response. Consequently, in order to continue growing in the tissues, S. enterica requires the coordinated regulation of fitness genes. Bacterial gene regulation has so far been investigated largely using exposure to artificial environmental conditions or to in vitro cultured cells, and little information is available on how S. enterica adapts in vivo to sustain cell division and survival. We have studied the transcriptome, proteome and metabolic flux of Salmonella, and the transcriptome of the host during infection of wild type C57BL/6 and immune-deficient gp91-/-phox mice. Our analyses advance the understanding of how S. enterica and the host behaves during infection to a more sophisticated level than has previously been reported.
PXD007071	28799334	The Impact of Commonly Used Alkylating Agents on Artifactual Peptide Modification. 	The impact of commonly used alkylating agents on artefactual peptide modification	Alkylation, N-terminal alkylation, artefact, cysteine alkylation, post-translational modification	Iodoacetamide is by far the most commonly used agent for alkylation of cysteine during sample preparation for proteomics. An alternative, 2-chloroacetamide, has recently been suggested to reduce the alkylation of residues other than cysteine, such as the N-terminus, Asp, Glu, Lys, Ser, Thr, and Tyr. Here we show that although 2-chloroacetamide reduces the level of off-target alkylation, it exhibits a range of adverse effects. The most significant of these is methionine oxidation, which increases to a maximum of 40% of all Met-containing peptides, compared with 2-5% with iodoacetamide. Increases were also observed for mono- and dioxidized tryptophan. No additional differences between the alkylating reagents were observed for a range of other post-translational modifications and digestion parameters. The deleterious effects were observed for 2-chloroacetamide from three separate suppliers. The adverse impact of 2-chloroacetamide on methionine oxidation suggests that it is not the ideal alkylating reagent for proteomics.
PXD006827	28802041	Cryo-EM Structure of the TOM Core Complex from Neurospora crassa. 	TOM core complex -  Cryo-EM Structure of the TOM Core Complex from Neurospora crassa	Neurospora crassa, TOM	The TOM complex is the main entry gate for protein precursors from the cytosol into mitochondria. We have determined the structure of the TOM core complex by cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM). The complex is a 148 kDa symmetrical dimer of ten membrane protein subunits that create a shallow funnel on the cytoplasmic membrane surface. In the core of the dimer, the beta-barrels of the Tom40 pore form two identical preprotein conduits. Each Tom40 pore is surrounded by the transmembrane segments of the alpha-helical subunits Tom5, Tom6, and Tom7. Tom22, the central preprotein receptor, connects the two Tom40 pores at the dimer interface. Our structure offers detailed insights into the molecular architecture of the mitochondrial preprotein import machinery.
PXD011054	28810742	Determination of Rate-Limiting Factor for Formation of Beta-Catenin Destruction Complexes Using Absolute Protein Quantification. 	Absolute quantitation of beta-catenin in immunoprecipitatant and cell lysate (Kitazawa et al. 2017)	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Wnt/beta-catenin signaling plays important roles in both ontogenesis and development. In the absence of a Wnt stimulus, beta-catenin is degraded by a multiprotein "destruction complex" that includes Axin, APC, GSK3B, and FBXW11. Although the key molecules required for transducing Wnt signals have been identified, a quantitative understanding of this pathway has been lacking. Here, we calculated the absolute number of beta-catenin destruction complexes by absolute protein quantification using LC-MS/MS. Similar amounts of destruction complex-constituting proteins and beta-catenin interacted, and the number of destruction complexes was calculated to be about 1468 molecules/cell. We demonstrated that the calculated number of destruction complexes was valid for control of the beta-catenin destruction rate under steady-state conditions. Interestingly, APC had the minimum expression level among the destruction complex components at about 2233 molecules/cell, and this number approximately corresponded to the calculated number of destruction complexes. Decreased APC expression by siRNA transfection decreased the number of destruction complexes, resulting in beta-catenin accumulation and stimulation of the transcriptional activity of T-cell factor. Taken together, our results suggest that the amount of APC expression is the rate-limiting factor for the constitution of beta-catenin destruction complexes.
PXD003533	28811505	Identification and quantification of plasma free salusin-beta, an endogenous parasympathomimetic peptide. 	Human plasma peptidomics -  Identification and quantification of plasma free salusin-beta, an endogenous parasympathomimetic peptide	native peptide, peptidome, plasma	Salusin-beta is an endogenous parasympathomimetic proatherosclerotic peptide. Salusin-beta was initially predicted from bioinformatic analyses and later immunologically detected in human biofluids. However, elucidation of salusin-beta bioactivity has faced enormous challenges because of its unique physicochemical characteristics that cause it to strongly adhere to laboratory apparatus materials. In the strictest sense, the discovery of bioactive peptides is not complete until their exact native sequences have been confirmed in the peripheral circulation. In this study, we determined the plasma molecular form and levels of free salusin-beta to determine its pathophysiological significance. Ultra-high-yield enrichment and preseparation of non-tryptic human plasma was followed by LC-MS/MS, and full-length salusin-beta and seven different endogenous fragment sequences were identified. We established a new ELISA that specifically detects plasma free salusin-beta without cross-reacting with any of its identified endogenous fragments. Free salusin-beta levels exhibited a profound early morning nadir and rapidly decreased in response to parasympathetic nervous augmentation. Our technical advance in plasma native peptide analysis successfully identified a hard-to-detect bioactive peptide, salusin-beta, together with its formerly unrecognized fragments, and further suggests that conventional immunological measurements of target peptides may not be fully representative.
PXD004017	28811641	Joint inflammation related citrullination of functional arginines in extracellular proteins. 	Extracellular citrullination in synovial fluid	fibronectin, synovial fluid	We report the extent, specific sites and structural requirements of joint inflammation related citrullination in extracellular proteins. A total of 40 synovial fluid samples derived from chronically inflamed human joints were analysed by heparin-agarose fractionation and LC-MS/MS. Citrullination of 55 arginines in extracellular proteins was detected. Importantly, 20% of the sites have a characterized function related to the hallmarks of destructive joint inflammation. E.g. four arginine residues, shown here to be citrullinated, are also affected by mutations in inherited diseases causing haemolysis or blood clotting dysfunction. Citrullination of integrin ligands was selected for further studies since fibronectin R234 in isoDGR was among the most frequently citrullinated arginines in synovial fluid. Assays with synovial fibroblasts and integrin alphaVbeta3 indicated decreased affinity to the enzymatically citrullinated integrin binding sites. To conclude, our data indicate that in inflamed joints extensive citrullination affects the functional arginine residues in extracellular proteins.
PXD005987	28811661	Myst2/Kat7 histone acetyltransferase interaction proteomics reveals tumour-suppressor Niam as a novel binding partner in embryonic stem cells. 	Characterisation of Myst2 and Niam interactomes in mouse embryonic stem cells	Myst2, Niam, affinity purification, blue native PAGE, embryonic stem cells, protein interactions	MYST histone acetyltransferases have crucial functions in transcription, replication and DNA repair and are hence implicated in development and cancer. Here we characterise Myst2/Kat7/Hbo1 protein interactions in mouse embryonic stem cells by affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry. This study confirms that in embryonic stem cells Myst2 is part of H3 and H4 histone acetylation complexes similar to those described in somatic cells. We identify a novel Myst2-associated protein, the tumour suppressor protein Niam (Nuclear Interactor of ARF and Mdm2). Human NIAM is involved in chromosome segregation, p53 regulation and cell proliferation in somatic cells, but its role in embryonic stem cells is unknown. We describe the first Niam embryonic stem cell interactome, which includes proteins with roles in DNA replication and repair, transcription, splicing and ribosome biogenesis. Many of Myst2 and Niam binding partners are required for correct embryonic development, implicating Myst2 and Niam in the cooperative regulation of this process and suggesting a novel role for Niam in embryonic biology. The data provides a useful resource for exploring Myst2 and Niam essential cellular functions and should contribute to deeper understanding of organism early development and survival as well as cancer. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005987.
PXD005317	28813682	Circadian and Feeding Rhythms Orchestrate the Diurnal Liver Acetylome. 	The diurnal liver acetylome is regulated by circadian and feeding rhythms-orchestrated deacetylation - total mouse liver extract	Acetylation, Acetylome, Circadian clock, Liver, Metabolism, NAD+, SIRT3	Lysine acetylation is involved in various biological processes and is considered a key reversible post-translational modification in the regulation of gene expression, enzyme activity, and subcellular localization. This post-translational modification is therefore highly relevant in the context of circadian biology, but its characterization on the proteome-wide scale and its circadian clock dependence are still poorly described. Here, we provide a comprehensive and rhythmic acetylome map of the mouse liver. Rhythmic acetylated proteins showed subcellular localization-specific phases that correlated with the related metabolites in the regulated pathways. Mitochondrial proteins were over-represented among the rhythmically acetylated proteins and were highly correlated with SIRT3-dependent deacetylation. SIRT3 activity being nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)(+) level-dependent, we show that NAD(+) is orchestrated by both feeding rhythms and the circadian clock through the NAD(+) salvage pathway but also via the nicotinamide riboside pathway. Hence, the diurnal acetylome relies on a functional circadian clock and affects important diurnal metabolic pathways in the mouse liver.
PXD007140	28814272	Identification of new protein-coding genes with a potential role in the virulence of the plant pathogen Xanthomonas euvesicatoria. 	Identification of new protein-coding genes with a potential role in the virulence of the plant pathogen Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria	T3SS, T4SS, T6SS, Xanthomonas, genome re-annotation, ortho proteogenimic, proteogenome, translational start sites	BACKGROUND: Bacteria of the genus Xanthomonas are economically important plant pathogens. Pathogenicity of Xanthomonas spp. depends on the type III-secretion system and additional virulence determinants. The number of sequenced Xanthomonas genomes increases rapidly, however, accurate annotation of these genomes is difficult, because it relies on gene prediction programs. In this study, we used a mass-spectrometry (MS)-based approach to identify the proteome of Xanthomonas euvesicatoria (Xe) strain 85-10 also known as X. campestris pv. vesicatoria, a well-studied member of plant-pathogenic Xanthomonadaceae. RESULTS: Using different culture conditions, MS-datasets were searched against a six-frame-translated genome database of Xe. In total, we identified 2588 proteins covering 55% of the Xe genome, including 764 hitherto hypothetical proteins. Our proteogenomic approach identified 30 new protein-coding genes and allowed correction of the N-termini of 50 protein-coding genes. For five novel and two N-terminally corrected genes the corresponding proteins were confirmed by immunoblot. Furthermore, our data indicate that two putative type VI-secretion systems encoded in Xe play no role in bacterial virulence which was experimentally confirmed. CONCLUSIONS: The discovery and re-annotation of numerous genes in the genome of Xe shows that also a well-annotated genome can be improved. Additionally, our proteogenomic analyses validates "hypothetical" proteins and will improve annotation of Xanthomonadaceae genomes, providing a solid basis for further studies.
PXD007149	28814509	Chemoproteomics Reveals Chemical Diversity and Dynamics of 4-Oxo-2-nonenal Modifications in Cells. 	4-Oxo-2-nonenal Adductions in Cells	4-Oxo-2-nonenal	4-Oxo-2-nonenal (ONE) derived from lipid peroxidation modifies nucleophiles and transduces redox signaling by its reactions with proteins. However, the molecular interactions between ONE and complex proteomes and their dynamics in situ remain largely unknown. Here we describe a quantitative chemoproteomic analysis of protein adduction by ONE in cells, in which the cellular target profile of ONE is mimicked by its alkynyl surrogate. The analyses reveal four types of ONE-derived modifications in cells, including ketoamide and Schiff-base adducts to lysine, Michael adducts to cysteine, and a novel pyrrole adduct to cysteine. ONE-derived adducts co-localize and exhibit crosstalk with many histone marks and redox sensitive sites. All four types of modifications derived from ONE can be reversed site-specifically in cells. Taken together, our study provides much-needed mechanistic insights into the cellular signaling and potential toxicities associated with this important lipid derived electrophile.
PXD006060	28814519	Extracellular Matrix Proteins Mediate HIV-1 gp120 Interactions with alpha4beta7. 	Chinese Hamster Ovary cell proteins co-purified with recombinant HIV-1 envelopes, part 1	CHO, Chinese Hamster, HIV, extracellular matrix, fibronectin, gp120	Gut-homing alpha4beta7(high) CD4(+) T lymphocytes have been shown to be preferentially targeted by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) and are implicated in HIV-1 pathogenesis. Previous studies demonstrated that HIV-1 envelope protein gp120 binds and signals through alpha4beta7 and that this likely contributes to the infection of alpha4beta7(high) T cells and promotes cell-to-cell virus transmission. Structures within the second variable loop (V2) of gp120, including the tripeptide motif LDV/I, are thought to mediate gp120-alpha4beta7 binding. However, lack of alpha4beta7 binding has been reported in gp120 proteins containing LDV/I, and the precise determinants of gp120-alpha4beta7 binding are not fully defined. In this work, we report the novel finding that fibronectins mediate indirect gp120-alpha4beta7 interactions. We show that Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells used to express recombinant gp120 produced fibronectins and other extracellular matrix proteins that copurified with gp120. CHO cell fibronectins were able to mediate the binding of a diverse panel of gp120 proteins to alpha4beta7 in an in vitro cell binding assay. The V2 loop was not required for fibronectin-mediated binding of gp120 to alpha4beta7, nor did V2-specific antibodies block this interaction. Removal of fibronectin through anion-exchange chromatography abrogated V2-independent gp120-alpha4beta7 binding. Additionally, we showed a recombinant human fibronectin fragment mediated gp120-alpha4beta7 interactions similarly to CHO cell fibronectin. These findings provide an explanation for the apparently contradictory observations regarding the gp120-alpha4beta7 interaction and offer new insights into the potential role of fibronectin and other extracellular matrix proteins in HIV-1 biology.IMPORTANCE Immune tissues within the gut are severely damaged by HIV-1, and this plays an important role in the development of AIDS. Integrin alpha4beta7 plays a major role in the trafficking of lymphocytes, including CD4(+) T cells, into gut lymphoid tissues. Previous reports indicate that some HIV-1 gp120 envelope proteins bind to and signal through alpha4beta7, which may help explain the preferential infection of gut CD4(+) T cells. In this study, we demonstrate that extracellular matrix proteins can mediate interactions between gp120 and alpha4beta7 This suggests that the extracellular matrix may be an important mediator of HIV-1 interaction with alpha4beta7-expressing cells. These findings provide new insight into the nature of HIV-1-alpha4beta7 interactions and how these interactions may represent targets for therapeutic intervention.
PXD007168	28814753	The [PSI (+)] yeast prion does not wildly affect proteome composition whereas selective pressure exerted on [PSI (+)] cells can promote aneuploidy. 	Proteomic analysis of [PSI+] yeast strain	SILAC, Sup35, Yeast prion, amyloids, aneuploidy	The yeast Sup35 protein is a subunit of the translation termination factor, and its conversion to the [PSI (+)] prion state leads to more translational read-through. Although extensive studies have been done on [PSI (+)], changes at the proteomic level have not been performed exhaustively. We therefore used a SILAC-based quantitative mass spectrometry approach and identified 4187 proteins from both [psi (-)] and [PSI (+)] strains. Surprisingly, there was very little difference between the two proteomes under standard growth conditions. We found however that several [PSI (+)] strains harbored an additional chromosome, such as chromosome I. Albeit, we found no evidence to support that [PSI (+)] induces chromosomal instability (CIN). Instead we hypothesized that the selective pressure applied during the establishment of [PSI (+)]-containing strains could lead to a supernumerary chromosome due to the presence of the ade1-14 selective marker for translational read-through. We therefore verified that there was no prevalence of disomy among newly generated [PSI (+)] strains in absence of strong selection pressure. We also noticed that low amounts of adenine in media could lead to higher levels of mitochondrial DNA in [PSI (+)] in ade1-14 cells. Our study has important significance for the establishment and manipulation of yeast strains with the Sup35 prion.
PXD005671	28815810	Proteome characterization of human pancreatic cyst fluid from intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. 	Comprehensive Proteomic Characterization of Human Pancreatic Cyst Fluid from Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasm by LC-MS/MS	Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm, Pancreatic cyst, protein mutation	RATIONALE: In recent years, the molecular components of pancreatic cyst fluid have been used for diagnosis and prognosis. Because the protein markers that are currently used in clinical tests are unreliable, proteomic studies to find new protein markers are being conducted. However, such researches have been limited due to the complexity of pancreatic cyst fluid and the immaturity of proteomic techniques. METHODS: To overcome these limitations and provide a pancreatic cyst proteome dataset, we examined cyst fluid proteome with tandem mass spectrometry. The proteomic analysis was performed using a Orbitrap-based mass spectrometer (Q-Exactive) coupled with a 50-cm-long nano-liquid chromatography column. Protein mutations were identified using mutation sequence database search. RESULTS: A total of 5850 protein groups were identified from microliters of cyst fluid. Among those, 3934 protein groups were reported for the first time in pancreatic cyst fluid. Although high-abundance proteins were not depleted in the experiment, our dataset detected almost all pancreatic tumor markers such as mucin family members, S100 proteins, and CEA-related proteins. In addition, 590 protein mutation marker candidates were discovered. CONCLUSIONS: We provide a comprehensive cyst proteome dataset that includes cystic cellular proteins and mutated proteins. Our findings would serve as a rich resource for further IPMN studies and clinical applications. The MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005671 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD005671).
PXD005629	28816642	Proteomic Analysis of the Human Olfactory Bulb. 	A proteomic analysis of human olfactory bulb	LTQ-Orbitrap, Tissue, bRPLC, neuroproteomics., protein biomarkers	The importance of olfaction to human health and disease is often underappreciated. Olfactory dysfunction has been reported in association with a host of common complex diseases, including neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. For health, olfaction or the sense of smell is also important for most mammals, for optimal engagement with their environment. Indeed, animals have developed sophisticated olfactory systems to detect and interpret the rich information presented to them to assist in day-to-day activities such as locating food sources, differentiating food from poisons, identifying mates, promoting reproduction, avoiding predators, and averting death. In this context, the olfactory bulb is a vital component of the olfactory system receiving sensory information from the axons of the olfactory receptor neurons located in the nasal cavity and the first place that processes the olfactory information. We report in this study original observations on the human olfactory bulb proteome in healthy subjects, using a high-resolution mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach. We identified 7750 nonredundant proteins from human olfactory bulbs. Bioinformatics analysis of these proteins showed their involvement in biological processes associated with signal transduction, metabolism, transport, and olfaction. These new observations provide a crucial baseline molecular profile of the human olfactory bulb proteome, and should assist the future discovery of biomarker proteins and novel diagnostics associated with diseases characterized by olfactory dysfunction.
PXD006672	28816646	Chronic Cigarette Smoke Mediated Global Changes in Lung Mucoepidermoid Cells: A Phosphoproteomic Analysis. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis reveals cytoskeletal remodelling via CDC42-PAK signaling in lung mucoepidermoid cells upon chronic exposure to cigarette	In vivo labelling, NSCLC, Smoking, phosphoproteomics	Proteomics analysis of chronic cigarette smoke exposure is a rapidly emerging postgenomics research field. While smoking is a major cause of lung cancer, functional studies using proteomics approaches could enrich our mechanistic understanding of the elusive lung cancer global molecular signaling and cigarette smoke relationship. We report in this study on a stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture-based quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of a human lung mucoepidermoid carcinoma cell line, H292 cells, chronically exposed to cigarette smoke. Using high resolution Orbitrap Velos mass spectrometer, we identified the hyperphosphorylation of 493 sites, which corresponds to 341 proteins and 195 hypophosphorylated sites, mapping to 142 proteins upon smoke exposure (2.0-fold change). We report differential phosphorylation of multiple kinases, including PAK6, EPHA4, LYN, mitogen-activated protein kinase, and phosphatases, including TMEM55B, PTPN14, TIGAR, among others, in response to chronic cigarette smoke exposure. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the molecules differentially phosphorylated upon chronic exposure of cigarette smoke are associated with PI3K/AKT/mTOR and CDC42-PAK signaling pathways. These signaling networks are involved in multiple cellular processes, including cell polarity, cytoskeletal remodeling, cellular migration, protein synthesis, autophagy, and apoptosis. The present study contributes to emerging proteomics insights on cigarette smoke mediated global signaling in lung cells, which in turn may aid in development of precision medicine therapeutics and postgenomics biomarkers.
PXD002347	28818673	1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin-D3 induces brain proteomic changes in cuprizone mice during remyelination involving calcium proteins. 	Multiple sclerosis cuprizone mouse model and vitamin D supplementation	cuprizone TMT, multiple sclerosis, vitamin D	Dietary supplementation of vitamin D is commonly recommended to patients with multiple sclerosis. We recently found that high-dose of the hormonally active 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin-D3 (1,25D) promotes myelin repair in the cuprizone model for de- and remyelination. In the present study, we quantified 5062 proteins, of which 125 were differentially regulated in brain tissue from 1,25D treated mice during remyelination, compared to placebo. Proteins upregulated in the early remyelination phase were involved in calcium binding, e.g. calretinin (>1.3 fold, p < 0.005), S10A5 and secretagogin, and involved in mitochondrial function, e.g. NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase chain 3, and acyl-coenzyme A synthetase. Calretinin, S10A5 and secretagogin expression levels were characterized using immunohistochemistry. Calretinin immunoreactivity was significantly increased (>3 fold, p = 0.016) in the medial septal nuclei of 1,25D treated mice in the early remyelination phase. Our results indicate that vitamin D may influence remyelination by mechanisms involving an increase in calretinin expression and potentially other calcium binding proteins.
PXD005463	28819139	Landscape of submitochondrial protein distribution. 	Draft of the mitochondrial landscape, OM/IM	mitochondria, subcompartments	The mitochondrial proteome comprises ~1000 (yeast)-1500 (human) different proteins, which are distributed into four different subcompartments. The sublocalization of these proteins within the organelle in most cases remains poorly defined. Here we describe an integrated approach combining stable isotope labeling, various protein enrichment and extraction strategies and quantitative mass spectrometry to produce a quantitative map of submitochondrial protein distribution in S. cerevisiae. This quantitative landscape enables a proteome-wide classification of 986 proteins into soluble, peripheral, and integral mitochondrial membrane proteins, and the assignment of 818 proteins into the four subcompartments: outer membrane, inner membrane, intermembrane space, or matrix. We also identified 206 proteins that were not previously annotated as localized to mitochondria. Furthermore, the protease Prd1, misannotated as intermembrane space protein, could be re-assigned and characterized as a presequence peptide degrading enzyme in the matrix.Protein localization plays an important role in the regulation of cellular physiology. Here the authors use an integrated proteomics approach to localize proteins to the mitochondria and provide a detailed map of their specific localization within the organelle.
PXD005919	28819186	CD24 induces changes to the surface receptors of B cell microvesicles with variable effects on their RNA and protein cargo. 	The CD24 receptor induces changes to the surface protein composition of B cell microvesicles with variable effects on their RNA and protein cargo	B lymphocyte, CD24, extracellular microvesicles, microvesicle, mitochondria	The CD24 cell surface receptor promotes apoptosis in developing B cells, and we recently found that it induces B cells to release plasma membrane-derived, CD24-bearing microvesicles (MVs). Here we have performed a systematic characterization of B cell MVs released from WEHI-231 B lymphoma cells in response to CD24 stimulation. We found that B cells constitutively release MVs of approximately 120 nm, and that CD24 induces an increase in phosphatidylserine-positive MV release. RNA cargo is predominantly comprised of 5S rRNA, regardless of stimulation; however, CD24 causes a decrease in the incorporation of protein coding transcripts. The MV proteome is enriched with mitochondrial and metabolism-related proteins after CD24 stimulation; however, these changes were variable and could not be fully validated by Western blotting. CD24-bearing MVs carry Siglec-2, CD63, IgM, and, unexpectedly, Ter119, but not Siglec-G or MHC-II despite their presence on the cell surface. CD24 stimulation also induces changes in CD63 and IgM expression on MVs that is not mirrored by the changes in cell surface expression. Overall, the composition of these MVs suggests that they may be involved in releasing mitochondrial components in response to pro-apoptotic stress with changes to the surface receptors potentially altering the cell type(s) that interact with the MVs.
PXD012413	28819457	Type 1 Diabetes: Urinary Proteomics and Protein Network Analysis Support Perturbation of Lysosomal Function. 	Type 1 Diabetes: Urinary Proteomics and Protein Network Analysis Support Perturbation of Lysosomal Function.	Gut microbiome, Lysosome, Protein network, Type 1 Diabetes, Urinary proteome.	While insulin replacement therapy restores the health and prevents the onset of diabetic complications (DC) for many decades, some T1D patients have elevated hemoglobin A1c values suggesting poor glycemic control, a risk factor of DC. We surveyed the stool microbiome and urinary proteome of a cohort of 220 adolescents and children, half of which had lived with T1D for an average of 7 years and half of which were healthy siblings. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene did not reveal significant differences in gut microbial alpha-diversity comparing the two cohorts. The urinary proteome of T1D patients revealed increased abundances of several lysosomal proteins that correlated with elevated HbA1c values. In silico protein network analysis linked such proteins to extracellular matrix components and the glycoprotein LRG1. LRG1 is a prominent inflammation and neovascularization biomarker. We hypothesize that these changes implicate aberrant glycation of macromolecules that alter lysosomal function and metabolism in renal tubular epithelial cells, cells that line part of the upper urinary tract.
PXD006513	28820483	A Microsomal Proteomics View of H2O2- and ABA-Dependent Responses. 	A microsomal proteomics view of H2O2- and ABA-dependent responses	abscisic acid (ABA), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), microsomal proteomics, quantitative proteomics	The plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) modulates a number of plant developmental processes and responses to stress. In planta, ABA has been shown to induce reactive oxygen species (ROS) production through the action of plasma membrane-associated nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-oxidases. Although quantitative proteomics studies have been performed to identify ABA- or hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-dependent proteins, little is known about the ABA- and H2O2-dependent microsomal proteome changes. Here, we examined the effect of 50 microM of either H2O2 or ABA on the Arabidopsis microsomal proteome using tandem mass spectrometry and identified 86 specifically H2O2-dependent, and 52 specifically ABA-dependent proteins that are differentially expressed. We observed differential accumulation of proteins involved in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle notably in response to H2O2. Of these, aconitase 3 responded to both H2O2 and ABA. Additionally, over 30 proteins linked to RNA biology responded significantly to both treatments. Gene ontology categories such as 'response to stress' and 'transport' were enriched, suggesting that H2O2 or ABA directly and/or indirectly cause complex and partly overlapping cellular responses. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006513.
PXD006663	28820963	Ketone Body Acetoacetate Buffers Methylglyoxal via a Non-enzymatic Conversion during Diabetic and Dietary Ketosis. 	Protein lysine modification by a 3-hydroxy-2,5-hexanedione probe and LC-MS/MS detection	plasma	The alpha-oxoaldehyde methylglyoxal is a ubiquitous and highly reactive metabolite known to be involved in aging- and diabetes-related diseases. If not detoxified by the endogenous glyoxalase system, it exerts its detrimental effects primarily by reacting with biopolymers such as DNA and proteins. We now demonstrate that during ketosis, another metabolic route is operative via direct non-enzymatic aldol reaction between methylglyoxal and the ketone body acetoacetate, leading to 3-hydroxyhexane-2,5-dione. This novel metabolite is present at a concentration of 10%-20% of the methylglyoxal level in the blood of insulin-starved patients. By employing a metabolite-alkyne-tagging strategy it is clarified that 3-hydroxyhexane-2,5-dione is further metabolized to non-glycating species in human blood. The discovery represents a new direction within non-enzymatic metabolism and within the use of alkyne-tagging for metabolism studies and it revitalizes acetoacetate as a competent endogenous carbon nucleophile.
PXD006236	28821601	High Sensitivity Quantitative Proteomics Using Automated Multidimensional Nano-flow Chromatography and Accumulated Ion Monitoring on Quadrupole-Orbitrap-Linear Ion Trap Mass Spectrometer. 	Accumulated ion monitoring for improved sensitivity	PRM, orbitrap, phosphorylation, quantitative-MS, targeted-MS	Quantitative proteomics using high-resolution and accuracy mass spectrometry promises to transform our understanding of biological systems and disease. Recent development of parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) using hybrid instruments substantially improved the specificity of targeted mass spectrometry. Combined with high-efficiency ion trapping, this approach also provided significant improvements in sensitivity. Here, we investigated the effects of ion isolation and accumulation on the sensitivity and quantitative accuracy of targeted proteomics using the recently developed hybrid quadrupole-Orbitrap-linear ion trap mass spectrometer. We leveraged ultrahigh efficiency nano-electrospray ionization under optimized conditions to achieve yoctomolar sensitivity with more than seven orders of linear quantitative accuracy. To enable sensitive and specific targeted mass spectrometry, we implemented an automated, two-dimensional (2D) ion exchange-reversed phase nanoscale chromatography system. We found that automated 2D chromatography improved the sensitivity and accuracy of both PRM and an intact precursor scanning mass spectrometry method, termed accumulated ion monitoring (AIM), by more than 100-fold. Combined with automated 2D nano-scale chromatography, AIM achieved subattomolar limits of detection of endogenous proteins in complex biological proteomes. This allowed quantitation of absolute abundance of the human transcription factor MEF2C at ~100 molecules/cell, and determination of its phosphorylation stoichiometry from as little as 1 mug of extracts isolated from 10,000 human cells. The combination of automated multidimensional nano-scale chromatography and targeted mass spectrometry should enable ultrasensitive high-accuracy quantitative proteomics of complex biological systems and diseases.
PXD003570	28821602	Large-scale Proteomics Combined with Transgenic Experiments Demonstrates An Important Role of Jasmonic Acid in Potassium Deficiency Response in Wheat and Rice. 	iTRAQ-based proteomic analysis reveals genome-wide protein expression patterns in allohexaploid bread wheat in adaptation to potassium deficiency and an important role of jasmonic acid	Triticum aestivum L., iTRAQ, jasmonic acid, potassium deficiency	Potassium (K(+)) is the most abundant inorganic cation in plants, and molecular dissection of K(+) deficiency has received considerable interest in order to minimize K(+) fertilizer input and develop high quality K(+)-efficient crops. However, the molecular mechanism of plant responses to K(+) deficiency is still poorly understood. In this study, 2-week-old bread wheat seedlings grown hydroponically in Hoagland solution were transferred to K(+)-free conditions for 8 d, and their root and leaf proteome profiles were assessed using the iTRAQ proteome method. Over 4000 unique proteins were identified, and 818 K(+)-responsive protein species showed significant differences in abundance. The differentially expressed protein species were associated with diverse functions and exhibited organ-specific differences. Most of the differentially expressed protein species related to hormone synthesis were involved in jasmonic acid (JA) synthesis and the upregulated abundance of JA synthesis-related enzymes could result in the increased JA concentrations. Abundance of allene oxide synthase (AOS), one key JA synthesis-related enzyme, was significantly increased in K(+)-deficient wheat seedlings, and its overexpression markedly increased concentrations of K(+) and JA, altered the transcription levels of some genes encoding K(+)-responsive protein species, as well as enhanced the tolerance of rice plants to low K(+) or K(+) deficiency. Moreover, rice AOS mutant (osaos) exhibited more sensitivity to low K(+) or K(+) deficiency. Our findings could highlight the importance of JA in K(+) deficiency, and imply a network of molecular processes underlying plant responses to K(+) deficiency.
PXD005364	28821603	A Simple Light Isotope Metabolic Labeling (SLIM-labeling) Strategy: A Powerful Tool to Address the Dynamics of Proteome Variations In Vivo. 	Improved MS-based proteomics by the reduction of isotopic composition in vivo	Bottom-up MS-based proteomics, Candida albicans, [U-12C]-carbon source, protein half-life	Many quantitative proteomics strategies rely on in vivo metabolic incorporation of amino acids with modified stable isotope profiles into proteins. These methods give rise to multiple ions for each peptide, with possible distortion of the isotopolog distribution, making the overall analytical process complex. We validated an alternative strategy, simple light isotope metabolic labeling (SLIM-labeling), which alleviates many of these problems. SLIM-labeling is based on the in vivo reduction of the isotopic composition of proteins using metabolic precursors with a unique light isotope composition to label all amino acids. This brings a new dimension to in-depth, high resolution MS-based quantitative proteomics. Here, we describe a (12)C-based SLIM-labeling strategy using U-[(12)C]-glucose as the metabolic precursor of all amino acids in the pathogenic yeast Candida albicans Monoisotopic ion intensity increased exponentially following (12)C enrichment, substantially improving peptide identification scores and protein sequence coverage in bottom-up analyses. Multiplexing samples of (12)C composition varying from natural abundance (98.93%) to 100% makes it possible to address relative quantification issues, keeping all the critical information for each peptide within a single isotopolog cluster. We applied this method to measure, for the first time, protein turnover at the proteome scale in Candida albicans and its modulation by inhibitors of the proteasome and vacuolar protein degradation systems.
PXD010564	28821604	Development of a Multiplexed Assay for Oral Cancer Candidate Biomarkers Using Peptide Immunoaffinity Enrichment and Targeted Mass Spectrometry. 	SISCAPA-MRM (Hsiao et al. 2017)	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Oral cancer is one of the most common cancers worldwide, and there are currently no biomarkers approved for aiding its management. Although many potential oral cancer biomarkers have been discovered, very few have been verified in body fluid specimens in parallel to evaluate their clinical utility. The lack of appropriate multiplexed assays for chosen targets represents one of the bottlenecks to achieving this goal. In the present study, we develop a peptide immunoaffinity enrichment-coupled multiple reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (SISCAPA-MRM) assay for verifying multiple reported oral cancer biomarkers in saliva. We successfully produced 363 clones of mouse anti-peptide monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against 36 of 49 selected targets, and characterized useful mAbs against 24 targets in terms of their binding affinity for peptide antigens and immuno-capture ability. Comparative analyses revealed that an equilibrium dissociation constant (KD ) cut-off value < 2.82 x 10(-9) m could identify most clones with an immuno-capture recovery rate >5%. Using these mAbs, we assembled a 24-plex SISCAPA-MRM assay and optimized assay conditions in a 25-mug saliva matrix background. This multiplexed assay showed reasonable precision (median coefficient of variation, 7.16 to 32.09%), with lower limits of quantitation (LLOQ) of <10, 10-50, and >50 ng/ml for 14, 7 and 3 targets, respectively. When applied to a model saliva sample pooled from oral cancer patients, this assay could detect 19 targets at higher salivary levels than their LLOQs. Finally, we demonstrated the utility of this assay for quantification of multiple targets in individual saliva samples (20 healthy donors and 21 oral cancer patients), showing that levels of six targets were significantly altered in cancer compared with the control group. We propose that this assay could be used in future studies to compare the clinical utility of multiple oral cancer biomarker candidates in a large cohort of saliva samples.
PXD006764	28821629	Effects of spaceflight on the muscles of the murine shoulder. 	The effects of spaceflight on the muscles of the murine shoulder	microgravity, shoulder muscle, spaceflight	Mechanical loading is necessary for the development and maintenance of the musculoskeletal system. Removal of loading via microgravity, paralysis, or bed rest leads to rapid loss of muscle mass and function; however, the molecular mechanisms that lead to these changes are largely unknown, particularly for the spaceflight (SF) microgravity environment. Furthermore, few studies have explored these effects on the shoulder, a dynamically stabilized joint with a large range of motion; therefore, we examined the effects of microgravity on mouse shoulder muscles for the 15-d Space Transportation System (STS)-131, 13-d STS-135, and 30-d Bion-M1 missions. Mice from STS missions were euthanized within 4 h after landing, whereas mice from the Bion-M1 mission were euthanized within 14 h after landing. The motion-generating deltoid muscle was more sensitive to microgravity than the joint-stabilizing rotator cuff muscles. Mice from the STS-131 mission exhibited reduced myogenic (Myf5 and -6) and adipogenic (Pparg, Cebpa, and Lep) gene expression, whereas either no change or an increased expression of these genes was observed in mice from the Bion-M1 mission. In summary, muscle responses to microgravity were muscle-type specific, short-duration SF caused dramatic molecular changes to shoulder muscles and responses to reloading upon landing were rapid.-Shen, H., Lim, C., Schwartz, A. G., Andreev-Andrievskiy, A., Deymier, A. C., Thomopoulos, S. Effects of spaceflight on the muscles of the murine shoulder.
PXD000282	28821815	Epac1-deficient mice have bleeding phenotype and thrombocytes with decreased GPIbbeta expression. 	EPAC1 knockout mouse effects in platelets and plasma	EPAC1 knockout, LC-MS, label-free, plasma, platelets	Epac1 (Exchange protein directly activated by cAMP 1) limits fluid loss from the circulation by tightening the endothelial barrier. We show here that Epac1(-/-) mice, but not Epac2(-/-) mice, have prolonged bleeding time, suggesting that Epac1 may limit fluid loss also by restraining bleeding. The Epac1(-/-) mice had deficient in vitro secondary hemostasis. Quantitative comprehensive proteomics analysis revealed that Epac1(-/-) mouse platelets (thrombocytes) had unbalanced expression of key components of the glycoprotein Ib-IX-V (GPIb-IX-V) complex, with decrease of GP1bbeta and no change of GP1balpha. This complex is critical for platelet adhesion under arterial shear conditions. Furthermore, Epac1(-/-) mice have reduced levels of plasma coagulation factors and fibrinogen, increased size of circulating platelets, increased megakaryocytes (the GP1bbeta level was decreased also in Epac1(-/-) bone marrow) and higher abundance of reticulated platelets. Viscoelastic measurement of clotting function revealed Epac1(-/-) mice with a dysfunction in the clotting process, which corresponds to reduced plasma levels of coagulation factors like factor XIII and fibrinogen. We propose that the observed platelet phenotype is due to deficient Epac1 activity during megakaryopoiesis and thrombopoiesis, and that the defects in blood clotting for Epac1(-/-) is connected to secondary hemostasis.
PXD002881	28823169	Membrane Proteomics of Impaired Energetics and Cytoskeletal Disorganization in Elderly Diet-Induced Diabetic Mice. 	Mouse cardiomyocytes LC/MS/MS -  Membrane Proteomics of Impaired Energetics and Cytoskeletal Disorganization in Elderly Diet-Induced Diabetic Mice	Hp-RP StageTip Fractionation, LC/MS/MS, Mouse cardiomyocytes, iTRAQ labeling	Diabetic cardiomyopathy is a well-recognized complication of diabetes, but its pathophysiology is unclear. We aimed to investigate the mechanisms underlying cardiac dysfunction in an elderly type 2 diabetic (T2DM) mouse model, using membrane proteomic analyses. Elderly mice were fed a high fat diet for 12 weeks to induce T2DM, and myocardial structure and function were assessed by echocardiography. Cardiomyocytes were isolated by Langendorff perfusion and subjected to iTRAQ-based quantitative membrane proteomic profiling, immunoblotting, and real-time quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Compared to controls, elderly T2DM mice showed worse systolic function, more myocardial fibrosis and up-regulation of several heart failure markers (all p < 0.05). Cardiomyocyte membrane proteomic profiling revealed that 417 proteins had differential expressions related to perturbations in several biological processes in T2DM mice compared with the control. The most up-regulated proteins were involved in oxidative phosphorylation, whereas many down-regulated proteins were involved in cytoskeletal regulation. Differential protein expression correlated with myocardial systolic velocity by tissue Doppler. In addition, cardiomyocyte immunofluorescence staining showed greater disorganization of thick/parallel F-actin stress fibers and marked reduction in F-to-G-actin ratio in T2DM vs control (p < 0.05), which paralleled worsened myocardial systolic velocity. We concluded that cardiac contractile dysfunction in elderly T2DM mice was associated with impaired energetics and cytoskeletal disorganization.
PXD006834	28823675	Transposon Sequencing Uncovers an Essential Regulatory Function of Phosphoribulokinase for Methylotrophy. 	Transposon sequencing uncovers an essential regulatory function of phosphoribulokinase for methylotrophy	Label-free Quantification, Methylobacterium extorquens PA1	Methylotrophy is the ability of organisms to grow at the expense of reduced one-carbon compounds, such as methanol or methane. Here, we used transposon sequencing combining hyper-saturated transposon mutagenesis with high-throughput sequencing to define the essential methylotrophy genome of Methylobacterium extorquens PA1, a model methylotroph. To distinguish genomic regions required for growth only on methanol from general required genes, we contrasted growth on methanol with growth on succinate, a non-methylotrophic reference substrate. About 500,000 insertions were mapped for each condition, resulting in a median insertion distance of five base pairs. We identified 147 genes and 76 genes as specific for growth on methanol and succinate, respectively, and a set of 590 genes as required under both growth conditions. For the integration of metabolic functions, we reconstructed a genome-scale metabolic model and performed in silico essentiality analysis. In total, the approach uncovered 95 genes not previously described as crucial for methylotrophy, including genes involved in respiration, carbon metabolism, transport, and regulation. Strikingly, regardless of the absence of the Calvin cycle in the methylotroph, the screen led to the identification of the gene for phosphoribulokinase as essential during growth on methanol, but not during growth on succinate. Genetic experiments in addition to metabolomics and proteomics revealed that phosphoribulokinase serves a key regulatory function. Our data support a model according to which ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate is an essential metabolite that induces a transcriptional regulator driving one-carbon assimilation.
PXD006888	28824714	Cardiac Metabolic Deregulation Induced by the Tyrosine Kinase Receptor Inhibitor Sunitinib is rescued by Endothelin Receptor Antagonism. 	Cardiac Metabolic Deregulation Induced by the Tyrosine Kinase Receptor Inhibitor Sunitinib is rescued by Endothelin Receptor Antagonism	cardio-oncology, cardiotoxicity, echocardiography, endothelin, macitentan, positron emission tomography, sunitinib	The growing field of cardio-oncology addresses the side effects of cancer treatment on the cardiovascular system. Here, we explored the cardiotoxicity of the antiangiogenic therapy, sunitinib, in the mouse heart from a diagnostic and therapeutic perspective. We showed that sunitinib induces an anaerobic switch of cellular metabolism within the myocardium which is associated with the development of myocardial fibrosis and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction as demonstrated by echocardiography. The capacity of positron emission tomography with [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose to detect the changes in cardiac metabolism caused by sunitinib was dependent on fasting status and duration of treatment. Pan proteomic analysis in the myocardium showed that sunitinib induced (i) an early metabolic switch with enhanced glycolysis and reduced oxidative phosphorylation, and (ii) a metabolic failure to use glucose as energy substrate, similar to the insulin resistance found in type 2 diabetes. Co-administration of the endothelin receptor antagonist, macitentan, to sunitinib-treated animals prevented both metabolic defects, restored glucose uptake and cardiac function, and prevented myocardial fibrosis. These results support the endothelin system in mediating the cardiotoxic effects of sunitinib and endothelin receptor antagonism as a potential therapeutic approach to prevent cardiotoxicity. Furthermore, metabolic and functional imaging can monitor the cardiotoxic effects and the benefits of endothelin antagonism in a theranostic approach.
PXD004884	28825704	Statistical control of peptide and protein error rates in large-scale targeted data-independent acquisition analyses. 	Considerations for peptide and protein error rate control in large-scale targeted DIA analyses	DIA, SWATH-MS, error rate control	Liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) is the main method for high-throughput identification and quantification of peptides and inferred proteins. Within this field, data-independent acquisition (DIA) combined with peptide-centric scoring, as exemplified by the technique SWATH-MS, has emerged as a scalable method to achieve deep and consistent proteome coverage across large-scale data sets. We demonstrate that statistical concepts developed for discovery proteomics based on spectrum-centric scoring can be adapted to large-scale DIA experiments that have been analyzed with peptide-centric scoring strategies, and we provide guidance on their application. We show that optimal tradeoffs between sensitivity and specificity require careful considerations of the relationship between proteins in the samples and proteins represented in the spectral library. We propose the application of a global analyte constraint to prevent the accumulation of false positives across large-scale data sets. Furthermore, to increase the quality and reproducibility of published proteomic results, well-established confidence criteria should be reported for the detected peptide queries, peptides and inferred proteins.
PXD006305	28825834	Combining Genomics To Identify the Pathways of Post-Transcriptional Nongenotoxic Signaling and Energy Homeostasis in Livers of Rats Treated with the Pregnane X Receptor Agonist, Pregnenolone Carbonitrile. 	Rat liver treated by PCN	PCN, SWATH, liver, rat, subcellular fractionation	Transcriptomic, proteomic, phosphoproteomic, and metabolomic analyses were combined to determine the role of pregnane X receptor (PXR) in nongenotoxic signaling and energy homeostasis in liver after rats were repeatedly orally dosed with the PXR agonist pregnenolone carbonitrile (PCN) for 7 days. Analyses of mRNAs and proteins in the supernatant, membrane, and cytosolic fractions of enlarged liver homogenates showed diverse expression profiles. Gene set enrichment analysis showed that the synchronous increase in mRNAs and proteins involved in chemical carcinogenesis and the response to drug was possibly mediated by the PXR pathway and proteasome core complex assembly was possibly mediated by the Nrf2 pathway. In addition, levels of proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum lumen and involved in the acute-phase response showed specific increase with no change in mRNA level, and those composed of the mitochondrial inner membrane showed specific decrease. The analysis of phosphorylated peptides of poly(A) RNA binding proteins showed a decrease in phosphorylation, possibly by casein kinase 2, which may be related to the regulation of protein expression. Proteins involved in insulin signaling pathways showed an increase in phosphorylation, possibly by protein kinase A, and those involved in apoptosis showed a decrease. Metabolomic analysis suggested the activation of the pentose phosphate and anaerobic glycolysis pathways and the increase of amino acid and fatty acid levels, as occurs in the Warburg effect. In conclusion, the results of combined analyses suggest that PXR's effects are due to transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation with alteration of nongenotoxic signaling pathways and energy homeostasis.
PXD007153	28827280	Systematic and Quantitative Assessment of Hydrogen Peroxide Reactivity With Cysteines Across Human Proteomes. 	Systematic and quantitative assessment of hydrogen peroxide reactivity with cysteines across human proteomes	Chemoproteomics, Cysteine	Protein cysteinyl residues are the mediators of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-dependent redox signaling. However, site-specific mapping of the selectivity and dynamics of these redox reactions in cells poses a major analytical challenge. Here we describe a chemoproteomic platform to systematically and quantitatively analyze the reactivity of thousands of cysteines toward H2O2 in human cells. We identified >900 H2O2-sensitive cysteines, which are defined as the H2O2-dependent redoxome. Although redox sites associated with antioxidative and metabolic functions are consistent, most of the H2O2-dependent redoxome varies dramatically between different cells. Structural analyses reveal that H2O2-sensitive cysteines are less conserved than their redox-insensitive counterparts and display distinct sequence motifs, structural features, and potential for crosstalk with lysine modifications. Notably, our chemoproteomic platform also provides an opportunity to predict oxidation-triggered protein conformational changes. The data are freely accessible as a resource at http://redox.ncpsb.org/OXID/.
PXD004886	28827567	Multi-laboratory assessment of reproducibility, qualitative and quantitative performance of SWATH-mass spectrometry. 	Multi-laboratory assessment of reproducibility, qualitative and quantitative performance of SWATH-mass spectrometry	SWATH-MS, reproducibility	Quantitative proteomics employing mass spectrometry is an indispensable tool in life science research. Targeted proteomics has emerged as a powerful approach for reproducible quantification but is limited in the number of proteins quantified. SWATH-mass spectrometry consists of data-independent acquisition and a targeted data analysis strategy that aims to maintain the favorable quantitative characteristics (accuracy, sensitivity, and selectivity) of targeted proteomics at large scale. While previous SWATH-mass spectrometry studies have shown high intra-lab reproducibility, this has not been evaluated between labs. In this multi-laboratory evaluation study including 11 sites worldwide, we demonstrate that using SWATH-mass spectrometry data acquisition we can consistently detect and reproducibly quantify >4000 proteins from HEK293 cells. Using synthetic peptide dilution series, we show that the sensitivity, dynamic range and reproducibility established with SWATH-mass spectrometry are uniformly achieved. This study demonstrates that the acquisition of reproducible quantitative proteomics data by multiple labs is achievable, and broadly serves to increase confidence in SWATH-mass spectrometry data acquisition as a reproducible method for large-scale protein quantification.SWATH-mass spectrometry consists of a data-independent acquisition and a targeted data analysis strategy that aims to maintain the favorable quantitative characteristics on the scale of thousands of proteins. Here, using data generated by eleven groups worldwide, the authors show that SWATH-MS is capable of generating highly reproducible data across different laboratories.
PXD006515	28827601	A plasmid from an Antarctic haloarchaeon uses specialized membrane vesicles to disseminate and infect plasmid-free cells. 	A plasmid goes viral, part 2 -  A plasmid from an Antarctic haloarchaeon uses specialized membrane vesicles to disseminate and infect plasmid-free cells	haloarchaea, membrane vesicles, plasmid, virus	The major difference between viruses and plasmids is the mechanism of transferring their genomic information between host cells. Here, we describe the archaeal plasmid pR1SE from an Antarctic species of haloarchaea that transfers via a mechanism similar to a virus. pR1SE encodes proteins that are found in regularly shaped membrane vesicles, and the vesicles enclose the plasmid DNA. The released vesicles are capable of infecting a plasmid-free strain, which then gains the ability to produce plasmid-containing vesicles. pR1SE can integrate and replicate as part of the host genome, resolve out with fragments of host DNA incorporated or portions of the plasmid left behind, form vesicles and transfer to new hosts. The pR1SE mechanism of transfer of DNA could represent the predecessor of a strategy used by viruses to pass on their genomic DNA and fulfil roles in gene exchange, supporting a strong evolutionary connection between plasmids and viruses.
PXD002014	28827734	Integrative epigenomics, transcriptomics and proteomics of patient chondrocytes reveal genes and pathways involved in osteoarthritis. 	Integrated molecular phenotyping in chondrocytes identifies genes and pathways disrupted in osteoarthritis	Chondrocytes, Label Free, Osteoarthritis, TMT	Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common disease characterized by cartilage degeneration and joint remodeling. The underlying molecular changes underpinning disease progression are incompletely understood. We investigated genes and pathways that mark OA progression in isolated primary chondrocytes taken from paired intact versus degraded articular cartilage samples across 38 patients undergoing joint replacement surgery (discovery cohort: 12 knee OA, replication cohorts: 17 knee OA, 9 hip OA patients). We combined genome-wide DNA methylation, RNA sequencing, and quantitative proteomics data. We identified 49 genes differentially regulated between intact and degraded cartilage in at least two -omics levels, 16 of which have not previously been implicated in OA progression. Integrated pathway analysis implicated the involvement of extracellular matrix degradation, collagen catabolism and angiogenesis in disease progression. Using independent replication datasets, we showed that the direction of change is consistent for over 90% of differentially expressed genes and differentially methylated CpG probes. AQP1, COL1A1 and CLEC3B were significantly differentially regulated across all three -omics levels, confirming their differential expression in human disease. Through integration of genome-wide methylation, gene and protein expression data in human primary chondrocytes, we identified consistent molecular players in OA progression that replicated across independent datasets and that have translational potential.
PXD007053	28828861	Toward the Standardization of Mitochondrial Proteomics: The Italian Mitochondrial Human Proteome Project Initiative. 	Standardization of mitochondrial proteomics v2 NP	Mitochondria enrichment protocol, Mt-HPP, high resolution, human cell lines, orbitrap, qtof	The Mitochondrial Human Proteome Project aims at understanding the function of the mitochondrial proteome and its crosstalk with the proteome of other organelles. Being able to choose a suitable and validated enrichment protocol of functional mitochondria, based on the specific needs of the downstream proteomics analysis, would greatly help the researchers in the field. Mitochondrial fractions from ten model cell lines were prepared using three enrichment protocols and analyzed on seven different LC-MS/MS platforms. All data were processed using neXtProt as reference database. The data are available for the Human Proteome Project purposes through the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the identifier PXD007053. The processed data sets were analyzed using a suite of R routines to perform a statistical analysis and to retrieve subcellular and submitochondrial localizations. Although the overall number of identified total and mitochondrial proteins was not significantly dependent on the enrichment protocol, specific line to line differences were observed. Moreover, the protein lists were mapped to a network representing the functional mitochondrial proteome, encompassing mitochondrial proteins and their first interactors. More than 80% of the identified proteins resulted in nodes of this network but with a different ability in coisolating mitochondria-associated structures for each enrichment protocol/cell line pair.
PXD005769	28829774	A large scale Plasmodium vivax- Saimiri boliviensis trophozoite-schizont transition proteome. 	Investigation of Plasmodium vivax trophozoite-schizont transition proteome	Crux, Infected Red Blood Cell, LC MS/MS, MSGF, MaHPIC, Malaria, Mascot, Plasmodiu, ProteomeXchange project tag: Malaria Host-Pathogen Interaction Center (MaHPIC), Saimiri boliviensis, Sequest, Systems Biology	Plasmodium vivax is a complex protozoan parasite with over 6,500 genes and stage-specific differential expression. Much of the unique biology of this pathogen remains unknown, including how it modifies and restructures the host reticulocyte. Using a recently published P. vivax reference genome, we report the proteome from two biological replicates of infected Saimiri boliviensis host reticulocytes undergoing transition from the late trophozoite to early schizont stages. Using five database search engines, we identified a total of 2000 P. vivax and 3487 S. boliviensis proteins, making this the most comprehensive P. vivax proteome to date. PlasmoDB GO-term enrichment analysis of proteins identified at least twice by a search engine highlighted core metabolic processes and molecular functions such as glycolysis, translation and protein folding, cell components such as ribosomes, proteasomes and the Golgi apparatus, and a number of vesicle and trafficking related clusters. Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) v6.8 enriched functional annotation clusters of S. boliviensis proteins highlighted vesicle and trafficking-related clusters, elements of the cytoskeleton, oxidative processes and response to oxidative stress, macromolecular complexes such as the proteasome and ribosome, metabolism, translation, and cell death. Host and parasite proteins potentially involved in cell adhesion were also identified. Over 25% of the P. vivax proteins have no functional annotation; this group includes 45 VIR members of the large PIR family. A number of host and pathogen proteins contained highly oxidized or nitrated residues, extending prior trophozoite-enriched stage observations from S. boliviensis infections, and supporting the possibility of oxidative stress in relation to the disease. This proteome significantly expands the size and complexity of the known P. vivax and Saimiri host iRBC proteomes, and provides in-depth data that will be valuable for ongoing research on this parasite's biology and pathogenesis.
PXD006114	28830985	Characterization of In Vivo Resistance to Osimertinib and JNJ-61186372, an EGFR/Met Bispecific Antibody, Reveals Unique and Consensus Mechanisms of Resistance. 	Phosphoproteomics of in vivo resistance to EGFR-targeted therapy in lung cancer cells	EGFR, NSCLC, drug resistance, tyrosine phosphorylation, xenografts	Approximately 10% of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients in the United States and 40% of NSCLC patients in Asia have activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations and are eligible to receive targeted anti-EGFR therapy. Despite an extension of life expectancy associated with this treatment, resistance to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors and anti-EGFR antibodies is almost inevitable. To identify additional signaling routes that can be cotargeted to overcome resistance, we quantified tumor-specific molecular changes that govern resistant cancer cell growth and survival. Mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics was used to profile in vivo signaling changes in 41 therapy-resistant tumors from four xenograft NSCLC models. We identified unique and tumor-specific tyrosine phosphorylation rewiring in tumors resistant to treatment with the irreversible third-generation EGFR-inhibitor, osimertinib, or the novel dual-targeting EGFR/Met antibody, JNJ-61186372. Tumor-specific increases in tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides from EGFR family members, Shc1 and Gab1 or Src family kinase (SFK) substrates were observed, underscoring a differential ability of tumors to uniquely escape EGFR inhibition. Although most resistant tumors within each treatment group displayed a marked inhibition of EGFR as well as SFK signaling, the combination of EGFR inhibition (osimertinib) and SFK inhibition (saracatinib or dasatinib) led to further decrease in cell growth in vitro This result suggests that residual SFK signaling mediates therapeutic resistance and that elimination of this signal through combination therapy may delay onset of resistance. Overall, analysis of individual resistant tumors captured unique in vivo signaling rewiring that would have been masked by analysis of in vitro cell population averages. Mol Cancer Ther; 16(11); 2572-85. (c)2017 AACR.
PXD004955	28831049	Treating the placenta to prevent adverse effects of gestational hypoxia on fetal brain development. 	Treating the placenta with nanoparticles to prevent altered placental secretion and fetal development in response to hypoxia [Fetal Plasma]	Blood, Fetal Development, Hypoxia, MitoQ, Nanoparticles, Oxidative Stress, Placenta, Plasma, Pregnancy	Some neuropsychiatric disease, including schizophrenia, may originate during prenatal development, following periods of gestational hypoxia and placental oxidative stress. Here we investigated if gestational hypoxia promotes damaging secretions from the placenta that affect fetal development and whether a mitochondria-targeted antioxidant MitoQ might prevent this. Gestational hypoxia caused low birth-weight and changes in young adult offspring brain, mimicking those in human neuropsychiatric disease. Exposure of cultured neurons to fetal plasma or to secretions from the placenta or from model trophoblast barriers that had been exposed to altered oxygenation caused similar morphological changes. The secretions and plasma contained altered microRNAs whose targets were linked with changes in gene expression in the fetal brain and with human schizophrenia loci. Molecular and morphological changes in vivo and in vitro were prevented by a single dose of MitoQ bound to nanoparticles, which were shown to localise and prevent oxidative stress in the placenta but not in the fetus. We suggest the possibility of developing preventative treatments that target the placenta and not the fetus to reduce risk of psychiatric disease in later life.
PXD004439	28832675	Time-course global proteome analyses reveal an inverse correlation between Abeta burden and immunoglobulin M levels in the APPNL-F mouse model of Alzheimer disease. 	Time-course global proteome analyses in the APPNL-F mouse model of Alzheimer disease	amyloid beta, brain	Alzheimer disease (AD) stands out amongst highly prevalent diseases because there is no effective treatment nor can the disease be reliably diagnosed at an early stage. A hallmark of AD is the accumulation of aggregation-prone amyloid beta peptides (Abeta), the main constituent of amyloid plaques. To identify Abeta-dependent changes to the global proteome we used the recently introduced APPNL-F mouse model of AD, which faithfully recapitulates the Abeta pathology of the disease, and a workflow that interrogated the brain proteome of these mice by quantitative mass spectrometry at three different ages. The elevated Abeta burden in these mice was observed to cause almost no changes to steady-state protein levels of the most abundant >2,500 brain proteins, including 12 proteins encoded by well-confirmed AD risk loci. The notable exception was a striking reduction in immunoglobulin heavy mu chain (IGHM) protein levels in homozygote APPNL-F/NL-F mice, relative to APPNL-F/wt littermates. Follow-up experiments revealed that IGHM levels generally increase with age in this model. Although discovered with brain samples, the relative IGHM depletion in APPNL-F/NL-F mice was validated to manifest systemically in the blood, and did not extend to other blood proteins, including immunoglobulin G. Results presented are consistent with a cause-effect relationship between the excessive accumulation of Abeta and the selective depletion of IGHM levels, which may be of relevance for understanding the etiology of the disease and ongoing efforts to devise blood-based AD diagnostics.
PXD005567	28834300	Updating In Vivo and In Vitro Phosphorylation and Methylation Sites of Voltage-Gated Kv7.2 Potassium Channels. 	Kv7.2 LC-MSMS -  Updating in vivo and in vitro phosphorylation and methylation sites of voltage-gated Kv7	KCNQ2, Kv7.2, methylation, phosphorylation	Voltage-gated Kv7.2 potassium channels regulate neuronal excitability. The gating of these channels is tightly controlled by various mediators and neurotransmitters acting via G protein-coupled receptors; the underlying signaling cascades involve phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2 ), Ca(2+) /calmodulin, and phosphorylation. Recent studies found that the PIP2 sensitivity of Kv7.2 channels is affected by two posttranslational modifications, phosphorylation and methylation, harboured within putative PIP2 -binding domains. In this study, we updated phosphorylation and methylation sites in Kv7.2 either heterologously expressed in mammalian cells or as GST-fusion proteins exposed to recombinant protein kinases by using LC-MS/MS. In vitro kinase assays revealed that CDK5, protein kinase C (PKC) alpha, PKA, p38 MAPK, CamKIIalpha, and GSK3beta could mediate phosphorylation. Taken together, we provided a comprehensive map of phosphorylation and methylation in Kv7.2 within protein-protein and protein-lipid interaction domains. This may help to interpret the functional roles of individual PTM sites in Kv7.2 channels. All MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD005567.
PXD011111	28839187	Quantitative proteomic characterization of lung-MSC and bone marrow-MSC using DIA-mass spectrometry. 	SRM analyze for evaluation of CYP1B1 expression (Rolandsson Enes et al. 2017)	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) are ideal candidates for cell therapies, due to their immune-regulatory and regenerative properties. We have previously reported that lung-derived MSC are tissue-resident cells with lung-specific properties compared to bone marrow-derived MSC. Assessing relevant molecular differences between lung-MSC and bone marrow-MSC is important, given that such differences may impact their behavior and potential therapeutic use. Here, we present an in-depth mass spectrometry (MS) based strategy to investigate the proteomes of lung-MSC and bone marrow-MSC. The MS-strategy relies on label free quantitative data-independent acquisition (DIA) analysis and targeted data analysis using a MSC specific spectral library. We identified several significantly differentially expressed proteins between lung-MSC and bone marrow-MSC within the cell layer (352 proteins) and in the conditioned medium (49 proteins). Bioinformatics analysis revealed differences in regulation of cell proliferation, which was functionally confirmed by decreasing proliferation rate through Cytochrome P450 stimulation. Our study reveals important differences within proteome and matrisome profiles between lung- and bone marrow-derived MSC that may influence their behavior and affect the clinical outcome when used for cell-therapy.
PXD005536	28842319	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of acquired cancer drug resistance to pazopanib and dasatinib. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of acquired drug resistance to pazopanib and dasatinib	A204, dasatinib, pazopanib, phosphoproteomics, resistance	Acquired drug resistance impacts the majority of patients being treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and remains a key challenge in modern anti-cancer therapy. The lack of clinically effective therapies to overcome resistance represents an unmet need. Understanding the signalling that drives drug resistance will facilitate the development of new salvage therapies to treat patients with secondary TKI resistance. In this study, we utilise mass spectrometry to characterise the global phosphoproteomic alterations that accompany the acquisition of resistance to two FDA-approved TKIs, pazopanib and dasatinib, in the A204 rhabdoid tumour cell line. Our analysis finds that only 6% and 9.7% of the quantified phosphoproteome is altered upon the acquisition of pazopanib and dasatinib resistance, respectively. Pazopanib resistant cells display elevated phosphorylation in cytoskeletal regulatory pathways while dasatinib resistant cells show an upregulation of the insulin receptor/IGF-1R signalling pathway. Drug response profiling rediscovers several previously reported vulnerabilities associated with pazopanib and dasatinib resistance and identifies a new dependency to the second generation HSP90 inhibitor NVP-AUY-922. This study provides a useful resource detailing the candidate signalling determinants of acquired TKI resistance; and reveals a therapeutic approach of inhibiting HSP90 function as a means of salvage therapy to overcome pazopanib and dasatinib resistance. SIGNIFICANCE: Pazopanib and dasatinib are tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) approved for the treatment of multiple cancer types. Patients who are treated with these drugs are prone to the development of drug resistance and consequently tumour relapse. Here we use quantitative phosphoproteomics to characterise the signalling pathways which are enriched in cells that have acquired resistance to these two drugs. Furthermore, targeted drug screens were used to identify salvage therapies capable of overcoming pazopanib and dasatinib resistance. This data advances our understanding of the mechanisms of TKI resistance and highlights candidate targets for cancer therapy.
PXD006552	28842697	Diversity of Amyloid-beta Proteoforms in the Alzheimer's Disease Brain. 	Diversity of Amyloid-beta Proteoforms in the Alzheimer's Disease Brain	Alzheimer's disease, amyloid-beta, post-translational modifications (PTMs), proteoforms, top-down mass spectrometry, truncations	Amyloid-beta (Abeta) plays a key role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but little is known about the proteoforms present in AD brain. We used high-resolution mass spectrometry to analyze intact Abeta from soluble aggregates and insoluble material in brains of six cases with severe dementia and pathologically confirmed AD. The soluble aggregates are especially relevant because they are believed to be the most toxic form of Abeta. We found a diversity of Abeta peptides, with 26 unique proteoforms including various N- and C-terminal truncations. N- and C-terminal truncations comprised 73% and 30%, respectively, of the total Abeta proteoforms detected. The Abeta proteoforms segregated between the soluble and more insoluble aggregates with N-terminal truncations predominating in the insoluble material and C- terminal truncations segregating into the soluble aggregates. In contrast, canonical Abeta comprised the minority of the identified proteoforms (15.3%) and did not distinguish between the soluble and more insoluble aggregates. The relative abundance of many truncated Abeta proteoforms did not correlate with post-mortem interval, suggesting they are not artefacts. This heterogeneity of Abeta proteoforms deepens our understanding of AD and offers many new avenues for investigation into pathological mechanisms of the disease, with implications for therapeutic development.
PXD005026	28847004	A heterochromatin-dependent transcription machinery drives piRNA expression. 	A heterochromatin-dependent transcription machinery drives piRNA expression	Drosophila, Ovary, piRNA, transcription	Nuclear small RNA pathways safeguard genome integrity by establishing transcription-repressing heterochromatin at transposable elements. This inevitably also targets the transposon-rich source loci of the small RNAs themselves. How small RNA source loci are efficiently transcribed while transposon promoters are potently silenced is not understood. Here we show that, in Drosophila, transcription of PIWI-interacting RNA (piRNA) clusters-small RNA source loci in animal gonads-is enforced through RNA polymerase II pre-initiation complex formation within repressive heterochromatin. This is accomplished through Moonshiner, a paralogue of a basal transcription factor IIA (TFIIA) subunit, which is recruited to piRNA clusters via the heterochromatin protein-1 variant Rhino. Moonshiner triggers transcription initiation within piRNA clusters by recruiting the TATA-box binding protein (TBP)-related factor TRF2, an animal TFIID core variant. Thus, transcription of heterochromatic small RNA source loci relies on direct recruitment of the core transcriptional machinery to DNA via histone marks rather than sequence motifs, a concept that we argue is a recurring theme in evolution.
PXD005606	28848232	A reporter system coupled with high-throughput sequencing unveils key bacterial transcription and translation determinants. 	ELM-seq -  A reporter system coupled with high-throughput sequencing unveils key bacterial transcription and translation determinants	Screening, reporter, transcription, translation	Quantitative analysis of the sequence determinants of transcription and translation regulation is relevant for systems and synthetic biology. To identify these determinants, researchers have developed different methods of screening random libraries using fluorescent reporters or antibiotic resistance genes. Here, we have implemented a generic approach called ELM-seq (expression level monitoring by DNA methylation) that overcomes the technical limitations of such classic reporters. ELM-seq uses DamID (Escherichia coli DNA adenine methylase as a reporter coupled with methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme digestion and high-throughput sequencing) to enable in vivo quantitative analyses of upstream regulatory sequences. Using the genome-reduced bacterium Mycoplasma pneumoniae, we show that ELM-seq has a large dynamic range and causes minimal toxicity. We use ELM-seq to determine key sequences (known and putatively novel) of promoter and untranslated regions that influence transcription and translation efficiency. Applying ELM-seq to other organisms will help us to further understand gene expression and guide synthetic biology.Quantitative analysis of how DNA sequence determines transcription and translation regulation is of interest to systems and synthetic biologists. Here the authors present ELM-seq, which uses Dam activity as reporter for high-throughput analysis of promoter and 5'-UTR regions.
PXD006995	28848720	Pathogenic Leptospires Modulate Protein Expression and Post-translational Modifications in Response to Mammalian Host Signals. 	Pathogenic leptospires modulate protein expression and post-translational modifications in response to mammalian host signals	DIGE, Leptospira, Spirochetes, post-translational modifications	Pathogenic species of Leptospira cause leptospirosis, a bacterial zoonotic disease with a global distribution affecting over one million people annually. Reservoir hosts of leptospirosis, including rodents, dogs, and cattle, exhibit little to no signs of disease but shed large numbers of organisms in their urine. Transmission occurs when mucosal surfaces or abraded skin come into contact with infected urine or urine-contaminated water or soil. Whilst little is known about how Leptospira adapt to and persist within a reservoir host, in vitro studies suggest that leptospires alter their transcriptomic and proteomic profiles in response to environmental signals encountered during mammalian infection. We applied the dialysis membrane chamber (DMC) peritoneal implant model to compare the whole cell proteome of in vivo derived leptospires with that of leptospires cultivated in vitro at 30degreesC and 37degreesC by 2-dimensional difference in-gel electrophoresis (2-D DIGE). Of 1,735 protein spots aligned across 9 2-D DIGE gels, 202 protein spots were differentially expressed (p < 0.05, fold change >1.25 or < -1.25) across all three conditions. Differentially expressed proteins were excised for identification by mass spectrometry. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006995. The greatest differences were detected when DMC-cultivated leptospires were compared with IV30- or IV37-cultivated leptospires, including the increased expression of multiple isoforms of Loa22, a known virulence factor. Unexpectedly, 20 protein isoforms of LipL32 and 7 isoforms of LipL41 were uniformly identified by DIGE as differentially expressed, suggesting that unique post-translational modifications (PTMs) are operative in response to mammalian host conditions. To test this hypothesis, a rat model of persistent renal colonization was used to isolate leptospires directly from the urine of experimentally infected rats. Comparison of urinary derived leptospires to IV30 leptospires by 2-D immunoblotting confirmed that modification of proteins with trimethyllysine and acetyllysine occurs to a different degree in response to mammalian host signals encountered during persistent renal colonization. These results provide novel insights into differential protein and PTMs present in response to mammalian host signals which can be used to further define the unique equilibrium that exists between pathogenic leptospires and their reservoir host of infection.
PXD005550	28851738	Phosphoproteomic Analysis Reveals the Importance of Kinase Regulation During Orbivirus Infection. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of Bluetongue virus infection	Bluetongue, Orbivirus, Reovirus, SILAC, dsRNA, phosphoproteomics	Bluetongue virus (BTV) causes infections in wild and domesticated ruminants with high morbidity and mortality and is responsible for significant economic losses in both developing and developed countries. BTV serves as a model for the study of other members of the Orbivirus genus. Previously, the importance of casein kinase 2 for BTV replication was demonstrated. To identify intracellular signaling pathways and novel host-cell kinases involved during BTV infection, the phosphoproteome of BTV infected cells was analyzed. Over 1000 phosphosites were identified using mass spectrometry, which were then used to determine the corresponding kinases involved during BTV infection. This analysis yielded protein kinase A (PKA) as a novel kinase activated during BTV infection. Subsequently, the importance of PKA for BTV infection was validated using a PKA inhibitor and activator. Our data confirmed that PKA was essential for efficient viral growth. Further, we showed that PKA is also required for infection of equid cells by African horse sickness virus, another member of the Orbivirus genus. Thus, despite their preference in specific host species, orbiviruses may utilize the same host signaling pathways during their replication.
PXD006171	28852088	Quantitative proteome and phosphoproteome analyses highlight the adherent population during Trypanosoma cruzi metacyclogenesis. 	Phosphoproteome and proteome of T. cruzi metacyclogenesis	Trypanosoma cruzi, metacyclogenesis, phosphorylation	Trypanosoma cruzi metacyclogenesis is a natural process that occurs inside the triatomine vector and corresponds to the differentiation of non-infective epimastigotes into infective metacyclic trypomastigotes. The biochemical alterations necessary for the differentiation process have been widely studied with a focus on adhesion and nutritional stress. Here, using a mass spectrometry approach, a large-scale phospho(proteome) study was performed with the aim of understanding the metacyclogenesis processes in a quantitative manner. The results indicate that major modulations in the phospho(proteome) occur under nutritional stress and after 12 and 24 h of adhesion. Significant changes involve key cellular processes, such as translation, oxidative stress, and the metabolism of macromolecules, including proteins, lipids, and carbohydrates. Analysis of the signalling triggered by kinases and phosphatases from 7,336 identified phosphorylation sites demonstrates that 260 of these sites are modulated throughout the differentiation process, and some of these modulated proteins have previously been identified as drug targets in trypanosomiasis treatment. To the best of our knowledge, this study provides the first quantitative results highlighting the modulation of phosphorylation sites during metacyclogenesis and the greater coverage of the proteome to the parasite during this process. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier number PXD006171.
PXD002011	28852778	Pathogenic mutation in the ALS/FTD gene, CCNF, causes elevated Lys48-linked ubiquitylation and defective autophagy. 	Mutations to the ALS/FTD gene CCNF reveals elevated Lys48-linked ubiquitination by the SCF(cyclin F) complex	ALS, CCNF, motor neurone disease, ubiquitin	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are fatal neurodegenerative disorders that have common molecular and pathogenic characteristics, such as aberrant accumulation and ubiquitylation of TDP-43; however, the mechanisms that drive this process remain poorly understood. We have recently identified CCNF mutations in familial and sporadic ALS and FTD patients. CCNF encodes cyclin F, a component of an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase (SCF(cyclin F)) complex that is responsible for ubiquitylating proteins for degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome system. In this study, we examined the ALS/FTD-causing p.Ser621Gly (p.S621G) mutation in cyclin F and its effect upon downstream Lys48-specific ubiquitylation in transfected Neuro-2A and SH-SY5Y cells. Expression of mutant cyclin F(S621G) caused increased Lys48-specific ubiquitylation of proteins in neuronal cells compared to cyclin F(WT). Proteomic analysis of immunoprecipitated Lys48-ubiquitylated proteins from mutant cyclin F(S621G)-expressing cells identified proteins that clustered within the autophagy pathway, including sequestosome-1 (p62/SQSTM1), heat shock proteins, and chaperonin complex components. Examination of autophagy markers p62, LC3, and lysosome-associated membrane protein 2 (Lamp2) in cells expressing mutant cyclin F(S621G) revealed defects in the autophagy pathway specifically resulting in impairment in autophagosomal-lysosome fusion. This finding highlights a potential mechanism by which cyclin F interacts with p62, the receptor responsible for transporting ubiquitylated substrates for autophagic degradation. These findings demonstrate that ALS/FTD-causing mutant cyclin F(S621G) disrupts Lys48-specific ubiquitylation, leading to accumulation of substrates and defects in the autophagic machinery. This study also demonstrates that a single missense mutation in cyclin F causes hyper-ubiquitylation of proteins that can indirectly impair the autophagy degradation pathway, which is implicated in ALS pathogenesis.
PXD007238	28852823	A proteomic portrait of dinoflagellate chromatin reveals abundant RNA-binding proteins. 	Lingulodinium Nuclear Proteome	Dinoflagellate, Nucleus	Dinoflagellate chromatin is unique among eukaryotes, as the chromosomes are permanently condensed in a liquid crystal state instead of being packed in nucleosomes. However, how it is organized is still an unsolved mystery, in part due to the lack of a comprehensive catalog of dinoflagellate nuclear proteins. Here, we report the results of CHromatin Enrichment for Proteomics (CHEP) followed by shotgun mass spectrometry sequencing of the chromatin-associated proteins from the dinoflagellate Lingulodinum polyedra. Our analysis identified proteins involved in DNA replication and repair, transcription, and mRNA splicing, and showed a low level of contamination by proteins from other organelles. A limited number of proteins containing DNA-binding domains were found, consistent with the lack of diversity of these proteins in dinoflagellate transcriptomes. However, the number of proteins containing RNA-binding domains was unexpectedly high supporting a potential role for this type of protein in mediating gene expression and chromatin organization. We also identified a number of proteins involved in chromosome condensation and cell cycle progression as well as a single histone protein (H4). Our results provide the first detailed look at the nuclear proteins associated with the unusual chromatin structure of dinoflagellate nuclei and provide important insights into the biochemical basis of its structure and function.
PXD005598	28854364	A Fatty Acid Oxidation-Dependent Metabolic Shift Regulates Adult Neural Stem Cell Activity. 	A fatty acid oxidation-dependent metabolic shift regulates adult neural stem cell quiescence	fatty acid oxidation, neural stem cell, quiescence	Hippocampal neurogenesis is important for certain forms of cognition, and failing neurogenesis has been implicated in neuropsychiatric diseases. The neurogenic capacity of hippocampal neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) depends on a balance between quiescent and proliferative states. Here, we show that the rate of fatty acid oxidation (FAO) regulates the activity of NSPCs. Quiescent NSPCs show high levels of carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1a (Cpt1a)-dependent FAO, which is downregulated in proliferating NSPCs. Pharmacological inhibition and conditional deletion of Cpt1a in vitro and in vivo leads to altered NSPC behavior, showing that Cpt1a-dependent FAO is required for stem cell maintenance and proper neurogenesis. Strikingly, manipulation of malonyl-CoA, the metabolite that regulates levels of FAO, is sufficient to induce exit from quiescence and to enhance NSPC proliferation. Thus, the data presented here identify a shift in FAO metabolism that governs NSPC behavior and suggest an instructive role for fatty acid metabolism in regulating NSPC activity.
PXD005579	28854918	Ribosome signatures aid bacterial translation initiation site identification. 	A Unique Ribosome Signature Reveals bacterium Translation Initiation Sites	LTQ Orbitrap Velos, N-terminal COFRADIC, Ribosome profiling, Salmonella T. str SL1344	BACKGROUND: While methods for annotation of genes are increasingly reliable, the exact identification of translation initiation sites remains a challenging problem. Since the N-termini of proteins often contain regulatory and targeting information, developing a robust method for start site identification is crucial. Ribosome profiling reads show distinct patterns of read length distributions around translation initiation sites. These patterns are typically lost in standard ribosome profiling analysis pipelines, when reads from footprints are adjusted to determine the specific codon being translated. RESULTS: Utilising these signatures in combination with nucleotide sequence information, we build a model capable of predicting translation initiation sites and demonstrate its high accuracy using N-terminal proteomics. Applying this to prokaryotic translatomes, we re-annotate translation initiation sites and provide evidence of N-terminal truncations and extensions of previously annotated coding sequences. These re-annotations are supported by the presence of structural and sequence-based features next to N-terminal peptide evidence. Finally, our model identifies 61 novel genes previously undiscovered in the Salmonella enterica genome. CONCLUSIONS: Signatures within ribosome profiling read length distributions can be used in combination with nucleotide sequence information to provide accurate genome-wide identification of translation initiation sites.
PXD005314	28855124	Towards a routine application of Top-Down approaches for label-free discovery workflows. 	Human cerebrospinal fluid proteoform profiling	Alzheimer, CSF, proteoforms	Thanks to proteomics investigations, our vision of the role of different protein isoforms in the pathophysiology of diseases has largely evolved. The idea that protein biomarkers like tau, amyloid peptides, ApoE, cystatin, or neurogranin are represented in body fluids as single species is obviously over-simplified, as most proteins are present in different isoforms and subjected to numerous processing and post-translational modifications. Measuring the intact mass of proteins by MS has the advantage to provide information on the presence and relative amount of the different proteoforms. Such Top-Down approaches typically require a high degree of sample pre-fractionation to allow the MS system to deliver optimal performance in terms of dynamic range, mass accuracy and resolution. In clinical studies, however, the requirements for pre-analytical robustness and sample size large enough for statistical power restrict the routine use of a high degree of sample pre-fractionation. In this study, we have investigated the capacities of current-generation Ultra-High Resolution Q-Tof systems to deal with high complexity intact protein samples and have evaluated the approach on a cohort of patients suffering from neurodegenerative disease. Statistical analysis has shown that several proteoforms can be used to distinguish Alzheimer disease patients from patients suffering from other neurodegenerative disease. SIGNIFICANCE: Top-down approaches have an extremely high biological relevance, especially when it comes to biomarker discovery, but the necessary pre-fractionation constraints are not easily compatible with the robustness requirements and the size of clinical sample cohorts. We have demonstrated that intact protein profiling studies could be run on UHR-Q-ToF with limited pre-fractionation. The proteoforms that have been identified as candidate biomarkers in the-proof-of concept study are derived from proteins known to play a role in the pathophysiology process of Alzheimer disease.
PXD006648	28860124	Quantitative Analysis of the Proteome Response to the Histone Deacetylase Inhibitor (HDACi) Vorinostat in Niemann-Pick Type C1 disease. 	Modulation of proteostasis counteracts oxidative stress and affects DNA base excision repair capacity in ATM-deficient cells	ataxia telangiectasia mutated, base excision repair, proteasome, protein synthesis, reactive oxygen species	Niemann-Pick type C (NPC) disease is an inherited, progressive neurodegenerative disorder principally caused by mutations in the NPC1 gene. NPC disease is characterized by the accumulation of unesterified cholesterol in the late endosomes (LE) and lysosomes (Ly) (LE/Ly). Vorinostat, a histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi), restores cholesterol homeostasis in fibroblasts derived from NPC patients; however, the exact mechanism by which Vorinostat restores cholesterol level is not known yet. In this study, we performed comparative proteomic profiling of the response of NPC1(I1061T) fibroblasts to Vorinostat. After stringent statistical criteria to filter identified proteins, we observed 202 proteins that are differentially expressed in Vorinostat-treated fibroblasts. These proteins are members of diverse cellular pathways including the endomembrane dependent protein folding-stability-degradation-trafficking axis, energy metabolism, and lipid metabolism. Our study shows that treatment of NPC1(I1061T) fibroblasts with Vorinostat not only enhances pathways promoting the folding, stabilization and trafficking of NPC1 (I1061T) mutant to the LE/Ly, but alters the expression of lysosomal proteins, specifically the lysosomal acid lipase (LIPA) involved in the LIPA->NPC2->NPC1 based flow of cholesterol from the LE/Ly lumen to the LE/Ly membrane. We posit that the Vorinostat may modulate numerous pathways that operate in an integrated fashion through epigenetic and post-translational modifications reflecting acetylation/deacetylation balance to help manage the defective NPC1 fold, the function of the LE/Ly system and/or additional cholesterol metabolism/distribution pathways, that could globally contribute to improved mitigation of NPC1 disease in the clinic based on as yet uncharacterized principles of cellular metabolism dictating cholesterol homeostasis.
PXD006810	28860194	The bacterial arginine glycosyltransferase effector NleB preferentially modifies Fas-associated death domain protein (FADD). 	NleB host targets -  The bacterial arginine glycosyltransferase effector NleB preferentially modifies Fas-associated death domain protein (FADD)	EPEC, NleB	The inhibition of host innate immunity pathways is essential for the persistence of attaching and effacing pathogens such as enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) and Citrobacter rodentium during mammalian infections. To subvert these pathways and suppress the antimicrobial response, attaching and effacing pathogens use type III secretion systems to introduce effectors targeting key signaling pathways in host cells. One such effector is the arginine glycosyltransferase NleB1 (NleB(CR) in C. rodentium) that modifies conserved arginine residues in death domain-containing host proteins with N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc), thereby blocking extrinsic apoptosis signaling. Ectopically expressed NleB1 modifies the host proteins Fas-associated via death domain (FADD), TNFRSF1A-associated via death domain (TRADD), and receptor-interacting serine/threonine protein kinase 1 (RIPK1). However, the full repertoire of arginine GlcNAcylation induced by pathogen-delivered NleB1 is unknown. Using an affinity proteomic approach for measuring arginine-GlcNAcylated glycopeptides, we assessed the global profile of arginine GlcNAcylation during ectopic expression of NleB1, EPEC infection in vitro, or C. rodentium infection in vivo NleB overexpression resulted in arginine GlcNAcylation of multiple host proteins. However, NleB delivery during EPEC and C. rodentium infection caused rapid and preferential modification of Arg(117) in FADD. This FADD modification was extremely stable and insensitive to physiological temperatures, glycosidases, or host cell degradation. Despite its stability and effect on the inhibition of apoptosis, arginine GlcNAcylation did not elicit any proteomic changes, even in response to prolonged NleB1 expression. We conclude that, at normal levels of expression during bacterial infection, NleB1/NleB(CR) antagonizes death receptor-induced apoptosis of infected cells by modifying FADD in an irreversible manner.
PXD006080	28860275	14-3-3 regulation of Ncd reveals a new mechanism for targeting proteins to the spindle in oocytes. 	Ncd regulation reveals a new mechanism for targeting proteins to the meiotic spindle in oocytes	Drosophila, Ncd regulation, meiosis, meiotic spindle, oocytes, shotgun proteomics	The meiotic spindle is formed without centrosomes in a large volume of oocytes. Local activation of crucial spindle proteins around chromosomes is important for formation and maintenance of a bipolar spindle in oocytes. We found that phosphodocking 14-3-3 proteins stabilize spindle bipolarity in Drosophila melanogaster oocytes. A critical 14-3-3 target is the minus end-directed motor Ncd (human HSET; kinesin-14), which has well-documented roles in stabilizing a bipolar spindle in oocytes. Phospho docking by 14-3-3 inhibits the microtubule binding activity of the nonmotor Ncd tail. Further phosphorylation by Aurora B kinase can release Ncd from this inhibitory effect of 14-3-3. As Aurora B localizes to chromosomes and spindles, 14-3-3 facilitates specific association of Ncd with spindle microtubules by preventing Ncd from binding to nonspindle microtubules in oocytes. Therefore, 14-3-3 translates a spatial cue provided by Aurora B to target Ncd selectively to the spindle within the large volume of oocytes.
PXD004365	28860517	The EAL-domain protein FcsR regulates flagella, chemotaxis and type III secretion system in Pseudomonas aeruginosa by a phosphodiesterase independent mechanism. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of exoproteome and membrane enriched fractions of PAK and PAK pJN2133 strains	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, c-di GMP, phosphodiesterase	The second messenger c-di-GMP regulates the switch between motile and sessile bacterial lifestyles. A general feature of c-di-GMP metabolism is the presence of a surprisingly large number of genes coding for diguanylate cyclases and phosphodiesterases, the enzymes responsible for its synthesis and degradation respectively. However, the physiological relevance of this apparent redundancy is not clear, emphasizing the need for investigating the functions of each of these enzymes. Here we focused on the phosphodiesterase PA2133 from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, an important opportunistic pathogen. We phenotypically characterized P. aeruginosa strain K overexpressing PA2133 or its inactive mutant. We showed that biofilm formation and motility are severely impaired by overexpression of PA2133. Our quantitative proteomic approach applied to the membrane and exoprotein fractions revealed that proteins involved in three processes were mostly affected: flagellar motility, type III secretion system and chemotaxis. While inhibition of biofilm formation can be ascribed to the phosphodiesterase activity of PA2133, down-regulation of flagellar, chemotaxis, and type III secretion system proteins is independent of this enzymatic activity. Based on these unexpected effects of PA2133, we propose to rename this gene product FcsR, for Flagellar, chemotaxis and type III secretion system Regulator.
PXD006911	28860555	Chloride Channels are Involved in the Development of Atrial Fibrillation - A Transcriptomic and proteomic Study. 	myocardial tissue from atrial fibrillation patients	heart, iTRAQ	ABSTARCT: Electrical and structural remodeling processes are contributors to the self-perpetuating nature of atrial fibrillation (AF). However, their correlation has not been clarified. In this study, human atrial tissues from the patients with rheumatic mitral valve disease in either sinus rhythm or persistent AF were analyzed using a combined transcriptomic and proteomic approach. An up-regulation in chloride intracellular channel (CLIC) 1, 4, 5 and a rise in type IV collagen were revealed. Combined with the results from immunohistochemistry and electron microscope analysis, the distribution of type IV collagen and effects of fibrosis on myocyte membrane indicated the possible interaction between CLIC and type IV collagen, confirmed by protein structure prediction and co-immunoprecipitation. These results indicate that CLICs play an important role in the development of atrial fibrillation and that CLICs and structural type IV collagen may interact on each other to promote the development of AF in rheumatic mitral valve disease.
PXD007037	28860626	Topological N-glycosylation and site-specific N-glycan sulfation of influenza proteins in the highly expressed H1N1 candidate vaccines. 	Topological N-glycosylation and site-specific N-glycan sulfation of influenza proteins in the highly expressed H1N1 candidate vaccines	Glycoproteomics (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Influenza H1N1, LC MS/MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	The outbreak of a pandemic influenza H1N1 in 2009 required the rapid generation of high-yielding vaccines against the A/California/7/2009 virus, which were achieved by either addition or deletion of a glycosylation site in the influenza proteins hemagglutinin and neuraminidase. In this report, we have systematically evaluated the glycan composition, structural distribution and topology of glycosylation for two high-yield candidate reassortant vaccines (NIBRG-121xp and NYMC-X181A) by combining various enzymatic digestions with high performance liquid chromatography and multiple-stage mass spectrometry. Proteomic data analyses of the full-length protein sequences determined 9 N-glycosylation sites of hemagglutinin, and defined 6 N-glycosylation sites and the glycan structures of low abundance neuraminidase, which were occupied by high-mannose, hybrid and complex-type N-glycans. A total of ~300 glycopeptides were analyzed and manually validated by tandem mass spectrometry. The specific N-glycan structure and topological location of these N-glycans are highly correlated to the spatial protein structure and the residential ligand binding. Interestingly, sulfation, fucosylation and bisecting N-acetylglucosamine of N-glycans were also reliably identified at the specific glycosylation sites of the two influenza proteins that may serve a crucial role in regulating the protein structure and increasing the protein abundance of the influenza virus reassortants.
PXD004696	28861932	Ion Mobility-Enhanced Data-Independent Acquisitions Enable a Deep Proteomic Landscape of Oligodendrocytes. 	Comprehensive identification of proteins expressed by human oligodendroglia cell line	Oligodendrocytes, UDMSE	Oligodendrocytes are a type of neuroglia that provide trophic support and insulation to axons in the central nervous system. The genesis and maturation of oligodendrocytes are essential processes for myelination and the course of CNS development. Using ion mobility-enhanced, data-independent acquisitions and 2D-nanoUPLC fractionation operating at nanoscale flow rates, we established a comprehensive data set of proteins expressed by the human oligodendroglia cell line MO3.13. The final dataset incorporating all fractions comprised 223 531 identified peptides assigned to 10 390 protein hits, an improvement of 4.5 times on identified proteins described previously by our group using the same cell line. Identified proteins play pivotal roles in many biological processes such as cell growth and development and energy metabolism, providing a rich resource for future studies on oligodendrocyte development, myelination, axonal support, and the regulation of such process. Our results can help further studies that use MO3.13 cells as a tool of investigation, not only in relation to oligodendrocyte maturation, but also to diseases that have oligodendrocytes as key players. All MS data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004696.
PXD006656	28861940	Mapping the Spatial Proteome of Metastatic Cells in Colorectal Cancer. 	Mapping the spatial proteome of metastatic cells in colorectal cancer	Colorectal cancer, SILAC, Subcellular fraction	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second deadliest cancer worldwide. Here, we aimed to study metastasis mechanisms using spatial proteomics in the KM12 cell model. Cells were SILAC-labeled and fractionated into five subcellular fractions corresponding to: cytoplasm, plasma, mitochondria and ER/golgi membranes, nuclear, chromatin-bound and cytoskeletal proteins and analyzed with high resolution mass spectrometry. We provide localization data of 4863 quantified proteins in the different subcellular fractions. A total of 1318 proteins with at least 1.5-fold change were deregulated in highly metastatic KM12SM cells respect to KM12C cells. The protein network organization, protein complexes and functional pathways associated to CRC metastasis was revealed with spatial resolution. Although 92% of the differentially expressed proteins showed the same deregulation in all subcellular compartments, a subset of 117 proteins (8%) showed opposite changes in different subcellular localizations. The chaperonin CCT, the Eif2 and Eif3 initiation of translation and the oxidative phosphorylation complexes together with an important number of guanine nucleotide-binding proteins, were deregulated in abundance and localization within the metastatic cells. Particularly relevant was the relationship of deregulated protein complexes with exosome secretion. The knowledge of the spatial proteome alterations at subcellular level contributes to clarify the molecular mechanisms underlying colorectal cancer metastasis and to identify potential targets of therapeutic intervention.
PXD006622	28864826	IgSF21 promotes differentiation of inhibitory synapses via binding to neurexin2alpha. 	IgSF21-interacting protein screen	hippocampal neurons, synaptic adhesion molecules	Coordinated development of excitatory and inhibitory synapses is essential for higher brain function, and impairment in this development is associated with neuropsychiatric disorders. In contrast to the large body of accumulated evidence regarding excitatory synapse development, little is known about synaptic adhesion and organization mechanisms underlying inhibitory synapse development. Through unbiased expression screens and proteomics, we identified immunoglobulin superfamily member 21 (IgSF21) as a neurexin2alpha-interacting membrane protein that selectively induces inhibitory presynaptic differentiation. IgSF21 localizes postsynaptically and recruits axonal neurexin2alpha in a trans-interaction manner. Deleting IgSF21 in mice impairs inhibitory presynaptic organization, especially in the hippocampal CA1 stratum radiatum, and also diminishes GABA-mediated synaptic transmission in hippocampal CA1 neurons without affecting their excitatory synapses. Finally, mice lacking IgSF21 show a sensorimotor gating deficit. These findings suggest that IgSF21 selectively regulates inhibitory presynaptic differentiation through interacting with presynaptic neurexin2alpha and plays a crucial role in synaptic inhibition in the brain.Molecular mechanisms regulating the development of inhibitory synapses are poorly understood. Here the authors show that IgSF21 interacts with neurexin2alpha to induce presynaptic differentiation of inhibitory synapses, and that mice lacking IgSF21 exhibit deficits in inhibitory synaptic transmission.
PXD007282	28865150	Comparative proteomic profiling of the choline transporter-like1 (CHER1) mutant provides insights into plasmodesmata composition of fully developed Arabidopsis thaliana leaves. 	Comparative proteomics of sink and source cell wall	cell wall, nicotiana benthamiana, sink, source	In plants, intercellular communication and exchange are highly dependent on cell wall bridging structures between adhering cells, so-called plasmodesmata (PD). In our previous genetic screen for PD-deficient Arabidopsis mutants, we described choline transporter-like 1 (CHER1) being important for PD genesis and maturation. Leaves of cher1 mutant plants have up to 10 times less PD, which do not develop to complex structures. Here we utilize the T-DNA insertion mutant cher1-4 and report a deep comparative proteomic workflow for the identification of cell-wall-embedded PD-associated proteins. Analyzing triplicates of cell-wall-enriched fractions in depth by fractionation and quantitative high-resolution mass spectrometry, we compared > 5000 proteins obtained from fully developed leaves. Comparative data analysis and subsequent filtering generated a list of 61 proteins being significantly more abundant in Col-0. This list was enriched for previously described PD-associated proteins. To validate PD association of so far uncharacterized proteins, subcellular localization analyses were carried out by confocal laser-scanning microscopy. This study confirmed the association of PD for three out of four selected candidates, indicating that the comparative approach indeed allowed identification of so far undescribed PD-associated proteins. Performing comparative cell wall proteomics of Nicotiana benthamiana tissue, we observed an increase in abundance of these three selected candidates during sink to source transition. Taken together, our comparative proteomic approach revealed a valuable data set of potential PD-associated proteins, which can be used as a resource to unravel the molecular composition of complex PD and to investigate their function in cell-to-cell communication.
PXD006233	28865468	Brain ureido degenerative protein modifications are associated with neuroinflammation and proteinopathy in Alzheimer's disease with cerebrovascular disease. 	uDPMs in AD+CVD -  Brain ureido degenerative protein modifications are associated with neuroinflammation and proteinopathy in Alzheimer's disease with cerebrovascular disease	DPMs, carbamylation, citrullination, human brain	BACKGROUND: Brain degenerative protein modifications (DPMs) are associated with the apparition and progression of dementia, and at the same time, Alzheimer's disease with cerebrovascular disease (AD + CVD) is the most prevalent form of dementia in the elder population. Thus, understanding the role(s) of brain DPMs in this dementia subtype may provide novel insight on the disease pathogenesis and may aid on the development of novel diagnostic and therapeutic tools. Two essential DPMs known to promote inflammation in several human diseases are the ureido DPMs (uDPMs) arginine citrullination and lysine carbamylation, although they have distinct enzymatic and non-enzymatic origins, respectively. Nevertheless, the implication of uDPMs in the neuropathology of dementia remains poorly understood. METHODS: In this study, we use the state-of-the-art, ultracentrifugation-electrostatic repulsion hydrophilic interaction chromatography (UC-ERLIC)-coupled mass spectrometry technology to undertake a comparative characterization of uDPMs in the soluble and particulate postmortem brain fractions of subjects diagnosed with AD + CVD and age-matched controls. RESULTS: An increase in the formation of uDPMs was observed in all the profiled AD + CVD brains. Citrulline-containing proteins were found more abundant in the soluble fraction of AD + CVD whereas homocitrulline-containing proteins were preferentially abundant in the particulate fraction of AD + CVD brains. Several dementia-specific citrulline residues were also identified in soluble proteins previously categorized as pro-immunogenic, which include the receptor P2X7, alpha-internexin, GFAP, CNP, MBP, and histones. Similarly, diverse dementia-specific homocitrulline residues were also observed in the particulate fractions of AD + CVD in proteins that have been vastly implicated in neuropathology. Intriguingly, we also found that the amino acids immediately flanking arginine residues may specifically influence the increase in protein citrullination. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these results indicate that uDPMs widely contribute to the pathophysiology of AD + CVD by promoting neuroinflammation and proteinopathy. Furthermore, the obtained results could help to identify disease-associated proteins that can act as potential targets for therapeutic intervention or as novel biomarkers of specific neuropathology.
PXD006072	28867676	A Varroa destructor protein atlas reveals molecular underpinnings of developmental transitions and sexual differentiation. 	Varroa destructor LC-MSMS crossing developmental stages and sexes	Varroa destructor, development, protein atlas	Varroa destructor is the most economically damaging honey bee pest, weakening colonies by simultaneously parasitizing bees and transmitting harmful viruses. Despite these impacts on honey bee health, surprisingly little is known about its fundamental molecular biology. Here, we present a Varroa protein atlas crossing all major developmental stages (egg, protonymph, deutonymph, and adult) for both male and female mites as a web-based interactive tool (http://foster.nce.ubc.ca/varroa/index.html). We used intensity-based label-free quantitation to find 1,433 differentially expressed proteins across developmental stages. Enzymes for processing carbohydrates and amino acids were among many of these differences as well as proteins involved in cuticle formation. Lipid transport involving vitellogenin was the most significantly enriched biological process in the foundress (reproductive female) and young mites. In addition, we found that 101 proteins were sexually regulated and functional enrichment analysis suggests that chromatin remodeling may be a key feature of sex determination. In a proteogenomic effort, we identified 519 protein-coding regions, 301 of which were supported by two or more peptides and 169 of which were differentially expressed. Overall, this work provides a first-of-its-kind interrogation of the patterns of protein expression that govern the Varroa life cycle and the tools we have developed will support further research on this threatening honey bee pest.
PXD006498	28869609	N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) recruits and repels proteins to regulate mRNA homeostasis. 	N6-methyl adenosine (m6A) recruits and repels proteins to regulate mRNA homeostasis	FMR1, G3BP1, interaction proteomics, m6A, mRNA homeostasis	RNA modifications are integral to the regulation of RNA metabolism. One abundant mRNA modification is N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A), which affects various aspects of RNA metabolism, including splicing, translation and degradation. Current knowledge about the proteins recruited to m(6)A to carry out these molecular processes is still limited. Here we describe comprehensive and systematic mass-spectrometry-based screening of m(6)A interactors in various cell types and sequence contexts. Among the main findings, we identified G3BP1 as a protein that is repelled by m(6)A and positively regulates mRNA stability in an m(6)A-regulated manner. Furthermore, we identified FMR1 as a sequence-context-dependent m(6)A reader, thus revealing a connection between an mRNA modification and an autism spectrum disorder. Collectively, our data represent a rich resource and shed further light on the complex interplay among m(6)A, m(6)A interactors and mRNA homeostasis.
PXD006773	28869764	A comparative analysis of human plasma and serum proteins by combining native PAGE, whole-gel slicing and quantitative LC-MS/MS: Utilizing native MS-electropherograms in proteomic analysis for discovering structure and interaction-correlated differences. 	A new method for differential proteomic analysis utilizing native MS-electropherograms: a comparison between plasma and serum proteins by combining native PAGE, whole-gel slicing and quantitative LC-MS/MS	Differential proteomic analysis, Gel slicing, Human plasma and serum, Native 1D-PAGE, Native MS-electropherogram, Quantitative LC-MS/MS	MS identification has long been used for PAGE-separated protein bands, but global and systematic quantitation utilizing MS after PAGE has remained rare and not been reported for native PAGE. Here we reported on a new method combining native PAGE, whole-gel slicing and quantitative LC-MS/MS, aiming at comparative analysis on not only abundance, but also structures and interactions of proteins. A pair of human plasma and serum samples were used as test samples and separated on a native PAGE gel. Six lanes of each sample were cut, each lane was further sliced into thirty-five 1.1 mm x 1.1 mm squares and all the squares were subjected to standardized procedures of in-gel digestion and quantitative LC-MS/MS. The results comprised 958 data rows that each contained abundance values of a protein detected in one square in eleven gel lanes (one plasma lane excluded). The data were evaluated to have satisfactory reproducibility of assignment and quantitation. Totally 315 proteins were assigned, with each protein assigned in 1-28 squares. The abundance distributions in the plasma and serum gel lanes were reconstructed for each protein, named as "native MS-electropherograms". Comparison of the electropherograms revealed significant plasma-versus-serum differences on 33 proteins in 87 squares (fold difference > 2 or < 0.5, p < 0.05). Many of the differences matched with accumulated knowledge on protein interactions and proteolysis involved in blood coagulation, complement and wound healing processes. We expect this method would be useful to provide more comprehensive information in comparative proteomic analysis, on both quantities and structures/interactions.
PXD006588	28869791	Proteogenomic Insights into the Intestinal Parasite Blastocystis sp. Subtype 4 Isolate WR1. 	Proteogenomic of Blastocystis sp. subtype 4 isolate WR1	Functional termination codon, High resolution MS/MS datasets, Intestinal anaerobe, Metaproteomics, Parasites, Proteogenomics	Blastocystis sp. is known for years as a highly prevalent anaerobic eukaryotic parasite of humans and animals. Several monophyletic clades have been delineated based on molecular data, and the occurrence of each subtype in humans and/or animal hosts has been documented. The genome of several representatives has been sequenced revealing specific traits such as an intriguing 3'-end processing of primary transcripts. Here, a first high-throughput proteomics dataset acquired on this difficult-to-cultivate parasite is presented for the zoonotic subtype T4 isolate WR1. Amongst the 2766 detected proteins, we highlighted the role of a small ADP ribosylation factor GTP-binding protein involved in intracellular traffic as major regulator of vesicle biogenesis and a voltage-dependent anion-selective channel protein because both were unexpectedly highly abundant. We show how these data may be used for gaining proteogenomics insights into Blastocystis sp. specific molecular mechanisms. We evidenced for the first time by proteogenomics a functional termination codon derived from transcript polyadenylation for seven different key cellular components.
PXD006534	28871256	Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-DRB1*15:01 and HLA-DRB5*01:01 Present Complementary Peptide Repertoires. 	HLA-DRB1*15:01 and HLA-DRB5*01:01 peptidomes	DRB1*1501, DRB5*0101, HLA-DR15, HLA-II, Multiple Sclerosis, peptidome	Human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR15 is a haplotype associated with multiple sclerosis. It contains the two DRB* genes DRB1*1501 (DR2b) and DRB5*0101 (DR2a). The reported anchor motif of the corresponding HLA-DR molecules was determined in 1994 based on a small number of peptide ligands and binding assays. DR2a could display a set of peptides complementary to that presented by DR2b or, alternatively, a similar peptide repertoire but recognized in a different manner by T cells. It is known that DR2a and DR2b share some peptide ligands, although the degree of similarity of their associated peptidomes remains unclear. In addition, the contribution of each molecule to the global peptide repertoire presented by the HLA-DR15 haplotype has not been evaluated. We used mass spectrometry to analyze the peptide pools bound to DR2a and DR2b, identifying 169 and 555 unique peptide ligands of DR2a and DR2b, respectively. The analysis of these sets of peptides allowed the refinement of the corresponding binding motifs revealing novel anchor residues that had been overlooked in previous analyses. Moreover, the number of shared ligands between both molecules was low, indicating that DR2a and DR2b present complementary peptide repertoires to T cells. Finally, our analysis suggests that, quantitatively, both molecules contribute to the peptide repertoire presented by cells expressing the HLA-DR15 haplotype.
PXD005660	28871395	Interactome analysis of transcriptional coactivator multiprotein bridging factor 1 unveils a yeast AP-1-like transcription factor involved in oxidation tolerance of mycopathogen Beauveria bassiana. 	The interactome of  multiprotein bridging factor 1 in Beauveria bassiana	Beauveria bassiana, interactome, multiprotein bridging factor 1	Oxidation tolerance is an important determinant to predict the virulence and biocontrol potential of Beauveria bassiana, a well-known entomopathogenic fungus. As a transcriptional coactivator, multiprotein bridging factor 1 mediates the activity of transcription factor in diverse physiological processes, and its homolog in B. bassiana (BbMBF1) contributes to fungal oxidation tolerance. In this study, the BbMBF1-interactomes under oxidative stress and normal growth condition were deciphered by mass spectrometry integrated with the immunoprecipitation. BbMBF1p factor has a broad interaction with proteins that are involved in various cellular processes, and this interaction is dynamically regulated by oxidative stress. Importantly, a B. bassiana homolog of yeast AP-1-like transcription factor (BbAP-1) was specifically associated with the BbMBF1-interactome under oxidation and significantly contributed to fungal oxidation tolerance. In addition, qPCR analysis revealed that several antioxidant genes are jointly controlled by BbAP-1 and BbMBF1. Conclusively, it is proposed that BbMBF1p protein mediates BbAP-1p factor to transcribe the downstream antioxidant genes in B. bassiana under oxidative stress. This study demonstrates for the first time a proteomic view of the MBF1-interactome in fungi, and presents an initial framework to probe the transcriptional mechanism involved in fungal response to oxidation, which will provide a new strategy to improve the biocontrol efficacy of B. bassiana.
PXD006832	28872757	PROCAL: A Set of 40 Peptide Standards for Retention Time Indexing, Column Performance Monitoring, and Collision Energy Calibration. 	PROCAL: A set of 40 peptide standards for retention time indexing, column performance monitoring and collision energy calibration	ProteomeTools, ProteomeXchange project tag: ProteomeTools, peptide standard, proteometools, retention time calibration, retention time kit, synthetic peptide	Beyond specific applications, such as the relative or absolute quantification of peptides in targeted proteomic experiments, synthetic spike-in peptides are not yet systematically used as internal standards in bottom-up proteomics. A number of retention time standards have been reported that enable chromatographic aligning of multiple LC-MS/MS experiments. However, only few peptides are typically included in such sets limiting the analytical parameters that can be monitored. Here, we describe PROCAL (ProteomeTools Calibration Standard), a set of 40 synthetic peptides that span the entire hydrophobicity range of tryptic digests, enabling not only accurate determination of retention time indices but also monitoring of chromatographic separation performance over time. The fragmentation characteristics of the peptides can also be used to calibrate and compare collision energies between mass spectrometers. The sequences of all selected peptides do not occur in any natural protein, thus eliminating the need for stable isotope labeling. We anticipate that this set of peptides will be useful for multiple purposes in individual laboratories but also aiding the transfer of data acquisition and analysis methods between laboratories, notably the use of spectral libraries.
PXD006879	28872999	Analysis of the early cellular and humoral responses of Galleria mellonella larvae to infection by Candida albicans. 	Analysis of the early cellular and humoral responses of Galleria mellonella larvae to infection by Candida albicans	Candida, Galleria, Immunity, Infection, MS/MS, Mini-model, Q-exactive, in vivo screening, quantatitive	Galleria mellonella larvae were administered an inoculum of Candida albicans and the response to infection over 24 hours was monitored. The yeast cell density in infected larvae declined initially but replication commenced six hours post-infection. The hemocyte density decreased from 5.2 x 10(6)/ml to 2.5 x 10(6)/ml at 2 hours but increased to 4.2 x 106 at 6 hours and decreased subsequently. Administration of beta - glucan to larvae also caused a fluctuation in hemocyte density (5.1 +/- 0.22 x 10(6)/ml (0 hour) to 6.25 +/- 0.25 x 106/ml (6 hour) (p < 0.05) to 5 +/- 2.7 x 106 (24 hour)) and the population showed an increase in the density of small, granular cells at 24 hours (p < 0.05). Hemocytes from larvae inoculated with beta - glucan for 6 or 24 hours showed faster killing of C. albicans cells (53 +/- 4.1% (p < 0.01), 64 +/- 3.7%, (p < 0.01), respectively) than hemocytes from control larvae (24 +/- 11%) at 60 min. Proteomic analysis indicated increased abundance of immune related proteins cecropin-A (5 fold) and prophenoloxidase-activating proteinase-1 (5 fold) 6 hours post infection but by 24 hours there was elevated abundance of muscle (tropomyosin 2 (141 fold), calponin (66 fold), troponin I (62 fold)) and proteins indicative of cellular stress (glutathione-S-transferase-like protein (114 fold)), fungal dissemination (muscle protein 20-like protein (174 fold)) and tissue breakdown (mitochondrial cytochrome c (10 fold)). Proteins decreased in abundance at 24 hour included beta - 1,3 - glucan recognition protein precursor (29 fold) and prophenoloxidase subunit 2 (25 fold).
PXD006786	28873964	The pearl oyster Pinctada fucata martensii genome and multi-omic analyses provide insights into biomineralization. 	Pinctada fucata martensii shell matrix protein LC-MSMS	pearl oyster, shell matrix protein	Nacre, the iridescent material found in pearls and shells of molluscs, is formed through an extraordinary process of matrix-assisted biomineralization. Despite recent advances, many aspects of the biomineralization process and its evolutionary origin remain unknown. The pearl oyster Pinctada fucata martensii is a well-known master of biomineralization, but the molecular mechanisms that underlie its production of shells and pearls are not fully understood. We sequenced the highly polymorphic genome of the pearl oyster and conducted multi-omic and biochemical studies to probe nacre formation. We identified a large set of novel proteins participating in matrix-framework formation, many in expanded families, including components similar to that found in vertebrate bones such as collagen-related VWA-containing proteins, chondroitin sulfotransferases, and regulatory elements. Considering that there are only collagen-based matrices in vertebrate bones and chitin-based matrices in most invertebrate skeletons, the presence of both chitin and elements of collagen-based matrices in nacre suggests that elements of chitin- and collagen-based matrices have deep roots and might be part of an ancient biomineralizing matrix. Our results expand the current shell matrix-framework model and provide new insights into the evolution of diverse biomineralization systems.
PXD007280	28874504	Proteome Analysis of Hypoxic Glioblastoma Cells Reveals Sequential Metabolic Adaptation of One-Carbon Metabolic Pathways. 	Proteome analysis of hypoxic glioblastoma cells reveals sequential metabolic adaptation of one-carbon metabolic pathways	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Hypoxia, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), one carbon, protein pathways	Rapidly proliferating tumors are exposed to a hypoxic microenvironment because of their density, high metabolic consumption, and interruptions in blood flow because of immature angiogenesis. Cellular responses to hypoxia promote highly malignant and metastatic behavior, as well as a chemotherapy-resistant state. To better understand the complex relationships between hypoxic adaptations and cancer progression, we studied the dynamic proteome responses of glioblastoma cells exposed to hypoxia via an innovative approach: quantification of newly synthesized proteins using heavy stable-isotope arginine labeling combined with accurate assessment of cell replication by quantification of the light/heavy arginine ratio of peptides in histone H4. We found that hypoxia affects cancer cells in multiple intertwined ways: inflammation, typically with over-expressed glucose transporter (GLUT1), DUSP4/MKP2, and RelA proteins; a metabolic adaptation with overexpression of all glycolytic pathway enzymes for pyruvate/lactate synthesis; and the EMT (epithelial-mesenchymal transition) and cancer stem cell (CSC) renewal with characteristic morphological changes and mesenchymal/CSC protein expression profiles. For the first time, we identified the vitamin B12 transporter protein TCN2, which is essential for one-carbon metabolism, as being significantly downregulated. Further, we found, by knockdown and overexpression experiments, that TCN2 plays an important role in controlling cancer cell transformation toward the highly aggressive mesenchymal/CSC stage; low expression of TCN2 has an effect similar to hypoxia, whereas high expression of TCN2 can reverse it. We conclude that hypoxia induces sequential metabolic responses of one-carbon metabolism in tumor cells. Our mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD005487 (TMT-labeling) and PXD007280 (label-free).
PXD005839	28874695	Deep Phospho- and Phosphotyrosine Proteomics Identified Active Kinases and Phosphorylation Networks in Colorectal Cancer Cell Lines Resistant to Cetuximab. 	pY-IP of Colorectal cancer cells	Colorectal cancer, Drug resistance, Kinome, Phosphotyrosine	Abnormality in cellular phosphorylation is closely related to oncogenesis. Thus, kinase inhibitors, especially tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), have been developed as anti-cancer drugs. Genomic analyses have been used in research on TKI sensitivity, but some types of TKI resistance have been unclassifiable by genomic data. Therefore, global proteomic analysis, especially phosphotyrosine (pY) proteomic analysis, could contribute to predict TKI sensitivity and overcome TKI-resistant cancer. In this study, we conducted deep phosphoproteomic analysis to select active kinase candidates in colorectal cancer intrinsically resistant to Cetuximab. The deep phosphoproteomic data were obtained by performing immobilized metal-ion affinity chromatography-based phosphoproteomic and highly sensitive pY proteomic analyses. Comparison between sensitive (LIM1215 and DLD1) and resistant cell lines (HCT116 and HT29) revealed active kinase candidates in the latter, most of which were identified by pY proteomic analysis. Remarkably, genomic mutations were not assigned in most of these kinases. Phosphorylation-based signaling network analysis of the active kinase candidates indicated that SRC-PRKCD cascade was constitutively activated in HCT116 cells. Treatment with an SRC inhibitor significantly inhibited proliferation of HCT116 cells. In summary, our results based on deep phosphoproteomic data led us to propose novel therapeutic targets against cetuximab resistance and showed the potential for anti-cancer therapy.
PXD005565	28874712	pGlyco 2.0 enables precision N-glycoproteomics with comprehensive quality control and one-step mass spectrometry for intact glycopeptide identification. 	Yeast glycoproteome	Yeast glycoproteome	The precise and large-scale identification of intact glycopeptides is a critical step in glycoproteomics. Owing to the complexity of glycosylation, the current overall throughput, data quality and accessibility of intact glycopeptide identification lack behind those in routine proteomic analyses. Here, we propose a workflow for the precise high-throughput identification of intact N-glycopeptides at the proteome scale using stepped-energy fragmentation and a dedicated search engine. pGlyco 2.0 conducts comprehensive quality control including false discovery rate evaluation at all three levels of matches to glycans, peptides and glycopeptides, improving the current level of accuracy of intact glycopeptide identification. The N-glycoproteome of samples metabolically labeled with (15)N/(13)C were analyzed quantitatively and utilized to validate the glycopeptide identification, which could be used as a novel benchmark pipeline to compare different search engines. Finally, we report a large-scale glycoproteome dataset consisting of 10,009 distinct site-specific N-glycans on 1988 glycosylation sites from 955 glycoproteins in five mouse tissues.Protein glycosylation is a heterogeneous post-translational modification that generates greater proteomic diversity that is difficult to analyze. Here the authors describe pGlyco 2.0, a workflow for the precise one step identification of intact N-glycopeptides at the proteome scale.
PXD007638	28876896	Differential Kinobeads Profiling for Target Identification of Irreversible Kinase Inhibitors. 	Confirmation of ZAK as covalent target of Ibrutinib	Ibrutinib, Ramos B-lymphocyte lysate, SDS elution vs bead trypsinationLC-MS/MS, linkable Ibrutinib affinity enrichment, lysate-based assay	Chemoproteomics profiling of kinase inhibitors with kinobeads enables the assessment of inhibitor potency and selectivity for endogenously expressed protein kinases in cell lines and tissues. Using a small panel of targeted covalent inhibitors, we demonstrate the importance of measuring covalent target binding in live cells. We present a differential kinobeads profiling strategy for covalent kinase inhibitors where a compound is added either to live cells or to a cell extract that enables the comprehensive assessment of inhibitor selectivity for covalent and noncovalent targets. We found that Acalabrutinib, CC-292, and Ibrutinib potently and covalently bind TEC family kinases, but only Ibrutinib also potently binds to BLK. ZAK was identified as a submicromolar affinity Ibrutinib off-target due to covalent modification of Cys22. In contrast to Ibrutinib, 5Z-7-Oxozeaenol reacted with Cys150 next to the DFG loop, demonstrating an alternative route to covalent inactivation of this kinase, e.g., to inhibit canonical TGF-beta dependent processes.
PXD004671	28877454	A Stat6/Pten Axis Links Regulatory T Cells with Adipose Tissue Function. 	A Stat6/Pten axis links cold exposure with T cell tolerance in adipose tissue	Foxp3, T cell tolerance, cold exposure	Obesity and type 2 diabetes are associated with metabolic defects and adipose tissue inflammation. Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) control tissue homeostasis by counteracting local inflammation. However, if and how T cells interlink environmental influences with adipocyte function remains unknown. Here, we report that enhancing sympathetic tone by cold exposure, beta3-adrenergic receptor (ADRB3) stimulation or a short-term high-calorie diet enhances Treg induction in vitro and in vivo. CD4(+) T cell proteomes revealed higher expression of Foxp3 regulatory networks in response to cold or ADRB3 stimulation in vivo reflecting Treg induction. Specifically, Ragulator-interacting protein C17orf59, which limits mTORC1 activity, was upregulated in CD4(+) T cells by either ADRB3 stimulation or cold exposure, suggesting contribution to Treg induction. By loss- and gain-of-function studies, including Treg depletion and transfers in vivo, we demonstrated that a T cell-specific Stat6/Pten axis links cold exposure or ADRB3 stimulation with Foxp3(+) Treg induction and adipose tissue function. Our findings offer a new mechanistic model in which tissue-specific Tregs maintain adipose tissue function.
PXD005482	28877958	Proline-dependent and basophilic kinases phosphorylate human TRPC6 at serine 14 to control channel activity through increased membrane expression. 	Analysis of Trpc6 Phosphorylation in HEK293T cells	HEK293T cells, Trpc6, phosphorylation	Signaling via the transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channel C6 plays a pivotal role in hereditary and sporadic glomerular kidney disease. Several studies have identified gain-of-function mutations of TRPC6 and report induced expression and enhanced channel activity of TRPC6 in association with glomerular diseases. Interfering with TRPC6 activity may open novel therapeutic pathways. TRPC6 channel activity is controlled by protein expression and stability as well as intracellular trafficking. Identification of regulatory phosphorylation sites in TRPC6 and corresponding protein kinases is essential to understand the regulation of TRPC6 activity and may result in future therapeutic strategies. In this study, an unbiased phosphoproteomic screen of human TRPC6 identified several novel serine phosphorylation sites. The phosphorylation site at serine 14 of TRPC6 is embedded in a basophilic kinase motif that is highly conserved across species. We confirmed serine 14 as a target of MAPKs and proline-directed kinases like cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) in cell-based as well as in vitro kinase assays and quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of TRPC6. Phosphorylation of TRPC6 at serine 14 enhances channel conductance by boosting membrane expression of TRPC6, whereas protein stability and multimerization of TRPC6 are not altered, making serine 14 phosphorylation a potential drug target to interfere with TRPC6 channel activity.-Hagmann, H., Mangold, N., Rinschen, M. M., Koenig, T., Kunzelmann, K., Schermer, B., Benzing, T., Brinkkoetter, P. T. Proline-dependent and basophilic kinases phosphorylate human TRPC6 at serine 14 to control channel activity through increased membrane expression.
PXD006645	28878040	Glareosin: a novel sexually dimorphic urinary lipocalin in the bank vole, Myodes glareolus. 	Glareosin: a novel sexually dimorphic urinary lipocalin in the bank vole, Myodes glareolus, C4PR_LIV	Lipocalin, Myodes glareoulus, OBP, bank vole, glareosin, metabolic labelling, odorant binding protein, primary sequence	The urine of bank voles (Myodes glareolus) contains substantial quantities of a small protein that is expressed at much higher levels in males than females, and at higher levels in males in the breeding season. This protein was purified and completely sequenced at the protein level by mass spectrometry. Leucine/isoleucine ambiguity was completely resolved by metabolic labelling, monitoring the incorporation of dietary deuterated leucine into specific sites in the protein. The predicted mass of the sequenced protein was exactly consonant with the mass of the protein measured in bank vole urine samples, correcting for the formation of two disulfide bonds. The sequence of the protein revealed that it was a lipocalin related to aphrodisin and other odorant-binding proteins (OBPs), but differed from all OBPs previously described. The pattern of secretion in urine used for scent marking by male bank voles, and the similarity to other lipocalins used as chemical signals in rodents, suggest that this protein plays a role in male sexual and/or competitive communication. We propose the name glareosin for this novel protein to reflect the origin of the protein and to emphasize the distinction from known OBPs.
PXD006894	28882640	Toxicity of the main electronic cigarette components, propylene glycol, glycerin, and nicotine, in Sprague-Dawley rats in a 90-day OECD inhalation study complemented by molecular endpoints. 	Toxicity of the main electronic cigarette components, propylene glycol, glycerin and nicotine in Sprague Dawley rats in a 90-day OECD inhalation study complemented with molecular endpoints [RNE DATA]	Rat, iTRAQ, respiratory nasal epithelium, toxicology	While the toxicity of the main constituents of electronic cigarette (ECIG) liquids, nicotine, propylene glycol (PG), and vegetable glycerin (VG), has been assessed individually in separate studies, limited data on the inhalation toxicity of them is available when in mixtures. In this 90-day subchronic inhalation study, Sprague-Dawley rats were nose-only exposed to filtered air, nebulized vehicle (saline), or three concentrations of PG/VG mixtures, with and without nicotine. Standard toxicological endpoints were complemented by molecular analyses using transcriptomics, proteomics, and lipidomics. Compared with vehicle exposure, the PG/VG aerosols showed only very limited biological effects with no signs of toxicity. Addition of nicotine to the PG/VG aerosols resulted in effects in line with nicotine effects observed in previous studies, including up-regulation of xenobiotic enzymes (Cyp1a1/Fmo3) in the lung and metabolic effects, such as reduced serum lipid concentrations and expression changes of hepatic metabolic enzymes. No toxicologically relevant effects of PG/VG aerosols (up to 1.520  mg PG/L + 1.890 mg VG/L) were observed, and no adverse effects for PG/VG/nicotine were observed up to 438/544/6.6 mg/kg/day. This study demonstrates how complementary systems toxicology analyses can reveal, even in the absence of observable adverse effects, subtoxic and adaptive responses to pharmacologically active compounds such as nicotine.
PXD006527	28883394	A thiol probe for measuring unfolded protein load and proteostasis in cells. 	A thiol probe for measuring unfolded protein load and proteostasis in cells	LC/MSMS, Neuro2a, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, SILAC, TPE-MI	When proteostasis becomes unbalanced, unfolded proteins can accumulate and aggregate. Here we report that the dye, tetraphenylethene maleimide (TPE-MI) can be used to measure cellular unfolded protein load. TPE-MI fluorescence is activated upon labelling free cysteine thiols, normally buried in the core of globular proteins that are exposed upon unfolding. Crucially TPE-MI does not become fluorescent when conjugated to soluble glutathione. We find that TPE-MI fluorescence is enhanced upon reaction with cellular proteomes under conditions promoting accumulation of unfolded proteins. TPE-MI reactivity can be used to track which proteins expose more cysteine residues under stress through proteomic analysis. We show that TPE-MI can report imbalances in proteostasis in induced pluripotent stem cell models of Huntington disease, as well as cells transfected with mutant Huntington exon 1 before the formation of visible aggregates. TPE-MI also detects protein damage following dihydroartemisinin treatment of the malaria parasites Plasmodium falciparum. TPE-MI therefore holds promise as a tool to probe proteostasis mechanisms in disease.Proteostasis is maintained through a number of molecular mechanisms, some of which function to protect the folded state of proteins. Here the authors demonstrate the use of TPE-MI in a fluorigenic dye assay for the quantitation of unfolded proteins that can be used to assess proteostasis on a cellular or proteome scale.
PXD006070	28883813	A Structural and Functional Elucidation of the Rumen Microbiome Influenced by Various Diets and Microenvironments. 	Rumen metaproteome -  A Structural and Functional Elucidation of the Rumen Microbiome Influenced by Various Diets and Microenvironments	Metaproteomics, metaproteomics, rumen	The structure and function of the microbiome inhabiting the rumen are, amongst other factors, mainly shaped by the animal's feed intake. Describing the influence of different diets on the inherent community arrangement and associated metabolic activities of the most active ruminal fractions (bacteria and archaea) is of great interest for animal nutrition, biotechnology, and climatology. Samples were obtained from three fistulated Jersey cows rotationally fed with corn silage, grass silage or grass hay, each supplemented with a concentrate mixture. Samples were fractionated into ruminal fluid, particle-associated rumen liquid, and solid matter. DNA, proteins and metabolites were analyzed subsequently. DNA extracts were used for Illumina sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene and the metabolomes of rumen fluids were determined by 500 MHz-NMR spectroscopy. Tryptic peptides derived from protein extracts were measured by LC-ESI-MS/MS and spectra were processed by a two-step database search for quantitative metaproteome characterization. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD006070. Protein- and DNA-based datasets revealed significant differences between sample fractions and diets and affirmed similar trends concerning shifts in phylogenetic composition. Ribosomal genes and proteins belonging to the phylum of Proteobacteria, particularly Succinivibrionaceae, exhibited a higher abundance in corn silage-based samples while fiber-degraders of the Lachnospiraceae family emerged in great quantities throughout the solid phase fractions. The analysis of 8163 quantified bacterial proteins revealed the presence of 166 carbohydrate active enzymes in varying abundance. Cellulosome affiliated proteins were less expressed in the grass silage, glycoside hydrolases appeared in slightest numbers in the corn silage. Most expressed glycoside hydrolases belonged to families 57 and 2. Enzymes analogous to ABC transporters for amino acids and monosaccharides were more abundant in the corn silage whereas oligosaccharide transporters showed a higher abundance in the fiber-rich diets. Proteins involved in carbon metabolism were detected in high numbers and identification of metabolites like short-chain fatty acids, methylamines and phenylpropionate by NMR enabled linkage between producers and products. This study forms a solid basis to retrieve deeper insight into the complex network of microbial adaptation in the rumen.
PXD007629	28884683	Characterisation of the biflavonoid hinokiflavone as a pre-mRNA splicing modulator that inhibits SENP. 	Characterisation of the biflavonoid hinokiflavone as a pre-mRNA splicing modulator that inhibits SENP	Human embryonic kidney (HEK) suspension cells, SUMO2	We have identified the plant biflavonoid hinokiflavone as an inhibitor of splicing in vitro and modulator of alternative splicing in cells. Chemical synthesis confirms hinokiflavone is the active molecule. Hinokiflavone inhibits splicing in vitro by blocking spliceosome assembly, preventing formation of the B complex. Cells treated with hinokiflavone show altered subnuclear organization specifically of splicing factors required for A complex formation, which relocalize together with SUMO1 and SUMO2 into enlarged nuclear speckles containing polyadenylated RNA. Hinokiflavone increases protein SUMOylation levels, both in in vitro splicing reactions and in cells. Hinokiflavone also inhibited a purified, E. coli expressed SUMO protease, SENP1, in vitro, indicating the increase in SUMOylated proteins results primarily from inhibition of de-SUMOylation. Using a quantitative proteomics assay we identified many SUMO2 sites whose levels increased in cells following hinokiflavone treatment, with the major targets including six proteins that are components of the U2 snRNP and required for A complex formation.
PXD003673	28885003	Differential Enzymatic (16)O/(18)O Labeling for the Detection of Cross-Linked Nucleic Acid-Protein Heteroconjugates. 	Differential Enzymatic 16O/18O Labelling for the Detection of Cross-Linked Nucleic Acid-Protein Heteroconjugates	LC-MS, cross-linking, nucelic acid-protein heteroconjugates	Cross-linking of nucleic acids to proteins in combination with mass spectrometry permits the precise identification of interacting residues between nucleic acid-protein complexes. However, the mass spectrometric identification and characterization of cross-linked nucleic acid-protein heteroconjugates within a complex sample is challenging. Here we establish a novel enzymatic differential (16)O/(18)O-labeling approach, which uniquely labels heteroconjugates. We have developed an automated data analysis workflow based on OpenMS for the identification of differentially isotopically labeled heteroconjugates against a complex background. We validated our method using synthetic model DNA oligonucleotide-peptide heteroconjugates, which were subjected to the labeling reaction and analyzed by high-resolution FTICR mass spectrometry.
PXD006871	28887209	Thyroid-associated orbitopathy and tears: A proteomics study. 	Thyroid-associated orbitopathy and tears: a proteomics study	Orbitrap Velos Pro, Thyroid-associated orbitopathy, gaz- phase fractionation, off-gel electrophoresis, tandem mass tag, tears	To date, Thyroid-Associated Orbitopathy (TAO), an autoimmune inflammatory disease affecting the eye, remains poorly characterised and its diagnosis challenging. The aim of this study was to investigate the tears of the TAO patients in order to identify potential biomarkers. Two independent quantitative Tandem Mass Tag(TM) 6-plex experiments were done. After in-solution digestion and isoelectric fractionation, the 12 fractions were analysed with a LTQ Orbitrap Velos coupled to a liquid chromatography. Raw files were searched against Swiss-Prot-AC database using Proteome Discoverer software, with a false discovery rate of 1% at peptide and protein levels. The differential proteins were then verified using orthogonal approaches in independent patients. Globally, 712 tear proteins were quantified with 2 unique peptides. Interestingly, cystatin c (TAO/controls ratio: 1.53), alpha-1 antichymotrypsin (ratio: 1.70) and retinal dehydrogenase (ratio: 0.68), displaying differential levels in the tears of TAO patients using proteomics experiments emerged as highly promising biomarkers after verification. In conclusion, this proteomics study supports the idea that tears reflect biological modifications occurring in a disease context and can therefore be a promising fluid for biomarker discovery. Moreover, our study identified three candidates that could in the future open new avenues in the diagnosis of TAO disease. SIGNIFICANCE: Thyroid associated orbitopathy (TAO) is the most common disease affecting the orbit. Moreover, the later, severe stages of the disease can be sight threating [1]. On the other hand, the early sign and symptoms can be mistaken with other ocular pathologies [2]. Here we explore the modification of the tear content of the TAO patients using proteomics strategies and we proposed three new biomarker candidates, which could allow the early diagnosis of the disease and prompt action to prevent more severe stages. Moreover, our findings could also help to better understand the pathophysiology of the disease.
PXD006704	28887210	Can half-marathon affect overall health? The yin-yang of sport. 	Can half-marathon affect overall health? The yin-yang of sport	PPARG, RUNX2, half marathon, plasma proteomics	Physical activity improves overall health and counteracts metabolic pathologies. Adipose tissue and bone are important key targets of exercise; the prevalence of diseases associated with suboptimal physical activity levels has increased in recent times as a result of lifestyle changes. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) differentiation in either osteogenic or adipogenic lineage is regulated by many factors. Particularly, the expression of master genes such as RUNX2 and PPARgamma2 is essential for MSC commitment to osteogenic or adipogenic differentiation, respectively. Besides various positive effects on health, some authors have reported stressful outcomes as a consequence of endurance in physical activity. We looked for further clues about MSCs differentiation and serum proteins modulation studying the effects of half marathon in runners by means of gene expression analyses and a proteomic approach. Our results demonstrated an increase in osteogenic commitment and a reduction in adipogenic commitment of MSCs. In addition, for the first time we have analyzed the proteomic profile changes in runners after half-marathon activity in order to survey the related systemic adjustments. The shotgun proteomic approach, performed through the immuno-depletion of the 14 most abundant serum proteins, allowed the identification of 23 modulated proteins after the half marathon. Interestingly, proteomic data showed the activation of both inflammatory response and detoxification process. Moreover, the involvement of pathways associated to immune response, lipid transport and coagulation, was elicited. Notably, positive and negative effects may be strictly linked. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006704. SIGNIFICANCE: We describe gene expression and proteomic studies aiming to an in-depth understanding of half-marathon effects on bone and adipogenic differentiation as well as biological phenomena involved in sport activity. We believe that this novel approach suggests the physical effects on overall health and show the different pathways involved during half marathon. Contents of the paper have not been published or submitted for publication elsewhere. The authors declare no conflict of interest.
PXD006031	28887379	A Comprehensive, Open-source Platform for Mass Spectrometry-based Glycoproteomics Data Analysis. 	A comprehensive, open-source platform for mass spectrometry based glycoproteomics data analysis	LC-MS, Plasma	Glycosylation is among the most abundant and diverse protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) identified to date. The structural analysis of this PTM is challenging because of the diverse monosaccharides which are not conserved among organisms, the branched nature of glycans, their isomeric structures, and heterogeneity in the glycan distribution at a given site. Glycoproteomics experiments have adopted the traditional high-throughput LC-MS(n) proteomics workflow to analyze site-specific glycosylation. However, comprehensive computational platforms for data analyses are scarce. To address this limitation, we present a comprehensive, open-source, modular software for glycoproteomics data analysis called GlycoPAT (GlycoProteomics Analysis Toolbox; freely available from www.VirtualGlycome.org/glycopat). The program includes three major advances: (1) "SmallGlyPep," a minimal linear representation of glycopeptides for MS(n) data analysis. This format allows facile serial fragmentation of both the peptide backbone and PTM at one or more locations. (2) A novel scoring scheme based on calculation of the "Ensemble Score (ES)," a measure that scores and rank-orders MS/MS spectrum for N- and O-linked glycopeptides using cross-correlation and probability based analyses. (3) A false discovery rate (FDR) calculation scheme where decoy glycopeptides are created by simultaneously scrambling the amino acid sequence and by introducing artificial monosaccharides by perturbing the original sugar mass. Parallel computing facilities and user-friendly GUIs (Graphical User Interfaces) are also provided. GlycoPAT is used to catalogue site-specific glycosylation on simple glycoproteins, standard protein mixtures and human plasma cryoprecipitate samples in three common MS/MS fragmentation modes: CID, HCD and ETD. It is also used to identify 960 unique glycopeptides in cell lysates from prostate cancer cells. The results show that the simultaneous consideration of peptide and glycan fragmentation is necessary for high quality MS(n) spectrum annotation in CID and HCD fragmentation modes. Additionally, they confirm the suitability of GlycoPAT to analyze shotgun glycoproteomics data.
PXD006354	28887380	Proteomic Signature Reveals Modulation of Human Macrophage Polarization and Functions Under Differing Environmental Oxygen Conditions. 	Proteomic signature of environmental oxygen tension modulation of human macrophage polarization and functions	Efferocytosis, Macrophages, Oxygen, Polarization	Macrophages are innate immune cells which can react to a large number of environmental stimuli thanks to a high degree of plasticity. These cells are involved in a variety of tissue functions in homeostasis, and they play essential roles in pathological contexts. Macrophages' activation state, which determines their functional orientation, is strongly influenced by the cellular environment. A large body of macrophage literature is devoted to better defining polarizations from a molecular viewpoint. It is now accepted that a multidimensional model of polarization is needed to grasp the broad phenotype repertoire controlled by environmental signals. The study presented here aimed, among other goals, to provide a molecular signature of various polarizations in human macrophages at the protein level to better define the different macrophage activation states. To study the proteome in human monocyte-derived macrophages as a function of their polarization state, we used a label-free quantification approach on in-gel fractionated and LysC/Trypsin digested proteins. In total, 5102 proteins were identified and quantified for all polarization states. New polarization-specific markers were identified and validated. Because oxygen tension is an important environmental parameter in tissues, we explored how environmental oxygen tension, at either atmospheric composition (18.6% O2) or "tissue normoxia" (3% O2), affected our classification of macrophage polarization. The comparative results revealed new polarization-specific makers which suggest that environmental oxygen levels should be taken into account when characterizing macrophage activation states. The proteomic screen revealed various polarization-specific proteins and oxygen sensors in human macrophages. One example is arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase (ALOX15), an IL4/IL13 polarization-specific protein, which was upregulated under low oxygen conditions and is associated with an increase in the rate of phagocytosis of apoptotic cells. These results illustrate the need to consider physicochemical parameters like oxygen level when studying macrophage polarization, so as to correctly assess their functions in tissue.
PXD001983	28887476	The C-terminal residue of phage Vp16 PDF, the smallest peptide deformylase, acts as an offset element locking the active conformation. 	Proteome-wide analysis of the amino terminal status of Escherichia coli proteins at the steady-state	formylation/post-translational modifications/actinonin/acetylation/antibiotics	Prokaryotic proteins must be deformylated before the removal of their first methionine. Peptide deformylase (PDF) is indispensable and guarantees this mechanism. Recent metagenomics studies revealed new idiosyncratic PDF forms as the most abundant family of viral sequences. Little is known regarding these viral PDFs, including the capacity of the corresponding encoded proteins to ensure deformylase activity. We provide here the first evidence that viral PDFs, including the shortest PDF identified to date, Vp16 PDF, display deformylase activity in vivo, despite the absence of the key ribosome-interacting C-terminal region. Moreover, characterization of phage Vp16 PDF underscores unexpected structural and molecular features with the C-terminal Isoleucine residue significantly contributing to deformylase activity both in vitro and in vivo. This residue fully compensates for the absence of the usual long C-domain. Taken together, these data elucidate an unexpected mechanism of enzyme natural evolution and adaptation within viral sequences.
PXD005632	28889977	Novel Organelles with Elements of Bacterial and Eukaryotic Secretion Systems Weaponize Parasites of Drosophila. 	Analysis of gradient purified immune suppressive particles from L. heterotoma 14 parasitoid wasp	Drosophila, Leptopilina, VLP, immune, parasitoid, suppression, wasp	The evolutionary success of parasitoid wasps, a highly diverse group of insects widely used in biocontrol, depends on a variety of life history strategies in conflict with those of their hosts [1]. Drosophila melanogaster is a natural host of parasitic wasps of the genus Leptopilina. Attack by L. boulardi (Lb), a specialist wasp to flies of the melanogaster group, activates NF-kappaB-mediated humoral and cellular immunity. Inflammatory blood cells mobilize and encapsulate Lb eggs and embryos [2-5]. L. heterotoma (Lh), a generalist wasp, kills larval blood cells and actively suppresses immune responses. Spiked virus-like particles (VLPs) in wasp venom have clearly been linked to wasps' successful parasitism of Drosophila [6], but the composition of VLPs and their biotic nature have remained mysterious. Our proteomics studies reveal that VLPs lack viral coat proteins but possess a pharmacopoeia of (1) the eukaryotic vesicular transport system, (2) immunity, and (3) previously unknown proteins. These novel proteins distinguish Lh from Lb VLPs; notably, some proteins specific to Lh VLPs possess sequence similarities with bacterial secretion system proteins. Structure-informed analyses of an abundant Lh VLP surface and spike-tip protein, p40, reveal similarities to the needle-tip invasin proteins SipD and IpaD of Gram-negative bacterial type-3 secretion systems that breach immune barriers and deliver virulence factors into mammalian cells. Our studies suggest that Lh VLPs represent a new class of extracellular organelles and share pathways for protein delivery with both eukaryotic microvesicles and bacterial surface secretion systems. Given their mixed prokaryotic and eukaryotic properties, we propose the term mixed-strategy extracellular vesicle (MSEV) to replace VLP.
PXD006531	28889978	Massive Protein Import into the Early-Evolutionary-Stage Photosynthetic Organelle of the Amoeba Paulinella chromatophora. 	Proteome of an early evolutionary stage photosynthetic organelle in the amoeba Paulinella chromatophora	Model organism, endosymbiosis, evolution, organell evolution	The endosymbiotic acquisition of mitochondria and plastids more than 1 Ga ago profoundly impacted eukaryote evolution. At the heart of understanding organelle evolution is the re-arrangement of the endosymbiont proteome into a host-controlled organellar proteome. However, early stages in this process as well as the timing of events that underlie organelle integration remain poorly understood. The amoeba Paulinella chromatophora contains cyanobacterium-derived photosynthetic organelles, termed "chromatophores," that were acquired more recently (around 100 Ma ago). To explore the re-arrangement of an organellar proteome during its integration into a eukaryotic host cell, here we characterized the chromatophore proteome by protein mass spectrometry. Apparently, genetic control over the chromatophore has shifted substantially to the nucleus. Two classes of nuclear-encoded proteins-which differ in protein length-are imported into the chromatophore, most likely through independent pathways. Long imported proteins carry a putative, conserved N-terminal targeting signal, and many specifically fill gaps in chromatophore-encoded metabolic pathways or processes. Surprisingly, upon heterologous expression in a plant cell, the putative chromatophore targeting signal conferred chloroplast localization. This finding suggests common features in the protein import pathways of chromatophores and plastids, two organelles that evolved independently and more than 1 Ga apart from each other. By combining experimental data with in silico predictions, we provide a comprehensive catalog of almost 450 nuclear-encoded, chromatophore-targeted proteins. Interestingly, most imported proteins seem to derive from ancestral host genes, suggesting that the re-targeting of nuclear-encoded proteins that resulted from endosymbiotic gene transfers plays only a minor role at the onset of chromatophore integration.
PXD004108	28890072	Large-Scale Quantitative Proteomics Identifies the Ubiquitin Ligase Nedd4-1 as an Essential Regulator of Liver Regeneration. 	Mouse liver regeneration quantitative proteomics	DIA, iTRAQ, liver regeneration, partial hepatectomy	The liver is the only organ in mammals that fully regenerates even after major injury. To identify orchestrators of this regenerative response, we performed quantitative large-scale proteomics analysis of cytoplasmic and nuclear fractions from normal versus regenerating mouse liver. Proteins of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway were rapidly upregulated after two-third hepatectomy, with the ubiquitin ligase Nedd4-1 being a top hit. In vivo knockdown of Nedd4-1 in hepatocytes through nanoparticle-mediated delivery of small interfering RNA caused severe liver damage and inhibition of cell proliferation after hepatectomy, resulting in liver failure. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that Nedd4-1 is required for efficient internalization of major growth factor receptors involved in liver regeneration and their downstream mitogenic signaling. These results highlight the power of large-scale proteomics to identify key players in liver regeneration and the importance of posttranslational regulation of growth factor signaling in this process. Finally, they identify an essential function of Nedd4-1 in tissue repair.
PXD007230	28892079	Retriever is a multiprotein complex for retromer-independent endosomal cargo recycling. 	Retriever is a multiprotein complex for retromer-independent endosomal cargo recycling	SNX17, retriever, retromer	Following endocytosis into the endosomal network, integral membrane proteins undergo sorting for lysosomal degradation or are retrieved and recycled back to the cell surface. Here we describe the discovery of an ancient and conserved multiprotein complex that orchestrates cargo retrieval and recycling and, importantly, is biochemically and functionally distinct from the established retromer pathway. We have called this complex 'retriever'; it is a heterotrimer composed of DSCR3, C16orf62 and VPS29, and bears striking similarity to retromer. We establish that retriever associates with the cargo adaptor sorting nexin 17 (SNX17) and couples to CCC (CCDC93, CCDC22, COMMD) and WASH complexes to prevent lysosomal degradation and promote cell surface recycling of alpha5beta1 integrin. Through quantitative proteomic analysis, we identify over 120 cell surface proteins, including numerous integrins, signalling receptors and solute transporters, that require SNX17-retriever to maintain their surface levels. Our identification of retriever establishes a major endosomal retrieval and recycling pathway.
PXD007227	28892080	Differential effects on lung and bone metastasis of breast cancer by Wnt signalling inhibitor DKK1. 	Breast Cancer Metastasis Organotropism	Bone Metastasis, Breast Cancer, Lung Metastasis, Secretome	Metastatic cancer is a systemic disease, and metastasis determinants might elicit completely different effects in various target organs. Here we show that tumour-secreted DKK1 is a serological marker of breast cancer metastasis organotropism and inhibits lung metastasis. DKK1 suppresses PTGS2-induced macrophage and neutrophil recruitment in lung metastases by antagonizing cancer cell non-canonical WNT/PCP-RAC1-JNK signalling. In the lungs, DKK1 also inhibits WNT/Ca(2+)-CaMKII-NF-kappaB signalling and suppresses LTBP1-mediated TGF-beta secretion of cancer cells. In contrast, DKK1 promotes breast-to-bone metastasis by regulating canonical WNT signalling of osteoblasts. Importantly, targeting canonical WNT may not be beneficial to treatment of metastatic cancer, while combinatory therapy against JNK and TGF-beta signalling effectively prevents metastasis to both the lungs and bone. Thus, DKK1 represents a class of Janus-faced molecules with dichotomous roles in organotropic metastasis, and our data provide a rationale for new anti-metastasis approaches.
PXD006467	28892295	Transcriptome and proteome dynamics in chemostat culture reveal how Campylobacter jejuni modulates metabolism, stress responses and virulence factors upon changes in oxygen availability. 	Oxygen-dependent changes in protein expression in Campylobacter jejuni NCTC11168	Campylobacter, electron transport, label-free, oxidative stress, oxygen	Campylobacter jejuni, the most frequent cause of food-borne bacterial gastroenteritis worldwide, is a microaerophile that has to survive high environmental oxygen tensions, adapt to oxygen limitation in the intestine and resist host oxidative attack. Here, oxygen-dependent changes in C. jejuni physiology were studied at constant growth rate using carbon (serine)-limited continuous chemostat cultures. We show that a perceived aerobiosis scale can be calibrated by the acetate excretion flux, which becomes zero when metabolism is fully aerobic (100% aerobiosis). Transcriptome changes in a downshift experiment from 150% to 40% aerobiosis revealed many novel oxygen-regulated genes and highlighted re-modelling of the electron transport chains. A label-free proteomic analysis showed that at 40% aerobiosis, many proteins involved in host colonisation (e.g., PorA, CadF, FlpA, CjkT) became more abundant. PorA abundance increased steeply below 100% aerobiosis. In contrast, several citric-acid cycle enzymes, the peptide transporter CstA, PEB1 aspartate/glutamate transporter, LutABC lactate dehydrogenase and PutA proline dehydrogenase became more abundant with increasing aerobiosis. We also observed a co-ordinated response of oxidative stress protection enzymes and Fe-S cluster biogenesis proteins above 100% aerobiosis. Our approaches reveal key virulence factors that respond to restricted oxygen availability and specific transporters and catabolic pathways activated with increasing aerobiosis.
PXD005903	28893905	Lysine acetylation stoichiometry and proteomics analyses reveal pathways regulated by sirtuin 1 in human cells. 	Integrated lysine acetylation stoichiometry and proteomics analysis in human cells	Cancer cells, Deacetylase inhibitor, Lysine Acetylation, SIRT1, Stoichiometry	Lysine acetylation is a widespread posttranslational modification affecting many biological pathways. Recent studies indicate that acetylated lysine residues mainly exhibit low acetylation occupancy, but challenges in sample preparation and analysis make it difficult to confidently assign these numbers, limiting understanding of their biological significance. Here, we tested three common sample preparation methods to determine their suitability for assessing acetylation stoichiometry in three human cell lines, identifying the acetylation occupancy in more than 1,300 proteins from each cell line. The stoichiometric analysis in combination with quantitative proteomics also enabled us to explore their functional roles. We found that higher abundance of the deacetylase sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) correlated with lower acetylation occupancy and lower levels of ribosomal proteins, including those involved in ribosome biogenesis and rRNA processing. Treatment with the SIRT1 inhibitor EX-527 confirmed SIRT1's role in the regulation of pre-rRNA synthesis and processing. Specifically, proteins involved in pre-rRNA transcription, including subunits of the polymerase I and SL1 complexes and the RNA polymerase I-specific transcription initiation factor RRN3, were up-regulated after SIRT1 inhibition. Moreover, many protein effectors and regulators of pre-rRNA processing needed for rRNA maturation were also up-regulated after EX-527 treatment with the outcome that pre-rRNA and 28S rRNA levels also increased. More generally, we found that SIRT1 inhibition down-regulates metabolic pathways, including glycolysis and pyruvate metabolism. Together, these results provide the largest data set thus far of lysine acetylation stoichiometry (available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005903) and set the stage for further biological investigations of this central posttranslational modification.
PXD004688	28893950	The TAF10-containing TFIID and SAGA transcriptional complexes are dispensable for early somitogenesis in the mouse embryo. 	Transcription complexes in the embryo	SAGA, TFIID, embryo, paraxial mesoderm, somitogenesis, transcription	During development, tightly regulated gene expression programs control cell fate and patterning. A key regulatory step in eukaryotic transcription is the assembly of the pre-initiation complex (PIC) at promoters. PIC assembly has mainly been studied in vitro, and little is known about its composition during development. In vitro data suggest that TFIID is the general transcription factor that nucleates PIC formation at promoters. Here we show that TAF10, a subunit of TFIID and of the transcriptional co-activator SAGA, is required for the assembly of these complexes in the mouse embryo. We performed Taf10 conditional deletions during mesoderm development and show that Taf10 loss in the presomitic mesoderm (PSM) does not prevent cyclic gene transcription or PSM segmental patterning, whereas lateral plate differentiation is profoundly altered. During this period, global mRNA levels are unchanged in the PSM, with only a minor subset of genes dysregulated. Together, our data strongly suggest that the TAF10-containing canonical TFIID and SAGA complexes are dispensable for early paraxial mesoderm development, arguing against the generic role in transcription proposed for these fully assembled holo-complexes.
PXD005434	28895652	Quantitative Proteomics and Targeted Fatty Acids Analysis Reveal the Damage of Triptolide in Liver and Kidney. 	mouse liver kidney LC-MS/MS	2D-LC-MS/MS, Fatty Acids, Kidney, Liver, Organ Toxicity, Triptolide	Triptolide (TP), the major active component in Tripterygium wilfordii Hook. f., is widely used for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and autoimmune diseases. However, organ toxicity, especially hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity, limits its clinical application. To fully understand the mechanism underlying TP toxicity, iTRAQ-based 2D-LC-MS/MS proteomics is used to detect differentially expressed proteins in the livers and kidneys of mice administered the LD50 dose of TP. Functional annotation revealed that multiple pathways are involved in TP toxicity, including acute-phase response signaling, the antigen presentation pathway, FXR/RXR activation, LPS/IL-1-mediated inhibition of RXR function, and EIF2 signaling. Members of the cytochrome P450 protein family that are involved in fatty acid (FA) metabolism, such as CYP2E1, show significant differences in expression among groups. Additionally, the proteomics data suggested that FAs are involved in TP-induced toxicity. FA analysis is conducted using HPLC-MRM to characterize the differences among various groups exposed to TP for different times. It has been found that 20 FAs in the liver show significant differences in abundance among groups, whereas in the kidneys, six FAs show significant differences in abundance. By integrating the proteomic and targeted FA analyses, it has been found that differently expressed proteins and FAs both participate in pathways including cellular lipolytic activity, peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation, and so on. Our data contribute to understanding the mechanisms underlying TP-induced organ toxicity. The results may help to improve the clinical efficacy and safety of TP in the future.
PXD006235	28898199	A druggable secretory protein maturase of Toxoplasma essential for invasion and egress. 	Toxoplasma gondii aspartyl protease 3	TAILS, positional proteomics, protease substrate screen	Micronemes and rhoptries are specialized secretory organelles that deploy their contents at the apical tip of apicomplexan parasites in a regulated manner. The secretory proteins participate in motility, invasion, and egress and are subjected to proteolytic maturation prior to organellar storage and discharge. Here we establish that Toxoplasma gondii aspartyl protease 3 (ASP3) resides in the endosomal-like compartment and is crucially associated to rhoptry discharge during invasion and to host cell plasma membrane lysis during egress. A comparison of the N-terminome, by terminal amine isotopic labelling of substrates between wild type and ASP3 depleted parasites identified microneme and rhoptry proteins as repertoire of ASP3 substrates. The role of ASP3 as a maturase for previously described and newly identified secretory proteins is confirmed in vivo and in vitro. An antimalarial compound based on a hydroxyethylamine scaffold interrupts the lytic cycle of T. gondii at submicromolar concentration by targeting ASP3.
PXD006867	28898813	Insight into the modulation of intestinal proteome of juvenile common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.) after dietary exposure to ZnO nanoparticles. 	Modulation of intestinal proteome of juvenile common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.) after dietary exposure to ZnO nanoparticles	Apoptosis, ZnO nanoparticles, common carp, intestine	ZnO nanoparticles (NPs) are widely used in industrial and consumer products. Therefore understanding their interaction with biological systems is key to their safe application. Proteomics was applied to assess the sub-lethal effects of dietary ZnO NPs on two parts of carp intestine, the intestinal folds and the muscular parts. A commercial carp feed containing 500mgkg(-1) of ZnO NPs was fed to fish for six weeks. The abundances of 32 proteins in the treated intestinal folds were significantly changed and in addition, 28 proteins were significantly changed in the muscular parts. Pathways analysis revealed downregulation of pathways attributed to protein synthesis in both parts of the treated intestine. Remodelling of actin cytoskeleton pathways were regulated positively and negatively in intestinal folds and muscular parts, respectively, albeit via different mechanisms. Apoptosis response was indicated in exposed intestinal folds, whereas elevated levels of protein associated with cancerous cell survival were observed in the muscular parts. Results showed that ZnO NPs affected the protein abundances associated with cell motility, immune system response, oxidative stress response, as well as cell metabolism. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006867.
PXD013032	28899088	Identification of Siglec Ligands Using a Proximity Labeling Method. 	Identification of Siglec-E-ligand candidates on BCL-1 mouse B cell line by proximity labeling	B cell, Siglec-E, ligand, sialic acid	Siglecs are a family of receptor-type glycan recognition proteins (lectins) involved in self-nonself discrimination by the immune system. Identification of Siglec ligands is necessary to understand how Siglec-ligand interaction translates into biological outcomes. However, this is challenging because the interaction is weak. To facilitate identification of Siglec ligands, we adopted a proximity labeling method based on the tyramide radicalization principle. Cells that express Siglec ligands were labeled with Siglec-peroxidase complexes and incubated with biotin tyramide and hydrogen peroxide to generate short-lived tyramide radicals that covalently label the proteins near the Siglec-peroxidase complex. A proof-of-principle experiment using CD22 (Siglec-2) probe identified its known ligands on B cells, including CD22 itself, CD45, and IgM, among others, demonstrating the validity of this method. The specificity of labeling was confirmed by sialidase treatment of target cells and using glycan recognition-deficient mutant CD22 probes. Moreover, possible interactions between biotin-labeled proteins were revealed by literature-based protein-protein interaction network analysis, implying the presence of a molecular cluster comprising CD22 ligands. Further application of this method identified CD44 as a hitherto unknown Siglec-15 ligand on RAW264.7-derived osteoclasts. These results demonstrated the utility of proximity labeling for the identification of Siglec ligands, which may extend to other lectins.
PXD006240	28899994	Heterodimeric capping protein is required for stereocilia length and width regulation. 	Mass spectrometry identification of proteins of isolated auditory and vestibular hair cells using data-independent and data-dependent acquisition	Utricle, cochlea, hair cells, supporting cells	Control of the dimensions of actin-rich processes like filopodia, lamellipodia, microvilli, and stereocilia requires the coordinated activity of many proteins. Each of these actin structures relies on heterodimeric capping protein (CAPZ), which blocks actin polymerization at barbed ends. Because dimension control of the inner ear's stereocilia is particularly precise, we studied the CAPZB subunit in hair cells. CAPZB, present at ~100 copies per stereocilium, concentrated at stereocilia tips as hair cell development progressed, similar to the CAPZB-interacting protein TWF2. We deleted Capzb specifically in hair cells using Atoh1-Cre, which eliminated auditory and vestibular function. Capzb-null stereocilia initially developed normally but later shortened and disappeared; surprisingly, stereocilia width decreased concomitantly with length. CAPZB2 expressed by in utero electroporation prevented normal elongation of vestibular stereocilia and irregularly widened them. Together, these results suggest that capping protein participates in stereocilia widening by preventing newly elongating actin filaments from depolymerizing.
PXD007864	28900027	Sirtuin Lipoamidase Activity Is Conserved in Bacteria as a Regulator of Metabolic Enzyme Complexes. 	AP-MS analysis of CobB interactions in E. coli	orbitrap, protein interactions, sirtuin	Lipoic acid is an essential metabolic cofactor added as a posttranslational modification on several multimeric enzyme complexes. These protein complexes, evolutionarily conserved from bacteria to humans, are core regulators of cellular metabolism. While the multistep enzymatic process of adding lipoyl modifications has been well characterized in Escherichia coli, the enzyme required for the removal of these lipoyl moieties (i.e., a lipoamidase or delipoylase) has not yet been identified. Here, we describe our discovery of sirtuins as lipoamidases in bacteria and establish their conserved substrates. Specifically, by using a series of knockout, overexpression, biochemical, in vitro, proteomic, and functional assays, we determined the substrates of sirtuin CobB in E. coli as components of the pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH), alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (KDH), and glycine cleavage (GCV) complexes. In vitro assays provided direct evidence for this specific CobB activity and its NAD(+) dependence, a signature of all sirtuins. By designing a targeted quantitative mass spectrometry method, we further measured sirtuin-dependent, site-specific lipoylation on these substrates. The biological significance of CobB-modulated lipoylation was next established by its inhibition of both PDH and KDH activities. By restricting the carbon sources available to E. coli, we demonstrated that CobB regulates PDH and KDH under several growth conditions. Additionally, we found that SrtN, the sirtuin homolog in Gram-positive Bacillus subtilis, can also act as a lipoamidase. By demonstrating the evolutionary conservation of lipoamidase activity across sirtuin homologs, along with the conservation of common substrates, this work emphasizes the significance of protein lipoylation in regulating central metabolic processes.IMPORTANCE Here, we demonstrate that sirtuin lipoamidase activity exists in both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria and establishing its conservation from bacteria to humans. Specifically, we discovered that CobB and SrtN act as lipoamidases in E. coli and B. subtilis, respectively. Intriguingly, not only is this sirtuin enzymatic activity conserved, but also the lipoylated substrates and functions are conserved, as bacterial sirtuins negatively regulate the lipoylation levels and activities of PDH and KDH. Considering that PDH and KDH regulate two carbon entry points into the tricarboxylic acid cycle, our finding highlights lipoylation as a conserved molecular toggle that regulates central metabolic pathways. Indeed, our findings from tests in which we limited nutrient availability support this. Furthermore, this study illustrates how the integration of technologies from different disciplines provides avenues to uncover enzymatic activities at the core of cellular metabolism regulation.
PXD005869	28901143	Scanning Quadrupole Data-Independent Acquisition, Part A: Qualitative and Quantitative Characterization. 	Scanning quadrupole DIA -  Scanning Quadrupole Data Independent Acquisition - Part A	DIA	A novel data-independent acquisition (DIA) method incorporating a scanning quadrupole in front of a collision cell and orthogonal acceleration time-of-flight mass analyzer is described. The method has been characterized for the qualitative and quantitative label-free proteomic analysis of complex biological samples. The principle of the scanning quadrupole DIA method is discussed, and analytical instrument characteristics, such as the quadrupole transmission width, scan/integration time, and chromatographic separation, have been optimized in relation to sample complexity for a number of different model proteomes of varying complexity and dynamic range including human plasma, cell lines, and bacteria. In addition, the technological merits over existing DIA approaches are described and contrasted. The qualitative and semiquantitative performance of the method is illustrated for the analysis of relatively simple protein digest mixtures and a well-characterized human cell line sample using untargeted and targeted search strategies. Finally, the results from a human cell line were compared against publicly available data that used similar chromatographic conditions but were acquired with DDA technology and alternative mass analyzer systems. Qualitative comparison showed excellent concordance of results with >90% overlap of the detected proteins.
PXD007142	28903043	Mechanism of Catalytic Microtubule Depolymerization via KIF2-Tubulin Transitional Conformation. 	X-link of KIF2C-tubulin complex with DSSO	KIF2, microtubule	Microtubules (MTs) are dynamic structures that are fundamental for cell morphogenesis and motility. MT-associated motors work efficiently to perform their functions. Unlike other motile kinesins, KIF2 catalytically depolymerizes MTs from the peeled protofilament end during ATP hydrolysis. However, the detailed mechanism by which KIF2 drives processive MT depolymerization remains unknown. To elucidate the catalytic mechanism, the transitional KIF2-tubulin complex during MT depolymerization was analyzed through multiple methods, including atomic force microscopy, size-exclusion chromatography, multi-angle light scattering, small-angle X-ray scattering, analytical ultracentrifugation, and mass spectrometry. The analyses outlined the conformation in which one KIF2core domain binds tightly to two tubulin dimers in the middle pre-hydrolysis state during ATP hydrolysis, a process critical for catalytic MT depolymerization. The X-ray crystallographic structure of the KIF2core domain displays the activated conformation that sustains the large KIF2-tubulin 1:2 complex.
PXD007116	28903997	Mitotic post-translational modifications of histones promote chromatin compaction in vitro. 	Mitotic post-translational modifications of histones promote chromatin compaction in vitro	Chromatin condensation, Histones, Mitotic histones, PTMs	How eukaryotic chromosomes are compacted during mitosis has been a leading question in cell biology since the nineteenth century. Non-histone proteins such as condensin complexes contribute to chromosome shaping, but appear not to be necessary for mitotic chromatin compaction. Histone modifications are known to affect chromatin structure. As histones undergo major changes in their post-translational modifications during mitotic entry, we speculated that the spectrum of cell-cycle-specific histone modifications might contribute to chromosome compaction during mitosis. To test this hypothesis, we isolated core histones from interphase and mitotic cells and reconstituted chromatin with them. We used mass spectrometry to show that key post-translational modifications remained intact during our isolation procedure. Light, atomic force and transmission electron microscopy analysis showed that chromatin assembled from mitotic histones has a much greater tendency to aggregate than chromatin assembled from interphase histones, even under low magnesium conditions where interphase chromatin remains as separate beads-on-a-string structures. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that mitotic chromosome formation is a two-stage process with changes in the spectrum of histone post-translational modifications driving mitotic chromatin compaction, while the action of non-histone proteins such as condensin may then shape the condensed chromosomes into their classic mitotic morphology.
PXD009531	28904123	Unveiling the Peptide Motifs of HLA-C and HLA-G from Naturally Presented Peptides and Generation of Binding Prediction Matrices. 	Unveiling the Peptide Motifs of HLA-C and HLA-G from Naturally Presented Peptides and Generation of Binding Prediction Matrices	Binding Prediction, HLA-C, HLA-E, HLA-G, Peptide Motifs	The classical HLA-C and the nonclassical HLA-E and HLA-G molecules play important roles both in the innate and adaptive immune system. Starting already during embryogenesis and continuing throughout our lives, these three Ags exert major functions in immune tolerance, defense against infections, and anticancer immune responses. Despite these important roles, identification and characterization of the peptides presented by these molecules has been lacking behind the more abundant HLA-A and HLA-B gene products. In this study, we elucidated the peptide specificities of these HLA molecules using a comprehensive analysis of naturally presented peptides. To that end, the 15 most frequently expressed HLA-C alleles as well as HLA-E*01:01 and HLA-G*01:01 were transfected into lymphoblastoid C1R cells expressing low endogenous HLA. Identification of naturally presented peptides was performed by immunoprecipitation of HLA and subsequent analysis of HLA-bound peptides by liquid chromatographic tandem mass spectrometry. Peptide motifs of HLA-C unveil anchors in position 2 or 3 with high variances between allotypes, and a less variable anchor at the C-terminal end. The previously reported small ligand repertoire of HLA-E was confirmed within our analysis, and we could show that HLA-G combines a large ligand repertoire with distinct features anchoring peptides at positions 3 and 9, supported by an auxiliary anchor in position 1 and preferred residues in positions 2 and 7. The wealth of HLA ligands resulted in prediction matrices for octa-, nona-, and decamers. Matrices were validated in terms of their binding prediction and compared with the latest NetMHC prediction algorithm NetMHCpan-3.0, which demonstrated their predictive power.
PXD006239	28904344	Perturbed cholesterol and vesicular trafficking associated with dengue blocking in Wolbachia-infected Aedes aegypti cells. 	Relative quantitative proteomics of uninfected vs wMel infected Aedes aegypti midguts	Ae. aegypti, Aedes aegypti, TMT, wMel, wolbachia	Wolbachia are intracellular maternally inherited bacteria that can spread through insect populations and block virus transmission by mosquitoes, providing an important approach to dengue control. To better understand the mechanisms of virus inhibition, we here perform proteomic quantification of the effects of Wolbachia in Aedes aegypti mosquito cells and midgut. Perturbations are observed in vesicular trafficking, lipid metabolism and in the endoplasmic reticulum that could impact viral entry and replication. Wolbachia-infected cells display a differential cholesterol profile, including elevated levels of esterified cholesterol, that is consistent with perturbed intracellular cholesterol trafficking. Cyclodextrins have been shown to reverse lipid accumulation defects in cells with disrupted cholesterol homeostasis. Treatment of Wolbachia-infected Ae. aegypti cells with 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin restores dengue replication in Wolbachia-carrying cells, suggesting dengue is inhibited in Wolbachia-infected cells by localised cholesterol accumulation. These results demonstrate parallels between the cellular Wolbachia viral inhibition phenotype and lipid storage genetic disorders. Wolbachia infection of mosquitoes can block dengue virus infection and is tested in field trials, but the mechanism of action is unclear. Using proteomics, Geoghegan et al. here identify effects of Wolbachia on cholesterol homeostasis and dengue virus replication in Aedes aegypti.
PXD007259	28906057	A Chemical Disruptor of the ClpX Chaperone Complex Attenuates the Virulence of Multidrug-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus. 	A Chemical Disruptor of the ClpX Chaperone Complex Attenuates Multiresistant Staphylococcus aureus Virulence	Staphylococcus aureus, antivirulence, high-throughput screening, proteolysis	The Staphylococcus aureus ClpXP protease is an important regulator of cell homeostasis and virulence. We utilized a high-throughput screen against the ClpXP complex and identified a specific inhibitor of the ClpX chaperone that disrupts its oligomeric state. Synthesis of 34 derivatives revealed that the molecular scaffold is restrictive for diversification, with only minor changes tolerated. Subsequent analysis of the most active compound revealed strong attenuation of S. aureus toxin production, which was quantified with a customized MS-based assay platform. Transcriptome and whole-proteome studies further confirmed the global reduction of virulence and revealed characteristic signatures of protein expression in the compound-treated cells. Although these partially matched the pattern of ClpX knockout cells, further depletion of toxins was observed, leading to the intriguing perspective that additional virulence pathways may be directly or indirectly addressed by the small molecule.
PXD004922	28912585	Matrisome Profiling During Intervertebral Disc Development And Ageing. 	Matrisome remodelling during Intervertebral Disc development and ageing	Extracellular Matrix (ECM), Intervertebral Disc (IVD), Nucleus Pulpous (NP), iTRAQ	Intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration is often the cause of low back pain. Degeneration occurs with age and is accompanied by extracellular matrix (ECM) depletion, culminating in nucleus pulpous (NP) extrusion and IVD destruction. The changes that occur in the disc with age have been under investigation. However, a thorough study of ECM profiling is needed, to better understand IVD development and age-associated degeneration. As so, iTRAQ LC-MS/MS analysis of foetus, young and old bovine NPs, was performed to define the NP matrisome. The enrichment of Collagen XII and XIV in foetus, Fibronectin and Prolargin in elder NPs and Collagen XI in young ones was independently validated. This study provides the first matrisome database of healthy discs during development and ageing, which is key to determine the pathways and processes that maintain disc homeostasis. The factors identified may help to explain age-associated IVD degeneration or constitute putative effectors for disc regeneration.
PXD005362	28912723	Increased Hemodynamic Load in Early Embryonic Stages Alters Myofibril and Mitochondrial Organization in the Myocardium. 	Increased Hemodynamic Load in Early Embryonic Stages Alters Endocardial to Mesenchymal Transition	10-plex TMT labeling, chick embryos, heart development, hemodynamics, increased load, shotgun proteomics	Normal blood flow is essential for proper heart formation during embryonic development, as abnormal hemodynamic load (blood pressure and shear stress) results in cardiac defects seen in congenital heart disease (CHD). However, the detrimental remodeling processes that relate altered blood flow to cardiac malformation and defects remain unclear. Heart development is a finely orchestrated process with rapid transformations that occur at the tissue, cell, and subcellular levels. Myocardial cells play an essential role in cardiac tissue maturation by aligning in the direction of stretch and increasing the number of contractile units as hemodynamic load increases throughout development. This study elucidates the early effects of altered blood flow on myofibril and mitochondrial configuration in the outflow tract myocardium in vivo. Outflow tract banding was used to increase hemodynamic load in the chicken embryo heart between Hamburger and Hamilton stages 18 and 24 (~24 h during tubular heart stages). 3D focused ion beam scanning electron microscopy analysis determined that increased hemodynamic load induced changes in the developing myocardium, characterized by thicker myofibril bundles that were more disbursed in circumferential orientation, and mitochondria that organized in large clusters around the nucleus. Proteomic mass-spectrometry analysis quantified altered protein composition after banding that is consistent with altered myofibril thin filament assembly and function, and mitochondrial maintenance and organization. Additionally, pathway analysis of the proteomics data identified possible activation of signaling pathways in response to banding, including the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). Imaging and proteomic data combined indicate that myofibril and mitochondrial arrangement in early embryonic stages is a critical developmental process that when disturbed by altered blood flow may contribute to cardiac malformation and defects.
PXD005880	28914261	RSK2 is a new Pim2 target with pro-survival functions in FLT3-ITD-positive acute myeloid leukemia. 	Human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line LFQ, comparison between doxycycline-inducible control shRNA and Pim2 shRNA	AML, LFQ, Pim2, RNA interference	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with the FLT3 internal tandem duplication (FLT3-ITD AML) accounts for 20-30% of AML cases. This subtype usually responds poorly to conventional therapies, and might become resistant to FLT3 tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) due to molecular bypass mechanisms. New therapeutic strategies focusing on resistance mechanisms are therefore urgently needed. Pim kinases are FLT3-ITD oncogenic targets that have been implicated in FLT3 TKI resistance. However, their precise biological function downstream of FLT3-ITD requires further investigation. We performed high-throughput transcriptomic and proteomic analyses in Pim2-depleted FLT3-ITD AML cells and found that Pim2 predominantly controlled apoptosis through Bax expression and mitochondria disruption. We identified ribosomal protein S6 kinase A3 (RSK2), a 90 kDa serine/threonine kinase involved in the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade encoded by the RPS6KA3 gene, as a novel Pim2 target. Ectopic expression of an RPS6KA3 allele rescued the viability of Pim2-depleted cells, supporting the involvement of RSK2 in AML cell survival downstream of Pim2. Finally, we showed that RPS6KA3 knockdown reduced the propagation of human AML cells in vivo in mice. Our results point to RSK2 as a novel Pim2 target with translational therapeutic potential in FLT3-ITD AML.
PXD006430	28915803	Tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP/ACP5) promotes metastasis-related properties via TGFbeta2/TbetaR and CD44 in MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomics profiling of breast cancer cells with altered expression level of the protein phosphatase TRAP	ACP5, CD44, MDA-MB-231, SILAC, TGF, TGFbeta, TMT, TRAP, breast cancer, cell adhesion, extracellular matrix, migration, proliferation	BACKGROUND: Tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP/ACP5), a metalloenzyme that is characteristic for its expression in activated osteoclasts and in macrophages, has recently gained considerable focus as a driver of metastasis and was associated with clinically relevant parameters of cancer progression and cancer aggressiveness. METHODS: MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells with different TRAP expression levels (overexpression and knockdown) were generated and characterized for protein expression and activity levels. Functional cell experiments, such as proliferation, migration and invasion assays were performed as well as global phosphoproteomic and proteomic analysis was conducted to connect molecular perturbations to the phenotypic changes. RESULTS: We identified an association between metastasis-related properties of TRAP-overexpressing MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells and a TRAP-dependent regulation of Transforming growth factor (TGFbeta) pathway proteins and Cluster of differentiation 44 (CD44). Overexpression of TRAP increased anchorage-independent and anchorage-dependent cell growth and proliferation, induced a more elongated cellular morphology and promoted cell migration and invasion. Migration was increased in the presence of the extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins osteopontin and fibronectin and the basement membrane proteins collagen IV and laminin I. TRAP-induced properties were reverted upon shRNA-mediated knockdown of TRAP or treatment with the small molecule TRAP inhibitor 5-PNA. Global phosphoproteomics and proteomics analyses identified possible substrates of TRAP phosphatase activity or signaling intermediates and outlined a TRAP-dependent regulation of proteins involved in cell adhesion and ECM organization. Upregulation of TGFbeta isoform 2 (TGFbeta2), TGFbeta receptor type 1 (TbetaR1) and Mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 2 (SMAD2), as well as increased intracellular phosphorylation of CD44 were identified upon TRAP perturbation. Functional antibody-mediated blocking and chemical inhibition demonstrated that TRAP-dependent migration and proliferation is regulated via TGFbeta2/TbetaR, whereas proliferation beyond basal levels is regulated through CD44. CONCLUSION: Altogether, TRAP promotes metastasis-related cell properties in MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells via TGFbeta2/TbetaR and CD44, thereby identifying a potential signaling mechanism associated to TRAP action in breast cancer cells.
PXD006225	28916541	A proteomic atlas of insulin signalling reveals tissue-specific mechanisms of longevity assurance. 	A proteomic atlas of insulin signaling reveals tissue-specific mechanisms of longevity-assurance	Drosophila melanogaster, Q Exactive, insulin signaling, shotgun, tissue specific	Lowered activity of the insulin/IGF signalling (IIS) network can ameliorate the effects of ageing in laboratory animals and, possibly, humans. Although transcriptome remodelling in long-lived IIS mutants has been extensively documented, the causal mechanisms contributing to extended lifespan, particularly in specific tissues, remain unclear. We have characterized the proteomes of four key insulin-sensitive tissues in a long-lived Drosophila IIS mutant and control, and detected 44% of the predicted proteome (6,085 proteins). Expression of ribosome-associated proteins in the fat body was reduced in the mutant, with a corresponding, tissue-specific reduction in translation. Expression of mitochondrial electron transport chain proteins in fat body was increased, leading to increased respiration, which was necessary for IIS-mediated lifespan extension, and alone sufficient to mediate it. Proteasomal subunits showed altered expression in IIS mutant gut, and gut-specific over-expression of the RPN6 proteasomal subunit, was sufficient to increase proteasomal activity and extend lifespan, whilst inhibition of proteasome activity abolished IIS-mediated longevity. Our study thus uncovered strikingly tissue-specific responses of cellular processes to lowered IIS acting in concert to ameliorate ageing.
PXD005736	28916735	Functional screening in human cardiac organoids reveals a metabolic mechanism for cardiomyocyte cell cycle arrest. 	Proteomic Analysis of Human Cardiac Organoids	Cardiac organoid, YAP1, cardiomyocyte maturation, cell cycle, insulin signalling, metabolism, tissue engineering, beta-catenin	The mammalian heart undergoes maturation during postnatal life to meet the increased functional requirements of an adult. However, the key drivers of this process remain poorly defined. We are currently unable to recapitulate postnatal maturation in human pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hPSC-CMs), limiting their potential as a model system to discover regenerative therapeutics. Here, we provide a summary of our studies, where we developed a 96-well device for functional screening in human pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiac organoids (hCOs). Through interrogation of >10,000 organoids, we systematically optimize parameters, including extracellular matrix (ECM), metabolic substrate, and growth factor conditions, that enhance cardiac tissue viability, function, and maturation. Under optimized maturation conditions, functional and molecular characterization revealed that a switch to fatty acid metabolism was a central driver of cardiac maturation. Under these conditions, hPSC-CMs were refractory to mitogenic stimuli, and we found that key proliferation pathways including beta-catenin and Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) were repressed. This proliferative barrier imposed by fatty acid metabolism in hCOs could be rescued by simultaneous activation of both beta-catenin and YAP1 using genetic approaches or a small molecule activating both pathways. These studies highlight that human organoids coupled with higher-throughput screening platforms have the potential to rapidly expand our knowledge of human biology and potentially unlock therapeutic strategies.
PXD003290	28916745	Cadmium effects on DNA and protein metabolism in oyster (Crassostrea gigas) revealed by proteomic analyses. 	The proteomics analysis of Crassostrea gigas under Zn and Cd contamination	Crassostrea, ecotoxicology, heavy-metal	Marine molluscs, including oysters, can concentrate high levels of cadmium (Cd) in their soft tissues, but the molecular mechanisms of Cd toxicity remain speculative. In this study, Pacific oysters (Crassostrea gigas) were exposed to Cd for 9 days and their gills were subjected to proteomic analysis, which were further confirmed with transcriptomic analysis. A total of 4,964 proteins was quantified and 515 differentially expressed proteins were identified in response to Cd exposure. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis revealed that excess Cd affected the DNA and protein metabolism. Specifically, Cd toxicity resulted in the inhibition of DNA glycosylase and gap-filling and ligation enzymes expressions in base excision repair pathway, which may have decreased DNA repair capacity. At the protein level, Cd induced the heat shock protein response, initiation of protein refolding as well as degradation by ubiquitin proteasome pathway, among other effects. Excess Cd also induced antioxidant responses, particularly glutathione metabolism, which play important roles in Cd chelation and anti-oxidation. This study provided the first molecular mechanisms of Cd toxicity on DNA and protein metabolism at protein levels, and identified molecular biomarkers for Cd toxicity in oysters.
PXD006868	28919039	A Linear Diubiquitin-Based Probe for Efficient and Selective Detection of the Deubiquitinating Enzyme OTULIN. 	A linear diubiquitin-based probe for efficient and selective detection of the deubiquitinating enzyme OTULIN	OTULIN	The methionine 1 (M1)-specific deubiquitinase (DUB) OTULIN acts as a negative regulator of nuclear factor kappaB signaling and immune homeostasis. By replacing Gly76 in distal ubiquitin (Ub) by dehydroalanine we designed the diubiquitin (diUb) activity-based probe UbG76Dha-Ub (OTULIN activity-based probe [ABP]) that couples to the catalytic site of OTULIN and thereby captures OTULIN in its active conformation. The OTULIN ABP displays high selectivity for OTULIN and does not label other M1-cleaving DUBs, including CYLD. The only detectable cross-reactivities were the labeling of USP5 (Isopeptidase T) and an ATP-dependent assembly of polyOTULIN ABP chains via Ub-activating E1 enzymes. Both cross-reactivities were abolished by the removal of the C-terminal Gly in the ABP's proximal Ub, yielding the specific OTULIN probe UbG76Dha-UbDeltaG76 (OTULIN ABPDeltaG76). Pull-downs demonstrate that substrate-bound OTULIN associates with the linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC). Thus, we present a highly selective ABP for OTULIN that will facilitate studying the cellular function of this essential DUB.
PXD006582	28920440	Unrestricted Mass Spectrometric Data Analysis for Identification, Localization, and Quantification of Oxidative Protein Modifications. 	Unrestricted analysis of modifications in proteins exposed to metal-catalyzed oxidation	LC-MS, MCO, Oxidation, albumin, serum	Oxidation generates multiple diverse post-translational modifications resulting in changes in protein structure and function associated with a wide range of diseases. Of these modifications, carbonylations have often been used as hallmarks of oxidative damage. However, accumulating evidence supports the hypothesis that other oxidation products may be quantitatively more important under physiological conditions. To address this issue, we have developed a holistic mass spectrometry-based approach for the simultaneous identification, localization, and quantification of a broad range of oxidative modifications based on so-called "dependent peptides". The strategy involves unrestricted database searches with rigorous filtering focusing on oxidative modifications. The approach was applied to bovine serum albumin and human serum proteins subjected to metal ion-catalyzed oxidation, resulting in the identification of a wide range of different oxidative modifications. The most common modification in the oxidized samples is hydroxylation, but carbonylation, decarboxylation, and dihydroxylation are also abundant, while carbonylation showed the largest increase in abundance relative to nonoxidized samples. Site-specific localization of modified residues reveals several "oxidation hotspots" showing high levels of modification occupancy, including specific histidine, tryptophan, methionine, glutamate, and aspartate residues. The majority of the modifications, however, occur at low occupancy levels on a diversity of side chains.
PXD006630	28920697	Nepsilon- and O-Acetylation in Mycobacterium tuberculosis Lineage 7 and Lineage 4 Strains: Proteins Involved in Bioenergetics, Virulence, and Antimicrobial Resistance Are Acetylated. 	Nepsilon- and O-Acetylation in Mycobacterium tuberculosis Lineage 7 is Biased Towards Proteins Involved in Growth, Virulence and Antimicrobial Resistance	Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Nepsilon-acetylation, O-acetylation., acetylome, lineage 7, post-translational modifications	Increasing evidence demonstrates that lysine acetylation is involved in Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) virulence and pathogenesis. However, previous investigations in Mtb have only monitored acetylation at lysine residues using selected reference strains. We analyzed the global Nepsilon- and O-acetylation of three Mtb isolates: two lineage 7 clinical isolates and the lineage 4 H37Rv reference strain. Quantitative acetylome analysis resulted in identification of 2490 class-I acetylation sites, 2349 O-acetylation and 141 Nepsilon-acetylation sites, derived from 953 unique proteins. Mtb O-acetylation was thereby significantly more abundant than Nepsilon-acetylation. The acetylated proteins were found to be involved in central metabolism, translation, stress responses, and antimicrobial drug resistance. Notably, 261 acetylation sites on 165 proteins were differentially regulated between lineage 7 and lineage 4 strains. A total of 257 acetylation sites on 161 proteins were hypoacetylated in lineage 7 strains. These proteins are involved in Mtb growth, virulence, bioenergetics, host-pathogen interactions, and stress responses. This study provides the first global analysis of O-acetylated proteins in Mtb. This quantitative acetylome data expand the current understanding regarding the nature and diversity of acetylated proteins in Mtb and open a new avenue of research for exploring the role of protein acetylation in Mtb physiology.
PXD006493	28922568	Spectral Libraries for SWATH-MS Assays for Drosophila melanogaster and Solanum lycopersicum. 	Spectral library of Solanum lycopersicum for SWATH-MS	SWATH-MS, Solanum lycopersicum, Spectral library	Quantitative proteomics methods have emerged as powerful tools for measuring protein expression changes at the proteome level. Using MS-based approaches, it is now possible to routinely quantify thousands of proteins. However, prefractionation of the samples at the protein or peptide level is usually necessary to go deep into the proteome, increasing both MS analysis time and technical variability. Recently, a new MS acquisition method named SWATH is introduced with the potential to provide good coverage of the proteome as well as a good measurement precision without prior sample fractionation. In contrast to shotgun-based MS however, a library containing experimental acquired spectra is necessary for the bioinformatics analysis of SWATH data. In this study, spectral libraries for two widely used models are built to study crop ripening or animal embryogenesis, Solanum lycopersicum (tomato) and Drosophila melanogaster, respectively. The spectral libraries comprise fragments for 5197 and 6040 proteins for S. lycopersicum and D. melanogaster, respectively, and allow reproducible quantification for thousands of peptides per MS analysis. The spectral libraries and all MS data are available in the MassIVE repository with the dataset identifiers MSV000081074 and MSV000081075 and the PRIDE repository with the dataset identifiers PXD006493 and PXD006495.
PXD006153	28924191	Metabolic crosstalk regulates Porphyromonas gingivalis colonization and virulence during oral polymicrobial infection. 	Metabolite Perception Regulates Colonization and Virulence during Polymicrobial Infection	P. gingivalis, Periodontitis, Porphyromonas gingivalis, polymicrobial, streptococcal 4 aminobenzoate/para-amino benzoic acid (pABA)	Many human infections are polymicrobial in origin, and interactions among community inhabitants shape colonization patterns and pathogenic potential (1) . Periodontitis, which is the sixth most prevalent infectious disease worldwide (2) , ensues from the action of dysbiotic polymicrobial communities (3) . The keystone pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis and the accessory pathogen Streptococcus gordonii interact to form communities in vitro and exhibit increased fitness in vivo (3,4) . The mechanistic basis of this polymicrobial synergy, however, has not been fully elucidated. Here we show that streptococcal 4-aminobenzoate/para-amino benzoic acid (pABA) is required for maximal accumulation of P. gingivalis in dual-species communities. Metabolomic and proteomic data showed that exogenous pABA is used for folate biosynthesis, and leads to decreased stress and elevated expression of fimbrial adhesins. Moreover, pABA increased the colonization and survival of P. gingivalis in a murine oral infection model. However, pABA also caused a reduction in virulence in vivo and suppressed extracellular polysaccharide production by P. gingivalis. Collectively, these data reveal a multidimensional aspect to P. gingivalis-S. gordonii interactions and establish pABA as a critical cue produced by a partner species that enhances the fitness of P. gingivalis while diminishing its virulence.
PXD006365	28924239	The autophagy initiator ULK1 sensitizes AMPK to allosteric drugs. 	Quantitative global and phosphoproteomic analysis to define the cellular role of AMPK beta1-Ser108 phosphorylation	AMPK beta1-Ser108, ULK1, autophagy	AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a metabolic stress-sensing enzyme responsible for maintaining cellular energy homeostasis. Activation of AMPK by salicylate and the thienopyridone A-769662 is critically dependent on phosphorylation of Ser108 in the beta1 regulatory subunit. Here, we show a possible role for Ser108 phosphorylation in cell cycle regulation and promotion of pro-survival pathways in response to energy stress. We identify the autophagy initiator Unc-51-like kinase 1 (ULK1) as a beta1-Ser108 kinase in cells. Cellular beta1-Ser108 phosphorylation by ULK1 was dependent on AMPK beta-subunit myristoylation, metabolic stress associated with elevated AMP/ATP ratio, and the intrinsic energy sensing capacity of AMPK; features consistent with an AMP-induced myristoyl switch mechanism. We further demonstrate cellular AMPK signaling independent of activation loop Thr172 phosphorylation, providing potential insight into physiological roles for Ser108 phosphorylation. These findings uncover new mechanisms by which AMPK could potentially maintain cellular energy homeostasis independently of Thr172 phosphorylation.AMPK is involved in sensing of metabolic stress. The authors show that the autophagy initiator ULK1 phosphorylates beta1-Ser108 on the regulatory beta1-subunit, sensitizing AMPK to allosteric drugs, and activates signaling pathways that appear independent of Thr172 phosphorylation in the kinase activation loop.
PXD005697	28924608	A versatile 3D tissue matrix scaffold system for tumor modeling and drug screening. 	Proteomics of tissue matrix scaffold derived from decellularized mice mammary tissues, LC-MS/MS	Decellularization, ECM, TMS, breast/mammary tissue, tissue matrix scaffold	Most of the anticancer drug candidates entering preclinical trials fail to be approved for clinical applications. The following are among the main causes of these failures: studying molecular mechanisms of cancer development, identifying therapeutic targets, and testing drug candidates using inappropriate tissue culture models, which do not recapitulate the native microenvironment where the cancer cells originate. It has become clear that three-dimensional (3D) cell cultures are more biologically and clinically relevant than 2D models. The spatial and mechanical conditions of 3D cultures enable the cancer cells to display heterogeneous growth, assume diverse phenotypes, express distinct gene and protein products, and attain metastatic potential and resistance to drugs that are reminiscent of tumors in humans. However, the current 3D culture systems using synthetic polymers or selected components of the extracellular matrix (ECM) are defective (particularly the biophysical and biochemical properties of the native ECM) and remain distant to optimally support the signaling cue-oriented cell survival and growth. We introduce a reconstitutable tissue matrix scaffold (TMS) system fabricated using native tissue ECM, with tissue-like architecture and resilience. The structural and compositional properties of TMS favor robust cell survival, proliferation, migration, and invasion in culture and vascularized tumor formation in animals. The combination of porous and hydrogel TMS allows compartmental culture of cancerous and stromal cells, which are distinguishable by biomarkers. The response of the cancer cells grown on TMS to drugs well reflects animal and clinical observations. TMS enables more biologically relevant studies and is suitable for preclinical drug screening.
PXD006796	28925267	Absolute Quantification of Human Milk Caseins and the Whey/Casein Ratio during the First Year of Lactation. 	Absolute quantification of human milk caseins and the whey/casein ratio during the first year of lactation	milk	Whey proteins and caseins in breast milk provide bioactivities and also have different amino acid composition. Accurate determination of these two major protein classes provides a better understanding of human milk composition and function, and further aids in developing improved infant formulas based on bovine whey proteins and caseins. In this study, we implemented a LC-MS/MS quantitative analysis based on iBAQ label-free quantitation, to estimate absolute concentrations of alpha-casein, beta-casein, and kappa-casein in human milk samples (n = 88) collected between day 1 and day 360 postpartum. Total protein concentration ranged from 2.03 to 17.52 with a mean of 9.37 +/- 3.65 g/L. Casein subunits ranged from 0.04 to 1.68 g/L (alpha-), 0.04 to 4.42 g/L (beta-), and 0.10 to 1.72 g/L (alpha-), with beta-casein having the highest average concentration among the three subunits. Calculated whey/casein ratio ranged from 45:55 to 97:3. Linear regression analyses show significant decreases in total protein, beta-casein, kappa-casein, total casein, and a significant increase of whey/casein ratio during the course of lactation. Our study presents a novel and accurate quantitative analysis of human milk casein content, demonstrating a lower casein content than earlier believed, which has implications for improved infants formulas.
PXD008056	28925401	Endogenous androgen receptor proteomic profiling reveals genomic subcomplex involved in prostate tumorigenesis. 	Endogenous androgen receptor proteomic profiling reveals genomic subcomplex involved in prostate tumorigenesis	Androgen Receptor, Interactome, Prostate cancer, RIME	Androgen receptor (AR) is a key player in prostate cancer development and progression. Here we applied immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry of endogenous AR in LNCaP cells to identify components of the AR transcriptional complex. In total, 66 known and novel AR interactors were identified in the presence of synthetic androgen, most of which were critical for AR-driven prostate cancer cell proliferation. A subset of AR interactors required for LNCaP proliferation were profiled using chromatin immunoprecipitation assays followed by sequencing, identifying distinct genomic subcomplexes of AR interaction partners. Interestingly, three major subgroups of genomic subcomplexes were identified, where selective gain of function for AR genomic action in tumorigenesis was found, dictated by FOXA1 and HOXB13. In summary, by combining proteomic and genomic approaches we reveal subclasses of AR transcriptional complexes, differentiating normal AR behavior from the oncogenic state. In this process, the expression of AR interactors has key roles by reprogramming the AR cistrome and interactome in a genomic location-specific manner.
PXD007174	28925544	Metaproteomics of marine viral concentrates reveals key viral populations and abundant periplasmic proteins in the oligotrophic deep chlorophyll maximum of the South China Sea. 	Metaproteomics of viral concentrates at deep chlorophyll maximum of Scouth China Sea	56 kDa selenium-binding protein, Metaproteomics, metaproteomics, viral concentrates, virua	Viral concentrates (VCs), containing bioinformative DNA and proteins, have been used to study viral diversity, viral metagenomics and virus-host interactions in natural ecosystems. Besides viruses, VCs also contain many noncellular biological components including diverse functional proteins. Here, we used a shotgun proteomic approach to characterize the proteins of VCs collected from the oligotrophic deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM) of the South China Sea. Proteins of viruses infecting picophytoplankton, that is, cyanobacteria and prasinophytes, and heterotrophic bacterioplankton, such as SAR11 and SAR116, dominated the viral proteome. Almost no proteins from RNA viruses or known gene transfer agents were detected, suggesting that they were not abundant at the sampling site. Remarkably, nonviral proteins made up about two thirds of VC proteins, including overwhelmingly abundant periplasmic transporters for nutrient acquisition and proteins for diverse cellular processes, that is, translation, energy metabolism and one carbon metabolism. Interestingly, three 56 kDa selenium-binding proteins putatively involved in peroxide reduction from gammaproteobacteria were abundant in the VCs, suggesting active removal of peroxide compounds at DCM. Our study demonstrated that metaproteomics provides a valuable avenue to explore the diversity and structure of the viral community and also the pivotal biological functions affiliated with microbes in the natural environment.
PXD004103	28927264	Comparative Interactomes of VRK1 and VRK3 with Their Distinct Roles in the Cell Cycle of Liver Cancer. 	Comparative interactomes of VRK1 and VRK3: implication in cell cycle, chromatin assembly, RNA processing and DNA repair	VRK1, VRK3, interactome	Vaccinia-related kinase 1 (VRK1) and VRK3 are members of the VRK family of serine/threonine kinases and are principally localized in the nucleus. Despite the crucial roles of VRK1/VRK3 in physiology and disease, the molecular and functional interactions of VRK1/VRK3 are poorly understood. Here, we identified over 200 unreported VRK1/VRK3-interacting candidate proteins by affinity purification and LC-MS/MS. The networks of VRK1 and VRK3 interactomes were found to be associated with important biological processes such as the cell cycle, DNA repair, chromatin assembly, and RNA processing. Interactions of interacting proteins with VRK1/VRK3 were confirmed by biochemical assays. We also found that phosphorylations of XRCC5 were regulated by both VRK1/VRK3, and that of CCNB1 was regulated by VRK3. In liver cancer cells and tissues, VRK1/VRK3 were highly upregulated and its depletion affected cell cycle progression in the different phases. VRK3 seemed to affect S phase progression and G2 or M phase entry and exit, whereas VRK1 affects G1/S transition in the liver cancer, which could be explained by different interacting candidate proteins. Thus, this study not only provides a resource for investigating the unidentified functions of VRK1/VRK3, but also an insight into the regulatory roles of VRK1/VRK3 in biological processes.
PXD006732	28927269	Discovery of Tamoxifen and N-Desmethyl Tamoxifen Protein Targets in MCF-7 Cells Using Large-Scale Protein Folding and Stability Measurements. 	Discovery of Tamoxifen and N-Desmethyl Tamoxifen Protein Targets in MCF-7 Cells Using Large-Scale Protein Folding and Stability Measurements	MCF-7, N-Desmethyl Tamoxifen, SILAC, SPROX, Tamoxifen	The proteins in an MCF-7 cell line were probed for tamoxifen (TAM) and n-desmethyl tamoxifen (NDT) induced stability changes using the Stability of Proteins from Rates of Oxidation (SPROX) technique in combination with two different quantitative proteomics strategies, including one based on SILAC and one based on isobaric mass tags. Over 1000 proteins were assayed for TAM- and NDT-induced protein stability changes, and a total of 163 and 200 protein hits were identified in the TAM and NDT studies, respectively. A subset of 27 high-confidence protein hits were reproducibly identified with both proteomics strategies and/or with multiple peptide probes. One-third of the high-confidence hits have previously established experimental links to the estrogen receptor, and nearly all of the high-confidence hits have established links to breast cancer. One high-confidence protein hit that has known estrogen receptor binding properties, Y-box binding protein 1 (YBX1), was further validated as a direct binding target of TAM using both the SPROX and pulse proteolysis techniques. Proteins with TAM- and/or NDT-induced expression level changes were also identified in the SILAC-SPROX experiments. These proteins with expression level changes included only a small fraction of those with TAM- and/or NDT-induced stability changes.
PXD007237	28928222	Single-subunit oligosaccharyltransferases of Trypanosoma brucei display different and predictable peptide acceptor specificities. 	The phosphoproteomic landscape of 16 Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) cell lines	AML, Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Tyrosine kinase, label-free, phosphokinase ranking, phosphoproteomics, single-shot	Trypanosoma brucei causes African trypanosomiasis and contains three full-length oligosaccharyltransferase (OST) genes; two of which, TbSTT3A and TbSTT3B, are expressed in the bloodstream form of the parasite. These OSTs have different peptide acceptor and lipid-linked oligosaccharide donor specificities, and trypanosomes do not follow many of the canonical rules developed for other eukaryotic N-glycosylation pathways, raising questions as to the basic architecture and detailed function of trypanosome OSTs. Here, we show by blue-native gel electrophoresis and stable isotope labeling in cell culture proteomics that the TbSTT3A and TbSTT3B proteins associate with each other in large complexes that contain no other detectable protein subunits. We probed the peptide acceptor specificities of the OSTs in vivo using a transgenic glycoprotein reporter system and performed glycoproteomics on endogenous parasite glycoproteins using sequential endoglycosidase H and peptide:N-glycosidase-F digestions. This allowed us to assess the relative occupancies of numerous N-glycosylation sites by endoglycosidase H-resistant N-glycans originating from Man5GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol transferred by TbSTT3A, and endoglycosidase H-sensitive N-glycans originating from Man9GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol transferred by TbSTT3B. Using machine learning, we assessed the features that best define TbSTT3A and TbSTT3B substrates in vivo and built an algorithm to predict the types of N-glycan most likely to predominate at all the putative N-glycosylation sites in the parasite proteome. Finally, molecular modeling was used to suggest why TbSTT3A has a distinct preference for sequons containing and/or flanked by acidic amino acid residues. Together, these studies provide insights into how a highly divergent eukaryote has re-wired protein N-glycosylation to provide protein sequence-specific N-glycan modifications. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD007236, PXD007267, and PXD007268.
PXD004640	28928394	RNA localization is a key determinant of neurite-enriched proteome. 	RNA localization is a key determinant of neurite-enriched proteome	LFQ, Mouse ES, differentiation, local translation	Protein subcellular localization is fundamental to the establishment of the body axis, cell migration, synaptic plasticity, and a vast range of other biological processes. Protein localization occurs through three mechanisms: protein transport, mRNA localization, and local translation. However, the relative contribution of each process to neuronal polarity remains unknown. Using neurons differentiated from mouse embryonic stem cells, we analyze protein and RNA expression and translation rates in isolated cell bodies and neurites genome-wide. We quantify 7323 proteins and the entire transcriptome, and identify hundreds of neurite-localized proteins and locally translated mRNAs. Our results demonstrate that mRNA localization is the primary mechanism for protein localization in neurites that may account for half of the neurite-localized proteome. Moreover, we identify multiple neurite-targeted non-coding RNAs and RNA-binding proteins with potential regulatory roles. These results provide further insight into the mechanisms underlying the establishment of neuronal polarity.Subcellular localization of RNAs and proteins is important for polarized cells such as neurons. Here the authors differentiate mouse embryonic stem cells into neurons, and analyze the local transcriptome, proteome, and translated transcriptome in their cell bodies and neurites, providing a unique resource for future studies on neuronal polarity.
PXD007570	28930429	Mapping Protein Targets of Bioactive Small Molecules Using Lipid-Based Chemical Proteomics. 	Mapping Protein Targets of Bioactive Small Molecules using Lipid-Based Chemical Proteomics	HEK293T, Neuro2A, Orbitrap Velos, chemoproteomics, lipid probes	Lipids play critical roles in cell biology, often through direct interactions with proteins. We recently described the use of photoreactive lipid probes combined with quantitative mass spectrometry to globally map lipid-protein interactions, and the effects of drugs on these interactions, in cells. Here, we investigate the broader potential of lipid-based chemical proteomic probes for determining the cellular targets of biologically active small molecules, including natural product derivatives and repurposed drugs of ill-defined mechanisms. We identify the prostaglandin-regulatory enzyme PTGR2 as a target of the antidiabetic hops derivative KDT501 and show that miconazole-an antifungal drug that attenuates disease severity in preclinical models of multiple sclerosis-inhibits SGPL1, an enzyme that degrades the signaling lipid sphingosine-1-phosphate, drug analogues of which are used to treat multiple sclerosis in humans. Our findings highlight the versatility of lipid-based chemical proteomics probes for mapping small molecule-protein interactions in human cells to gain mechanistic understanding of bioactive compounds.
PXD005439	28931430	Global proteomic profiling of Yersinia ruckeri strains. 	Shotgun proteomic profiling of Yersinia ruckeri strains	Whole cell proteomics, Yersinia ruckeri, enteric redmouth disease	Yersinia ruckeri is the causative agent of enteric redmouth disease (ERM) of salmonids. There is little information regarding the proteomics of Y. ruckeri. Herein, we perform whole protein identification and quantification of biotype 1 and biotype 2 strains of Y. ruckeri grown under standard culture conditions using a shotgun proteomic approach. Proteins were extracted, digested and peptides were separated by a nano liquid chromatography system and analyzed with a high-resolution hybrid triple quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometer coupled via a nano ESI interface. SWATH-MS technology and sophisticated statistical analyses were used to identify proteome differences among virulent and avirulent strains. GO annotation, subcellular localization, virulence proteins and antibiotic resistance ontology were predicted using bioinformatic tools. A total of 1395 proteins were identified in the whole cell of Y. ruckeri. These included proteases, chaperones, cell division proteins, outer membrane proteins, lipoproteins, receptors, ion binding proteins, transporters and catalytic proteins. In virulent strains, a total of 16 proteins were upregulated including anti-sigma regulatory factor, arginine deiminase, phosphate-binding protein PstS and superoxide dismutase Cu-Zu. Additionally, several virulence proteins were predicted such as Clp and Lon pro-teases, TolB, PPIases, PstS, PhoP and LuxR family transcriptional regulators. These putative virulence proteins might be used for development of novel targets for treatment of ERM in fish. Our study represents one of the first global proteomic reference profiles of Y. ruckeri and this data can be accessed via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005439. These proteomic profiles elucidate proteomic mechanisms, pathogenicity, host-interactions, antibiotic resistance ontology and localization of Y. ruckeri proteins.
PXD003670	28931556	Cancer-associated fibroblasts lead tumor invasion through integrin-beta3-dependent fibronectin assembly. 	Carcinoma-associated fibroblasts stimulate cancer cell invasion by mechanically remodeling the basement membrane	CAF, SILAC, basement membrane, cell invasion, secretome	Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are the most abundant cells of the tumor stroma. Their capacity to contract the matrix and induce invasion of cancer cells has been well documented. However, it is not clear whether CAFs remodel the matrix by other means, such as degradation, matrix deposition, or stiffening. We now show that CAFs assemble fibronectin (FN) and trigger invasion mainly via integrin-alphavbeta3. In the absence of FN, contractility of the matrix by CAFs is preserved, but their ability to induce invasion is abrogated. When degradation is impaired, CAFs retain the capacity to induce invasion in an FN-dependent manner. The level of expression of integrins alphav and beta3 and the amount of assembled FN are directly proportional to the invasion induced by fibroblast populations. Our results highlight FN assembly and integrin-alphavbeta3 expression as new hallmarks of CAFs that promote tumor invasion.
PXD006790	28931820	The non-canonical poly(A) polymerase FAM46C acts as an onco-suppressor in multiple myeloma. 	The non-canonical poly(A) polymerase FAM46C acts as an onco-suppressor in multiple myeloma	B lymphocytes, FAM46C, anemia, multiple myeloma, polyadenylation	FAM46C is one of the most frequently mutated genes in multiple myeloma. Here, using a combination of in vitro and in vivo approaches, we demonstrate that FAM46C encodes an active non-canonical poly(A) polymerase which enhances mRNA stability and gene expression. Reintroduction of active FAM46C into multiple myeloma cell lines, but not its catalytically-inactive mutant, leads to broad polyadenylation and stabilization of mRNAs strongly enriched with those encoding endoplasmic reticulum-targeted proteins and induces cell death. Moreover, silencing of FAM46C in multiple myeloma cells expressing WT protein enhance cell proliferation. Finally, using a FAM46C-FLAG knock-in mouse strain, we show that the FAM46C protein is strongly induced during activation of primary splenocytes and that B lymphocytes isolated from newly generated FAM46C KO mice proliferate faster than those isolated from their WT littermates. Concluding, our data clearly indicate that FAM46C works as an onco-suppressor, with the specificity for B-lymphocyte lineage from which multiple myeloma originates. FAM46C is one of the most frequently mutated genes in multiple myeloma (MM), but its molecular function remains unknown. Here the authors show that FAM46C is a poly(A) polymerase and that loss of function of FAM46C drives multiple myeloma through the destabilisation of ER response transcripts.
PXD006913	28931823	Bacterial outer membrane vesicles suppress tumor by interferon-gamma-mediated antitumor response. 	Staphylococcus aureus RN4220 wild-type extracellular vesicle proteome	Staphylococcus aureus, bacteria, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, membrane vesicles	Gram-negative bacteria actively secrete outer membrane vesicles, spherical nano-meter-sized proteolipids enriched with outer membrane proteins, to the surroundings. Outer membrane vesicles have gained wide interests as non-living complex vaccines or delivery vehicles. However, no study has used outer membrane vesicles in treating cancer thus far. Here we investigate the potential of bacterial outer membrane vesicles as therapeutic agents to treat cancer via immunotherapy. Our results show remarkable capability of bacterial outer membrane vesicles to effectively induce long-term antitumor immune responses that can fully eradicate established tumors without notable adverse effects. Moreover, systematically administered bacterial outer membrane vesicles specifically target and accumulate in the tumor tissue, and subsequently induce the production of antitumor cytokines CXCL10 and interferon-gamma. This antitumor effect is interferon-gamma dependent, as interferon-gamma-deficient mice could not induce such outer membrane vesicle-mediated immune response. Together, our results herein demonstrate the potential of bacterial outer membrane vesicles as effective immunotherapeutic agent that can treat various cancers without apparent adverse effects.Bacterial outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) contain immunogens but no study has yet examined their potential in treating cancer. Here, the authors demonstrate that OMVs can suppress established tumours and prevent tumour metastasis by an interferon-gamma mediated antitumor response.
PXD007151	28932706	Global Proteomics Revealed Klebsiella pneumoniae Induced Autophagy and Oxidative Stress in Caenorhabditis elegans by Inhibiting PI3K/AKT/mTOR Pathway during Infection. 	Global proteomic analysis of changes in the Caenorhabditis elegans proteome during Klebsiella pneumoniae infection	Caenorhabditis elegans, Klebsiella pneumoniae, MS	The enterobacterium, Klebsiella pneumoniae invades the intestinal epithelium of humans by interfering with multiple host cell response. To uncover a system-level overview of host response during infection, we analyzed the global dynamics of protein profiling in Caenorhabditis elegans using quantitative proteomics approach. Comparison of protein samples of nematodes exposed to K. pneumoniae for 12, 24, and 36 h by 2DE revealed several changes in host proteome. A total of 266 host-encoded proteins were identified by 2DE MALDI-MS/MS and LC-MS/MS and the interacting partners of the identified proteins were predicted by STRING 10.0 analysis. In order to understand the interacting partners of regulatory proteins with similar or close pI ranges, a liquid IEF was performed and the isolated fractions containing proteins were identified by LC-MS/MS. Functional bioinformatics analysis on identified proteins deciphered that they were mostly related to the metabolism, dauer formation, apoptosis, endocytosis, signal transduction, translation, developmental, and reproduction process. Gene enrichment analysis suggested that the metabolic process as the most overrepresented pathway regulated against K. pneumoniae infection. The dauer-like formation in infected C. elegans along with intestinal atrophy and ROS during the physiological analysis indicated that the regulation of metabolic pathway is probably through the involvement of mTOR. Immunoblot analysis supported the above notion that the K. pneumoniae infection induced protein mis-folding in host by involving PI3Kinase/AKT-1/mTOR mediated pathway. Furthermore, the susceptibility of pdi-2, akt-1, and mTOR C. elegans mutants confirmed the role and involvement of PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway in mediating protein mis-folding which appear to be translating the vulnerability of host defense toward K. pneumoniae infection.
PXD004891	28933595	Phosphoproteome-based kinase activity profiling reveals the critical role of MAP2K2 and PLK1 in neuronal autophagy. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of mouse N2a cells	Mouse N2a Phosphoproteomics Cory Cory B	Recent studies have demonstrated that dysregulation of macroautophagy/autophagy may play a central role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, and the induction of autophagy protects against the toxic insults of aggregate-prone proteins by enhancing their clearance. Thus, autophagy has become a promising therapeutic target against neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, quantitative phosphoproteomic profiling together with a computational analysis was performed to delineate the phosphorylation signaling networks regulated by 2 natural neuroprotective autophagy enhancers, corynoxine (Cory) and corynoxine B (Cory B). To identify key regulators, namely, protein kinases, we developed a novel network-based algorithm of in silico Kinome Activity Profiling (iKAP) to computationally infer potentially important protein kinases from phosphorylation networks. Using this algorithm, we observed that Cory or Cory B potentially regulated several kinases. We predicted and validated that Cory, but not Cory B, downregulated a well-documented autophagy kinase, RPS6KB1/p70S6K (ribosomal protein S6 kinase, polypeptide 1). We also discovered 2 kinases, MAP2K2/MEK2 (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 2) and PLK1 (polo-like kinase 1), to be potentially upregulated by Cory, whereas the siRNA-mediated knockdown of Map2k2 and Plk1 significantly inhibited Cory-induced autophagy. Furthermore, Cory promoted the clearance of Alzheimer disease-associated APP (amyloid beta [A4] precursor protein) and Parkinson disease-associated SNCA/alpha-synuclein (synuclein, alpha) by enhancing autophagy, and these effects were dramatically diminished by the inhibition of the kinase activities of MAP2K2 and PLK1. As a whole, our study not only developed a powerful method for the identification of important regulators from the phosphoproteomic data but also identified the important role of MAP2K2 and PLK1 in neuronal autophagy.
PXD007610	28933694	Ubiquilin1 promotes antigen-receptor mediated proliferation by eliminating mislocalized mitochondrial proteins. 	Ubiquilin1 promotes antigen-receptor mediated proliferation by eliminating mislocalized mitochondrial proteins	B cells, Cytosol, TMT, mitochondrial	Ubiquilins (Ubqlns) are a family of ubiquitin receptors that promote the delivery of hydrophobic and aggregated ubiquitinated proteins to the proteasome for degradation. We carried out a proteomic analysis of a B cell lymphoma-derived cell line, BJAB, that requires UBQLN1 for survival to identify UBQLN1 client proteins. When UBQLN1 expression was acutely inhibited, 120 mitochondrial proteins were enriched in the cytoplasm, suggesting that the accumulation of mitochondrial client proteins in the absence of UBQLN1 is cytostatic. Using a Ubqln1(-/-) mouse strain, we found that B cell receptor (BCR) ligation of Ubqln1(-/-) B cells led to a defect in cell cycle entry. As in BJAB cells, mitochondrial proteins accumulated in BCR-stimulated cells, leading to protein synthesis inhibition and cell cycle block. Thus, UBQLN1 plays an important role in clearing mislocalized mitochondrial proteins upon cell stimulation, and its absence leads to suppression of protein synthesis and cell cycle arrest.
PXD006068	28935704	The splicing co-factor Barricade/Tat-SF1 is required for cell cycle and lineage progression in Drosophila neural stem cells. 	The splicing co-factor Barricade/Tat-SF1, is required for cell cycle and lineage progression in Drosophila neural stem cells.	Drosophila melanogaster, Fruit fly, barc, immunoprecipitation, larval brain	Stem cells need to balance self-renewal and differentiation for correct tissue development and homeostasis. Defects in this balance can lead to developmental defects or tumor formation. In recent years, mRNA splicing has emerged as an important mechanism regulating cell fate decisions. Here we address the role of the evolutionarily conserved splicing co-factor Barricade (Barc)/Tat-SF1/CUS2 in Drosophila neural stem cell (neuroblast) lineage formation. We show that Barc is required for the generation of neurons during Drosophila brain development by ensuring correct neural progenitor proliferation and differentiation. Barc associates with components of the U2 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP) complex, and its depletion causes alternative splicing in the form of intron retention in a subset of genes. Using bioinformatics analysis and a cell culture-based splicing assay, we found that Barc-dependent introns share three major traits: they are short, GC rich and have weak 3' splice sites. Our results show that Barc, together with the U2 snRNP complex, plays an important role in regulating neural stem cell lineage progression during brain development and facilitates correct splicing of a subset of introns.
PXD007628	28935714	Profiling MHC II immunopeptidome of blood-stage malaria reveals that cDC1 control the functionality of parasite-specific CD4 T cells. 	MHC II immunopeptidome during Plasmodium berghei blood stage infection	MHC II, Plasmodium berghei, malaria	In malaria, CD4 Th1 and T follicular helper (TFH) cells are important for controlling parasite growth, but Th1 cells also contribute to immunopathology. Moreover, various regulatory CD4 T-cell subsets are critical to hamper pathology. Yet the antigen-presenting cells controlling Th functionality, as well as the antigens recognized by CD4 T cells, are largely unknown. Here, we characterize the MHC II immunopeptidome presented by DC during blood-stage malaria in mice. We establish the immunodominance hierarchy of 14 MHC II ligands derived from conserved parasite proteins. Immunodominance is shaped differently whether blood stage is preceded or not by liver stage, but the same ETRAMP-specific dominant response develops in both contexts. In naive mice and at the onset of cerebral malaria, CD8alpha(+) dendritic cells (cDC1) are superior to other DC subsets for MHC II presentation of the ETRAMP epitope. Using in vivo depletion of cDC1, we show that cDC1 promote parasite-specific Th1 cells and inhibit the development of IL-10(+) CD4 T cells. This work profiles the P. berghei blood-stage MHC II immunopeptidome, highlights the potency of cDC1 to present malaria antigens on MHC II, and reveals a major role for cDC1 in regulating malaria-specific CD4 T-cell responses.
PXD002446	28935716	Proteomic Analysis of Phytophthora infestans Reveals the Importance of Cell Wall Proteins in Pathogenicity. 	Quantitative proteomics of Phytophthora infestans life stages	Phytophthora infestans, ProteomeXchange project tag: Bioinformatics Infrastructure for Life Sciences (BILS) network (Sweden), life stages	The oomycete Phytophthora infestans is the most harmful pathogen of potato. It causes the disease late blight, which generates increased yearly costs of up to one billion euro in the EU alone and is difficult to control. We have performed a large-scale quantitative proteomics study of six P. infestans life stages with the aim to identify proteins that change in abundance during development, with a focus on preinfectious life stages. Over 10 000 peptides from 2061 proteins were analyzed. We identified several abundance profiles of proteins that were up- or downregulated in different combinations of life stages. One of these profiles contained 59 proteins that were more abundant in germinated cysts and appressoria. A large majority of these proteins were not previously recognized as being appressorial proteins or involved in the infection process. Among those are proteins with putative roles in transport, amino acid metabolism, pathogenicity (including one RXLR effector) and cell wall structure modification. We analyzed the expression of the genes encoding nine of these proteins using RT-qPCR and found an increase in transcript levels during disease progression, in agreement with the hypothesis that these proteins are important in early infection. Among the nine proteins was a group involved in cell wall structure modification and adhesion, including three closely related, uncharacterized proteins encoded by PITG_01131, PITG_01132, and PITG_16135, here denoted Piacwp1-3 Transient silencing of these genes resulted in reduced severity of infection, indicating that these proteins are important for pathogenicity. Our results contribute to further insight into P. infestans biology, and indicate processes that might be relevant for the pathogen while preparing for host cell penetration and during infection. The mass spectrometry data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier PXD002446.
PXD007664	28938113	A Spatial Interactome Reveals the Protein Organization of the Algal CO2-Concentrating Mechanism. 	A Spatial Interactome Reveals the Protein Organization of the Algal CO2 Concentrating Mechanism	15N isotopic labelling, CCM, CO2-concentrating mechanism, Rubisco, affinity purification mass spectrometry, c, carbon-fixation, high-throughput fluorescence protein tagging, orbitrap, photosynthesis, pyrenoid	Approximately one-third of global CO2 fixation is performed by eukaryotic algae. Nearly all algae enhance their carbon assimilation by operating a CO2-concentrating mechanism (CCM) built around an organelle called the pyrenoid, whose protein composition is largely unknown. Here, we developed tools in the model alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii to determine the localizations of 135 candidate CCM proteins and physical interactors of 38 of these proteins. Our data reveal the identity of 89 pyrenoid proteins, including Rubisco-interacting proteins, photosystem I assembly factor candidates, and inorganic carbon flux components. We identify three previously undescribed protein layers of the pyrenoid: a plate-like layer, a mesh layer, and a punctate layer. We find that the carbonic anhydrase CAH6 is in the flagella, not in the stroma that surrounds the pyrenoid as in current models. These results provide an overview of proteins operating in the eukaryotic algal CCM, a key process that drives global carbon fixation.
PXD006296	28940701	A Bioinformatic Algorithm for Analyzing Cell Signaling Using Temporal Proteomic Data. 	EGF drug resistance in Hela cells	EGF, Gefitinib, human Hela cell	Significance analysis of proteomic data generated by LC-MS/MS is challenging owing to great data variability originated from biological, operational, and instrumental variations. Protein quantification by LC-MS/MS either in absolute or relative scale is often highly skewed, which put limitations on model-based statistical inference. For this purpose, we have developed an alternative nonparametric statistical algorithm (named IQR algorithm) for significance analysis of temporal proteomic data and have successfully applied our strategy in finding gefitinib-targeted transcription factors and coregulators in Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF)-stimulated HeLa cells. Our strategy relies on a reference group composed of more than a dozen of datasets collected at different experimental times, thus, accurately captures biological variations measured in quartile scale. The algorithm considers six categories and calculates signal strength when performing significance analysis of proteins of different abundances. This stratified strategy allows confident identification of well-characterized EGF responders (e.g. EGR1, JUN, FOSB, BHLHE40, NR4A1, and NR4A2) and unexplored gefitinib induced transcription factors and coregulators in HeLa cells. Gene set enrichment analysis has validated ErbB signaling pathway as the major inhibitory target of gefitinib. The identification of several gefitinib-inducible transcription factors implicates alternative signaling pathways as potential druggable pathways in gefitinib-resistant or insensitive patients.
PXD004363	28941238	Discovery of Antimicrobial Peptides in Cervical-Vaginal Fluid from Healthy Nonpregnant Women via an Integrated Proteome and Peptidome Analysis. 	Non-pregnant CVF protome and peptidome	CVF, non-pregnant	Cervical-vaginal fluid (CVF) covers the lower part of the female reproductive system and functions in the homeostasis and immunity of the surrounding tissues. In contrast to the CVF proteome of both nonpregnant and pregnant women, the CVF peptidome has not been reported to date. In the current study, we identified 1087 proteins in CVF, of which 801 proteins were not previously identified in CVF proteomes. The presence of the tissue-specific proteins oviductal glycoprotein 1 and tubulin polymerization-promoting protein family member 3 strongly suggests that the tissues of the upper female reproductive tract contribute to the protein composition of CVF. The tremendous catalytic potential of CVF was highlighted by the identification of 85 proteases and the detection of pH-dependent trypsin-like proteolytic activity. Over 1000 endogenous peptides were detected in the CVF peptidome, and 39 peptides are predicted to have antimicrobial activity. The detailed proteomic and peptidomic analysis of CVF will further aid in the delineation of pathways related to reproduction, immunity and host defense, and assist in developing new biomarkers for malignant and other diseases of the female reproductive tract. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD004450 (CVF peptidome) and PDX004363 (CVF proteome).
PXD004646	28943390	The E. coli S30 lysate proteome: A prototype for cell-free protein production. 	E. coli S30 lysate proteome -  The E	E. coli A19, Heatshock lysate, S30 lysate, qualitative and quantititative proteomics	Protein production using processed cell lysates is a core technology in synthetic biology and these systems are excellent to produce difficult toxins or membrane proteins. However, the composition of the central lysate of cell-free systems is still a "black box". Escherichia coli lysates are most productive for cell-free expression, yielding several mgs of protein per ml of reaction. Their preparation implies proteome fractionation, resulting in strongly biased and yet unknown lysate compositions. Many metabolic pathways are expected to be truncated or completely removed. The lack of knowledge of basic cell-free lysate proteomes is a major bottleneck for directed lysate engineering approaches as well as for assay design using non-purified reaction mixtures. This study is starting to close this gap by providing a blueprint of the S30 lysate proteome derived from the commonly used E. coli strain A19. S30 lysates are frequently used for cell-free protein production and represent the basis of most commercial E. coli cell-free expression systems. A fraction of 821 proteins was identified as the core proteome in S30 lysates, representing approximately a quarter of the known E. coli proteome. Its classification into functional groups relevant for transcription/translation, folding, stability and metabolic processes will build the framework for tailored cell-free reactions. As an example, we show that SOS response induction during cultivation results in tuned S30 lysate with better folding capacity, and improved solubility and activity of synthesized proteins. The presented data and protocols can serve as a platform for the generation of customized cell-free systems and product analysis.
PXD005262	28944503	Global quantification of phosphoproteins combining metabolic labeling and gel-based proteomics in B. pumilus. 	A protocol for global quantification of phosphoproteins combining metabolic labeling and gel-based proteomics	14N/15N metabolic labeling, Bacillus pumilus, gel-based proteomics, peroxide stress adaptation, phosphorylation, quantification	Differential proteomics targeting the protein abundance is commonly used to follow changes in biological systems. Differences in localization and degree of post-translational modifications of proteins including phosphorylations are of tremendous interest due to the anticipated role in molecular regulatory processes. Because of their particular low abundance in prokaryotes, identification and quantification of protein phosphorylation is traditionally performed by either comparison of spot intensities on two-dimensional gels after differential phosphoprotein staining or gel-free by stable isotope labeling, sequential phosphopeptide enrichment and following LC-MS analysis. In the current work, we combined in a proof-of-principle experiment these techniques using (14) N/(15) N metabolic labeling with succeeding protein separation on 2D gels. The visualization of phosphorylations on protein level by differential staining was followed by protein identification and determination of phosphorylation sites and quantification by LC-MS/MS. This approach should avoid disadvantages of traditional workflows, in particular the limited capability of peptide-based gel-free methods to quantify isoforms of proteins. Comparing control and stress conditions allowed for relative quantification in protein phosphorylation in Bacillus pumilus exposed to hydrogen peroxide. Altogether, we quantified with this method 19 putatively phosphorylated proteins.
PXD006577	28945067	Intertwined Precursor Supply during Biosynthesis of the Catecholate-Hydroxamate Siderophores Qinichelins in Streptomyces sp. MBT76. 	Proteomics analysis of streptomyces sp. MBT76 demonstrates the production of qinichelins, new mixed catecholate-hydroxamate siderophores	dimethyl labeling, natural products, siderophore, streptomyces	The explosive increase in genome sequencing and the advances in bioinformatic tools have revolutionized the rationale for natural product discovery from actinomycetes. In particular, this has revealed that actinomycete genomes contain numerous orphan gene clusters that have the potential to specify many yet unknown bioactive specialized metabolites, representing a huge unexploited pool of chemical diversity. Here, we describe the discovery of a novel group of catecholate-hydroxamate siderophores termed qinichelins (2-5) from Streptomyces sp. MBT76. Correlation between the metabolite levels and the protein expression profiles identified the biosynthetic gene cluster (named qch) most likely responsible for qinichelin biosynthesis. The structure of the molecules was elucidated by bioinformatics, mass spectrometry, and NMR. The genome of Streptomyces sp. MBT76 contains three gene clusters for the production of catecholate-peptide siderophores, including a separate cluster for the production of a shared catecholate precursor. In addition, an operon in the qch cluster was identified for the production of the ornithine precursor for qinichelins, independent of primary metabolism. This biosynthetic complexity provides new insights into the challenges scientists face when applying synthetic biology approaches for natural product discovery.
PXD005270	28945737	Quantitative multiplexed proteomics of Taenia solium cysts obtained from the skeletal muscle and central nervous system of pigs. 	Quantitative multiplex proteomics of Taenia solium cysts	Taenia solium, cysticerci	In human and porcine cysticercosis caused by the tapeworm Taenia solium, the larval stage (cysts) can infest several tissues including the central nervous system (CNS) and the skeletal muscles (SM). The cyst's proteomics changes associated with the tissue localization in the host tissues have been poorly studied. Quantitative multiplexed proteomics has the power to evaluate global proteome changes in response to different conditions. Here, using a TMT-multiplexed strategy we identified and quantified over 4,200 proteins in cysts obtained from the SM and CNS of pigs, of which 891 were host proteins. To our knowledge, this is the most extensive intermixing of host and parasite proteins reported for tapeworm infections.Several antigens in cysticercosis, i.e., GP50, paramyosin and a calcium-binding protein were enriched in skeletal muscle cysts. Our results suggested the occurrence of tissue-enriched antigen that could be useful in the improvement of the immunodiagnosis for cysticercosis. Using several algorithms for epitope detection, we selected 42 highly antigenic proteins enriched for each tissue localization of the cysts. Taking into account the fold changes and the antigen/epitope contents, we selected 10 proteins and produced synthetic peptides from the best epitopes. Nine peptides were recognized by serum antibodies of cysticercotic pigs, suggesting that those peptides are antigens. Mixtures of peptides derived from SM and CNS cysts yielded better results than mixtures of peptides derived from a single tissue location, however the identification of the 'optimal' tissue-enriched antigens remains to be discovered. Through machine learning technologies, we determined that a reliable immunodiagnostic test for porcine cysticercosis required at least five different antigenic determinants.
PXD006798	28949146	Synaptosomal Proteome of the Orbitofrontal Cortex from Schizophrenia Patients Using Quantitative Label-Free and iTRAQ-Based Shotgun Proteomics. 	Synaptosomal proteome from schizophrenia patients	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP), quantitative proteomics, schizophrenia, synaptosome	Schizophrenia is a chronic and incurable neuropsychiatric disorder that affects about one percent of the world population. The proteomic characterization of the synaptosome fraction of the orbitofrontal cortex is useful for providing valuable information about the molecular mechanisms of synaptic functions in these patients. Quantitative analyses of synaptic proteins were made with eight paranoid schizophrenia patients and a pool of eight healthy controls free of mental diseases. Label-free and iTRAQ labeling identified a total of 2018 protein groups. Statistical analyses revealed 12 and 55 significantly dysregulated proteins by iTRAQ and label-free, respectively. Quantitative proteome analyses showed an imbalance in the calcium signaling pathway and proteins such as reticulon-1 and cytochrome c, related to endoplasmic reticulum stress and programmed cell death. Also, it was found that there is a significant increase in limbic-system-associated membrane protein and alpha-calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, associated with the regulation of human behavior. Our data contribute to a better understanding about apoptosis as a possible pathophysiological mechanism of this disease as well as neural systems supporting social behavior in schizophrenia. This study also is a joint effort of the Chr 15 C-HPP team and the Human Brain Proteome Project of B/D-HPP. All MS proteomics data are deposited in the ProteomeXchange Repository under PXD006798.
PXD008620	28951296	A fractionation approach applying chelating magnetic nanoparticles to characterize pericardial fluid's proteome. 	Characterization of pericardial fluid proteome through fractionation with magnetic nanoparticles (NPs@EDTA)	Fractionation, Magnetic Nanoparticles, Pericardial Fluid	Owing to their close proximity, pericardial fluid (PF)'s proteome may mirror the pathophysiological status of the heart. Despite this diagnosis potential, the knowledge of PF's proteome is scarce. Large amounts of albumin hamper the characterization of the least abundant proteins in PF. Aiming to expand PF's proteome and to validate the technique for future applications, we have fractionated and characterized the PF, using N-(trimethoxysilylpropyl)ethylenediamine triacetic acid (EDTA)-functionalized magnetic nanoparticles (NPs@EDTA) followed by a GeLC-MS/MS approach. Similarly to an albumin-depletion kit, NPs@EDTA-based fractionation was efficient in removing albumin. Both methods displayed comparable inter-individual variability, but NPs@EDTA outperformed the former with regard to the protein dynamic range as well as to the monitoring of biological processes. Overall, 565 proteins were identified, of which 297 (>50%) have never been assigned to PF. Moreover, owing to this method's good proteome reproducibility, affordability, rapid automation and high binding ability of NP@EDTA, it bears a great potential towards future clinical application.
PXD007733	28951443	Converging Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier (SUMO) and Ubiquitin Signaling: Improved Methodology Identifies Co-modified Target Proteins. 	Converging SUMO and ubiquitin signaling: improved methodology identifies co-modified target proteins	PTMs, SUMO, co-modification, nanoLC-MS/MS, ubiquitin	Post-translational protein modifications (PTMs) including small chemical groups and small proteins, belonging to the ubiquitin family, are essential for virtually all cellular processes. In addition to modification by a single PTM, proteins can be modified by a combination of different modifiers, which are able to influence each other. Because little is known about crosstalk among different ubiquitin family members, we developed an improved method enabling identification of co-modified proteins on a system-wide level using mass spectrometry. We focused on the role of crosstalk between SUMO and ubiquitin during proteasomal degradation. Using two complementary approaches, we identified 498 proteins to be significantly co-modified by SUMO and ubiquitin upon MG132 treatment. These targets included many enzymatic components of PTM machinery, involved in SUMOylation and ubiquitylation, but also phosphorylation, methylation and acetylation, revealing a highly complex interconnected network of crosstalk among different PTMs. In addition, various other biological processes were found to be significantly enriched within the group of co-modified proteins, including transcription, DNA repair and the cell cycle. Interestingly, the latter group mostly consisted of proteins involved in mitosis, including a subset of chromosome segregation regulators. We hypothesize that group modification by SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligases regulates the stability of the identified subset of mitotic proteins, which ensures proper chromosome segregation. The mitotic regulators KIF23 and MIS18BP1 were verified to be co-modified by SUMO and ubiquitin on inhibition of the proteasome and subsequently identified as novel RNF4 targets. Both modifications on MIS18BP1 were observed to increase simultaneously during late mitosis, whereas the total protein level decreased immediately afterward. These results confirm the regulation of MIS18BP1 via SUMO-ubiquitin crosstalk during mitosis. Combined, our work highlights extensive crosstalk between SUMO and ubiquitin, providing a resource for further unraveling of SUMO-ubiquitin crosstalk.
PXD005834	28951444	Quantitative Analysis of Proteome Modulations in Alveolar Epithelial Type II Cells in Response to Pulmonary Aspergillus fumigatus Infection. 	Quantitative Analysis of Proteome Modulations in Alveolar Epithelial Type II Cells in Response to Pulmonary Aspergillus fumigatus Infection	Aspergillosis, Aspergillus fumigatus, Infection, Lung, Type II alveolar epithelial cells, primary cells	The ubiquitous mold Aspergillus fumigatus threatens immunosuppressed patients as inducer of lethal invasive aspergillosis. A. fumigatus conidia are airborne and reach the alveoli, where they encounter alveolar epithelial cells (AEC). Previous studies reported the importance of the surfactant-producing AEC II during A. fumigatus infection via in vitro experiments using cell lines. We established a negative isolation protocol yielding untouched primary murine AEC II with a purity >90%, allowing ex vivo analyses of the cells, which encountered the mold in vivo By label-free proteome analysis of AEC II isolated from mice 24h after A. fumigatus or mock infection we quantified 2256 proteins and found 154 proteins to be significantly differentially abundant between both groups (ANOVA p value <= 0.01, ratio of means >=1.5 or <=0.67, quantified with >=2 peptides). Most of these proteins were higher abundant in the infected condition and reflected a comprehensive activation of AEC II on interaction with A. fumigatus This was especially represented by proteins related to oxidative phosphorylation, hence energy production. However, the most strongly induced protein was the l-amino acid oxidase (LAAO) Interleukin 4 induced 1 (IL4I1) with a 42.9 fold higher abundance (ANOVA p value 2.91(-10)). IL4I1 has previously been found in B cells, macrophages, dendritic cells and rare neurons. Increased IL4I1 abundance in AEC II was confirmed by qPCR, Western blot and immunohistology. Furthermore, A. fumigatus infected lungs showed high levels of IL4I1 metabolic products. Importantly, higher IL4I1 abundance was also confirmed in lung tissue from human aspergilloma. Because LAAO are key enzymes for bactericidal product generation, AEC II might actively participate in pathogen defense. We provide insights into proteome changes of primary AEC II thereby opening new avenues to analyze the molecular changes of this central lung cell on infectious threats. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005834.
PXD006126	28953952	Inhibition of melanization by serpin-5 and serpin-9 promotes baculovirus infection in cotton bollworm Helicoverpa armigera. 	Inhibition of melanization activation by Serpin-5 and Serpin-9 promotes nucleopolyhedrovirus infection in cotton bollworm Helicoverpa armigera	Cotton bollworm, Hemolymph, Melanization, Prophenoloxidase, Serpin	Melanization, an important insect defense mechanism, is mediated by clip-domain serine protease (cSP) cascades and is regulated by serpins. Here we show that proteolytic activation of prophenoloxidase (PPO) and PO-catalyzed melanization kill the baculovirus in vitro. Our quantitative proteomics and biochemical experiments revealed that baculovirus infection of the cotton bollworm, Helicoverpa armigera, reduced levels of most cascade members in the host hemolymph and PO activity. By contrast, serpin-9 and serpin-5 were sequentially upregulated after the viral infection. The H. armigera serpin-5 and serpin-9 regulate melanization by directly inhibiting their target proteases cSP4 and cSP6, respectively and cSP6 activates PPO purified from hemolymph. Furthermore, serpin-5/9-depleted insects exhibited high PO activities and showed resistance to baculovirus infection. Together, our results characterize a part of the melanization cascade in H. armigera, and suggest that natural insect virus baculovirus has evolved a distinct strategy to suppress the host immune system.
PXD006416	28955033	Plasma membrane-derived extracellular microvesicles mediate non-canonical intercellular NOTCH signaling. 	Plasma membrane-derived extracellular microvesicles mediate non-canonical intercellular NOTCH signaling	ARMMs, ARRDC1, NOTCH	ARMMs (arrestin domain-containing protein 1 (ARRDC1)-mediated microvesicles) are extracellular vesicles that bud directly at the plasma membrane; however, little is known about the molecular composition and physiological function of these vesicles. Here we report that ARMMs contain active NOTCH receptors and mediate a non-canonical intercellular NOTCH signaling. We identify over 100 proteins that are significantly enriched in ARMMs, including ARRDC1, TSG101 and multiple ESCRT complex proteins. About a third of ARMMs-enriched proteins are plasma membrane proteins, including the NOTCH2 receptor. The incorporation of NOTCH2 into ARMMs is facilitated by the ITCH E3 ligase and the metalloprotease ADAM10, both of which are also secreted into ARMMs. NOTCH2 in ARMMs can be delivered into recipient cells, and upon activation by gamma-secretase cleavage, induces NOTCH-specific gene expression. Together, our findings reveal a role for ARMMs in a novel NOTCH signaling pathway that acts in distance and is independent of direct cell-cell contact.ARMMs are extracellular vesicles that bud directly at the plasma membrane; their function is poorly understood. Here the authors purify and carryout a proteomics analysis of the protein components of ARMMs, and show that NOTCH receptors are recruited into ARMMs and can be transferred to recipient cells to mediate NOTCH signaling.
PXD006303	28959017	The WHHERE coactivator complex is required for retinoic acid-dependent regulation of embryonic symmetry. 	MudPIT analysis of proteins interacting with the retinoic acid coactivator Rere/Atrophin2 in mouse embryos	Histone deacetylase, RA signaling, Retinoic acid coactivator, embryonic bilateral symmetry	Bilateral symmetry is a striking feature of the vertebrate body plan organization. Vertebral precursors, called somites, provide one of the best illustrations of embryonic symmetry. Maintenance of somitogenesis symmetry requires retinoic acid (RA) and its coactivator Rere/Atrophin2. Here, using a proteomic approach we identify a protein complex, containing Wdr5, Hdac1, Hdac2 and Rere (named WHHERE), which regulates RA signaling and controls embryonic symmetry. We demonstrate that Wdr5, Hdac1, and Hdac2 are required for RA signaling in vitro and in vivo. Mouse mutants for Wdr5 and Hdac1 exhibit asymmetrical somite formation characteristic of RA-deficiency. We also identify the Rere-binding histone methyltransferase Ehmt2/G9a, as a RA coactivator controlling somite symmetry. Upon RA treatment, WHHERE and Ehmt2 become enriched at RA target genes to promote RNA polymerase II recruitment. Our work identifies a protein complex linking key epigenetic regulators acting in the molecular control of embryonic bilateral symmetry.Retinoic acid (RA) regulates the maintenance of somitogenesis symmetry. Here, the authors use a proteomic approach to identify a protein complex of Wdr5, Hdac1, Hdac2 that act together with RA and coactivator Rere/Atrophin2 and a histone methyltransferase Ehmt2 to regulate embryonic symmetry.
PXD004523	28959251	Lipid Metabolic Versatility in Malassezia spp. Yeasts Studied through Metabolic Modeling. 	Metabolic reconstruction of lipid metabolism of Malassezia	Malassezia Furfur, Malassezia Pachydermatis, Malassezia Sympodialis, Malassezia globosa	Malassezia species are lipophilic and lipid-dependent yeasts belonging to the human and animal microbiota. Typically, they are isolated from regions rich in sebaceous glands. They have been associated with dermatological diseases such as seborrheic dermatitis, pityriasis versicolor, atopic dermatitis, and folliculitis. The genomes of Malassezia globosa, Malassezia sympodialis, and Malassezia pachydermatis lack the genes related to fatty acid synthesis. Here, the lipid-synthesis pathways of these species, as well as of Malassezia furfur, and of an atypical M. furfur variant were reconstructed using genome data and Constraints Based Reconstruction and Analysis. To this end, the genomes of M. furfur CBS 1878 and the atypical M. furfur 4DS were sequenced and annotated. The resulting Enzyme Commission numbers and predicted reactions were similar to the other Malassezia strains despite the differences in their genome size. Proteomic profiling was utilized to validate flux distributions. Flux differences were observed in the production of steroids in M. furfur and in the metabolism of butanoate in M. pachydermatis. The predictions obtained via these metabolic reconstructions also suggested defects in the assimilation of palmitic acid in M. globosa, M. sympodialis, M. pachydermatis, and the atypical variant of M. furfur, but not in M. furfur. These predictions were validated via physiological characterization, showing the predictive power of metabolic network reconstructions to provide new clues about the metabolic versatility of Malassezia.
PXD006442	28959263	Deciphering of the Human Interferon-Regulated Proteome by Mass Spectrometry-Based Quantitative Analysis Reveals Extent and Dynamics of Protein Induction and Repression. 	Deciphering of the human interferome and its kinetics of protein induction and repression by mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteome analysis	Label-free quantification, interferome, interferon alpha, interferon gamma	Interferons (IFNs) are pleotropic cytokines secreted upon encounter of pathogens and tumors. Applying their antipathogenic, antiproliferative, and immune stimulatory capacities, recombinant IFNs are frequently prescribed as drugs to treat different diseases. IFNs act by changing the gene expression profile of cells. Due to characteristics such as rapid gene induction and signaling, IFNs also represent prototypical model systems for various aspects of biomedical research (e.g., signal transduction). In regard to the signaling and activated promoters, IFNs can be subdivided into two groups. Here, alterations of the cellular proteome of human cells treated with IFNalpha and IFNgamma were elucidated in a time-resolved manner by quantitative proteome analysis. The majority of protein regulations were strongly IFN type and time dependent. In addition to the expected upregulation of IFN-responsive proteins, an astonishing number of proteins became profoundly repressed especially by IFNgamma. Thus, our comprehensive analysis revealed important insights into the human IFN-regulated proteome and its dynamics of protein induction and repression. Interestingly, the new class of IFN-repressed genes comprises known host factors for highly relevant pathogens such as HIV, dengue virus, and hepatitis C virus.
PXD007967	28959809	Human milk peptides differentiate between the preterm and term infant and across varying lactational stages. 	Endegenous human milk peptides	endegenous, human milk, peptides	Variations in endogenous peptide profiles, functionality, and the enzymes responsible for the formation of these peptides in human milk are understudied. Additionally, there is a lack of knowledge regarding peptides in donor human milk, which is used to feed preterm infants when mother's own milk is not (sufficiently) available. To assess this, 29 human milk samples from the Dutch Human Milk Bank were analyzed as three groups, preterm late lactation stage (LS) (n = 12), term early (n = 8) and term late LS (n = 9). Gestational age (GA) groups were defined as preterm (24-36 weeks) and term (>=37 weeks). LS was determined as days postpartum as early (16-36 days) or late (55-88 days). Peptides, analyzed by LC-MS/MS, and parent proteins (proteins from matched peptide sequences) were identified and quantified, after which peptide functionality and the enzymes responsible for protein cleavage were determined. A total of 16 different parent proteins were identified from human milk, with no differences by GA or LS. We identified 1104 endogenous peptides, of which, the majority were from the parent proteins beta-casein, polymeric immunoglobulin receptor, alphas1-casein, osteopontin, and kappa-casein. The absolute number of peptides differed by GA and LS with 30 and 41 differing sequences respectively (p < 0.05) Odds likelihood tests determined that 32 peptides had a predicted bioactive functionality, with no significant differences between groups. Enzyme prediction analysis showed that plasmin/trypsin enzymes most likely cleaved the identified human milk peptides. These results explain some of the variation in endogenous peptides in human milk, leading to future targets that may be studied for functionality.
PXD005804	28959962	Comparative glycoproteomics of stem cells identifies new players in ricin toxicity. 	Comparative glycoproteomics of embryonic stem cells identifies new players in ricin toxicity	Stem cells, glycoproteomics, glycosylation	Glycosylation, the covalent attachment of carbohydrate structures onto proteins, is the most abundant post-translational modification. Over 50% of human proteins are glycosylated, which alters their activities in diverse fundamental biological processes. Despite the importance of glycosylation in biology, the identification and functional validation of complex glycoproteins has remained largely unexplored. Here we develop a novel quantitative approach to identify intact glycopeptides from comparative proteomic data sets, allowing us not only to infer complex glycan structures but also to directly map them to sites within the associated proteins at the proteome scale. We apply this method to human and mouse embryonic stem cells to illuminate the stem cell glycoproteome. This analysis nearly doubles the number of experimentally confirmed glycoproteins, identifies previously unknown glycosylation sites and multiple glycosylated stemness factors, and uncovers evolutionarily conserved as well as species-specific glycoproteins in embryonic stem cells. The specificity of our method is confirmed using sister stem cells carrying repairable mutations in enzymes required for fucosylation, Fut9 and Slc35c1. Ablation of fucosylation confers resistance to the bioweapon ricin, and we discover proteins that carry a fucosylation-dependent sugar code for ricin toxicity. Mutations disrupting a subset of these proteins render cells ricin resistant, revealing new players that orchestrate ricin toxicity. Our comparative glycoproteomics platform, SugarQb, enables genome-wide insights into protein glycosylation and glycan modifications in complex biological systems.
PXD007207	28960650	Carbene Footprinting Reveals Binding Interfaces of a Multimeric Membrane-Spanning Protein. 	Carbene footprinting reveals binding interfaces of a multimeric membrane spanning protein	Carbene, Footprinting, LC-MS, Membrane, Protein	Mapping the interaction sites between membrane-spanning proteins is a key challenge in structural biology. In this study a carbene-footprinting approach was developed and applied to identify the interfacial sites of a trimeric, integral membrane protein, OmpF, solubilised in micelles. The diazirine-based footprinting probe is effectively sequestered by, and incorporated into, the micelles, thus leading to efficient labelling of the membrane-spanning regions of the protein upon irradiation at 349 nm. Areas associated with protein-protein interactions between the trimer subunits remained unlabelled, thus revealing their location.
PXD005698	28961369	Phosphoproteomics Profiling of Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer Cells Treated with a Novel Phosphatase Activator. 	Phosphoproteomics Profiling of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Cells Treated with a Novel Phosphatase Activator	Label-free phosphoproteomics, functional network analysis, non-small cell lung cancer, phosphatase activation, signaling response signatures	Activation of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is a promising anticancer therapeutic strategy, as this tumor suppressor has the ability to coordinately downregulate multiple pathways involved in the regulation of cellular growth and proliferation. In order to understand the systems-level perturbations mediated by PP2A activation, we carried out mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomic analysis of two KRAS mutated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines (A549 and H358) treated with a novel small molecule activator of PP2A (SMAP). Overall, this permitted quantification of differential signaling across over 1600 phosphoproteins and 3000 phosphosites. Kinase activity assessment and pathway enrichment implicate collective downregulation of RAS and cell cycle kinases in the case of both cell lines upon PP2A activation. However, the effects on RAS-related signaling are attenuated for A549 compared to H358, while the effects on cell cycle-related kinases are noticeably more prominent in A549. Network-based analyses and validation experiments confirm these detailed differences in signaling. These studies reveal the power of phosphoproteomics studies, coupled to computational systems biology, to elucidate global patterns of phosphatase activation and understand the variations in response to PP2A activation across genetically similar NSCLC cell lines.
PXD005215	28962651	Hexokinases link DJ-1 to the PINK1/parkin pathway. 	iTRAQ Analysis of DJ-1 Knockout Rodent Brains	DJ-1, Parkinsons, aging, cytosol, hexokinase, iTRAQ, mitochondria, neurodegeneration, subcellular fractionation	BACKGROUND: Early onset Parkinson's disease is caused by variants in PINK1, parkin, and DJ-1. PINK1 and parkin operate in pathways that preserve mitochondrial integrity, but the function of DJ-1 and how it relates to PINK1 and parkin is poorly understood. METHODS: A series of unbiased high-content screens were used to analyze changes at the protein, RNA, and metabolite level in rodent brains lacking DJ-1. Results were validated using targeted approaches, and cellular assays were performed to probe the mechanisms involved. RESULTS: We find that in both rat and mouse brains, DJ-1 knockout results in an age-dependent accumulation of hexokinase 1 in the cytosol, away from its usual location at the mitochondria, with subsequent activation of the polyol pathway of glucose metabolism in vivo. Both in the brain and in cultured cells, DJ-1 deficiency is associated with accumulation of the phosphatase PTEN that antagonizes the kinase AKT. In cells, addition of an inhibitor of AKT (MK2206) or addition of a peptide to dissociate association of hexokinases from mitochondria both inhibit the PINK1/parkin pathway, which works to maintain mitochondrial integrity. CONCLUSION: Hexokinases are an important link between three major genetic causes of early onset Parkinson's disease. Because aging is associated with deregulated nutrient sensing, these results help explain why DJ-1 is associated with age-dependent disease.
PXD006654	28965414	Detergent-Insoluble Proteome Analysis Revealed Aberrantly Aggregated Proteins in Human Preeclampsia Placentas. 	Human placenta tissue LC-MS -  Detergent-insoluble proteome analysis revealed aberrantly aggregated proteins in human preeclampsia placentas	human placenta tissue	Preeclampsia (PE) is a placenta disease, featured by hypertension, proteinuria, and other multiorgan dysfunctions, and its etiology is unclear. We and others have shown that intensive endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and unfolded protein response (UPR) occur in the PE placenta. In this study, we isolated detergent-insoluble proteins (DIPs) from human placenta tissues, which were enriched with protein aggregates, to characterize the placenta UPR in PE. With data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry, we identified 2066 DIPs across all normal (n = 10) and PE (n = 10) placenta samples, among which 110 and 108 DIPs were significantly up- and down-regulated in PE, respectively. Per clustering analysis, differential DIPs could generally distinguish PE from normal placentas. We verified the MS quantitation of endoglin and vimentin by immunoblotting. In addition, we observed that PE placenta tissues have remarkably more endoglin in the cytoplasm. Furthermore, we found that DIPs were evenly distributed across different chromosomes and could be enriched in diversified gene ontology terms, while differential DIPs avoided to distribute on X-chromosome. Significantly up-regulated DIPs in PE were focused on the top functions of lipid metabolism, while 23 of these DIPs could form the top network regulating cellular movement, development, growth, and proliferation. Our results implicate that human PE placentas have disease-relevant differential DIPs, which reflect aberrantly aggregated proteins of placental tissues. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange consortium with the data set identifier PXD006654, and iProX database (accession number: IPX0000948000).
PXD007163	28965727	Proteome-wide Map of Targets of T790M-EGFR-Directed Covalent Inhibitors. 	Proteome-wide map of targets of T790M-EGFR-directed covalent inhibitors	ABPP, AZD9291, CO1686, H1975, T790M	Patients with non-small cell lung cancers that have kinase-activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations are highly responsive to first- and second-generation EGFR inhibitors. However, these patients often relapse due to a secondary, drug-resistant mutation in EGFR whereby the gatekeeper threonine is converted to methionine (T790M). Several third-generation EGFR inhibitors have been developed that irreversibly inactivate T790M-EGFR while sparing wild-type EGFR, thus reducing epithelium-based toxicities. Using chemical proteomics, we show here that individual T790M-EGFR inhibitors exhibit strikingly distinct off-target profiles in human cells. The FDA-approved drug osimertinib (AZD9291), in particular, was found to covalently modify cathepsins in cell and animal models, which correlated with lysosomal accumulation of the drug. Our findings thus show how chemical proteomics can be used to differentiate covalent kinase inhibitors based on global selectivity profiles in living systems and identify specific off-targets of these inhibitors that may affect drug activity and safety.
PXD007573	28967185	iTRAQ-Based Proteomics Suggests Ephb6 as a Potential Regulator of the ERK Pathway in the Prefrontal Cortex of Chronic Social Defeat Stress Model Mice. 	iTRAQ-based proteomics suggests Ephb6 as a potential regulator of the ERK pathway in the prefrontal cortex of chronic social defeat stress model miceiTRAQ-based proteomics reveals Ephb6 as a potential regulator of the ERK pathway in the prefrontal cortex 	EphB6, chronic social defeat stress, iTRAQ, major depressive disorder, prefrontal cortex	PURPOSE: Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a worldwide concern and devastating psychiatric disease. The World Health Organization claims that MDD leads to at least 11.9% of the global burden of disease. However, the underlying pathophysiology mechanisms of MDD remain largely unknown. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Herein, we proteomic-based strategy is used to compare the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) model mice with a control group. Based on pooled samples, differential proteins are identified in the PFC proteome using iTRAQ coupled with LC-MS/MS. RESULTS: Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) is then followed to predict relevant pathways, with the ephrin receptor signaling pathway selected for further research. Additionally, as the selected key proteins of the ephrin receptor signaling pathway, ephrin type-B receptor 6 (EphB6) and the ERK pathway are validated by Western blotting. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANT: Altogether, increased understanding of the ephrin receptor signaling pathway in MDD is provided, which implicates further investigation of PFC dysfunction induced by CSDS treatment.
PXD006007	28969644	Crosstalk between glial and glioblastoma cells triggers the "go-or-grow" phenotype of tumor cells. 	Characterization of the secretome of glial cells exposed to glioblastoma secreted factors	Glial cells, Gliobastome, SWATH-MS, Secretome	BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma (GBM), the most malignant primary brain tumor, leads to poor and unpredictable clinical outcomes. Recent studies showed the tumor microenvironment has a critical role in regulating tumor growth by establishing a complex network of interactions with tumor cells. In this context, we investigated how GBM cells modulate resident glial cells, particularly their paracrine activity, and how this modulation can influence back on the malignant phenotype of GBM cells. METHODS: Conditioned media (CM) of primary mouse glial cultures unexposed (unprimed) or exposed (primed) to the secretome of GL261 GBM cells were analyzed by proteomic analysis. Additionally, these CM were used in GBM cells to evaluate their impact in glioma cell viability, migration capacity and activation of tumor-related intracellular pathways. RESULTS: The proteomic analysis revealed that the pre-exposure of glial cells to CM from GBM cells led to the upregulation of several proteins related to inflammatory response, cell adhesion and extracellular structure organization within the secretome of primed glial cells. At the functional levels, CM derived from unprimed glial cells favored an increase in GBM cell migration capacity, while CM from primed glial cells promoted cells viability. These effects on GBM cells were accompanied by activation of particular intracellular cancer-related pathways, mainly the MAPK/ERK pathway, which is a known regulator of cell proliferation. CONCLUSIONS: Together, our results suggest that glial cells can impact on the pathophysiology of GBM tumors, and that the secretome of GBM cells is able to modulate the secretome of neighboring glial cells, in a way that regulates the "go-or-grow" phenotypic switch of GBM cells.
PXD007741	28972080	Identifying Host Factors Associated with DNA Replicated During Virus Infection. 	Identifying host factors associated with DNA replicated during virus infection	virus infection / DNA replication / DNA repair / intrinsic defense	Viral DNA genomes replicating in cells encounter a myriad of host factors that facilitate or hinder viral replication. Viral proteins expressed early during infection modulate host factors interacting with viral genomes, recruiting proteins to promote viral replication, and limiting access to antiviral repressors. Although some host factors manipulated by viruses have been identified, we have limited knowledge of pathways exploited during infection and how these differ between viruses. To identify cellular processes manipulated during viral replication, we defined proteomes associated with viral genomes during infection with adenovirus, herpes simplex virus and vaccinia virus. We compared enrichment of host factors between virus proteomes and confirmed association with viral genomes and replication compartments. Using adenovirus as an illustrative example, we uncovered host factors deactivated by early viral proteins, and identified a subgroup of nucleolar proteins that aid virus replication. Our data sets provide valuable resources of virus-host interactions that affect proteins on viral genomes.
PXD005154	28973437	Quantitative proteomics reveals that long non-coding RNA MALAT1 interacts with DBC1 to regulate p53 acetylation. 	lncRNA MALAT1 interactome -  Quantitative proteomics reveals that long non-coding RNA MALAT1 interacts with DBC1 to regulate p53 acetylation	MALAT1, RNA pulldown, lncRNA	Metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT1) is a broadly expressed lncRNA involved in many aspects of cellular processes. To further delineate the underlying molecular mechanism, we employed a high-throughput strategy to characterize the interacting proteins of MALAT1 by combining RNA pull-down, quantitative proteomics, bioinformatics, and experimental validation. Our approach identified 127 potential MALAT1-interacting proteins and established a highly connected MALAT1 interactome network consisting of 788 connections. Gene ontology annotation and network analysis showed that MALAT1 was highly involved in five biological processes: RNA processing; gene transcription; ribosomal proteins; protein degradation; and metabolism regulation. The interaction between MALAT1 and depleted in breast cancer 1 (DBC1) was validated using RNA pull-down and RNA immunoprecipitation. Further mechanistic studies reveal that MALAT1 binding competes with the interaction between sirtuin1 (SIRT1) and DBC1, which then releases SIRT1 and enhances its deacetylation activity. Consequently, the deacetylation of p53 reduces the transcription of a spectrum of its downstream target genes, promotes cell proliferation and inhibits cell apoptosis. Our results uncover a novel mechanism by which MALAT1 regulates the activity of p53 through the lncRNA-protein interaction.
PXD006857	28973440	MAZ induces MYB expression during the exit from quiescence via the E2F site in the MYB promoter. 	MAZ induces MYB expression during the exit from quiescence via the E2F site in the MYB promoter	Retinoblasoma, maz, myb, quiescence	Most E2F-binding sites repress transcription through the recruitment of Retinoblastoma (RB) family members until the end of the G1 cell-cycle phase. Although the MYB promoter contains an E2F-binding site, its transcription is activated shortly after the exit from quiescence, before RB family members inactivation, by unknown mechanisms. We had previously uncovered a nuclear factor distinct from E2F, Myb-sp, whose DNA-binding site overlapped the E2F element and had hypothesized that this factor might overcome the transcriptional repression of MYB by E2F-RB family members. We have purified Myb-sp and discovered that Myc-associated zinc finger proteins (MAZ) are major components. We show that various MAZ isoforms are present in Myb-sp and activate transcription via the MYB-E2F element. Moreover, while forced RB or p130 expression repressed the activity of a luciferase reporter driven by the MYB-E2F element, co-expression of MAZ proteins not only reverted repression, but also activated transcription. Finally, we show that MAZ binds the MYB promoter in vivo, that its binding site is critical for MYB transactivation, and that MAZ knockdown inhibits MYB expression during the exit from quiescence. Together, these data indicate that MAZ is essential to bypass MYB promoter repression by RB family members and to induce MYB expression.
PXD005938	28973931	Systems-level identification of PKA-dependent signaling in epithelial cells. 	PKA signaling network-quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics	Kindey, PKA, Phosphorylation	G protein stimulatory alpha-subunit (Galphas)-coupled heptahelical receptors regulate cell processes largely through activation of protein kinase A (PKA). To identify signaling processes downstream of PKA, we deleted both PKA catalytic subunits using CRISPR-Cas9, followed by a "multiomic" analysis in mouse kidney epithelial cells expressing the Galphas-coupled V2 vasopressin receptor. RNA-seq (sequencing)-based transcriptomics and SILAC (stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture)-based quantitative proteomics revealed a complete loss of expression of the water-channel gene Aqp2 in PKA knockout cells. SILAC-based quantitative phosphoproteomics identified 229 PKA phosphorylation sites. Most of these PKA targets are thus far unannotated in public databases. Surprisingly, 1,915 phosphorylation sites with the motif x-(S/T)-P showed increased phosphooccupancy, pointing to increased activity of one or more MAP kinases in PKA knockout cells. Indeed, phosphorylation changes associated with activation of ERK2 were seen in PKA knockout cells. The ERK2 site is downstream of a direct PKA site in the Rap1GAP, Sipa1l1, that indirectly inhibits Raf1. In addition, a direct PKA site that inhibits the MAP kinase kinase kinase Map3k5 (ASK1) is upstream of JNK1 activation. The datasets were integrated to identify a causal network describing PKA signaling that explains vasopressin-mediated regulation of membrane trafficking and gene transcription. The model predicts that, through PKA activation, vasopressin stimulates AQP2 exocytosis by inhibiting MAP kinase signaling. The model also predicts that, through PKA activation, vasopressin stimulates Aqp2 transcription through induction of nuclear translocation of the acetyltransferase EP300, which increases histone H3K27 acetylation of vasopressin-responsive genes (confirmed by ChIP-seq).
PXD006618	28975736	Comparison of Targeted Mass Spectrometry Techniques with an Immunoassay: A Case Study for HSP90alpha. 	Comparison of targeted mass spectrometry techniques with an immunoassay: a case study for HSP90 alpha, part 1	ELISA, HSP90, PRM, SCX, SRM, Serum	PURPOSE: The objective of this study is to better understand factors governing the variability and sensitivity in SRM and PRM, compared to immunoassay. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A 2D-LC-MS/MS-based SRM and PRM assay is developed for quantitative measurements of HSP90alpha in serum. Forty-three control sera are compared by SRM, PRM, and ELISA following the manufacturer's instructions. Serum samples are trypsin-digested and fractionated by strong cation exchange chromatography prior to SRM and PRM measurements. Analytical parameters such as linearity, LOD, LOQ, repeatability, and reproducibility of the SRM, PRM, and ELISA are determined. RESULTS: PRM data obtained by high-resolution MS correlate better with ELISA measurements than SRM data measured on a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer. While all three methods (SRM, PRM, and ELISA) are able to quantify HSP90alpha in serum at the ng mL(-1) level, the use of PRM on a high-resolution mass spectrometer reduces variation and shows comparable sensitivity to immunoassay. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Using fractionation, it is possible to measure ng mL(-1) levels of HSP90alpha in a reproducible, selective, and sensitive way using PRM in serum. This opens up the possibility to use PRM in a multiplexed way as an attractive alternative for immunoassays without the use of antibodies or comparable binders.
PXD005844	28977509	REPARATION: ribosome profiling assisted (re-)annotation of bacterial genomes. 	REPARATION:  Ribosome Profiling Assisted (Re-) Annotation of Bacterial genomes	Salmonella Typhimurium SL1344, bacteria, shotgun	Prokaryotic genome annotation is highly dependent on automated methods, as manual curation cannot keep up with the exponential growth of sequenced genomes. Current automated methods depend heavily on sequence composition and often underestimate the complexity of the proteome. We developed RibosomeE Profiling Assisted (re-)AnnotaTION (REPARATION), a de novo machine learning algorithm that takes advantage of experimental protein synthesis evidence from ribosome profiling (Ribo-seq) to delineate translated open reading frames (ORFs) in bacteria, independent of genome annotation (https://github.com/Biobix/REPARATION). REPARATION evaluates all possible ORFs in the genome and estimates minimum thresholds based on a growth curve model to screen for spurious ORFs. We applied REPARATION to three annotated bacterial species to obtain a more comprehensive mapping of their translation landscape in support of experimental data. In all cases, we identified hundreds of novel (small) ORFs including variants of previously annotated ORFs and >70% of all (variants of) annotated protein coding ORFs were predicted by REPARATION to be translated. Our predictions are supported by matching mass spectrometry proteomics data, sequence composition and conservation analysis. REPARATION is unique in that it makes use of experimental translation evidence to intrinsically perform a de novo ORF delineation in bacterial genomes irrespective of the sequence features linked to open reading frames.
PXD006717	28977553	Transcription-translation coupling: direct interactions of RNA polymerase with ribosomes and ribosomal subunits. 	Direct Interactions of RNA Polymerase with Ribosomes and Ribosomal Subunits in E. Coli	E. Coli, RNA Polymerase, Ribosomes	In prokaryotes, RNA polymerase and ribosomes can bind concurrently to the same RNA transcript, leading to the functional coupling of transcription and translation. The interactions between RNA polymerase and ribosomes are crucial for the coordination of transcription with translation. Here, we report that RNA polymerase directly binds ribosomes and isolated large and small ribosomal subunits. RNA polymerase and ribosomes form a one-to-one complex with a micromolar dissociation constant. The formation of the complex is modulated by the conformational and functional states of RNA polymerase and the ribosome. The binding interface on the large ribosomal subunit is buried by the small subunit during protein synthesis, whereas that on the small subunit remains solvent-accessible. The RNA polymerase binding site on the ribosome includes that of the isolated small ribosomal subunit. This direct interaction between RNA polymerase and ribosomes may contribute to the coupling of transcription to translation.
PXD003030	28978133	In-depth phenotyping of lymphoblastoid cells suggests selective cellular vulnerability in Marinesco-Sjoegren syndrome. 	SIL1 deficiency in lymphoblastoid cells: antagonizing cellular mechanisms and insights into selective vulnerability in Marinesco-Sjgren syndrome	EBV-lymphoblastoid cells, SIL1 mutations	SIL1 is a ubiquitous protein of the Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) acting as a co-chaperone for the ER-resident chaperone, BiP. Recessive mutations of the corresponding gene lead to vulnerability of skeletal muscle and central nervous system in man (Marinesco-Sjoegren syndrome; MSS) and mouse. However, it is still unclear how loss of ubiquitous SIL1 leads to selective vulnerability of the nervous system and skeletal muscle whereas other cells and organs are protected from clinical manifestations. In this study we aimed to disentangle proteins participating in selective vulnerability of SIL1-deficient cells and tissues: morphological examination of MSS patient-derived lymphoblastoid cells revealed altered organelle structures (ER, nucleus and mitochondria) thus showing subclinical vulnerability. To correlate structural perturbations with biochemical changes and to identify proteins potentially preventing phenotypical manifestation, proteomic studies have been carried out. Results of proteomic profiling are in line with the morphological findings and show affection of nuclear, mitochondrial and cytoskeletal proteins as well as of such responsible for cellular viability. Moreover, expression patterns of proteins known to be involved in neuromuscular disorders or in development and function of the nervous system were altered. Paradigmatic findings were confirmed by immunohistochemistry of splenic lymphocytes and the cerebellum of SIL1-deficient mice. Ataxin-10, identified with increased abundance in our proteome profile, is necessary for the neuronal survival but also controls muscle fiber apoptosis, thus declaring this protein as a plausible candidate for selective tissue vulnerability. Our combined results provide first insights into the molecular causes of selective cell and tissue vulnerability defining the MSS phenotype.
PXD006034	28978618	Calcineurin-mediated Dephosphorylation of Acetyl-coA Carboxylase is Required for Pheromone Biosynthesis Activating Neuropeptide (PBAN)-induced Sex Pheromone Biosynthesis in Helicoverpa armigera. 	PKA-regulated Phosphopeptides research in Pheromone gland of  Helicoverpa armigera	Helicoverpa armigera, Pheromone gland, Phosphopeptides, itraq	Chemical signaling plays a critical role in the behavior and physiology of many animals. Female insects, as many other animals, release sex pheromones to attract males for mating. The evolutionary and ecological success of insects therefore hinges on their ability to precisely mediate (including initiation and termination) pheromone biosynthesis. Pheromone biosynthesis activating neuropeptide (PBAN) acts directly on pheromone glands to regulate sex pheromone production using Ca(2+) and cyclic-AMP as secondary messengers in the majority of species. However, the molecular mechanism downstream of the secondary messengers has not yet been elucidated in heliothine species. The present study shows that calcineurin, protein kinase A (PKA) and acetyl-coA carboxylase (ACC) are key components involved in PBAN-induced sex pheromone biosynthesis in Helicoverpa armigera using PBAN-dependent phosphoproteomics in combination with transcriptomics. RNAi-mediated knockdown and inhibitor assay demonstrated that calcineurin A is required for PBAN-induced ACC activation and sex pheromone production. Calcineurin-dependent phosphoproteomics and in vitro calcineurin phosphorylation assay further revealed that calcineurin regulated ACC activity by dephosphorylating ser84 and ser92. In addition, PKA-dependent phosphoproteomics and activity analysis revealed that PKA reduces the activity of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a negative regulator of ACC by phosphorylating the conserved ser92. Taken together, our findings indicate that calcineurin acts as the downstream signal of PBAN/G-protein receptor/Ca(2+) to activate ACC through dephosphorylation while inactivating AMPK via PKA to reduce ACC phosphorylation, thus facilitating calcineurin activation of ACC.
PXD004459	28978642	Selective aggregation of the splicing factor Hsh155 suppresses splicing upon genotoxic stress. 	Yeast deletion Pdr5, Hsp42, Btn2 proteomics	MS3, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Tandem Mass Tagging	Upon genotoxic stress, dynamic relocalization events control DNA repair as well as alterations of the transcriptome and proteome, enabling stress recovery. How these events may influence one another is only partly known. Beginning with a cytological screen of genome stability proteins, we find that the splicing factor Hsh155 disassembles from its partners and localizes to both intranuclear and cytoplasmic protein quality control (PQC) aggregates under alkylation stress. Aggregate sequestration of Hsh155 occurs at nuclear and then cytoplasmic sites in a manner that is regulated by molecular chaperones and requires TORC1 activity signaling through the Sfp1 transcription factor. This dynamic behavior is associated with intron retention in ribosomal protein gene transcripts, a decrease in splicing efficiency, and more rapid recovery from stress. Collectively, our analyses suggest a model in which some proteins evicted from chromatin and undergoing transcriptional remodeling during stress are targeted to PQC sites to influence gene expression changes and facilitate stress recovery.
PXD006125	28978645	Quantitative phosphoproteomics reveals involvement of multiple signaling pathways in early phagocytosis by the retinal pigmented epithelium. 	ARPE19 proteome and phosphoproteome	ARPE19, phosphoproteome	One of the major biological functions of the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE) is the clearance of shed photoreceptor outer segments (POS) through a multistep process resembling phagocytosis. RPE phagocytosis helps maintain the viability of photoreceptors that otherwise could succumb to the high metabolic flux and photo-oxidative stress associated with visual processing. The regulatory mechanisms underlying phagocytosis in the RPE are not fully understood, although dysfunction of this process contributes to the pathogenesis of multiple human retinal degenerative disorders, including age-related macular degeneration. Here, we present an integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and phosphoproteomic analysis of phagocytosing RPE cells, utilizing three different experimental models: the human-derived RPE-like cell line ARPE-19, cultured murine primary RPE cells, and RPE samples from live mice. Our combined results indicated that early stages of phagocytosis in the RPE are mainly characterized by pronounced changes in the protein phosphorylation level. Global phosphoprotein enrichment analysis revealed involvement of PI3K/Akt, mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR), and MEK/ERK pathways in the regulation of RPE phagocytosis, confirmed by immunoblot analyses and in vitro phagocytosis assays. Most strikingly, phagocytosis of POS by cultured RPE cells was almost completely blocked by pharmacological inhibition of phosphorylation of Akt. Our findings, along with those of previous studies, indicate that these phosphorylation events allow the RPE to integrate multiple signals instigated by shed POS at different stages of the phagocytic process.
PXD007582	28981749	Chromatin proteomics reveals novel combinatorial histone modification signatures that mark distinct subpopulations of macrophage enhancers. 	Chromatin proteomics reveals novel combinatorial histone modification signatures that mark distinct subpopulations of macrophage enhancers	enhancers, histone PTMs	The integrated activity of cis-regulatory elements fine-tunes transcriptional programs of mammalian cells by recruiting cell type-specific as well as ubiquitous transcription factors (TFs). Despite their key role in modulating transcription, enhancers are still poorly characterized at the molecular level, and their limited DNA sequence conservation in evolution and variable distance from target genes make their unbiased identification challenging. The coexistence of high mono-methylation and low tri-methylation levels of lysine 4 of histone H3 is considered a signature of enhancers, but a comprehensive view of histone modifications associated to enhancers is still lacking. By combining chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) with mass spectrometry, we investigated cis-regulatory regions in macrophages to comprehensively identify histone marks specifically associated with enhancers, and to profile their dynamics after transcriptional activation elicited by an inflammatory stimulation. The intersection of the proteomics data with ChIP-seq and RNA-seq analyses revealed the existence of novel subpopulations of enhancers, marked by specific histone modification signatures: specifically, H3K4me1/K36me2 marks transcribed enhancers, while H3K4me1/K36me3 and H3K4me1/K79me2 combinations mark distinct classes of intronic enhancers. Thus, our MS analysis of functionally distinct genomic regions revealed the combinatorial code of histone modifications, highlighting the potential of proteomics in addressing fundamental questions in epigenetics.
PXD005612	28982715	Capturing the Asc1p/Receptor for Activated C Kinase 1 (RACK1) Microenvironment at the Head Region of the 40S Ribosome with Quantitative BioID in Yeast. 	Capturig the Asc1p/RACK1 microenviroment at the head region of the 40S ribosome with quantitative BioID	Asc1p, BioID, RACK1, SILAC, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, signal transduction, translation	The Asc1 protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a scaffold protein at the head region of ribosomal 40S that links mRNA translation to cellular signaling. In this study, proteins that colocalize with Asc1p were identified with proximity-dependent Biotin IDentification (BioID), an in vivo labeling technique described here for the first time for yeast. Biotinylated Asc1p-birA*-proximal proteins were identified and quantitatively verified against controls applying SILAC and mass spectrometry. The mRNA-binding proteins Sro9p and Gis2p appeared together with Scp160p, each providing ribosomes with nuclear transcripts. The cap-binding protein eIF4E (Cdc33p) and the eIF3/a-subunit (Rpg1p) were identified reflecting the encounter of proteins involved in the initiation of mRNA translation at the head region of ribosomal 40S. Unexpectedly, a protein involved in ribosome preservation (the clamping factor Stm1p), the deubiquitylation complex Ubp3p-Bre5p, the RNA polymerase II degradation factor 1 (Def1p), and transcription factors (Spt5p, Mbf1p) colocalize with Asc1p in exponentially growing cells. For Asc1(R38D, K40E)p, a variant considered to be deficient in binding to ribosomes, BioID revealed its predominant ribosome localization. Glucose depletion replaced most of the Asc1p colocalizing proteins for additional ribosomal proteins, suggesting a ribosome aggregation process during early nutrient limitation, possibly concomitant with ribosomal subunit clamping. Overall, the characterization of the Asc1p microenvironment with BioID confirmed and substantiated our recent findings that the beta-propeller broadly contributes to signal transduction influencing phosphorylation of colocalizing proteins (e.g. of Bre5p), and by that might affect nuclear gene transcription and the fate of ribosomes.
PXD007191	28982716	Multiplexed Temporal Quantification of the Exercise-regulated Plasma Peptidome. 	Optimising sample preparation of the plasma peptidome	peptidomics, plasma, sample preparation	Exercise is extremely beneficial to whole body health reducing the risk of a number of chronic human diseases. Some of these physiological benefits appear to be mediated via the secretion of peptide/protein hormones into the blood stream. The plasma peptidome contains the entire complement of low molecular weight endogenous peptides derived from secretion, protease activity and PTMs, and is a rich source of hormones. In the current study we have quantified the effects of intense exercise on the plasma peptidome to identify novel exercise regulated secretory factors in humans. We developed an optimized 2D-LC-MS/MS method and used multiple fragmentation methods including HCD and EThcD to analyze endogenous peptides. This resulted in quantification of 5,548 unique peptides during a time course of exercise and recovery. The plasma peptidome underwent dynamic and large changes during exercise on a time-scale of minutes with many rapidly reversible following exercise cessation. Among acutely regulated peptides, many were known hormones including insulin, glucagon, ghrelin, bradykinin, cholecystokinin and secretogranins validating the method. Prediction of bioactive peptides regulated with exercise identified C-terminal peptides from Transgelins, which were increased in plasma during exercise. In vitro experiments using synthetic peptides identified a role for transgelin peptides on the regulation of cell-cycle, extracellular matrix remodeling and cell migration. We investigated the effects of exercise on the regulation of PTMs and proteolytic processing by building a site-specific network of protease/substrate activity. Collectively, our deep peptidomic analysis of plasma revealed that exercise rapidly modulates the circulation of hundreds of bioactive peptides through a network of proteases and PTMs. These findings illustrate that peptidomics is an ideal method for quantifying changes in circulating factors on a global scale in response to physiological perturbations such as exercise. This will likely be a key method for pinpointing exercise regulated factors that generate health benefits.
PXD007564	28985225	Disrupting assembly of the inner membrane complex blocks Plasmodium falciparum sexual stage development. 	Plasmodium falciparum PHIL1 LC-MS/MS	PHIL1, Plasmodium falciparum, gametocyte, inner membrane complex	Transmission of malaria parasites relies on the formation of a specialized blood form called the gametocyte. Gametocytes of the human pathogen, Plasmodium falciparum, adopt a crescent shape. Their dramatic morphogenesis is driven by the assembly of a network of microtubules and an underpinning inner membrane complex (IMC). Using super-resolution optical and electron microscopies we define the ultrastructure of the IMC at different stages of gametocyte development. We characterize two new proteins of the gametocyte IMC, called PhIL1 and PIP1. Genetic disruption of PhIL1 or PIP1 ablates elongation and prevents formation of transmission-ready mature gametocytes. The maturation defect is accompanied by failure to form an enveloping IMC and a marked swelling of the digestive vacuole, suggesting PhIL1 and PIP1 are required for correct membrane trafficking. Using immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry we reveal that PhIL1 interacts with known and new components of the gametocyte IMC.
PXD005004	28988824	Citrobacter rodentium Subverts ATP Flux and Cholesterol Homeostasis in Intestinal Epithelial Cells In Vivo. 	C. rodentium remodels metabolism in IEC	Citrobacter Rodentium, Colon, Phosphorylation, TMT	The intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) that line the gut form a robust line of defense against ingested pathogens. We investigated the impact of infection with the enteric pathogen Citrobacter rodentium on mouse IEC metabolism using global proteomic and targeted metabolomics and lipidomics. The major signatures of the infection were upregulation of the sugar transporter Sglt4, aerobic glycolysis, and production of phosphocreatine, which mobilizes cytosolic energy. In contrast, biogenesis of mitochondrial cardiolipins, essential for ATP production, was inhibited, which coincided with increased levels of mucosal O2 and a reduction in colon-associated anaerobic commensals. In addition, IECs responded to infection by activating Srebp2 and the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway. Unexpectedly, infected IECs also upregulated the cholesterol efflux proteins AbcA1, AbcG8, and ApoA1, resulting in higher levels of fecal cholesterol and a bloom of Proteobacteria. These results suggest that C. rodentium manipulates host metabolism to evade innate immune responses and establish a favorable gut ecosystem.
PXD007575	28988947	Multiplexed Thiol Reactivity Profiling for Target Discovery of Electrophilic Natural Products. 	Multiplexed thiol reactivity profiling for target discovery of electrophilic natural products	Chemoproteomics, MTRP, natural products	Electrophilic groups, such as Michael acceptors, expoxides, are common motifs in natural products (NPs). Electrophilic NPs can act through covalent modification of cysteinyl thiols on functional proteins, and exhibit potent cytotoxicity and anti-inflammatory/cancer activities. Here we describe a new chemoproteomic strategy, termed multiplexed thiol reactivity profiling (MTRP), and its use in target discovery of electrophilic NPs. We demonstrate the utility of MTRP by identifying cellular targets of gambogic acid, an electrophilic NP that is currently under evaluation in clinical trials as anticancer agent. Moreover, MTRP enables simultaneous comparison of seven structurally diversified alpha,beta-unsaturated gamma-lactones, which provides insights into the relative proteomic reactivity and target preference of diverse structural scaffolds coupled to a common electrophilic motif and reveals various potential druggable targets with liganded cysteines. We anticipate that this new method for thiol reactivity profiling in a multiplexed manner will find broad application in redox biology and drug discovery.
PXD007137	28991240	Polypharmacology-based ceritinib repurposing using integrated functional proteomics. 	Ceritinib Functional Proteomics	Chemical proteomics, phosphoproteomics	Targeted drugs are effective when they directly inhibit strong disease drivers, but only a small fraction of diseases feature defined actionable drivers. Alternatively, network-based approaches can uncover new therapeutic opportunities. Applying an integrated phenotypic screening, chemical and phosphoproteomics strategy, here we describe the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor ceritinib as having activity across several ALK-negative lung cancer cell lines and identify new targets and network-wide signaling effects. Combining pharmacological inhibitors and RNA interference revealed a polypharmacology mechanism involving the noncanonical targets IGF1R, FAK1, RSK1 and RSK2. Mutating the downstream signaling hub YB1 protected cells from ceritinib. Consistent with YB1 signaling being known to cause taxol resistance, combination of ceritinib with paclitaxel displayed strong synergy, particularly in cells expressing high FAK autophosphorylation, which we show to be prevalent in lung cancer. Together, we present a systems chemical biology platform for elucidating multikinase inhibitor polypharmacology mechanisms, subsequent design of synergistic drug combinations, and identification of mechanistic biomarker candidates.
PXD006140	28992305	Persulfidation proteome reveals the regulation of protein function by hydrogen sulfide in diverse biological processes in Arabidopsis. 	Subproteome persulfidation reveals the regulation of protein function by hydrogen sulfide in diverse biological processes in Arabidopsis thaliana	S-sulfhydration, cysteine, hydrogen sulfide, post-translational modification	Hydrogen sulfide-mediated signaling pathways regulate many physiological and pathophysiological processes in mammalian and plant systems. The molecular mechanism by which hydrogen sulfide exerts its action involves the post-translational modification of cysteine residues to form a persulfidated thiol motif, a process called protein persulfidation. We have developed a comparative and quantitative proteomic analysis approach for the detection of endogenous persulfidated proteins in wild-type Arabidopsis and L-CYSTEINE DESULFHYDRASE 1 mutant leaves using the tag-switch method. The 2015 identified persulfidated proteins were isolated from plants grown under controlled conditions, and therefore, at least 5% of the entire Arabidopsis proteome may undergo persulfidation under baseline conditions. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that persulfidated cysteines participate in a wide range of biological functions, regulating important processes such as carbon metabolism, plant responses to abiotic and biotic stresses, plant growth and development, and RNA translation. Quantitative analysis in both genetic backgrounds reveals that protein persulfidation is mainly involved in primary metabolic pathways such as the tricarboxylic acid cycle, glycolysis, and the Calvin cycle, suggesting that this protein modification is a new regulatory component in these pathways.
PXD007884	28993202	Temporal expression profiling of plasma proteins reveals oxidative stress in early stages of Type 1 Diabetes progression. 	Temporal Expression Profiling of Plasma Proteins in Type 1 Diabetes Progression	TMT10, Temporal proteome change, Type 1 Diabetes, longitudinal profiling, pediatric plasma proteome	Blood markers other than islet autoantibodies are greatly needed to indicate the pancreatic beta cell destruction process as early as possible, and more accurately reflect the progression of Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus (T1D). To this end, a longitudinal proteomic profiling of human plasma using TMT-10plex-based LC-MS/MS analysis was performed to track temporal proteomic changes of T1D patients (n=11) across 9 serial time points, spanning the period of T1D natural progression, in comparison with those of the matching healthy controls (n=10). To our knowledge, the current study represents the largest (>2000 proteins measured) longitudinal expression profiles of human plasma proteome in T1D research. By applying statistical trend analysis on the temporal expression patterns between T1D and controls, and Benjamini-Hochberg procedure for multiple-testing correction, 13 protein groups were regarded as having statistically significant differences during the entire follow-up period. Moreover, 16 protein groups, which play pivotal roles in response to oxidative stress, have consistently abnormal expression trend before seroconversion to islet autoimmunity. Importantly, the expression trends of two key reactive oxygen species-decomposing enzymes, Catalase and Superoxide dismutase were verified independently by ELISA. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The temporal changes of >2000 plasma proteins (at least quantified in two subjects), spanning the entire period of T1D natural progression were provided to the research community. Oxidative stress related proteins have consistently different dysregulated patterns in T1D group than in age-sex matched healthy controls, even prior to appearance of islet autoantibodies - the earliest sign of islet autoimmunity and pancreatic beta cell stress.
PXD006435	28993419	Quantitative Profiling of N-linked Glycosylation Machinery in Yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Quantitative Profiling of N-linked Glycosylation Machinery in Yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae	ER (Endoplasmatic Reticulum) OST (Oligosaccharyltransferase) GlcNAc (N-acetyl-glucosamine) LLO (Lipid-linked oligosaccharide) MS (Mass spectrometry) PRM (Parallel reaction monitoring) SILAC (Stable isotope l	Asparagine-linked glycosylation is a common posttranslational protein modification regulating the structure, stability and function of many proteins. The N-linked glycosylation machinery involves enzymes responsible for the assembly of the lipid-linked oligosaccharide (LLO), which is then transferred to the asparagine residues on the polypeptides by the enzyme oligosaccharyltransferase (OST). A major goal in the study of protein glycosylation is to establish quantitative methods for the analysis of site-specific extent of glycosylation. We developed a sensitive approach to examine glycosylation site occupancy in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by coupling stable isotope labeling (SILAC) approach to parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) mass spectrometry (MS). We combined the method with genetic tools and validated the approach with the identification of novel glycosylation sites dependent on the Ost3p and Ost6p regulatory subunits of OST. Based on the observations that alternations in LLO substrate structure and OST subunits activity differentially alter the systemic output of OST, we conclude that sequon recognition is a direct property of the catalytic subunit Stt3p, auxiliary subunits such as Ost3p and Ost6p extend the OST substrate range by modulating interfering pathways such as protein folding. In addition, our proteomics approach revealed a novel regulatory network that connects isoprenoid lipid biosynthesis and LLO substrate assembly.
PXD004291	28993769	Phosphoproteomics Reveals Regulatory T Cell-Mediated DEF6 Dephosphorylation That Affects Cytokine Expression in Human Conventional T Cells. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of T cell receptor stimulation-induced changes in human primary CD4+CD25- T cells in the absence or presence of regulatory T cells.	ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, Ti-IMAC, co-cultures, human CD4+ T cells, phosphoproteomics, regulatory T cells (Tregs)	Regulatory T cells (Tregs) control key events of immune tolerance, primarily by suppression of effector T cells. We previously revealed that Tregs rapidly suppress T cell receptor (TCR)-induced calcium store depletion in conventional CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells (Tcons) independently of IP3 levels, consequently inhibiting NFAT signaling and effector cytokine expression. Here, we study Treg suppression mechanisms through unbiased phosphoproteomics of primary human Tcons upon TCR stimulation and Treg-mediated suppression, respectively. Tregs induced a state of overall decreased phosphorylation as opposed to TCR stimulation. We discovered novel phosphosites (T595_S597) in the DEF6 (SLAT) protein that were phosphorylated upon TCR stimulation and conversely dephosphorylated upon coculture with Tregs. Mutation of these DEF6 phosphosites abrogated interaction of DEF6 with the IP3 receptor and affected NFAT activation and cytokine transcription in primary Tcons. This novel mechanism and phosphoproteomics data resource may aid in modifying sensitivity of Tcons to Treg-mediated suppression in autoimmune disease or cancer.
PXD004164	28994205	Proteomics and Network Analyses Reveal Inhibition of Akt-mTOR Signaling in CD4(+) T Cells by Mycobacterium tuberculosis Mannose-Capped Lipoarabinomannan. 	Proteomics and network analyses reveals inhibition of Akt-mTOR signaling in CD4+ T cells by Mycobacterium tuberculosis Mannose-capped Lipoarabinomannan	LC/MS/MS, Label Free Proteomics, Mycobacterium tuberculosis Mannose-capped Lipoarabinomannan, Pathway analysis	Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) cell wall glycolipid mannose-capped lipoarabinomannan (ManLAM) inhibits CD4(+) T-cell activation by inhibiting proximal T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling when activated by anti-CD3. To understand the impact of ManLAM on CD4(+) T-cell function when both the TCR-CD3 complex and major costimulator CD28 are engaged, we performed label-free quantitative MS and network analysis. Mixed-effect model analysis of peptide intensity identified 149 unique peptides representing 131 proteins that were differentially regulated by ManLAM in anti-CD3- and anti-CD28-activated CD4(+) T cells. Crosstalker, a novel network analysis tool identified dysregulated translation, TCA cycle, and RNA metabolism network modules. PCNA, Akt, mTOR, and UBC were found to be bridge node proteins connecting these modules of dysregulated proteins. Altered PCNA expression and cell cycle analysis showed arrest at the G2M phase. Western blot confirmed that ManLAM inhibited Akt and mTOR phosphorylation, and decreased expression of deubiquitinating enzymes Usp9x and Otub1. Decreased NF-kappaB phosphorylation suggested interference with CD28 signaling through inhibition of the Usp9x-Akt-mTOR pathway. Thus, ManLAM induced global changes in the CD4(+) T-cell proteome by affecting Akt-mTOR signaling, resulting in broad functional impairment of CD4(+) T-cell activation beyond inhibition of proximal TCR-CD3 signaling.
PXD005960	28994248	MALDI Mass Spectrometry Imaging: A Novel Tool for the Identification and Classification of Amyloidosis. 	Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization Mass Spectrometry Imaging: a novel Tool for the Identification and Classification of Amyloidosis	MALDI MS imaging, amyloidosis, formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded, ion mobility separation	Amyloidosis is a group of diseases caused by extracellular accumulation of fibrillar polypeptide aggregates. So far, diagnosis is performed by Congo red staining of tissue sections in combination with polarization microscopy. Subsequent identification of the causative protein by immunohistochemistry harbors some difficulties regarding sensitivity and specificity. Mass spectrometry based approaches have been demonstrated to constitute a reliable method to supplement typing of amyloidosis, but still depend on Congo red staining. In the present study, we used matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging coupled with ion mobility separation (MALDI-IMS MSI) to investigate amyloid deposits in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue samples. Utilizing a novel peptide filter method, we found a universal peptide signature for amyloidoses. Furthermore, differences in the peptide composition of ALlambda and ATTR amyloid were revealed and used to build a reliable classification model. Integrating the peptide filter in MALDI-IMS MSI analysis, we developed a bioinformatics workflow facilitating the identification and classification of amyloidosis in a less time and sample-consuming experimental setup. Our findings demonstrate also the feasibility to investigate the amyloid's protein composition, thus paving the way to establish classification models for the diverse types of amyloidoses and to shed further light on the complex process of amyloidogenesis.
PXD004824	289	A simple method of isolation and purification of cultures of wood-rotting fungi. 	DISMS2: A flexible algorithm for direct proteome-wide distance calculation of LC-MS/MS runs	Distance measurements, Spectral comparisions	A simple method of isolation and purification of cultures of higher fungi, mainly wood-rotting fungi, without special requirements for the presence of nitrogencontaining nutrients is described. Parts of fruiting bodies, spores or infected wood is inoculated on Petri dishes with an agar medium of the following composition: 1.0 g KH2PO4, 0.2 g MgSO4 - 7 H2O, 0.1 g caSO4, 0.01 g Fe2(SO4)3, 10.0 g glucose, tap water to 1 litre; 20.0 g agar. This medium does not suit most of the contaminants but fungal hyphae overgrow the whole surface of the dish so that a purified culture can be obtained from parts distant from the inoculation site.
PXD005145	29016103	Comparison of Enrichment Methods for Intact N- and O-Linked Glycopeptides Using Strong Anion Exchange and Hydrophilic Interaction Liquid Chromatography. 	Comparison of Intact Glycopeptide Enrichment Methods Using Strong Anion Exchange and Hydrophilic Interaction Liquid Chromatography	HILIC, O-linked, SAX, glycoproteomics, quantitation	Heterogeneity of protein glycosylation poses great challenges for analysis that is key to understand structure and function of glycoproteins. Resolving this conundrum requires efficient and specific enrichment of intact glycopeptides for identification and quantitation. To this end, hydrophilic interaction chromatography (HILIC) has been commonly used to enrich intact N- and O-linked glycopeptides. However, its effectiveness to enrich isobarically labeled glycopeptides remains unclear. Here, we studied three different enrichment methods for enrichment of N- and O-linked glycopeptides. It was found that removal of N-glycans prior to enrichment of O-linked glycopeptides by HILIC improved identification of O-linked glycopeptides by mass spectrometry. We also compared the enrichment of intact N- and O-linked glycopeptides using other chromatography methods and found that using cartridges containing materials for strong anion exchange (SAX) chromatography increased yield and identification of N- and O-linked glycopeptides. The enrichment of O-linked glycopeptides was further improved when a Retain AX cartridge (RAX) was used. In particular, isobaric tag labeled glycopeptides after C18 desalting could be readily enriched by SAX and RAX cartridges but not by HILIC to enable quantitative glycoproteomics. It is anticipated that the use of SAX and RAX cartridges will facilitate broad applications of identifications and quantitation of glycoproteins.
PXD007552	29017060	Integrating Proteomics and Transcriptomics for Systematic Combinatorial Chimeric Antigen Receptor Therapy of AML. 	An Informatic Approach to Chimeric Antigen Receptor Discovery Integrates Proteomics and Transcriptomics to Identify Novel Combinatorial Pairs	09AML, Human AML cell lines LC-MSMS, KASUMI, MOLM13, MONOMAC, TF, THPI	Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) therapy targeting CD19 has yielded remarkable outcomes in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. To identify potential CAR targets in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), we probed the AML surfaceome for overexpressed molecules with tolerable systemic expression. We integrated large transcriptomics and proteomics datasets from malignant and normal tissues, and developed an algorithm to identify potential targets expressed in leukemia stem cells, but not in normal CD34(+)CD38(-) hematopoietic cells, T cells, or vital tissues. As these investigations did not uncover candidate targets with a profile as favorable as CD19, we developed a generalizable combinatorial targeting strategy fulfilling stringent efficacy and safety criteria. Our findings indicate that several target pairings hold great promise for CAR therapy of AML.
PXD006929	29018126	Systematic Identification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis Effectors Reveals that BfrB Suppresses Innate Immunity. 	He Xiang - BfrB -  Systematic Identification of Mycobacterium tuberculosisEffectors Reveals that BfrB Suppresses Innate Immunity	BfrB RPS3	Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) has evolved multiple strategies to counter the human immune system. The effectors of Mtb play important roles in the interactions with the host. However, because of the lack of highly efficient strategies, there are only a handful of known Mtb effectors, thus hampering our understanding of Mtb pathogenesis. In this study, we probed Mtb proteome microarray with biotinylated whole-cell lysates of human macrophages, identifying 26 Mtb membrane proteins and secreted proteins that bind to macrophage proteins. Combining GST pull-down with mass spectroscopy then enabled the specific identification of all binders. We refer to this proteome microarray-based strategy as SOPHIE (Systematic unlOcking of Pathogen and Host Interacting Effectors). Detailed investigation of a novel effector identified here, the iron storage protein BfrB (Rv3841), revealed that BfrB inhibits NF-kappaB-dependent transcription through binding and reducing the nuclear abundance of the ribosomal protein S3 (RPS3), which is a functional subunit of NF- kappaB. The importance of this interaction was evidenced by the promotion of survival in macrophages of the mycobacteria, Mycobacterium smegmatis, by overexpression of BfrB. Thus, beyond demonstrating the power of SOPHIE in the discovery of novel effectors of human pathogens, we expect that the set of Mtb effectors identified in this work will greatly facilitate the understanding of the pathogenesis of Mtb, possibly leading to additional potential molecular targets in the battle against tuberculosis.
PXD007594	29018234	Homo-PROTACs: bivalent small-molecule dimerizers of the VHL E3 ubiquitin ligase to induce self-degradation. 	Homo-PROTACs: bivalent small-molecule dimerizers of the VHL E3 ubiquitin ligase to induce self-degradation	E3 ligases, PROTACs, chemical dimerizers., protein degradation, von Hippel-Lindau protein	E3 ubiquitin ligases are key enzymes within the ubiquitin proteasome system which catalyze the ubiquitination of proteins, targeting them for proteasomal degradation. E3 ligases are gaining importance as targets to small molecules, both for direct inhibition and to be hijacked to induce the degradation of non-native neo-substrates using bivalent compounds known as PROTACs (for 'proteolysis-targeting chimeras'). We describe Homo-PROTACs as an approach to dimerize an E3 ligase to trigger its suicide-type chemical knockdown inside cells. We provide proof-of-concept of Homo-PROTACs using diverse molecules composed of two instances of a ligand for the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) E3 ligase. The most active compound, CM11, dimerizes VHL with high avidity in vitro and induces potent, rapid and proteasome-dependent self-degradation of VHL in different cell lines, in a highly isoform-selective fashion and without triggering a hypoxic response. This approach offers a novel chemical probe for selective VHL knockdown, and demonstrates the potential for a new modality of chemical intervention on E3 ligases.Targeting the ubiquitin proteasome system to modulate protein homeostasis using small molecules has promising therapeutic potential. Here the authors describe Homo-PROTACS: small molecules that can induce the homo-dimerization of E3 ubiquitin ligases and cause their proteasome-dependent degradation.
PXD007170	29019242	Salivary Cystatins: Exploring New Post-Translational Modifications and Polymorphisms by Top-Down High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry. 	Human Salivary Cystatins -  SALIVARY CYSTATINS: EXPLORING NEW POST-TRANSLATIONAL MODIFICATIONS AND POLYMORPHISMS BY TOP-DOWN HIGH RESOLUTION MASS SPECTROMETRY	Cystatin A, Cystatin B, Cystatin D, S-type Cystatins, human saliva, post-translational modifications, top-down high-resolution mass spectrometry.	Cystatins are a complex family of cysteine peptidase inhibitors. In the present study, various proteoforms of cystatin A, cystatin B, cystatin S, cystatin SN, and cystatin SA were detected in the acid-soluble fraction of human saliva and characterized by a top-down HPLC-ESI-MS approach. Proteoforms of cystatin D were also detected and characterized by an integrated top-down and bottom-up strategy. The proteoforms derive from coding sequence polymorphisms and post-translational modifications, in particular, phosphorylation, N-terminal processing, and oxidation. This study increases the current knowledge of salivary cystatin proteoforms and provides the basis to evaluate possible qualitative/quantitative variations of these proteoforms in different pathological states and reveal new potential salivary biomarkers of disease. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007170.
PXD004531	29021214	Casein kinase II phosphorylation of cyclin F at serine 621 regulates the Lys48-ubiquitylation E3 ligase activity of the SCF((cyclin F)) complex. 	Phosphorylation of Cyclin F at Serine 621 regulates the Lys48-ubiquitylation E3 ligase activity of the SCF(Cyclin F) complex.	ALS, E3 ligase, phosphorylation, ubiquitylation	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by progressive weakness, paralysis and muscle loss often resulting in patient death within 3-5 years of diagnosis. Recently, we identified disease-linked mutations in the CCNF gene, which encodes the cyclin F protein, in cohorts of patients with familial and sporadic ALS and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) (Williams KL et al 2016 Nat. Commun.7, 11253. (doi:10.1038/ncomms11253)). Cyclin F is a part of a Skp1-Cul-F-box (SCF) E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex and is responsible for ubiquitylating proteins for degradation by the proteasome. In this study, we investigated the phosphorylation status of cyclin F and the effect of the serine to glycine substitution at site 621 (S621G) on E3 ligase activity. This specific mutation (S621G) was found in a multi-generational Australian family with ALS/FTD. We identified seven phosphorylation sites on cyclin F, of which five are newly reported including Ser621. These phosphorylation sites were mostly identified within the PEST (proline, glutamic acid, serine and threonine) sequence located at the C-terminus of cyclin F. Additionally, we determined that casein kinase II (CK2) can phosphorylate Ser621 and thereby regulate the E3 ligase activity of the SCF((cyclin F)) complex. Furthermore, the S621G mutation in cyclin F prevents phosphorylation by CK2 and confers elevated Lys48-ubiquitylation activity, a hallmark of ALS/FTD pathology. These findings highlight the importance of phosphorylation in regulating the activity of the SCF((cyclin F)) E3 ligase complex that can affect downstream processes and may lead to defective motor neuron development, neuron degeneration and ultimately ALS and FTD.
PXD006908	29021545	The metabolic enzyme fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase acts as a transcriptional regulator in pathogenic Francisella. 	DeltaFBA shotgun Francicella -  The metabolic enzyme fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase acts as a transcriptional regulator in pathogenic Francisella	Francisella	The enzyme fructose-bisphosphate aldolase occupies a central position in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis pathways. Beyond its housekeeping role in metabolism, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase has been involved in additional functions and is considered as a potential target for drug development against pathogenic bacteria. Here, we address the role of fructose-bisphosphate aldolase in the bacterial pathogen Francisella novicida. We demonstrate that fructose-bisphosphate aldolase is important for bacterial multiplication in macrophages in the presence of gluconeogenic substrates. In addition, we unravel a direct role of this metabolic enzyme in transcription regulation of genes katG and rpoA, encoding catalase and an RNA polymerase subunit, respectively. We propose a model in which fructose-bisphosphate aldolase participates in the control of host redox homeostasis and the inflammatory immune response.The enzyme fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (FBA) plays central roles in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. Here, Ziveri et al. show that FBA of the pathogen Francisella novicida acts, in addition, as a transcriptional regulator and is important for bacterial multiplication in macrophages.
PXD005493	29021621	Protein interaction network of alternatively spliced NudCD1 isoforms. 	Interactome of NudCD1 isoforms 1, 2 & 3	NudCD1, cancer, mRNA splicing	NudCD1, also known as CML66 or OVA66, is a protein initially identified as overexpressed in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia. The mRNA of NudCD1 is expressed in heart and testis of normal tissues, and is overexpressed in several cancers. Previous studies have shown that the expression level of the protein correlates with tumoral phenotype, possibly interacting upstream of the Insulin Growth Factor - 1 Receptor (IGF-1R). The gene encoding the NudCD1 protein consists of 12 exons that can be alternative spliced, leading to the expression of three different isoforms. These isoforms possess a common region of 492 amino acids in their C-terminus region and have an isoform specific N-terminus. To determine the distinct function of each isoforms, we have localised the isoforms within the cells using immunofluorescence microscopy and used a quantitative proteomics approach (SILAC) to identify specific protein interaction partners for each isoforms. Localization studies showed a different subcellular distribution for the different isoforms, with the first isoform being nuclear, while the other two isoforms have distinct cytoplasmic and nuclear location. We found that the different NudCD1 isoforms have unique interacting partners, with the first isoform binding to a putative RNA helicase named DHX15 involved in mRNA splicing.
PXD006159	29024291	Phosphorylation coexists with O-GlcNAcylation in a plant virus protein and influences viral infection. 	Phosphorylation coexists with O-GlcNAcylation in a plant virus protein and shapes viral infection	Coat protein, O-GlcNAcylation, Plum pox virus, Potyvirus, crosstalk, phosphorylation, plant virus, yin-yang	Phosphorylation and O-GlcNAcylation are two widespread post-translational modifications (PTMs), often affecting the same eukaryotic target protein. Plum pox virus (PPV) is a member of the genus Potyvirus which infects a wide range of plant species. O-GlcNAcylation of the capsid protein (CP) of PPV has been studied extensively, and some evidence of CP phosphorylation has also been reported. Here, we use proteomics analyses to demonstrate that PPV CP is phosphorylated in vivo at the N-terminus and the beginning of the core region. In contrast with the 'yin-yang' mechanism that applies to some mammalian proteins, PPV CP phosphorylation affects residues different from those that are O-GlcNAcylated (serines Ser-25, Ser-81, Ser-101 and Ser-118). Our findings show that PPV CP can be concurrently phosphorylated and O-GlcNAcylated at nearby residues. However, an analysis using a differential proteomics strategy based on iTRAQ (isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation) showed a significant enhancement of phosphorylation at Ser-25 in virions recovered from O-GlcNAcylation-deficient plants, suggesting that crosstalk between O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation in PPV CP takes place. Although the preclusion of phosphorylation at the four identified phosphotarget sites only had a limited impact on viral infection, the mimicking of phosphorylation prevents PPV infection in Prunus persica and weakens infection in Nicotiana benthamiana and other herbaceous hosts, prompting the emergence of potentially compensatory second mutations. We postulate that the joint action of phosphorylation and O-GlcNAcylation in the N-proximal segment of CP allows a fine-tuning of protein stability, providing the amount of CP required in each step of viral infection.
PXD005408	29024340	Multiple marker abundance profiling: combining selected reaction monitoring and data-dependent acquisition for rapid estimation of organelle abundance in subcellular samples. 	A novel tool, Multiple Marker Abundance Profiling, uses Selected Reaction Monitoring and data-dependent acquisition for rapid estimation of organelle abundance in subcellular samples.	SRM, organelle, quantitation, shotgun, subcellular proteomics	Measuring changes in protein or organelle abundance in the cell is an essential, but challenging aspect of cell biology. Frequently-used methods for determining organelle abundance typically rely on detection of a very few marker proteins, so are unsatisfactory. In silico estimates of protein abundances from publicly available protein spectra can provide useful standard abundance values but contain only data from tissue proteomes, and are not coupled to organelle localization data. A new protein abundance score, the normalized protein abundance scale (NPAS), expands on the number of scored proteins and the scoring accuracy of lower-abundance proteins in Arabidopsis. NPAS was combined with subcellular protein localization data, facilitating quantitative estimations of organelle abundance during routine experimental procedures. A suite of targeted proteomics markers for subcellular compartment markers was developed, enabling independent verification of in silico estimates for relative organelle abundance. Estimation of relative organelle abundance was found to be reproducible and consistent over a range of tissues and growth conditions. In silico abundance estimations and localization data have been combined into an online tool, multiple marker abundance profiling, available in the SUBA4 toolbox (http://suba.live).
PXD006046	29028184	Native KCC2 interactome reveals PACSIN1 as a critical regulator of synaptic inhibition. 	KCC2 Proteome	Cation chloride cotransporter, E/I balance, GABA, Glutamate, Interacting proteins, KCC2, LC/MS, Neuronal Chloride homeostasis, SLC12A5	KCC2 is a neuron-specific K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter essential for establishing the Cl(-) gradient required for hyperpolarizing inhibition in the central nervous system (CNS). KCC2 is highly localized to excitatory synapses where it regulates spine morphogenesis and AMPA receptor confinement. Aberrant KCC2 function contributes to human neurological disorders including epilepsy and neuropathic pain. Using functional proteomics, we identified the KCC2-interactome in the mouse brain to determine KCC2-protein interactions that regulate KCC2 function. Our analysis revealed that KCC2 interacts with diverse proteins, and its most predominant interactors play important roles in postsynaptic receptor recycling. The most abundant KCC2 interactor is a neuronal endocytic regulatory protein termed PACSIN1 (SYNDAPIN1). We verified the PACSIN1-KCC2 interaction biochemically and demonstrated that shRNA knockdown of PACSIN1 in hippocampal neurons increases KCC2 expression and hyperpolarizes the reversal potential for Cl(-). Overall, our global native-KCC2 interactome and subsequent characterization revealed PACSIN1 as a novel and potent negative regulator of KCC2.
PXD007646	29028822	Serial-omics characterization of equine urine. 	Serial-Omics of Equine Urine -  Serial-omics characterization of equine urine	Biomarkers, Equine, Horse, Integration, Lipidomics, Metabolomics, Urine	Horse urine is easily collected and contains molecules readily measurable using mass spectrometry that can be used as biomarkers representative of health, disease or drug tampering. This study aimed at analyzing microliter levels of horse urine to purify, identify and quantify proteins, polar metabolites and non-polar lipids. Urine from a healthy 12 year old quarter horse mare on a diet of grass hay and vitamin/mineral supplements with limited pasture access was collected for serial-omics characterization. The urine was treated with methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) and methanol to partition into three distinct layers for protein, non-polar lipid and polar metabolite content from a single liquid-liquid extraction and was repeated two times. Each layer was analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography-high resolution tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to obtain protein sequence and relative protein levels as well as identify and quantify small polar metabolites and lipids. The results show 46 urine proteins, many related to normal kidney function, structural and circulatory proteins as well as 474 small polar metabolites but only 10 lipid molecules. Metabolites were mostly related to urea cycle and ammonia recycling as well as amino acid related pathways, plant diet specific molecules, etc. The few lipids represented triglycerides and phospholipids. These data show a complete mass spectrometry based-omics characterization of equine urine from a single 333 muL mid-stream urine aliquot. These omics data help serve as a baseline for healthy mare urine composition and the analyses can be used to monitor disease progression, health status, monitor drug use, etc.
PXD007587	29028897	Sipros Ensemble improves database searching and filtering for complex metaproteomics. 	Sipros Ensemble Improves Database Searching and Filtering for Complex Metaproteomics	Metaproteomics, database searching, machine learning, metaproteomics	Motivation: Complex microbial communities can be characterized by metagenomics and metaproteomics. However, metagenome assemblies often generate enormous, and yet incomplete, protein databases, which undermines the identification of peptides and proteins in metaproteomics. This challenge calls for increased discrimination of true identifications from false identifications by database searching and filtering algorithms in metaproteomics. Results: Sipros Ensemble was developed here for metaproteomics using an ensemble approach. Three diverse scoring functions from MyriMatch, Comet and the original Sipros were incorporated within a single database searching engine. Supervised classification with logistic regression was used to filter database searching results. Benchmarking with soil and marine microbial communities demonstrated a higher number of peptide and protein identifications by Sipros Ensemble than MyriMatch/Percolator, Comet/Percolator, MS-GF+/Percolator, Comet & MyriMatch/iProphet and Comet & MyriMatch & MS-GF+/iProphet. Sipros Ensemble was computationally efficient and scalable on supercomputers. Availability and implementation: Freely available under the GNU GPL license at http://sipros.omicsbio.org. Contact: cpan@utk.edu. Supplementary information: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
PXD005726	29030347	Extracellular Matrix Proteomics Reveals Interplay of Aggrecan and Aggrecanases in Vascular Remodeling of Stented Coronary Arteries. 	ECM characterization in stented porcine coronary arteries LC-MS/MS	Pig, coronary arteries, media, neointima	BACKGROUND: Extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling contributes to in-stent restenosis and thrombosis. Despite its important clinical implications, little is known about ECM changes post-stent implantation. METHODS: Bare-metal and drug-eluting stents were implanted in pig coronary arteries with an overstretch under optical coherence tomography guidance. Stented segments were harvested 1, 3, 7, 14, and 28 days post-stenting for proteomics analysis of the media and neointima. RESULTS: A total of 151 ECM and ECM-associated proteins were identified by mass spectrometry. After stent implantation, proteins involved in regulating calcification were upregulated in the neointima of drug-eluting stents. The earliest changes in the media were proteins involved in inflammation and thrombosis, followed by changes in regulatory ECM proteins. By day 28, basement membrane proteins were reduced in drug-eluting stents in comparison with bare-metal stents. In contrast, the large aggregating proteoglycan aggrecan was increased. Aggrecanases of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) family contribute to the catabolism of vascular proteoglycans. An increase in ADAMTS-specific aggrecan fragments was accompanied by a notable shift from ADAMTS1 and ADAMTS5 to ADAMTS4 gene expression after stent implantation. Immunostaining in human stented coronary arteries confirmed the presence of aggrecan and aggrecan fragments, in particular, at the contacts of the stent struts with the artery. Further investigation of aggrecan presence in the human vasculature revealed that aggrecan and aggrecan cleavage were more abundant in human arteries than in human veins. In addition, aggrecan synthesis was induced on grafting a vein into the arterial circulation, suggesting an important role for aggrecan in vascular plasticity. Finally, lack of ADAMTS-5 activity in mice resulted in an accumulation of aggrecan and a dilation of the thoracic aorta, confirming that aggrecanase activity regulates aggrecan abundance in the arterial wall and contributes to vascular remodeling. CONCLUSIONS: Significant differences were identified by proteomics in the ECM of coronary arteries after bare-metal and drug-eluting stent implantation, most notably an upregulation of aggrecan, a major ECM component of cartilaginous tissues that confers resistance to compression. The accumulation of aggrecan coincided with a shift in ADAMTS gene expression. This study provides the first evidence implicating aggrecan and aggrecanases in the vascular injury response after stenting.
PXD004196	29030483	RBPJ/CBF1 interacts with L3MBTL3/MBT1 to promote repression of Notch signaling via histone demethylase KDM1A/LSD1. 	RBPJ/CBF1 interacts with L3MBTL3/MBT1 to promote repression of Notch signaling via histone demethylase KDM1A/LSD1	KDM1A, L3MBTL3, Notch, RBPJ	Notch signaling is an evolutionarily conserved signal transduction pathway that is essential for metazoan development. Upon ligand binding, the Notch intracellular domain (NOTCH ICD) translocates into the nucleus and forms a complex with the transcription factor RBPJ (also known as CBF1 or CSL) to activate expression of Notch target genes. In the absence of a Notch signal, RBPJ acts as a transcriptional repressor. Using a proteomic approach, we identified L3MBTL3 (also known as MBT1) as a novel RBPJ interactor. L3MBTL3 competes with NOTCH ICD for binding to RBPJ In the absence of NOTCH ICD, RBPJ recruits L3MBTL3 and the histone demethylase KDM1A (also known as LSD1) to the enhancers of Notch target genes, leading to H3K4me2 demethylation and to transcriptional repression. Importantly, in vivo analyses of the homologs of RBPJ and L3MBTL3 in Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans demonstrate that the functional link between RBPJ and L3MBTL3 is evolutionarily conserved, thus identifying L3MBTL3 as a universal modulator of Notch signaling in metazoans.
PXD006045	29030485	Crosstalk between PKA and PKG controls pH-dependent host cell egress of Toxoplasma gondii. 	Cross-talk between PKA and PKG controls pH-dependent host cell egress of Toxoplasma gondii	IMAC, Phospho, T. gondii	Toxoplasma gondii encodes three protein kinase A catalytic (PKAc1-3) and one regulatory (PKAr) subunits to integrate cAMP-dependent signals. Here, we show that inactive PKAc1 is maintained at the parasite pellicle by interacting with acylated PKAr. Either a conditional knockdown of PKAr or the overexpression of PKAc1 blocks parasite division. Conversely, down-regulation of PKAc1 or stabilisation of a dominant-negative PKAr isoform that does not bind cAMP triggers premature parasite egress from infected cells followed by serial invasion attempts leading to host cell lysis. This untimely egress depends on host cell acidification. A phosphoproteome analysis suggested the interplay between cAMP and cGMP signalling as PKAc1 inactivation changes the phosphorylation profile of a putative cGMP-phosphodiesterase. Concordantly, inhibition of the cGMP-dependent protein kinase G (PKG) blocks egress induced by PKAc1 inactivation or environmental acidification, while a cGMP-phosphodiesterase inhibitor circumvents egress repression by PKAc1 or pH neutralisation. This indicates that pH and PKAc1 act as balancing regulators of cGMP metabolism to control egress. These results reveal a crosstalk between PKA and PKG pathways to govern egress in T. gondii.
PXD006992	29030565	Proteolytic signatures define unique thrombin-derived peptides present in human wound fluid in vivo. 	PROTEOLYTIC SIGNATURES OF THROMBIN-DERIVED PEPTIDES by LC-MS/MS	antimicrobial peptide	The disease burden of failing skin repair and non-healing ulcers is extensive. There is an unmet need for new diagnostic approaches to better predict healing activity and wound infection. Uncontrolled and excessive protease activity, of endogenous or bacterial origin, has been described as a major contributor to wound healing impairments. Proteolytic peptide patterns could therefore correlate and "report" healing activity and infection. This work describes a proof of principle delineating a strategy by which peptides from a selected protein, human thrombin, are detected and attributed to proteolytic actions. With a particular focus on thrombin-derived C-terminal peptides (TCP), we show that distinct peptide patterns are generated in vitro by the human S1 peptidases human neutrophil elastase and cathepsin G, and the bacterial M4 peptidases Pseudomonas aeruginosa elastase and Staphylococcus aureus aureolysin, respectively. Corresponding peptide sequences were identified in wound fluids from acute and non-healing ulcers, and notably, one peptide, FYT21 (FYTHVFRLKKWIQKVIDQFGE), was only present in wound fluid from non-healing ulcers colonized by P. aeruginosa and S. aureus. Our result is a proof of principle pointing at the possibility of defining peptide biomarkers reporting distinct proteolytic activities, of potential implication for improved diagnosis of wound healing and infection.
PXD007543	29032073	A Compendium of Co-regulated Protein Complexes in Breast Cancer Reveals Collateral Loss Events. 	A compendium of co-regulated protein complexes in breast cancer reveals collateral loss events	breast cancer, collateral loss, protein complex, protein-protein interaction	Protein complexes are responsible for the bulk of activities within the cell, but how their behavior and abundance varies across tumors remains poorly understood. By combining proteomic profiles of breast tumors with a large-scale protein-protein interaction network, we have identified a set of 285 high-confidence protein complexes whose subunits have highly correlated protein abundance across tumor samples. We used this set to identify complexes that are reproducibly under- or overexpressed in specific breast cancer subtypes. We found that mutation or deletion of one subunit of a co-regulated complex was often associated with a collateral reduction in protein expression of additional complex members. This collateral loss phenomenon was typically evident from proteomic, but not transcriptomic, profiles, suggesting post-transcriptional control. Mutation of the tumor suppressor E-cadherin (CDH1) was associated with a collateral loss of members of the adherens junction complex, an effect we validated using an engineered model of E-cadherin loss.
PXD005621	29033902	Analyzing the Complex Regulatory Landscape of Hfq - an Integrative, Multi-Omics Approach. 	An integrative, multi-omics analysis of the Hfq regulon	Multi-Omics, Pseudomonas fluorescens, hfq, isobaric labelling, posttranscriptional regulation	The ability of bacteria to respond to environmental change is based on the ability to coordinate, redirect and fine-tune their genetic repertoire as and when required. While we can learn a great deal from reductive analysis of individual pathways and global approaches to gene regulation, a deeper understanding of these complex signaling networks requires the simultaneous consideration of several regulatory layers at the genome scale. To highlight the power of this approach we analyzed the Hfq transcriptional/translational regulatory network in the model bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens. We first used extensive 'omics' analyses to assess how hfq deletion affects mRNA abundance, mRNA translation and protein abundance. The subsequent, multi-level integration of these datasets allows us to highlight the discrete contributions by Hfq to gene regulation at different levels. The integrative approach to regulatory analysis we describe here has significant potential, for both dissecting individual signaling pathways and understanding the strategies bacteria use to cope with external challenges.
PXD006557	29035686	The Human Odontoblast Cell Layer and Dental Pulp Proteomes and N-Terminomes. 	TAILS N-terminomics of the human dental pulp stroma and the odontoblast layer	CHPP, Human Proteome Project, N-terminomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP), TAILS, odontoblast, positional proteomics, pulp, stroma	The proteome and N-terminome of the human odontoblast cell layer were identified for the first time by shotgun proteomic and terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates (TAILS) N-terminomic analyses, respectively, and compared with that of human dental pulp stroma from 26 third molar teeth. After reverse-phase liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, >170,000 spectra from the shotgun and TAILS analyses were matched by 4 search engines to 4,888 and 12,063 peptides in the odontoblast cell layer and pulp stroma, respectively. Within these peptide groups, 1,543 and 5,841 protein N-termini, as well as 895 and 2,423 unique proteins, were identified with a false discovery rate of <=1%. Thus, the human dental pulp proteome was expanded by 974 proteins not previously identified among the 4,123 proteins in our 2015 dental pulp study. Further, 222 proteins of the odontoblast cell layer were not found in the pulp stroma, suggesting many of these proteins are synthesized only by odontoblasts. When comparing the proteomes of older and younger donors, differences were more apparent in the odontoblast cell layer than in the dental pulp stroma. In the odontoblast cell layer proteome, we found proteomic evidence for dentin sialophosphoprotein, which is cleaved into dentin sialoprotein and dentin phosphoprotein. By exploring the proteome of the odontoblast cell layer and expanding the known dental pulp proteome, we found distinct proteome differences compared with each other and with dentin. Moreover, between 61% and 66% of proteins also occurred as proteoforms commencing with a neo-N-terminus not annotated in UniProt. Hence, TAILS increased proteome coverage and revealed considerable proteolytic processing, by identifying stable proteoforms in these dynamic dental tissues. All mass spectrometry raw data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange with the identifier <PXD006557>, with the accompanying metadata at Mendeley Data ( https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/b57zfh6wmy/1 ).
PXD002736	29038488	MCM2-regulated functional networks in lung cancer by multi-dimensional proteomic approach. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis uncovers the regulatory networks of minichromosome maintenance protein 2 in lung cancer cells	Quantitative phosphoproteome, lung cancer cells, minichromosome maintenance protein-2, regulatory networks	DNA replication control is vital for maintaining genome stability and the cell cycle, perhaps most notably during cell division. Malignancies often exhibit defective minichromosome maintenance protein 2 (MCM2), a cancer proliferation biomarker that serves as a licensing factor in the initiation of DNA replication. MCM2 is also known to be one of the ATPase active sites that facilitates conformational changes and drives DNA unwinding at the origin of DNA replication. However, the biological networks of MCM2 in lung cancer cells via protein phosphorylation remain unmapped. The RNA-seq datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) revealed that MCM2 overexpression is correlated with poor survival rate in lung cancer patients. To uncover MCM2-regulated functional networks in lung cancer, we performed multi-dimensional proteomic approach by integrating analysis of the phosphoproteome and proteome, and identified a total of 2361 phosphorylation sites on 753 phosphoproteins, and 4672 proteins. We found that the deregulation of MCM2 is involved in lung cancer cell proliferation, the cell cycle, and migration. Furthermore, HMGA1(S99) phosphorylation was found to be differentially expressed under MCM2 perturbation in opposite directions, and plays an important role in regulating lung cancer cell proliferation. This study therefore enhances our capacity to therapeutically target cancer-specific phosphoproteins.
PXD005968	29042480	Prediction of Protein Complexes in Trypanosoma brucei by Protein Correlation Profiling Mass Spectrometry and Machine Learning. 	Prediction of protein complexes in Trypanosoma brucei by protein correlation profiling mass spectrometry and machine learning	Trypanosoma, procyclic, protein complexes, protein correlation profiling mass spectrometry	A disproportionate number of predicted proteins from the genome sequence of the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma brucei, an important human and animal pathogen, are hypothetical proteins of unknown function. This paper describes a protein correlation profiling mass spectrometry approach, using two size exclusion and one ion exchange chromatography systems, to derive sets of predicted protein complexes in this organism by hierarchical clustering and machine learning methods. These hypothesis-generating proteomic data are provided in an open access online data visualization environment (http://134.36.66.166:8083/complex_explorer). The data can be searched conveniently via a user friendly, custom graphical interface. We provide examples of both potential new subunits of known protein complexes and of novel trypanosome complexes of suggested function, contributing to improving the functional annotation of the trypanosome proteome. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005968.
PXD007910	29043805	Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase 5 Regulates Proliferation and Biosynthetic Processes in Procyclic Forms of Trypanosoma brucei. 	The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 5 regulates the proliferation and biosynthetic processes in procyclic forms of Trypanosoma brucei	T. brucei, energy metabolism, fatty acids biosynthesis, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 5 (MKK5), phosphoproteomics	The pathogenic protozoan T. brucei alternates into distinct developmental stages in the mammalian and insect hosts. The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways transduce extracellular stimuli into a range of cellular responses, which ultimately lead to the adaptation to the external environment. Here, we combined a loss of function approach with stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based mass spectrometry (MS) to investigate the role of the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 5 (MKK5) in T. brucei. The silencing of MKK5 significantly decreased the proliferation of procyclic forms of T. brucei. To shed light on the molecular alterations associated with this phenotype, we measured the total proteome and phosphoproteome of cells silenced for MKK5. In the total proteome, we observed a general decrease in proteins related to ribosome and translation as well as down-regulation of several components of the fatty acids biosynthesis pathway. In addition, we observed alterations in the protein levels and phosphorylation of key metabolic enzymes, which point toward a suppression of the oxidative metabolism. Taken together, our findings show that the silencing of MKK5 alters cell growth, energy metabolism, protein and fatty acids biosynthesis in procyclic T. brucei.
PXD009966	29044188	The histone variant H3.3 G34W substitution in giant cell tumor of the bone link chromatin and RNA processing. 	Transcriptome and protein interaction profiling in cancer cells with mutations in histone H3.3	Giant Cell Tumor of the Bone, H3.3	While transcription as regulated by histones and their post-translational modifications has been well described, the function of histone variants in this process remains poorly characterized. Potentially important insight into this process pertain to the frequently occurring mutations of H3.3, leading to G34 substitutions in childhood glioblastoma and giant cell tumor of the bone (GCTB). In this study, we have established primary cell lines from GCTB patients and used them to uncover the influence of H3.3 G34W substitutions on cellular growth behavior, gene expression, and chromatin compaction. Primary cell lines with H3.3 G34W showed increased colony formation, infiltration and proliferation, known hallmarks of tumor development. Isogenic cell lines with H3.3 G34W recapitulated the increased proliferation observed in primary cells. Transcriptomic analysis of primary cells and tumor biopsies revealed slightly more downregulated gene expression, perhaps by increased chromatin compaction. We identified components related to splicing, most prominently hnRNPs, by immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry that specifically interact with H3.3 G34W in the isogenic cell lines. RNA-sequencing analysis and hybridization-based validations further enforced splicing aberrations. Our data uncover a role for H3.3 in RNA processing and chromatin modulation that is blocked by the G34W substitution, potentially driving the tumorigenic process in GCTB.
PXD006418	29045389	Molecular basis of USP7 inhibition by selective small-molecule inhibitors. 	Molecular basis of USP7 inhibition by selective small molecule inhibitors	USP7 inhibitors cancer	Ubiquitination controls the stability of most cellular proteins, and its deregulation contributes to human diseases including cancer. Deubiquitinases remove ubiquitin from proteins, and their inhibition can induce the degradation of selected proteins, potentially including otherwise 'undruggable' targets. For example, the inhibition of ubiquitin-specific protease 7 (USP7) results in the degradation of the oncogenic E3 ligase MDM2, and leads to re-activation of the tumour suppressor p53 in various cancers. Here we report that two compounds, FT671 and FT827, inhibit USP7 with high affinity and specificity in vitro and within human cells. Co-crystal structures reveal that both compounds target a dynamic pocket near the catalytic centre of the auto-inhibited apo form of USP7, which differs from other USP deubiquitinases. Consistent with USP7 target engagement in cells, FT671 destabilizes USP7 substrates including MDM2, increases levels of p53, and results in the transcription of p53 target genes, induction of the tumour suppressor p21, and inhibition of tumour growth in mice.
PXD007947	29045831	USP7 Is a Tumor-Specific WNT Activator for APC-Mutated Colorectal Cancer by Mediating beta-Catenin Deubiquitination. 	USP7 is a tumor-specific WNT activator for APC-mutated colorectal cancer by mediating B-catenin deu	APC, LFQ	The tumor suppressor gene adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) is mutated in most colorectal cancers (CRCs), resulting in constitutive Wnt activation. To understand the Wnt-activating mechanism of the APC mutation, we applied CRISPR/Cas9 technology to engineer various APC-truncated isogenic lines. We find that the beta-catenin inhibitory domain (CID) in APC represents the threshold for pathological levels of Wnt activation and tumor transformation. Mechanistically, CID-deleted APC truncation promotes beta-catenin deubiquitination through reverse binding of beta-TrCP and USP7 to the destruction complex. USP7 depletion in APC-mutated CRC inhibits Wnt activation by restoring beta-catenin ubiquitination, drives differentiation, and suppresses xenograft tumor growth. Finally, the Wnt-activating role of USP7 is specific to APC mutations; thus, it can be used as a tumor-specific therapeutic target for most CRCs.
PXD007763	29045841	Phosphorylation of iRhom2 Controls Stimulated Proteolytic Shedding by the Metalloprotease ADAM17/TACE. 	Phosphorylation of iRhom2 controls stimulated proteolytic shedding by the metalloprotease ADAM17/TACE	iRHOM2 TACE phosphorylation	Cell surface metalloproteases coordinate signaling during development, tissue homeostasis, and disease. TACE (TNF-alpha-converting enzyme), is responsible for cleavage ("shedding") of membrane-tethered signaling molecules, including the cytokine TNF, and activating ligands of the EGFR. The trafficking of TACE within the secretory pathway requires its binding to iRhom2, which mediates the exit of TACE from the endoplasmic reticulum. An important, but mechanistically unclear, feature of TACE biology is its ability to be stimulated rapidly on the cell surface by numerous inflammatory and growth-promoting agents. Here, we report a role for iRhom2 in TACE stimulation on the cell surface. TACE shedding stimuli trigger MAP kinase-dependent phosphorylation of iRhom2 N-terminal cytoplasmic tail. This recruits 14-3-3 proteins, enforcing the dissociation of TACE from complexes with iRhom2, promoting the cleavage of TACE substrates. Our data reveal that iRhom2 controls multiple aspects of TACE biology, including stimulated shedding on the cell surface.
PXD003496	29046292	Identification of UT-A1- and AQP2-interacting proteins in rat inner medullary collecting duct. 	Identification of the UT-A1 Urea Channel Interactome	asopressin, interacting protein, kidney., protein kinase, stoichiometry	The urea channel UT-A1 and the water channel aquaporin-2 (AQP2) mediate vasopressin-regulated transport in the renal inner medullary collecting duct (IMCD). To identify the proteins that interact with UT-A1 and AQP2 in native rat IMCD cells, we carried out chemical cross-linking followed by detergent solubilization, immunoprecipitation, and LC-MS/MS analysis of the immunoprecipitated material. The analyses revealed 133 UT-A1-interacting proteins and 139 AQP2-interacting proteins, each identified in multiple replicates. Fifty-three proteins that were present in both the UT-A1 and the AQP2 interactomes can be considered as mediators of housekeeping interactions, likely common to all plasma membrane proteins. Among proteins unique to the UT-A1 list were those involved in posttranslational modifications: phosphorylation (protein kinases Cdc42bpb, Phkb, Camk2d, and Mtor), ubiquitylation/deubiquitylation (Uba1, Usp9x), and neddylation (Nae1 and Uba3). Among the proteins unique to the AQP2 list were several Rab proteins (Rab1a, Rab2a, Rab5b, Rab5c, Rab7a, Rab11a, Rab11b, Rab14, Rab17) involved in membrane trafficking. UT-A1 was found to interact with UT-A3, although quantitative proteomics revealed that most UT-A1 molecules in the cell are not bound to UT-A3. In vitro incubation of UT-A1 peptides with the protein kinases identified in the UT-A1 interactome revealed that all except Mtor were capable of phosphorylating known sites in UT-A1. Overall, the UT-A1 and AQP2 interactomes provide a snapshot of a dynamic process in which UT-A1 and AQP2 are produced in the rough endoplasmic reticulum, processed through the Golgi apparatus, delivered to endosomes that move into and out of the plasma membrane, and are regulated in the plasma membrane.
PXD006298	29046343	Complement Activation in Peritoneal Dialysis-Induced Arteriolopathy. 	TMT-FASP-LC-MS analysis of human pediatric omental biopsies	Arterioles, FASP, Microdissection, Omentum, Peritoneal Dialysis, TMT, Uremia	Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of increased mortality in patients with CKD and is further aggravated by peritoneal dialysis (PD). Children are devoid of preexisting CVD and provide unique insight into specific uremia- and PD-induced pathomechanisms of CVD. We obtained peritoneal specimens from children with stage 5 CKD at time of PD catheter insertion (CKD5 group), children with established PD (PD group), and age-matched nonuremic controls (n=6/group). We microdissected omental arterioles from tissue layers not directly exposed to PD fluid and used adjacent sections of four arterioles per patient for transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. Findings were validated in omental and parietal arterioles from independent pediatric control (n=5), CKD5 (n=15), and PD (n=15) cohorts. Transcriptomic analysis revealed differential gene expression in control versus CKD5 arterioles and in CKD5 versus PD arterioles. Gene ontology analyses revealed activation of metabolic processes in CKD5 arterioles and of inflammatory, immunologic, and stress-response cascades in PD arterioles. PD arterioles exhibited particular upregulation of the complement system and respective regulatory pathways, with concordant findings at the proteomic level. In the validation cohorts, PD specimens had the highest abundance of omental and parietal arteriolar C1q, C3d, terminal complement complex, and phosphorylated SMAD2/3, a downstream effector of TGF-beta Furthermore, in the PD parietal arterioles, C1q and terminal complement complex abundance correlated with the level of dialytic glucose exposure, abundance of phosphorylated SMAD2/3, and degree of vasculopathy. We conclude that PD fluids activate arteriolar complement and TGF-beta signaling, which quantitatively correlate with the severity of arteriolar vasculopathy.
PXD005747	29046388	The Early Dendritic Cell Signaling Induced by Virulent Francisella tularensis Strain Occurs in Phases and Involves the Activation of Extracellular Signal-Regulated Kinases (ERKs) and p38 In the Later Stage. 	Phosphoproteome analysis of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells infected by Francisella tularensis	Bone marrow-derived dendritic cells, Francisella tularensis, MAPK signaling, Phosphoproteome	Dendritic cells (DCs) infected by Francisella tularensis are poorly activated and do not undergo classical maturation process. Although reasons of such unresponsiveness are not fully understood, their impact on the priming of immunity is well appreciated. Previous attempts to explain the behavior of Francisella-infected DCs were hypothesis-driven and focused on events at later stages of infection. Here, we took an alternative unbiased approach by applying methods of global phosphoproteomics to analyze the dynamics of cell signaling in primary DCs during the first hour of infection by Francisella tularensis Presented results show that the early response of DCs to Francisella occurs in phases and that ERK and p38 signaling modules induced at the later stage are differentially regulated by virulent and attenuated DeltadsbA strain. These findings imply that the temporal orchestration of host proinflammatory pathways represents the integral part of Francisella life-cycle inside hijacked DCs.
PXD006545	29048423	Identification of cross talk between SUMOylation and ubiquitylation using a sequential peptide immunopurification approach. 	Sequential Peptide Immunopurification Methodology to Monitor the Crosstalk between SUMOylation and Ubiquitylation	SUMO, Shotgun proteomics, Ubiquitin	Ubiquitin and ubiquitin-like modifiers (UBLs) such as small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) can act as antagonists to one another by competing to occupy similar residues in the proteome. In addition, SUMO and ubiquitin can be coupled to each other at key lysine residues to form highly branched protein networks. The interplay between these modifications governs important biological processes such as double-strand break repair and meiotic recombination. We recently developed an approach that permits the identification of proteins that are modified by both SUMOylation and ubiquitylation. This protocol requires cells that express a mutant 6xHis-SUMO3m protein that has had its C terminus modified from QQQTGG to RNQTGG, enabling the purification of SUMOylated peptides and their identification by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Cells are lysed under denaturing conditions, and the SUMOylated proteins are purified on nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) resin via the 6xHis on the SUMO3m construct. After on-bead digestion using trypsin, ubiquitylated peptides are enriched by immunoprecipitation, and the flow-through from this step is subjected to anti-SUMO immunoprecipitation. The SUMOylated peptides are fractionated on strong cation exchange (SCX) StageTips to enhance the coverage of the SUMO proteome. The ubiquitylated and SUMOylated peptides are analyzed separately by liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS and identified with MaxQuant. We demonstrate how this approach can be used to identify temporal changes in SUMOylated and ubiquitylated proteins in response to, for instance, heat shock and proteasome inhibition. The procedure requires 3 d when starting from cell pellets and yields >8,000 SUMO sites and >3,500 ubiquitin sites from 16 mg of cell extract.
PXD001682	29048432	Silencing FLI or targeting CD13/ANPEP lead to dephosphorylation of EPHA2, a mediator of BRAF inhibitor resistance, and induce growth arrest or apoptosis in melanoma cells. 	BRAF inhibitor resistance in melanoma cell lines	BRAF resistance, melanoma	A majority of patients with BRAF-mutated metastatic melanoma respond to therapy with BRAF inhibitors (BRAFi), but relapses are common owing to acquired resistance. To unravel BRAFi resistance mechanisms we have performed gene expression and mass spectrometry based proteome profiling of the sensitive parental A375 BRAF V600E-mutated human melanoma cell line and of daughter cell lines with induced BRAFi resistance. Increased expression of two novel resistance candidates, aminopeptidase-N (CD13/ANPEP) and ETS transcription factor FLI1 was observed in the BRAFi-resistant daughter cell lines. In addition, increased levels of the previously reported resistance mediators, receptor tyrosine kinase ephrine receptor A2 (EPHA2) and the hepatocyte growth factor receptor MET were also identified. The expression of these proteins was assessed in matched tumor samples from melanoma patients obtained before BRAFi and after disease progression. MET was overexpressed in all progression samples while the expression of the other candidates varied between the individual patients. Targeting CD13/ANPEP by a blocking antibody induced apoptosis in both parental A375- and BRAFi-resistant daughter cells as well as in melanoma cells with intrinsic BRAFi resistance and led to dephosphorylation of EPHA2 on S897, previously demonstrated to cause inhibition of the migratory capacity. AKT and RSK, both reported to induce EPHA2 S897 phosphorylation, were also dephosphorylated after inhibition of CD13/ANPEP. FLI1 silencing also caused decreases in EPHA2 S897 phosphorylation and in total MET protein expression. In addition, silencing of FLI1 sensitized the resistant cells to BRAFi. Furthermore, we show that BRAFi in combination with the multi kinase inhibitor dasatinib can abrogate BRAFi resistance and decrease both EPHA2 S897 phosphorylation and total FLI1 protein expression. This is the first report presenting CD13/ANPEP and FLI1 as important mediators of resistance to BRAF inhibition with potential as drug targets in BRAFi refractory melanoma.
PXD003817	29048567	Green-fruited Solanum habrochaites lacks fruit-specific carotenogenesis due to metabolic and structural blocks. 	Tomato clade proteome -  Green-fruited Solanum habrochaites lacks fruit-specific carotenogenesis due to metabolic and structural blocks	Red/orange and green fruited species, chlorophyll degradation, chromoplast formation, fruit proteome, tomato clade	Members of the tomato clade exhibit a wide diversity in fruit color, but the mechanisms governing inter-species diversity of coloration are largely unknown. The carotenoid profiles, carotenogenic gene expression and proteome profiles of green-fruited Solanum habrochaites (SH), orange-fruited S. galapagense, and red-fruited S. pimpinellifolium were compared with cultivated tomato [S. lycopersicum cv. Ailsa Craig (SL)] to decipher the molecular basis of coloration diversity. Green-fruited SH, though it showed normal expression of chromoplast-specific phytoene synthase1 and lycopene beta-cyclase genes akin to orange/red-fruited species, failed to accumulate lycopene and beta-carotene. The SH phytoene synthase1 cDNA encoded an enzymatically active protein, whereas the lycopene beta-cyclase cDNA was barely active. Consistent with its green-fruited nature, SH's fruits retained chloroplast structure and PSII activity, and had impaired chlorophyll degradation with high pheophorbide a levels. Comparison of the fruit proteomes with SL revealed retention of the proteome complement related to photosynthesis in SH. Targeted peptide monitoring revealed a low abundance of key carotenogenic and sequestration proteins in SH compared with tomato. The green-fruitedness of SH appears to stem from blocks at several critical steps regulating fruit-specific carotenogenesis namely the absence of chloroplast to chromoplast transformation, block in carotenoid biosynthesis, and a dearth of carotenoid sequestering proteins.
PXD007243	29051560	Comprehensive profiling of lysine ubiquitome reveals diverse functions of lysine ubiquitination in common wheat. 	Comprehensive profiling of lysine ubiquitome reveals diverse functions of lysine ubiquitination in common wheat	Triticum aestivumL., lysine ubiquitination, post-translational modification	Protein ubiquitination, which is a major post-translational modifications that occurs in eukaryotic cells, is involved in diverse biological processes. To date, large-scale profiling of the ubiquitome in common wheat has not been reported, despite its status as the major cereal crop in the world. Here, we performed the first ubiquitome analysis of the common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) variety, Aikang 58. Overall, 433 lysine modification sites were identified in 285 proteins in wheat seedlings, and four putative ubiquitination motifs were revealed. In particular, 83 of the 285 ubiquitinated proteins had ubiquitination orthologs in Oryza sativa L., and Arabidopsis thaliana. Ubiquitylated lysines were found to have a significantly different preference for secondary structures when compared with the all lysines. In accordance with previous studies, proteins related to binding and catalytic activity were predicted to be the preferential targets of lysine ubiquitination. Besides, protein interaction network analysis reveals that diverse interactions are modulated by protein ubiquitination. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the ubiquitinated proteins were involved in diverse biological processes. Our data provides a global view of the ubiquitome in common wheat for the first time and lays a foundation for exploring the physiological role of lysine ubiquitination in wheat and other plants.
PXD006511	29052354	Revisiting the Ancylostoma Caninum Secretome Provides New Information on Hookworm-Host Interactions. 	Ancylostoma caninum secretome - We have characterised the excretory secretory products from Ancylostoma caninum using a proteomics approach.	A. caninum, excretory/secretory products, hookworm, secretome	Hookworm infection is a major tropical parasitic disease affecting almost 500 million people worldwide. These soil-transmitted helminths can survive for many years in the intestine of the host, where they feed on blood, causing iron deficiency anemia and other complications. These parasites release a variety of molecules known as excretory/secretory products (ESPs) that are involved in many different biological processes that govern parasite survival. Using a combination of separation techniques such as SDS-PAGE and OFFGEL electrophoresis, in combination with state-of-the-art mass spectrometry we have reanalyzed the dog hookworm, Ancylostoma caninum, ESPs (AcESP). We identified 315 proteins present in the AcESP, compared with just 105 identified in previous studies. The most highly represented family of proteins is the SCP/TAPs (110 of the 315 proteins), and the most abundant constituents of AcESP are homologues of the tissue inhibitors of metalloproteases (TIMP) family. Interestingly, we identified new homologs of well-known vaccine candidates and immunomodulatory proteins. This study provides novel information about the proteins secreted by A. caninum, and constitutes a comprehensive dataset to study the proteins involved in host-hookworm interactions.
PXD006166	29054541	A quantitative assessment of the membrane-integral sub-proteome of a bacterial magnetic organelle. 	Towards a quantitative assessment of the integral magnetosome membrane sub-proteome	magnetosome, membrane proteome, organelle	Magnetotactic bacteria produce chains of complex membrane-bound organelles that direct the biomineralization of magnetic nanoparticles and serve for magnetic field navigation. These magnetosome compartments have recently emerged as a model for studying the subcellular organization of prokaryotic organelles. Previous studies indicated the presence of specific proteins with various functions in magnetosome biosynthesis. However, the exact composition and stoichiometry of the magnetosome subproteome have remained unknown. In order to quantify and unambiguously identify all proteins specifically targeted to the magnetosome membrane of the Alphaproteobacterium Magnetospirillum gryphiswaldense, we analyzed the protein composition of several cellular fractions by semi-quantitative mass spectrometry. We found that nearly all genuine magnetosome membrane-integral proteins belong to a well-defined set of previously identified proteins encoded by gene clusters within a genomic island, indicating a highly controlled protein composition. Magnetosome proteins were present in different quantities with up to 120 copies per particle as estimated by correlating our results with available quantitative Western blot data. This high abundance suggests an unusually crowded protein composition of the membrane and a tight packing with transmembrane domains of integral proteins. Our findings will help to further define the structure of the organelle and contribute to the elucidation of magnetosome biogenesis. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Magnetosomes are one of the most complex bacterial organelles and consist of membrane-bounded crystals of magnetic minerals. The exact composition and stoichiometry of the associated membrane integral proteins are of major interest for a deeper understanding of prokaryotic organelle assembly; however, previous proteomic studies failed to reveal meaningful estimations due to the lack of precise and quantitative data, and the inherently high degree of accumulated protein contaminants in purified magnetosomes. Using a highly sensitive mass spectrometer, we acquired proteomic data from several cellular fractions of a magnetosome producing magnetotactic bacterium and developed a comparative algorithm to identify all genuine magnetosome membrane-integral proteins and to discriminate them from contaminants. Furthermore, by combining our data with previously published quantitative Western blot data, we were able to model the protein copy number and density within the magnetosome membrane. Our results suggest that the magnetosome membrane is specifically associated with a small subset of integral proteins that are tightly packed within the lipid layer. Our study provides by far the most comprehensive estimation of magnetosomal protein composition and stoichiometry and will help to elucidate the complex process of magnetosome biogenesis.
PXD007949	29055021	MEERCAT: Multiplexed Efficient Cell Free Expression of Recombinant QconCATs For Large Scale Absolute Proteome Quantification. 	MEERCAT: Multiplexed Efficient Cell Free Expression of Recombinant QconCATS for Large Scale Absolute Proteome Quantification C4PR_LIV	QconCAT MEERCAT	A major challenge in proteomics is the absolute accurate quantification of large numbers of proteins. QconCATs, artificial proteins that are concatenations of multiple standard peptides, are well established as an efficient means to generate standards for proteome quantification. Previously, QconCATs have been expressed in bacteria, but we now describe QconCAT expression in a robust, cell-free system. The new expression approach rescues QconCATs that previously were unable to be expressed in bacteria and can reduce the incidence of proteolytic damage to QconCATs. Moreover, it is possible to cosynthesize QconCATs in a highly-multiplexed translation reaction, coexpressing tens or hundreds of QconCATs simultaneously. By obviating bacterial culture and through the gain of high level multiplexing, it is now possible to generate tens of thousands of standard peptides in a matter of weeks, rendering absolute quantification of a complex proteome highly achievable in a reproducible, broadly deployable system.
PXD006708	29055088	The transcriptome, extracellular proteome and active secretome of agroinfiltrated Nicotiana benthamiana uncover a large, diverse protease repertoire. 	The transcriptome, extracellular proteome and active secretome of agroinfiltrated N. benthamiana uncover an expanded protease repertoire	Nicotiana benthamiana, RNAseq, activity-based protein profiling (AB, activity-based proteomics, agroinfiltration, extracellular proteome, plant immunity, post-translational activation, silencing inhibitor p19	Infiltration of disarmed Agrobacterium tumefaciens into leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana (agroinfiltration) facilitates quick and safe production of antibodies, vaccines, enzymes and metabolites for industrial use (molecular farming). However, yield and purity of proteins produced by agroinfiltration are hampered by unintended proteolysis, restricting industrial viability of the agroinfiltration platform. Proteolysis may be linked to an immune response to agroinfiltration, but understanding of the response to agroinfiltration is limited. To identify the proteases, we studied the transcriptome, extracellular proteome and active secretome of agroinfiltrated leaves over a time course, with and without the P19 silencing inhibitor. Remarkably, the P19 expression had little effect on the leaf transcriptome and no effect on the extracellular proteome. 25% of the detected transcripts changed in abundance upon agroinfiltration, associated with a gradual up-regulation of immunity at the expense of photosynthesis. By contrast, 70% of the extracellular proteins increased in abundance, in many cases associated with increased efficiency of extracellular delivery. We detect a dynamic reprogramming of the proteolytic machinery upon agroinfiltration by detecting transcripts encoding for 975 different proteases and protease homologs. The extracellular proteome contains peptides derived from 196 proteases and protease homologs, and activity-based proteomics displayed 17 active extracellular Ser and Cys proteases in agroinfiltrated leaves. We discuss unique features of the N. benthamiana protease repertoire and highlight abundant extracellular proteases in agroinfiltrated leaves, being targets for reverse genetics. This data set increases our understanding of the plant response to agroinfiltration and indicates ways to improve a key expression platform for both plant science and molecular farming.
PXD006593	29055779	Ubiquitome Analysis Reveals PCNA-Associated Factor 15 (PAF15) as a Specific Ubiquitination Target of UHRF1 in Embryonic Stem Cells. 	Ubiquitome analysis of UHRF1 and UHRF2-deficient mESCs	PAF, UHRF, mouse embryonic stem cells, ubiquitination	Ubiquitination is a multifunctional posttranslational modification controlling the activity, subcellular localization and stability of proteins. The E3 ubiquitin ligase ubiquitin-like PHD and RING finger domain-containing protein 1 (UHRF1) is an essential epigenetic factor that recognizes repressive histone marks as well as hemi-methylated DNA and recruits DNA methyltransferase 1. To explore enzymatic functions of UHRF1 beyond epigenetic regulation, we conducted a comprehensive screen in mouse embryonic stem cells to identify novel ubiquitination targets of UHRF1 and its paralogue UHRF2. We found differentially ubiquitinated peptides associated with a variety of biological processes such as transcriptional regulation and DNA damage response. Most prominently, we identified PCNA-associated factor 15 (PAF15; also known as Pclaf, Ns5atp9, KIAA0101 and OEATC-1) as a specific ubiquitination target of UHRF1. Although the function of PAF15 ubiquitination in translesion DNA synthesis is well characterized, the respective E3 ligase had been unknown. We could show that UHRF1 ubiquitinates PAF15 at Lys 15 and Lys 24 and promotes its binding to PCNA during late S-phase. In summary, we identified novel ubiquitination targets that link UHRF1 to transcriptional regulation and DNA damage response.
PXD002805	29058608	In vivo phosphoproteome characterization reveals key starch granule-binding phosphoproteins involved in wheat water-deficit response. 	New Insights into the Biosynthesis and Regulation of Wheat Amylose and Amylopectin from Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Characterization of Granule-binding Proteins	Granule-binding Proteins, Phosphoproteomic	BACKGROUND: Drought stress during grain development causes significant yield loss in cereal production. The phosphorylated modification of starch granule-binding proteins (SGBPs) is an important mechanism regulating wheat starch biosynthesis. In this study, we performed the first proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses of SGBPs in elite Chinese bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivar Jingdong 17 under well-watered and water-stress conditions. RESULTS: Water stress treatment caused significant reductions in spike grain numbers and weight, total starch and amylopectin content, and grain yield. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed that the quantity of SGBPs was reduced significantly by water-deficit treatment. Phosphoproteome characterization of SGBPs under water-deficit treatment demonstrated a reduced level of phosphorylation of main starch synthesis enzymes, particularly for granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS I), starch synthase II-a (SS II-a), and starch synthase III (SS III). Specifically, the Ser34 site of the GBSSI protein, the Tyr358 site of SS II-a, and the Ser837 site of SS III-a exhibited significant less phosphorylation under water-deficit treatment than well-watered treatment. Furthermore, the expression levels of several key genes related with starch biosynthesis detected by qRT-PCR were decreased significantly at 15 days post-anthesis under water-deficit treatment. Immunolocalization showed a clear movement of GBSS I from the periphery to the interior of starch granules during grain development, under both water-deficit and well-watered conditions. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrated that the reduction in gene expression or transcription level, protein expression and phosphorylation levels of starch biosynthesis related enzymes under water-deficit conditions is responsible for the significant decrease in total starch content and grain yield.
PXD007671	29058718	PKM2 methylation by CARM1 activates aerobic glycolysis to promote tumorigenesis. 	PKM2 methylation by CARM1 activates aerobic glycolysis to promote tumorigenesis	LC-MS, breast cancer	Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer. Herein we discover that the key glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 isoform (PKM2), but not the related isoform PKM1, is methylated by co-activator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1). PKM2 methylation reversibly shifts the balance of metabolism from oxidative phosphorylation to aerobic glycolysis in breast cancer cells. Oxidative phosphorylation depends on mitochondrial calcium concentration, which becomes critical for cancer cell survival when PKM2 methylation is blocked. By interacting with and suppressing the expression of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (InsP3Rs), methylated PKM2 inhibits the influx of calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum to mitochondria. Inhibiting PKM2 methylation with a competitive peptide delivered by nanoparticles perturbs the metabolic energy balance in cancer cells, leading to a decrease in cell proliferation, migration and metastasis. Collectively, the CARM1-PKM2 axis serves as a metabolic reprogramming mechanism in tumorigenesis, and inhibiting PKM2 methylation generates metabolic vulnerability to InsP3R-dependent mitochondrial functions.
PXD006696	29061669	Lysine acetylome profiling uncovers novel histone deacetylase substrate proteins in Arabidopsis. 	Identification of HDA14-dependent substrates in the Arabidopsis thaliana leaf acetylome	RuBisCO activase, histone deacetylases, lysine acetylation, photosynthesis	Histone deacetylases have central functions in regulating stress defenses and development in plants. However, the knowledge about the deacetylase functions is largely limited to histones, although these enzymes were found in diverse subcellular compartments. In this study, we determined the proteome-wide signatures of the RPD3/HDA1 class of histone deacetylases in Arabidopsis Relative quantification of the changes in the lysine acetylation levels was determined on a proteome-wide scale after treatment of Arabidopsis leaves with deacetylase inhibitors apicidin and trichostatin A. We identified 91 new acetylated candidate proteins other than histones, which are potential substrates of the RPD3/HDA1-like histone deacetylases in Arabidopsis, of which at least 30 of these proteins function in nucleic acid binding. Furthermore, our analysis revealed that histone deacetylase 14 (HDA14) is the first organellar-localized RPD3/HDA1 class protein found to reside in the chloroplasts and that the majority of its protein targets have functions in photosynthesis. Finally, the analysis of HDA14 loss-of-function mutants revealed that the activation state of RuBisCO is controlled by lysine acetylation of RuBisCO activase under low-light conditions.
PXD007043	29062044	A short linear motif in scaffold Nup145C connects Y-complex with pre-assembled outer ring Nup82 complex. 	Cross-linking MS data of CtNup82-Y complex	CX-MS, CtNup82-Y complex	Nucleocytoplasmic transport occurs through nuclear pore complexes (NPCs), which are formed from multiple copies of ~30 different nucleoporins (Nups) and inserted into the double nuclear membrane. Many of these Nups are organized into subcomplexes, of which the Y-shaped Nup84 complex is the major constituent of the nuclear and cytoplasmic rings. The Nup82-Nup159-Nsp1 complex is another module that, however, is only assembled into the cytoplasmic ring. By means of crosslinking mass spectrometry, biochemical reconstitution, and molecular modeling, we identified a short linear motif in the unstructured N-terminal region of Chaetomium thermophilum Nup145C, a subunit of the Y-complex, that is sufficient to recruit the Nup82 complex, but only in its assembled state. This finding points to a more general mechanism that short linear motifs in structural Nups can act as sensors to cooperatively connect pre-assembled NPC modules, thereby facilitating the formation and regulation of the higher-order NPC assembly.
PXD006828	29065155	PRMT5: A novel regulator of Hepatitis B virus replication and an arginine methylase of HBV core. 	PRMT5: a Novel Regulator of Hepatitis B Virus Replication and an Arginine Methylase of HBV Core	Arginine methylation, HBV Core protein, Hepatitis B Virus, Ubiquitination, phosphorylation	In mammals, protein arginine methyltransferase 5, PRMT5, is the main type II enzyme responsible for the majority of symmetric dimethylarginine formation in polypeptides. Recent study reported that PRMT5 restricts Hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication through epigenetic repression of HBV DNA transcription and interference with encapsidation of pregenomic RNA. Here we demonstrate that PRMT5 interacts with the HBV core (HBc) protein and dimethylates arginine residues within the arginine-rich domain (ARD) of the carboxyl-terminus. ARD consists of four arginine rich subdomains, ARDI, ARDII, ARDIII and ARDIV. Mutation analysis of ARDs revealed that arginine methylation of HBc required the wild-type status of both ARDI and ARDII. Mass spectrometry analysis of HBc identified multiple potential ubiquitination, methylation and phosphorylation sites, out of which lysine K7 and arginines R150 (within ARDI) and R156 (outside ARDs) were shown to be modified by ubiquitination and methylation, respectively. The HBc symmetric dimethylation appeared to be linked to serine phosphorylation and nuclear import of HBc protein. Conversely, the monomethylated HBc retained in the cytoplasm. Thus, overexpression of PRMT5 led to increased nuclear accumulation of HBc, and vice versa, down-regulation of PRMT5 resulted in reduced levels of HBc in nuclei of transfected cells. In summary, we identified PRMT5 as a potent controller of HBc cell trafficking and function and described two novel types of HBc post-translational modifications (PTMs), arginine methylation and ubiquitination.
PXD007261	29066549	Selective Proteomic Analysis of Antibiotic-Tolerant Cellular Subpopulations in Pseudomonas aeruginosa Biofilms. 	Pseudomonas aeruginosa BONCAT biofilms	BONCAT, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, biofilms, ciprofloxacin	Biofilm infections exhibit high tolerance against antibiotic treatment. The study of biofilms is complicated by phenotypic heterogeneity; biofilm subpopulations differ in their metabolic activities and their responses to antibiotics. Here, we describe the use of the bio-orthogonal noncanonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) method to enable selective proteomic analysis of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilm subpopulation. Through controlled expression of a mutant methionyl-tRNA synthetase, we targeted BONCAT labeling to cells in the regions of biofilm microcolonies that showed increased tolerance to antibiotics. We enriched and identified proteins synthesized by cells in these regions. Compared to the entire biofilm proteome, the labeled subpopulation was characterized by a lower abundance of ribosomal proteins and was enriched in proteins of unknown function. We performed a pulse-labeling experiment to determine the dynamic proteomic response of the tolerant subpopulation to supra-MIC treatment with the fluoroquinolone antibiotic ciprofloxacin. The adaptive response included the upregulation of proteins required for sensing and repairing DNA damage and substantial changes in the expression of enzymes involved in central carbon metabolism. We differentiated the immediate proteomic response, characterized by an increase in flagellar motility, from the long-term adaptive strategy, which included the upregulation of purine synthesis. This targeted, selective analysis of a bacterial subpopulation demonstrates how the study of proteome dynamics can enhance our understanding of biofilm heterogeneity and antibiotic tolerance.IMPORTANCE Bacterial growth is frequently characterized by behavioral heterogeneity at the single-cell level. Heterogeneity is especially evident in the physiology of biofilms, in which distinct cellular subpopulations can respond differently to stresses, including subpopulations of pathogenic biofilms that are more tolerant to antibiotics. Global proteomic analysis affords insights into cellular physiology but cannot identify proteins expressed in a particular subpopulation of interest. Here, we report a chemical biology method to selectively label, enrich, and identify proteins expressed by cells within distinct regions of biofilm microcolonies. We used this approach to study changes in protein synthesis by the subpopulation of antibiotic-tolerant cells throughout a course of treatment. We found substantial differences between the initial response and the long-term adaptive strategy that biofilm cells use to cope with antibiotic stress. The method we describe is readily applicable to investigations of bacterial heterogeneity in diverse contexts.
PXD007169	29066856	Modelling acrylamide acute neurotoxicity in zebrafish larvae. 	Modeling acrylamide acute neurotoxicity in zebrafish larvae	acrylamide, neurotoxicity, zebrafish model	Acrylamide (ACR), a type-2 alkene, may lead to a synaptopathy characterized by ataxia, skeletal muscles weakness and numbness of the extremities in exposed human and laboratory animals. Currently, only the mildly affected patients undergo complete recovery, and identification of new molecules with therapeutic bioactivity against ACR acute neurotoxicity is urgently needed. Here, we have generated a zebrafish model for ACR neurotoxicity by exposing 5 days post-fertilization zebrafish larvae to 1 mM ACR for 3 days. Our results show that zebrafish mimics most of the pathophysiological processes described in humans and mammalian models. Motor function was altered, and specific effects were found on the presynaptic nerve terminals at the neuromuscular junction level, but not on the axonal tracts or myelin sheath integrity. Transcriptional markers of proteins involved in synaptic vesicle cycle were selectively altered, and the proteomic analysis showed that ACR-adducts were formed on cysteine residues of some synaptic proteins. Finally, analysis of neurotransmitters profile showed a significant effect on cholinergic and dopaminergic systems. These data support the suitability of the developed zebrafish model for screening of molecules with therapeutic value against this toxic neuropathy.
PXD007699	29067779	An Antibacterial beta-Lactone Kills Mycobacterium tuberculosis by Disrupting Mycolic Acid Biosynthesis. 	An antibacterial beta-lactone kills Mycobacterium tuberculosis by infiltrating mycolic acid biosynthesis	Mycobacterium tuberculosis, activity-based protein profiling, antibiotics, lipidomics	The spread of antibiotic resistance is a major challenge for the treatment of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infections. In addition, the efficacy of drugs is often limited by the restricted permeability of the mycomembrane. Frontline antibiotics inhibit mycomembrane biosynthesis, leading to rapid cell death. Inspired by this mechanism, we exploited beta-lactones as putative mycolic acid mimics to block serine hydrolases involved in their biosynthesis. Among a collection of beta-lactones, we found one hit with potent anti-mycobacterial and bactericidal activity. Chemical proteomics using an alkynylated probe identified Pks13 and Ag85 serine hydrolases as major targets. Validation through enzyme assays and customized (13) C metabolite profiling showed that both targets are functionally impaired by the beta-lactone. Co-administration with front-line antibiotics enhanced the potency against M. tuberculosis by more than 100-fold, thus demonstrating the therapeutic potential of targeting mycomembrane biosynthesis serine hydrolases.
PXD006920	29068682	Activity-Based Probes for Isoenzyme- and Site-Specific Functional Characterization of Glutathione S-Transferases. 	Activity-Based Probes for Isoenzyme- and Site-Specific Functional Characterization of Glutathione S-transferases	GSH, GST, Glutathione	Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) comprise a diverse family of phase II drug metabolizing enzymes whose shared function is the conjugation of reduced glutathione (GSH) to endo- and xenobiotics. Although the conglomerate activity of these enzymes can be measured, the isoform-specific contribution to the metabolism of xenobiotics in complex biological samples has not been possible. We have developed two activity-based probes (ABPs) that characterize active GSTs in mammalian tissues. The GST active site is composed of a GSH binding "G site" and a substrate binding "H site". Therefore, we developed (1) a GSH-based photoaffinity probe (GSTABP-G) to target the "G site", and (2) an ABP designed to mimic a substrate molecule and have "H site" activity (GSTABP-H). The GSTABP-G features a photoreactive moiety for UV-induced covalent binding to GSTs and GSH-binding enzymes. The GSTABP-H is a derivative of a known mechanism-based GST inhibitor that binds within the active site and inhibits GST activity. Validation of probe targets and "G" and "H" site specificity was carried out using a series of competition experiments in the liver. Herein, we present robust tools for the characterization of enzyme- and active site-specific GST activity in mammalian model systems.
PXD006333	29068691	Myocardial Injury Is Distinguished from Stable Angina by a Set of Candidate Plasma Biomarkers Identified Using iTRAQ/MRM-Based Approach. 	iTRAQ-MRM approach identify plasma biomarkers of atherosclerosis and myocardial injury	Cardiovascular disease, MRM, angina, atherosclerosis, iTRAQ, myocardial injury, plasma biomarker	The lack of precise biomarkers that identify patients at risk for myocardial injury and stable angina delays administration of optimal therapy. Hence, the search for noninvasive biomarkers that could accurately stratify patients with impending heart attack, from patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD), is urgently needed in the clinic. Herein, we performed comparative quantitative proteomics on whole plasma sampled from patients with stable angina (NMI), acute myocardial infarction (MI), and healthy control subjects (Ctrl). We detected a total of 371 proteins with high confidence (FDR < 1%, p < 0.05) including 53 preliminary biomarkers that displayed >=2-fold modulated expression in patients with CAD (27 associated with atherosclerotic stable angina, 26 with myocardial injury). In the verification phase, we used label-free LC-MRM-MS-based targeted method to verify the preliminary biomarkers in pooled plasma, excluded peptides that were poorly distinguished from background, and performed further validation of the remaining candidates in 49 individual plasma samples. Using this approach, we identified a final panel of eight novel candidate biomarkers that were significantly modulated in CAD (p < 0.05) including proteins associated with atherosclerotic stable angina that were implicated in endothelial dysfunction (F10 and MST1), proteins associated with myocardial injury reportedly involved in plaque destabilization (SERPINA3, CPN2, LUM), and in tissue protection/repair mechanisms (ORM2, ACTG1, NAGLU). Taken together, our data showed that candidate biomarkers with potential diagnostic values can be successfully detected in nondepleted human plasma using an iTRAQ/MRM-based discovery-validation approach and demonstrated the plausible clinical utility of the proposed panel in discriminating atherosclerotic stable angina from myocardial injury in the studied cohort.
PXD006227	29069483	Protein profile of mouse ovarian follicles grown in vitro. 	Protein profile of mouse ovarian follicles grown in vitro	follicles	STUDY QUESTION: Could the follicle proteome be mapped by identifying specific proteins that are common or differ between three developmental stages from the secondary follicle (SF) to the antrum-like stage? SUMMARY ANSWER: From a total of 1401 proteins identified in the follicles, 609 were common to the three developmental stages investigated and 444 were found uniquely at one of the stages. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: The importance of the follicle as a functional structure has been recognized; however, up-to-date the proteome of the whole follicle has not been described. A few studies using proteomics have previously reported on either isolated fully-grown oocytes before or after meiosis resumption or cumulus cells. STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: The experimental design included a validated mice model for isolation and individual culture of SFs. The system was chosen as it allows continuous evaluation of follicle growth and selection of follicles for analysis at pre-determined developmental stages: SF, complete Slavjanski membrane rupture (SMR) and antrum-like cavity (AF). The experiments were repeated 13 times independently to acquire the material that was analyzed by proteomics. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: SFs (n = 2166) were isolated from B6CBA/F1 female mice (n = 42), 12 days old, from 15 l. About half of the follicles isolated as SF were analyzed as such (n = 1143) and pooled to obtain 139 mug of extracted protein. Both SMR (n = 359) and AF (n = 124) were obtained after individual culture of 1023 follicles in a microdrop system under oil, selected for analysis and pooled, to obtain 339 mug and 170 mug of protein, respectively. The follicle proteome was analyzed combining isoelectric focusing (IEF) fractionation with 1D and 2D LC-MS/MS analysis to enhance protein identification. The three protein lists were submitted to the 'Compare gene list' tool in the PANTHER website to gain insights on the Gene Ontology Biological processes present and to Ingenuity Pathway Analysis to highlight protein networks. A label-free quantification was performed with 1D LC-MS/MS analyses to emphasize proteins with different expression profiles between the three follicular stages. Supplementary western blot analysis (using new biological replicates) was performed to confirm the expression variations of three proteins during follicle development in vitro. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: It was found that 609 out of 1401 identified proteins were common to the three follicle developmental stages investigated. Some proteins were identified uniquely at one stage: 71 of the 775 identified proteins in SF, 181 of 1092 in SMR and 192 of 1100 in AF. Additional qualitative and quantitative analysis highlighted 44 biological processes over-represented in our samples compared to the Mus musculus gene database. In particular, it was possible to identify proteins implicated in the cell cycle, calcium ion binding and glycolysis, with specific expressions and abundance, throughout in vitro follicle development. LARGE SCALE DATA: Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006227. LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: The proteome analyses described in this study were performed after in vitro development. Despite fractionation of the samples before LC-MS/MS, proteomic approaches are not exhaustive, thus proteins that are not identified in a group are not necessarily absent from that group, although they are likely to be less abundant. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: This study allowed a general view of proteins implicated in follicle development in vitro and it represents the most complete catalog of the whole follicle proteome available so far. Not only were well known proteins of the oocyte identified but also proteins that are probably expressed only in granulosa cells. STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): This study was supported by the Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology, FCT (PhD fellowship SFRH/BD/65299/2009 to A.A.), the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation (PR 2014-0144 to K.A.R-.W.) and Stockholm County Council to K.A.R-.W. The authors of the study have no conflict of interest to report.
PXD006079	29070704	Bivalent complexes of PRC1 with orthologs of BRD4 and MOZ/MORF target developmental genes in Drosophila. 	Composite PRC1/dBRD4/MOZ/MORF protein complexes in Drosophila	BioTAP-XL, Drosophila, formaldehyde crosslinking	Regulatory decisions in Drosophila require Polycomb group (PcG) proteins to maintain the silent state and Trithorax group (TrxG) proteins to oppose silencing. Since PcG and TrxG are ubiquitous and lack apparent sequence specificity, a long-standing model is that targeting occurs via protein interactions; for instance, between repressors and PcG proteins. Instead, we found that Pc-repressive complex 1 (PRC1) purifies with coactivators Fs(1)h [female sterile (1) homeotic] and Enok/Br140 during embryogenesis. Fs(1)h is a TrxG member and the ortholog of BRD4, a bromodomain protein that binds to acetylated histones and is a key transcriptional coactivator in mammals. Enok and Br140, another bromodomain protein, are orthologous to subunits of a mammalian MOZ/MORF acetyltransferase complex. Here we confirm PRC1-Br140 and PRC1-Fs(1)h interactions and identify their genomic binding sites. PRC1-Br140 bind developmental genes in fly embryos, with analogous co-occupancy of PRC1 and a Br140 ortholog, BRD1, at bivalent loci in human embryonic stem (ES) cells. We propose that identification of PRC1-Br140 "bivalent complexes" in fly embryos supports and extends the bivalency model posited in mammalian cells, in which the coexistence of H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 at developmental promoters represents a poised transcriptional state. We further speculate that local competition between acetylation and deacetylation may play a critical role in the resolution of bivalent protein complexes during development.
PXD007172	29072299	Reversing SKI-SMAD4-mediated suppression is essential for TH17 cell differentiation. 	mouse CD4+ T cells IP-MS -  Reversing SKI-SMAD4-mediated suppression is essential for TH17 cell differentiation	CD4+ T cells, IP-MS	T helper 17 (TH17) cells are critically involved in host defence, inflammation, and autoimmunity. Transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) is instrumental in TH17 cell differentiation by cooperating with interleukin-6 (refs 6, 7). Yet, the mechanism by which TGFbeta enables TH17 cell differentiation remains elusive. Here we reveal that TGFbeta enables TH17 cell differentiation by reversing SKI-SMAD4-mediated suppression of the expression of the retinoic acid receptor (RAR)-related orphan receptor gammat (RORgammat). We found that, unlike wild-type T cells, SMAD4-deficient T cells differentiate into TH17 cells in the absence of TGFbeta signalling in a RORgammat-dependent manner. Ectopic SMAD4 expression suppresses RORgammat expression and TH17 cell differentiation of SMAD4-deficient T cells. However, TGFbeta neutralizes SMAD4-mediated suppression without affecting SMAD4 binding to the Rorc locus. Proteomic analysis revealed that SMAD4 interacts with SKI, a transcriptional repressor that is degraded upon TGFbeta stimulation. SKI controls histone acetylation and deacetylation of the Rorc locus and TH17 cell differentiation via SMAD4: ectopic SKI expression inhibits H3K9 acetylation of the Rorc locus, Rorc expression, and TH17 cell differentiation in a SMAD4-dependent manner. Therefore, TGFbeta-induced disruption of SKI reverses SKI-SMAD4-mediated suppression of RORgammat to enable TH17 cell differentiation. This study reveals a critical mechanism by which TGFbeta controls TH17 cell differentiation and uncovers the SKI-SMAD4 axis as a potential therapeutic target for treating TH17-related diseases.
PXD007931	29072916	Comparative Proteomics Analysis Identifies Cdc42-Cdc42BPA Signaling as Prognostic Biomarker and Therapeutic Target for Colon Cancer Invasion. 	Comparative proteomics analysis identifies Cdc42-Cdc42BPA signaling as prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for colon cancer invasion	Cdc42BPA, SILAC proteomics,Cdc42, colon cancer invasion, prognostic biomarker, targeted therapy	Metastasis is one of the major causes of treatment failure in the patients with colon cancer. The aim of our study is to find key proteins and pathways that drive invasion and metastasis in colon cancer. Eight rounds of selection of cancer cells invading through matrigel-coated chamber were performed to obtain highly invasive colon cancer sublines HCT116-I8 and RKO-I8. Stable Isotope Labeling by Amino Acids in Cell Culture technology was used to identify the differently expressed proteins, and the proteomics data were analyzed by ingenuity pathway analysis. PAK1-PBD immunoprecipitation combined with Western blot were carried out to determine Cdc42 activity, and qRT-PCR and Western blot were used to determine gene expression. The functional role of Cdc42BPA and Cdc42 pathway in colon cancer invasion was studied by loss-of-function experiments including pharmacological blockade, siRNA knockdown, chamber invasion, and WST-1 assays. Human colon cancer tissue microarray was analyzed by immunohistochemistry for overexpression of Cdc42BPA and its correlation with clinicopathological parameters and patient survival outcomes. HCT116-I8 and RKO-I8 cells showed significantly stronger invasive potential as well as decreased E-cadherin and increased vimentin expressions compared with parental cells. The differently expressed proteins in I8 cells compared with parental cells were identified. Bioinformatics analysis of proteomics data suggested that Cdc42BPA protein and Cdc42 signaling pathway are important for colon cancer invasion, which was confirmed by experimental data showing upregulation of Cdc42BPA and higher expression of active GTP-bound form of Cdc42 in HCT116-I8 and RKO-I8 cells. Functionally, pharmacological and genetic blockade of Cdc42BPA and Cdc42 signaling markedly suppressed colon cancer cell invasion and reversed epithelial mesenchymal transition process. Furthermore, compared with adjacent normal tissues, Cdc42BPA expression was significantly higher in colon cancer tissues and further upregulated in metastatic tumors in lymph nodes. More importantly, Cdc42BPA expression was correlated with metastasis and poor survival of the patients with colon cancer. This study provides the first evidence that Cdc42BPA and Cdc42 signaling are important for colon cancer invasion, and Cdc42BPA has potential implications for colon cancer prognosis and treatment.
PXD006707	29073188	Chemical crosslinking and mass spectrometry to elucidate the topology of integral membrane proteins. 	Mass spectrometric analysis of membrane protein topology	BS3, EDC, multispan proteins, pLink, transmembrane domains	Here we made an attempt to obtain partial structural information on the topology of multispan integral membrane proteins of yeast by isolating organellar membranes, removing peripheral membrane proteins at pH 11.5 and introducing chemical crosslinks between vicinal amino acids either using homo- or hetero-bifunctional crosslinkers. Proteins were digested with specific proteases and the products analysed by mass spectrometry. Dedicated software tools were used together with filtering steps optimized to remove false positive crosslinks. In proteins of known structure, crosslinks were found only between loops residing on the same side of the membrane. As may be expected, crosslinks were mainly found in very abundant proteins. Our approach seems to hold to promise to yield low resolution topological information for naturally very abundant or strongly overexpressed proteins with relatively little effort. Here, we report novel XL-MS-based topology data for 17 integral membrane proteins (Akr1p, Fks1p, Gas1p, Ggc1p, Gpt2p, Ifa38p, Ist2p, Lag1p, Pet9p, Pma1p, Por1p, Sct1p, Sec61p, Slc1p, Spf1p, Vph1p, Ybt1p).
PXD006086	29073283	Identification of novel substrates of Shigella T3SA through analysis of its virulence plasmid-encoded secretome. 	LC-MS/MS of the secreted fraction of Shigella	Gram-negative bacterial pathogens, Plasmid, Shigella	Many human Gram-negative bacterial pathogens express a Type Three Secretion Apparatus (T3SA), including among the most notorious Shigella spp., Salmonella enterica, Yersinia enterocolitica and enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC). These bacteria express on their surface multiple copies of the T3SA that mediate the delivery into host cells of specific protein substrates critical to pathogenesis. Shigella spp. are Gram-negative bacterial pathogens responsible for human bacillary dysentery. The effector function of several Shigella T3SA substrates has largely been studied but their potential cellular targets are far from having been comprehensively delineated. In addition, it is likely that some T3SA substrates have escaped scrutiny as yet. Indeed, sequencing of the virulence plasmid of Shigella flexneri has revealed numerous open reading frames with unknown functions that could encode additional T3SA substrates. Taking advantage of label-free mass spectrometry detection of proteins secreted by a constitutively secreting strain of S. flexneri, we identified five novel substrates of the T3SA. We further confirmed their secretion through the T3SA and translocation into host cells using beta-lactamase assays. The coding sequences of two of these novel T3SA substrates (Orf13 and Orf131a) have a guanine-cytosine content comparable to those of T3SA components and effectors. The three other T3SA substrates identified (Orf48, Orf86 and Orf176) have significant homology with antitoxin moieties of type II Toxin-Antitoxin systems usually implicated in the maintenance of low copy plasmids. While Orf13 and Orf131a might constitute new virulence effectors contributing to S. flexneri pathogenicity, potential roles for the translocation into host cells of antitoxins or antitoxin-like proteins during Shigella infection are discussed.
PXD004798	29075625	Chemical Proteomics for Target Discovery of Head-to-Tail Cyclized Mini-Proteins. 	Chemical proteomics to elucidate target proteins of cysteine-stabilized and circular peptides	cyclotides, multiple sclerosis, peptide drug, target deconvolution, target identification	Target deconvolution is one of the most challenging tasks in drug discovery, but a key step in drug development. In contrast to small molecules, there is a lack of validated and robust methodologies for target elucidation of peptides. In particular, it is difficult to apply these methods to cyclic and cysteine-stabilized peptides since they exhibit reduced amenability to chemical modification and affinity capture; however, such ribosomally synthesized and post-translationally modified peptide natural products are rich sources of promising drug candidates. For example, plant-derived circular peptides called cyclotides have recently attracted much attention due to their immunosuppressive effects and oral activity in the treatment of multiple sclerosis in mice, but their molecular target has hitherto not been reported. In this study, a chemical proteomics approach using photo-affinity crosslinking was developed to determine a target for the circular peptide [T20K]kalata B1. Using this prototypic nature-derived peptide enabled the identification of a possible functional modulation of 14-3-3 proteins. This biochemical interaction was validated via competition pull down assays as well as a cellular reporter assay indicating an effect on 14-3-3-dependent transcriptional activity. As proof of concept, the presented approach may be applicable for target elucidation of various cyclic peptides and mini-proteins, in particular cyclotides, which represent a promising class of molecules in drug discovery and development.
PXD007795	29077059	Network-Driven Proteogenomics Unveils an Aging-Related Imbalance in the Olfactory IkappaBalpha-NFkappaB p65 Complex Functionality in Tg2576 Alzheimer's Disease Mouse Model. 	olfactory proteomics in aged Tg2576 mice	alzheimer, neurodegeneration, olfactory bulb	Olfaction is often deregulated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, and is also impaired in transgenic Tg2576 AD mice, which overexpress the Swedish mutated form of human amyloid precursor protein (APP). However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms that accompany the neurodegeneration of olfactory structures in aged Tg2576 mice. For that, we have applied proteome- and transcriptome-wide approaches to probe molecular disturbances in the olfactory bulb (OB) dissected from aged Tg2576 mice (18 months of age) as compared to those of age matched wild-type (WT) littermates. Some over-represented biological functions were directly relevant to neuronal homeostasis and processes of learning, cognition, and behavior. In addition to the modulation of CAMP responsive element binding protein 1 (CREB1) and APP interactomes, an imbalance in the functionality of the IkappaBalpha-NFkappaB p65 complex was observed during the aging process in the OB of Tg2576 mice. At two months of age, the phosphorylated isoforms of olfactory IkappaBalpha and NFkappaB p65 were inversely regulated in transgenic mice. However, both phosphorylated proteins were increased at 6 months of age, while a specific drop in IkappaBalpha levels was detected in 18-month-old Tg2576 mice, suggesting a transient activation of NFkappaB in the OB of Tg2576 mice. Taken together, our data provide a metabolic map of olfactory alterations in aged Tg2576 mice, reflecting the progressive effect of APP overproduction and beta-amyloid (Abeta) accumulation on the OB homeostasis in aged stages.
PXD006042	29078019	Affinity proteomics reveals extensive phosphorylation of the Brassica chromosome axis protein ASY1 and a network of associated proteins at prophase I of meiosis. 	Affinity proteomics targeting the meiotic chromosome axis protein, ASY1, from Brassica oleracea.	Brassica, chromosome axis, co-immunoprecipitation, meiosis, phosphorylation, protein-protein interaction	During meiosis, the formation of crossovers (COs) generates genetic variation and provides physical links that are essential for accurate chromosome segregation. COs occur in the context of a proteinaceous chromosome axis. The transcriptomes and proteomes of anthers and meiocytes comprise several thousand genes and proteins, but because of the level of complexity relatively few have been functionally characterized. Our understanding of the physical and functional interactions between meiotic proteins is also limited. Here we use affinity proteomics to analyse the proteins that are associated with the meiotic chromosome axis protein, ASY1, in Brassica oleracea anthers and meiocytes. We show that during prophase I ASY1 and its interacting partner, ASY3, are extensively phosphorylated, and we precisely assign phosphorylation sites. We identify 589 proteins that co-immunoprecipitate with ASY1. These correspond to 492 Arabidopsis orthologues, over 90% of which form a coherent protein-protein interaction (PPI) network containing known and candidate meiotic proteins, including proteins more usually associated with other cellular processes such as DNA replication and proteolysis. Mutant analysis confirms that affinity proteomics is a viable strategy for revealing previously unknown meiotic proteins, and we show how the PPI network can be used to prioritise candidates for analysis. Finally, we identify another axis-associated protein with a role in meiotic recombination. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006042.
PXD006185	29078207	Hsp90-downregulation influences the heat-shock response, innate immune response and onset of oocyte development in nematodes. 	Hsp90-downregulation influences the heat-shock response, innate immune response and onset of oocyte development in nematodes.	Hsp90, LC/MS, immune system, nematodes	Hsp90 is a molecular chaperone involved in the regulation and maturation of kinases and transcription factors. In Caenorhabditis elegans, it contributes to the development of fertility, maintenance of muscle structure, the regulation of heat-shock response and dauer state. To understand the consequences of Hsp90-depletion, we studied Hsp90 RNAi-treated nematodes by DNA microarrays and mass spectrometry. We find that upon development of phenotypes the levels of chaperones and Hsp90 cofactors are increased, while specific proteins related to the innate immune response are depleted. In microarrays, we further find many differentially expressed genes related to gonad and larval development. These genes form an expression cluster that is regulated independently from the immune response implying separate pathways of Hsp90-involvement. Using fluorescent reporter strains for the differentially expressed immune response genes skr-5, dod-24 and clec-60 we observe that their activity in intestinal tissues is influenced by Hsp90-depletion. Instead, effects on the development are evident in both gonad arms. After Hsp90-depletion, changes can be observed in early embryos and adults containing fluorescence-tagged versions of SEPA-1, CAV-1 or PUD-1, all of which are downregulated after Hsp90-depletion. Our observations identify molecular events for Hsp90-RNAi induced phenotypes during development and immune responses, which may help to separately investigate independent Hsp90-influenced processes that are relevant during the nematode's life and development.
PXD005537	29078798	Proteomic profiling of neuronal mitochondria reveals modulators of synaptic architecture. 	Proteomics profiling of Neuronal Mitochondria	mitochondria, neurodegeneration, neuron, synapse	BACKGROUND: Neurons are highly polarized cells consisting of three distinct functional domains: the cell body (and associated dendrites), the axon and the synapse. Previously, it was believed that the clinical phenotypes of neurodegenerative diseases were caused by the loss of entire neurons, however it has recently become apparent that these neuronal sub-compartments can degenerate independently, with synapses being particularly vulnerable to a broad range of stimuli. Whilst the properties governing the differential degenerative mechanisms remain unknown, mitochondria consistently appear in the literature, suggesting these somewhat promiscuous organelles may play a role in affecting synaptic stability. Synaptic and non-synaptic mitochondrial subpools are known to have different enzymatic properties (first demonstrated by Lai et al., 1977). However, the molecular basis underpinning these alterations, and their effects on morphology, has not been well documented. METHODS: The current study has employed electron microscopy, label-free proteomics and in silico analyses to characterize the morphological and biochemical properties of discrete sub-populations of mitochondria. The physiological relevance of these findings was confirmed in-vivo using a molecular genetic approach at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction. RESULTS: Here, we demonstrate that mitochondria at the synaptic terminal are indeed morphologically different to non-synaptic mitochondria, in both rodents and human patients. Furthermore, generation of proteomic profiles reveals distinct molecular fingerprints - highlighting that the properties of complex I may represent an important specialisation of synaptic mitochondria. Evidence also suggests that at least 30% of the mitochondrial enzymatic activity differences previously reported can be accounted for by protein abundance. Finally, we demonstrate that the molecular differences between discrete mitochondrial sub-populations are capable of selectively influencing synaptic morphology in-vivo. We offer several novel mitochondrial candidates that have the propensity to significantly alter the synaptic architecture in-vivo. CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates discrete proteomic profiles exist dependent upon mitochondrial subcellular localization and selective alteration of intrinsic mitochondrial proteins alters synaptic morphology in-vivo.
PXD005755	29079528	Increased serotransferrin and ceruloplasmin turnover in diet-controlled patients with type 2 diabetes. 	Human serum proteome dynamics in type 2 diabetes using heavy water labeling mass spectrometry	T2D, heavy water, proteome dynamics, serum, type 2 diabetes	Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is associated with oxidative stress and perturbed iron metabolism. Serotransferrin (Trf) and ceruloplasmin (Cp) are two key proteins involved in iron metabolism and anti-oxidant defense. Non-enzymatic glycation and oxidative modification of plasma proteins are known to occur under hyperglycemia and oxidative stress. In this study, shotgun proteomics and (2)H2O-based metabolic labeling were used to characterize post-translational modifications and assess the kinetics of Trf and Cp in T2DM patients and matched controls in vivo. Six early lysine (Amadori) and one advanced arginine glycation were detected in Trf. No glycation, but five asparagine deamidations, were found in Cp. T2DM patients had increased fractional catabolic rates of both Trf and Cp that correlated with HbA1c (p < 0.05). The glycated Trf population was subject to an even faster degradation compared to the total Trf pool, suggesting that hyperglycemia contributed to an increased Trf degradation in T2DM patients. Enhanced production of Trf and Cp kept their levels stable. The changes in Trf and Cp turnover were associated with increased systemic oxidative stress without any alteration in iron status in T2DM. These findings can help better understand the potential role of altered Trf and Cp metabolism in the pathogenesis of T2DM and other diseases.
PXD006554	29079719	Integrated Proteomic and Transcriptomic Analysis Reveals Long Noncoding RNA HOX Transcript Antisense Intergenic RNA (HOTAIR) Promotes Hepatocellular Carcinoma Cell Proliferation by Regulating Opioid Growth Factor Receptor (OGFr). 	Human HepG2 ITRAQ LC-MS/MS -  Integrated proteomic and transcriptomic analysis revealslong noncoding RNA HOTAIR promotes hepatocellular carcinoma cell proliferation by regulating opioid growth factor receptor (OGFr)	HOTAIR HCC LC-MS/MS ITRAQ	Long noncoding RNA HOX transcript antisense RNA (HOTAIR) is involved in human tumorigenesis and is dysregulated in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the molecular mechanisms underlying HOTAIR functions in HCC are largely unknown. Here, we employed an integrated transcriptomic and quantitative proteomic analysis to systematically explore the regulatory role of HOTAIR in HCC. A total of 673 transcripts and 293 proteins were found to be dysregulated after HOTAIR inhibition. Bioinformatics studies indicated that differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) are involved in many biological processes, especially cancer-related signaling pathways. A set of DEGs and DEPs were validated by quantitative RT-PCR, Western blot and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) analysis, respectively. Further functional studies of the opioid growth factor receptor (OGFr), a negative biological regulator of cell proliferation in HCC, revealed that HOTAIR exerts its effects on cell proliferation, at least in part, through the regulation of OGFr expression. By correlating the omics data with functional studies, the current results provide novel insights into the functional mechanisms of HOTAIR in HCC cells.
PXD005335	29079720	A Global Survey of ATPase Activity in Plasmodium falciparum Asexual Blood Stages and Gametocytes. 	ATPase activity in Plasmodium falciparum asexual blood stages and gametocytes	ATPase, activity-based proteomics, malaria	Effective malaria control and elimination in hyperendemic areas of the world will require treatment of the Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) blood stage that causes disease as well as the gametocyte stage that is required for transmission from humans to the mosquito vector. Most currently used therapies do not kill gametocytes, a highly specialized, non-replicating sexual parasite stage. Further confounding next generation drug development against Pf is the unknown metabolic state of the gametocyte and the lack of known biochemical activity for most parasite gene products in general. Here, we take a systematic activity-based proteomics approach to survey the activity of the large and druggable ATPase family in replicating blood stage asexual parasites and transmissible, non-replicating sexual gametocytes. ATPase activity broadly changes during the transition from asexual schizonts to sexual gametocytes, indicating altered metabolism and regulatory roles of ATPases specific for each lifecycle stage. We further experimentally confirm existing annotation and predict ATPase function for 38 uncharacterized proteins. By mapping the activity of ATPases associated with gametocytogenesis, we assign biochemical activity to a large number of uncharacterized proteins and identify new candidate transmission blocking targets.
PXD007614	29079721	Diverse Peptide Hormones Affecting Root Growth Identified in the Medicago truncatula Secreted Peptidome. 	Diverse peptide hormones affecting root growth identified in the Medicago truncatula secreted peptidome	Medicago truncatula, secretoer peptide hormones	Multigene families encoding diverse secreted peptide hormones play important roles in plant development. A need exists to efficiently elucidate the structures and post-translational-modifications of these difficult-to-isolate peptide hormones in planta so that their biological functions can be determined. A mass spectrometry and bioinformatics approach was developed to comprehensively analyze the secreted peptidome of Medicago hairy root cultures and xylem sap. We identified 759 spectra corresponding to the secreted products of twelve peptide hormones including four CEP (C-TERMINALLY ENCODED PEPTIDE), two CLE (CLV3/ENDOSPERM SURROUNDING REGION RELATED) and six XAP (XYLEM SAP ASSOCIATED PEPTIDE) peptides. The MtCEP1, MtCEP2, MtCEP5 and MtCEP8 peptides identified differed in post-translational-modifications. Most were hydroxylated at conserved proline residues but some MtCEP1 derivatives were tri-arabinosylated. In addition, many CEP peptides possessed unexpected N- and C-terminal extensions. The pattern of these extensions suggested roles for endo- and exoproteases in CEP peptide maturation. Longer than expected, hydroxylated and homogeneously modified mono- and tri-arabinosylated CEP peptides corresponding to their in vivo structures were chemically synthesized to probe the effect of these post-translational-modifications on function. The ability of CEP peptides to elevate root nodule number was increased by hydroxylation at key positions. MtCEP1 peptides with N-terminal extensions or with tri-arabinosylation modification, however, were unable to impart increased nodulation. The MtCLE5 and MtCLE17 peptides identified were of precise size, and inhibited main root growth and increased lateral root number. Six XAP peptides, each beginning with a conserved DY sulfation motif, were identified including MtXAP1a, MtXAP1b, MtXAP1c, MtXAP3, MtXAP5 and MtXAP7. MtXAP1a and MtXAP5 inhibited lateral root emergence. Transcriptional analyses demonstrated peptide hormone gene expression in the root vasculature and tip. Since hairy roots can be induced on many plants, their corresponding root cultures may represent ideal source materials to efficiently identify diverse peptide hormones in vivo in a broad range of species.
PXD007192	29083105	Arabidopsis lipid droplet-associated protein (LDAP) - interacting protein (LDIP) influences lipid droplet size and neutral lipid homeostasis in both leaves and seeds. 	Arabidopsis LDIP is an LDAP-interacting protein that influences lipid droplet biogenesis and neutral lipid homeostasis in both leaves and seeds	LDAP, LDIP, biogenesis, endoplasmic reticulum, lipid droplet, neutral lipids, protein targeting	Cytoplasmic lipid droplets (LDs) are found in all types of plant cells; they are derived from the endoplasmic reticulum and function as a repository for neutral lipids, as well as serving in lipid remodelling and signalling. However, the mechanisms underlying the formation, steady-state maintenance and turnover of plant LDs, particularly in non-seed tissues, are relatively unknown. Previously, we showed that the LD-associated proteins (LDAPs) are a family of plant-specific, LD surface-associated coat proteins that are required for proper biogenesis of LDs and neutral lipid homeostasis in vegetative tissues. Here, we screened a yeast two-hybrid library using the Arabidopsis LDAP3 isoform as 'bait' in an effort to identify other novel LD protein constituents. One of the candidate LDAP3-interacting proteins was Arabidopsis At5g16550, which is a plant-specific protein of unknown function that we termed LDIP (LDAP-interacting protein). Using a combination of biochemical and cellular approaches, we show that LDIP targets specifically to the LD surface, contains a discrete amphipathic alpha-helical targeting sequence, and participates in both homotypic and heterotypic associations with itself and LDAP3, respectively. Analysis of LDIP T-DNA knockdown and knockout mutants showed a decrease in LD abundance and an increase in variability of LD size in leaves, with concomitant increases in total neutral lipid content. Similar phenotypes were observed in plant seeds, which showed enlarged LDs and increases in total amounts of seed oil. Collectively, these data identify LDIP as a new player in LD biology that modulates both LD size and cellular neutral lipid homeostasis in both leaves and seeds.
PXD006997	29083190	Marked Differences in the Submandibular Salivary Proteome between Sardinian Alcohol-Preferring and Sardinian Alcohol-Non Preferring Rats Revealed by an Integrated Top-Down-Bottom-Up Proteomic Platform. 	Salivary proteomics of sP and sNP rats	saliva submandibular rat alcohol-preferring	Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) and Sardinian alcohol-non preferring (sNP) rats have been selectively bred for opposite alcohol preference and consumption. Aiming to verify possible differences at the proteomics level between sP and sNP rats, we investigated the salivary proteome by a a liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry top-down-bottom-up integrated approach. For this purpose, submandibular saliva was collected from alcohol-naive sP and sNP rats under isoprenaline stimulation. A total of 200 peptides and proteins were detected and quantified in the two rat lines, 149 of which were characterized in their naturally occurring structure. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006997. Surprisingly, sP rats exhibited marked quantitative and qualitative differences with respect to sNP rats, namely higher levels of proteoforms originating from submandibular gland protein C, and from submandibular rat protein 2, as well as those of several unidentified peptides and proteins. sP rats expressed some proteins not detectable in sNP rats such as the glutamine and glutamic acid-rich protein (GRP)-CB. The isoform GRP-B, detectable in both rat lines, was more abundant in sNP rats. The submandibular saliva of sNP rats was also characterized by very high levels of GRP-B proteolytic peptides and rat salivary protein 1. Whether these differences could contribute to the opposite alcohol preference and consumption of sP and sNP rats is currently unknown and requires further investigation.
PXD004433	29087368	A compendium of multi-omic sequence information from the Saanich Inlet water column. 	Saanich inlet water column metaproteomes	Marine, Metaproteomics, Microbial	Marine oxygen minimum zones (OMZs) are widespread regions of the ocean that are currently expanding due to global warming. While inhospitable to most metazoans, OMZs are hotspots for microbial mediated biogeochemical cycling of carbon, nitrogen and sulphur, contributing disproportionately to marine nitrogen loss and climate active trace gas production. Our current understanding of microbial community responses to OMZ expansion is limited by a lack of time-resolved data sets linking multi-omic sequence information (DNA, RNA, protein) to geochemical parameters and process rates. Here, we present six years of time-resolved multi-omic observations in Saanich Inlet, a seasonally anoxic fjord on the coast of Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada that undergoes recurring changes in water column oxygenation status. This compendium provides a unique multi-omic framework for studying microbial community responses to ocean deoxygenation along defined geochemical gradients in OMZ waters.
PXD007577	29089522	The Polycomb group protein CBX6 is an essential regulator of embryonic stem cell identity. 	The Polycomb group protein CBX6 is an essential regulator of embryonic stem cell identity	Cbx6, ESC, affinity capture followed by MS, pluripotency	Polycomb group proteins (PcG) are transcriptional repressors that control cell identity and development. In mammals, five different CBX proteins associate with the core Polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1). In mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs), CBX6 and CBX7 are the most highly expressed CBX family members. CBX7 has been recently characterized, but little is known regarding the function of CBX6. Here, we show that CBX6 is essential for ESC identity. Its depletion destabilizes the pluripotency network and triggers differentiation. Mechanistically, we find that CBX6 is physically and functionally associated to both canonical PRC1 (cPRC1) and non-canonical PRC1 (ncPRC1) complexes. Notably, in contrast to CBX7, CBX6 is recruited to chromatin independently of H3K27me3. Taken together, our findings reveal that CBX6 is an essential component of ESC biology that contributes to the structural and functional complexity of the PRC1 complex.
PXD054940	29089565	Quantitative proteomic Analysis Reveals up-regulation of caveolin-1 in FOXP3-overexpressed human gastric cancer cells. 	Quantitative proteomic Analysis Reveals up-regulation of caveolin-1 inFOXP3-overexpressed human gastric cancer cells	CAV1, FOXP3, gastric cancer, label-free proteomic analysis	Forkhead box protein 3 (FOXP3) is implicated in tumor progression and prognosis in various types of tumor cells. We have recently reported that FOXP3 inhibited proliferation of gastric cancer (GC) cells through activating the apoptotic signaling pathway. In this study, we found that over-expression of FOXP3 inhibited GC cell migration, invasion and proliferation. Then, the label-free quantitative proteomic approach was employed to further investigating the down-stream proteins regulated by FOXP3, resulting in a total of 3,978 proteins quantified, including 186 significantly changed proteins. Caveolin-1 (CAV1), as a main constituent protein of caveolae, was one of those changed proteins up-regulated in FOXP3-overexpressed GC cells, moreover, it was assigned as one of the node proteins in the protein-protein interaction network and the key protein involved in focal adhesion pathway by bioinformatics analysis. Further biological experiments confirmed that FOXP3 directly bound to the promoter regions of CAV1 to positively regulate CAV1 transcription in GC cells. In summary, our study suggested that FOXP3 can be considered as a tumor suppressor in GC via positively regulating CAV1 through transcriptional activation, and this FOXP3-CAV1 transcriptional regulation axis may play an important role in inhibiting invasion and metastasis of GC cells. Data are available via ProteomeXchange under identifier PXD007725.
PXD006216	29090099	A signature of enhanced lipid metabolism, lipid peroxidation and aldehyde stress in therapy-induced senescence. 	Chemotherapy-induced cellular senescence is characterized by aberrant lipid regulation and lipid peroxidation	Chemotherapy-Induced Senescence, Lipid Peroxidation, Maxquant LFQ, Mus, Q-Exactive, Quant Proteomics	At their proliferative limit, normal cells arrest and undergo replicative senescence, displaying large cell size, flat morphology, and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-Gal) activity. Normal or tumor cells exposed to genotoxic stress undergo therapy-induced senescence (TIS), displaying a similar phenotype. Senescence is considered a DNA damage response, but cellular heterogeneity has frustrated identification of senescence-specific markers and targets. To explore the senescent cell proteome, we treated tumor cells with etoposide and enriched SA-beta-Gal(HI) cells by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS). The enriched TIS cells were compared to proliferating or quiescent cells by label-free quantitative LC-MS/MS proteomics and systems analysis, revealing activation of multiple lipid metabolism pathways. Senescent cells accumulated lipid droplets and imported lipid tracers, while treating proliferating cells with specific lipids induced senescence. Senescent cells also displayed increased lipid aldehydes and upregulation of aldehyde detoxifying enzymes. These results place deregulation of lipid metabolism alongside genotoxic stress as factors regulating cellular senescence.
PXD006092	29091453	StUbEx PLUS-A Modified Stable Tagged Ubiquitin Exchange System for Peptide Level Purification and In-Depth Mapping of Ubiquitination Sites. 	StUbEx PLUS in U2OS           .	MG132: Bortezomib, N-terminal ubiquitination, proteasomal inhibition, site specific ubiquitination, ubiquitination sites	Modulation of protein activities by reversible post-translational modifications (PTMs) is a major molecular mechanism involved in the control of virtually all cellular processes. One of these PTMs is ubiquitination, which regulates key processes including protein degradation, cell cycle, DNA damage repair, and signal transduction. Because of its importance for numerous cellular functions, ubiquitination has become an intense topic of research in recent years, and proteomics tools have greatly facilitated the identification of many ubiquitination targets. Taking advantage of the StUbEx strategy for exchanging the endogenous ubiquitin with an epitope-tagged version, we created a modified system, StUbEx PLUS, which allows precise mapping of ubiquitination sites by mass spectrometry. Application of StUbEx PLUS to U2OS cells treated with proteasomal inhibitors resulted in the identification of 41 589 sites on 7762 proteins, which thereby revealed the ubiquitous nature of this PTM and demonstrated the utility of the approach for comprehensive ubiquitination studies at site-specific resolution.
PXD006601	29091762	TFCP2 Is Required for YAP-Dependent Transcription to Stimulate Liver Malignancy. 	Results of the 3 times mass spectrometry experiments of YAP interacted proteins in liver cancer cells.	TFCP2, YAP, liver cancer	Although YAP-dependent transcription is closely associated with liver tumorigenesis, the mechanism by which YAP maintains its function is poorly understood. Here, we show that TFCP2 is required for YAP-dependent transcription and liver malignancy. Mechanistically, YAP function is stimulated by TFCP2 via a WW-PSY interaction. TFCP2 also maintains YAP stability by inhibiting betaTrCP. Notably, genomic co-occupancy of YAP and TFCP2 is revealed. TFCP2 acts as a transcription co-factor that stimulates YAP transcription by facilitating YAP binding with YAP binding motif (YBF)-containing transcription factors. Interestingly, TFCP2 also stimulated the YAP-TEAD interaction and TEAD target gene expression. Finally, several genes co-regulated by YAP and TFCP2 that contribute to YAP-dependent tumorigenesis are identified and verified. Thus, we establish a model showing that TFCP2 acts as a YAP co-factor to maintain YAP-dependent transcription in liver cancer cells, suggesting that simultaneous targeting of both YAP and TFCP2 may be an effective therapeutic approach.
PXD007635	29093164	The immunopeptidomic landscape of ovarian carcinomas. 	The immunopeptidomic landscape of ovarian carcinoma	HLA, immunopeptidome, ovarian cancer	Immunotherapies, particularly checkpoint inhibitors, have set off a revolution in cancer therapy by releasing the power of the immune system. However, only little is known about the antigens that are essentially presented on cancer cells, capable of exposing them to immune cells. Large-scale HLA ligandome analysis has enabled us to exhaustively characterize the immunopeptidomic landscape of epithelial ovarian cancers (EOCs). Additional comparative profiling with the immunopeptidome of a variety of benign sources has unveiled a multitude of ovarian cancer antigens (MUC16, MSLN, LGALS1, IDO1, KLK10) to be presented by HLA class I and class II molecules exclusively on ovarian cancer cells. Most strikingly, ligands derived from mucin 16 and mesothelin, a molecular axis of prognostic importance in EOC, are prominent in a majority of patients. Differential gene-expression analysis has allowed us to confirm the relevance of these targets for EOC and further provided important insights into the relationship between gene transcript levels and HLA ligand presentation.
PXD006249	29093463	INA complex liaises the F1Fo-ATP synthase membrane motor modules. 	INA complex liaises the F1Fo-ATP synthase membrane motor modules	ATP synthase, INA complex	The F1F0-ATP synthase translates a proton flux across the inner mitochondrial membrane into a mechanical rotation, driving anhydride bond formation in the catalytic portion. The complex's membrane-embedded motor forms a proteinaceous channel at the interface between Atp9 ring and Atp6. To prevent unrestricted proton flow dissipating the H(+)-gradient, channel formation is a critical and tightly controlled step during ATP synthase assembly. Here we show that the INA complex (INAC) acts at this decisive step promoting Atp9-ring association with Atp6. INAC binds to newly synthesized mitochondrial-encoded Atp6 and Atp8 in complex with maturation factors. INAC association is retained until the F1-portion is built on Atp6/8 and loss of INAC causes accumulation of the free F1. An independent complex is formed between INAC and the Atp9 ring. We conclude that INAC maintains assembly intermediates of the F1 F0-ATP synthase in a primed state for the terminal assembly step-motor module formation.
PXD003851	29094334	Quantitative mass spectrometry of human reticulocytes reveal proteome-wide modifications during maturation. 	Reticulocytes vs mature red blood cell	Malaria, Reticulocytes, iTRAQ, mature red blood cell	Erythropoiesis is marked by progressive changes in morphological, biochemical and mechanical properties of erythroid precursors to generate red blood cells (RBC). The earliest enucleated forms derived in this process, known as reticulocytes, are multi-lobular and spherical. As reticulocytes mature, they undergo a series of dynamic cytoskeletal re-arrangements and the expulsion of residual organelles, resulting in highly deformable biconcave RBCs (normocytes). To understand the significant, yet neglected proteome-wide changes associated with reticulocyte maturation, we undertook a quantitative proteomics approach. Immature reticulocytes (marked by the presence of surface transferrin receptor, CD71) and mature RBCs (devoid of CD71) were isolated from human cord blood using a magnetic separation procedure. After sub-fractionation into triton-extracted membrane proteins and luminal samples (isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation), quantitative mass spectrometry was conducted to identify more than 1800 proteins with good confidence and coverage. While most structural proteins (such as Spectrins, Ankyrin and Band 3) as well as surface glycoproteins were conserved, proteins associated with microtubule structures, such as Talin-1/2 and beta-Tubulin, were detected only in immature reticulocytes. Atomic force microscopy (AFM)-based imaging revealed an extended network of spectrin filaments in reticulocytes (with an average length of 48 nm), which shortened during reticulocyte maturation (average spectrin length of 41 nm in normocytes). The extended nature of cytoskeletal network may partly account for increased deformability and shape changes, as reticulocytes transform to normocytes.
PXD006385	29094648	A Gene Family Coding for Salivary Proteins (SHOT) of the Polyphagous Spider Mite Tetranychus urticae Exhibits Fast Host-Dependent Transcriptional Plasticity. 	Peptidomics analysis of saliva of the two-spotted spider mite Tetranychus urticae	Acari, arthropod, effector, herbivore, saliva	The salivary protein repertoire released by the herbivorous pest Tetranychus urticae is assumed to hold keys to its success on diverse crops. We report on a spider mite-specific protein family that is expanded in T. urticae. The encoding genes have an expression pattern restricted to the anterior podocephalic glands, while peptide fragments were found in the T. urticae secretome, supporting the salivary nature of these proteins. As peptide fragments were identified in a host-dependent manner, we designated this family as the SHOT (secreted host-responsive protein of Tetranychidae) family. The proteins were divided in three groups based on sequence similarity. Unlike TuSHOT3 genes, TuSHOT1 and TuSHOT2 genes were highly expressed when feeding on a subset of family Fabaceae, while expression was depleted on other hosts. TuSHOT1 and TuSHOT2 expression was induced within 24 h after certain host transfers, pointing toward transcriptional plasticity rather than selection as the cause. Transfer from an 'inducer' to a 'noninducer' plant was associated with slow yet strong downregulation of TuSHOT1 and TuSHOT2, occurring over generations rather than hours. This asymmetric on and off regulation points toward host-specific effects of SHOT proteins, which is further supported by the diversity of SHOT genes identified in Tetranychidae with a distinct host repertoire.
PXD007801	29095525	Trichostatin A alters cytoskeleton and energy metabolism of pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells: An in depth proteomic study. 	Trichostatin A alters cytoskeleton and energy metabolism of pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells: an in depth proteomic study.	2-deoxy-D-glucose, cytoskeleton, metabolism, pancreatic cancer, shotgun proteomics, trichostatin A	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most lethal of all human cancers with a high mortality rate. Resistance to conventional treatments and chemotherapeutics is a typical feature of PDAC. To investigate the causes of drug resistance it is essential to deeply investigate the mechanism of action of chemotherapeutics. In this study, we performed an in depth shotgun proteomic approach using the label-free proteomic SWATH-MS analysis to investigate novel insights of the mechanism of action of the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) in PDAC cells. This proteomic analysis in PaCa44 cells and data elaboration of TSA-regulated proteins by bioinformatics showed an overall up-regulation of cytokeratins and other proteins related to the cytoskeleton organization, keratinization, and apoptotic cell death. On the contrary, a large amount of the down-regulated proteins by TSA treatment belongs to the cellular energetic metabolism and to the machinery of protein synthesis, such as ribosomal proteins, determining synergistic cell growth inhibition by the combined treatment of TSA and the glycolytic inhibitor 2-deoxy-d-glucose in a panel of PDAC cell lines. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007801.
PXD007829	29098410	Comparative proteomic analysis: SclR is importantly involved in carbohydrate metabolism in Aspergillus oryzae. 	Aspergillus oryzae LC-MSMS -  Comparative proteomic analysis: SclR is importantly involved in carbohydrate metabolism in Aspergillus oryzae	Aspergillus oryzae, bHLH	The helix-loop-helix (HLH) family of transcriptional factors is a key player in a wide range of developmental processes in organisms from mammals to microbes. We previously identified the bHLH transcription factor SclR in Aspergillus oryzae and found that the loss of SclR function led to significant phenotypic changes, such as rapid protein degradation and cell lysis in dextrin-polypeptone-yeast extract liquid medium. The result implied that SclR is potentially important in both traditional fermentative manufacturing and commercial enzyme production in A. oryzae because of its effect on growth. Therefore, this study presents a comparative assessment at the proteome level of the intracellular differences between an sclR-disrupted strain and a control strain using isobaric tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling for quantification. A total of 5447 proteins were identified, and 568 were differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Of the DEPs, 251 proteins were increased by 1.5-fold, and 317 proteins were decreased by 1.5-fold in an sclR-disrupted strain compared to the control. The comparison of the quantitative TMT results revealed that SclR was mainly involved in carbon metabolism, especially carbohydrate metabolism. In addition, an enzyme profile by a semi-quantitative method (API-ZYM) indicated that three enzymes (beta-galactosidase, alpha-glucosidase, and alpha-mannosidase) were significantly less active in the incrementsclR strain than in the control. Moreover, quantitative RT-PCR showed that the expression of certain genes was changed similarly to their corresponding proteins. These results suggested that a possible function of SclR during growth of A. oryzae is its important involvement in carbohydrate metabolism.
PXD007803	29100053	Intrinsic Ribosome Destabilization Underlies Translation and Provides an Organism with a Strategy of Environmental Sensing. 	E. coli wt/delta L31, IDA, rep1	E. coli, IDA	Nascent polypeptides can modulate the polypeptide elongation speed on the ribosome. Here, we show that nascent chains can even destabilize the translating Escherichia coli ribosome from within. This phenomenon, termed intrinsic ribosome destabilization (IRD), occurs in response to a special amino acid sequence of the nascent chain, without involving the release or the recycling factors. Typically, a consecutive array of acidic residues and those intermitted by alternating prolines induce IRD. The ribosomal protein bL31, which bridges the two subunits, counteracts IRD, such that only strong destabilizing sequences abort translation in living cells. We found that MgtL, the leader peptide of a Mg(2+) transporter (MgtA), contains a translation-aborting sequence, which sensitizes the ribosome to a decline in Mg(2+) concentration and thereby triggers the MgtA-upregulating genetic scheme. Translation proceeds at an inherent risk of ribosomal destabilization, and nascent chain-ribosome complexes can function as a Mg(2+) sensor by harnessing IRD.
PXD004086	29100370	Identification of the PAK4 interactome reveals PAK4 phosphorylation of N-WASP and promotion of Arp2/3-dependent actin polymerization. 	Characterization of the PAK4 interactome by quantitative mass spectrometry	MS/MS, PAK4, protein-protein interactions, pull-down	p21-activated kinase 4 (PAK4) regulates cell proliferation, apoptosis, cell motility and F-actin remodeling, but the PAK4 interactome has not been systematically analyzed. Here, we comprehensively characterized the human PAK4 interactome by iTRAQ quantitative mass spectrometry of PAK4-immunoprecipitations. Consistent with its multiple reported functions, the PAK4 interactome was enriched in diverse protein networks, including the 14-3-3, proteasome, replication fork, CCT and Arp2/3 complexes. Because PAK4 co-immunoprecipitated most subunits of the Arp2/3 complex, we hypothesized that PAK4 may play a role in Arp2/3 dependent actin regulation. Indeed, we found that PAK4 interacts with and phosphorylates the nucleation promoting factor N-WASP at Ser484/Ser485 and promotes Arp2/3-dependent actin polymerization in vitro. Also, PAK4 ablation in vivo reduced N-WASP Ser484/Ser485 phosphorylation and altered the cellular balance between G- and F-actin as well as the actin organization. By presenting the PAK4 interactome, we here provide a powerful resource for further investigations and as proof of principle, we also indicate a novel mechanism by which PAK4 regulates actin cytoskeleton remodeling.
PXD005353	29101300	Pharmacoproteomic characterisation of human colon and rectal cancer. 	Pharmacoproteomic characterisation of human colon and rectal cancer - CPTAC Full Proteomes	CPTAC, CRC65, Consensus Molecular Subtypes, Kinobeads, QUASAR2, correlation of mRNA and protein abundance, integrated Full Proteome Subtypes, patient stratification, personalised medicine	Most molecular cancer therapies act on protein targets but data on the proteome status of patients and cellular models for proteome-guided pre-clinical drug sensitivity studies are only beginning to emerge. Here, we profiled the proteomes of 65 colorectal cancer (CRC) cell lines to a depth of > 10,000 proteins using mass spectrometry. Integration with proteomes of 90 CRC patients and matched transcriptomics data defined integrated CRC subtypes, highlighting cell lines representative of each tumour subtype. Modelling the responses of 52 CRC cell lines to 577 drugs as a function of proteome profiles enabled predicting drug sensitivity for cell lines and patients. Among many novel associations, MERTK was identified as a predictive marker for resistance towards MEK1/2 inhibitors and immunohistochemistry of 1,074 CRC tumours confirmed MERTK as a prognostic survival marker. We provide the proteomic and pharmacological data as a resource to the community to, for example, facilitate the design of innovative prospective clinical trials.
PXD006546	29103614	Membrane Microdomain Disassembly Inhibits MRSA Antibiotic Resistance. 	Disassembly of Functional Membrane Microdomains Relapses Antibiotic Resistance in Staphylococcus aureus	DRM, DSM, Staphylococcus aureus, membrane platforms	A number of bacterial cell processes are confined functional membrane microdomains (FMMs), structurally and functionally similar to lipid rafts of eukaryotic cells. How bacteria organize these intricate platforms and what their biological significance is remain important questions. Using the pathogen methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), we show here that membrane-carotenoid interaction with the scaffold protein flotillin leads to FMM formation, which can be visualized using super-resolution array tomography. These membrane platforms accumulate multimeric protein complexes, for which flotillin facilitates efficient oligomerization. One of these proteins is PBP2a, responsible for penicillin resistance in MRSA. Flotillin mutants are defective in PBP2a oligomerization. Perturbation of FMM assembly using available drugs interferes with PBP2a oligomerization and disables MRSA penicillin resistance in vitro and in vivo, resulting in MRSA infections that are susceptible to penicillin treatment. Our study demonstrates that bacteria possess sophisticated cell organization programs and defines alternative therapies to fight multidrug-resistant pathogens using conventional antibiotics.
PXD004739	29104924	Identification of Upstream Kinases by Fluorescence Complementation Mass Spectrometry. 	Identification of Direct Upstream Kinases by Fluorescence Complementation Mass Spectrometry	FCMS, Fluorescence complementation, Kinases, Phosphorylation	Protein kinases and their substrates comprise extensive signaling networks that regulate many diverse cellular functions. However, methods and techniques to systematically identify kinases directly responsible for specific phosphorylation events have remained elusive. Here we describe a novel proteomic strategy termed fluorescence complementation mass spectrometry (FCMS) to identify kinase-substrate pairs in high throughput. The FCMS strategy employs a specific substrate and a kinase library, both of which are fused with fluorescence complemented protein fragments. Transient and weak kinase-substrate interactions in living cells are stabilized by the association of fluorescence protein fragments. These kinase-substrate pairs are then isolated with high specificity and are identified and quantified by LC-MS. FCMS was applied to the identification of both known and novel kinases of the transcription factor, cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB). Novel CREB kinases were validated by in vitro kinase assays, and the phosphorylation sites were unambiguously located. These results uncovered possible new roles for CREB in multiple important signaling pathways and demonstrated the great potential of this new proteomic strategy.
PXD006400	29105226	Large-scale identification and visualization of N-glycans with primary structures using GlySeeker. 	OVA N-glycans PGC-LC-MSMS	N-glycans, OVA, PGC-LC-MSMS	RATIONALE: Most of the current popular tandem mass spectrometers have the capability of resolving the primary structures (monosaccharide composition, sequence and linkage) of N-glycans; however, compositions or putative structures have mostly been reported so far. Identification and visualization tools of N-glycans are needed. METHODS: The isotopic mass-to-charge ratio and envelope fingerprinting algorithm, which has been successfully used for intact protein database search and identification, was adapted for N-glycan database search, and a stand-alone N-glycan database search engine, GlySeeker, for automated N-glycan identification and visualization was developed and successfully benchmarked. Both pseudo 2D graph and one-line text formats with one-letter symbols for monosaccharides were proposed for representing N-glycans. N-glycans were identified with comprehensive interpretation of product ions and false discovery rate (FDR) control. RESULTS: In a database search of reversed-phase liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (RPLC/MS/MS) datasets of the N-glycome enriched from OVCAR-3 ovarian cancer cells, with FDR <=1% and number of best hits (NoBHs) = 1-30, 1525 N-glycans with comprehensive primary structural information (composition, sequence and linkage) were identified and visualized; among these 1525 N-glycans, 559 had NoBHs = 1, i.e. their structures were uniquely identified. This represents a large-scale identification and visualization of N-glycans with primary structures from tandem mass spectra. CONCLUSIONS: A stand-alone N-glycan database search engine called GlySeeker has been developed for large-scale identification and visualization of N-glycans with comprehensive interpretation of tandem mass spectra and FDR control.
PXD004870	29106068	Global Proteome Analysis Links Lysine Acetylation to Diverse Functions in Oryza Sativa. 	Oryza sativa,Global proteome,LC-MSMS	Calvin cycle., Global proteomics, Oryza sativa, acetylome, lysine acetylation, photosynthesis	Lysine acetylation (Kac) is an important protein post-translational modification in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Herein, we report the results of a global proteome analysis of Kac and its diverse functions in rice (Oryza sativa). We identified 1353 Kac sites in 866 proteins in rice seedlings. A total of 11 Kac motifs are conserved, and 45% of the identified proteins are localized to the chloroplast. Among all acetylated proteins, 38 Kac sites are combined in core histones. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that Kac occurs on a diverse range of proteins involved in a wide variety of biological processes, especially photosynthesis. Protein-protein interaction networks of the identified proteins provided further evidence that Kac contributes to a wide range of regulatory functions. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the acetylation level of histone H3 (lysine 27 and 36) is increased in response to cold stress. In summary, our approach comprehensively profiles the regulatory roles of Kac in the growth and development of rice.
PXD006573	29106399	A microRNA screen reveals that elevated hepatic ectodysplasin A expression contributes to obesity-induced insulin resistance in skeletal muscle. 	Mouse Liver LC-MS/MS LNA miR-676 treated dbdb mice	Liver, dbdb mice, miR-676	Over 40% of microRNAs (miRNAs) are located in introns of protein-coding genes, and many of these intronic miRNAs are co-regulated with their host genes. In such cases of co-regulation, the products of host genes and their intronic miRNAs can cooperate to coordinately regulate biologically important pathways. Therefore, we screened intronic miRNAs dysregulated in the livers of mouse models of obesity to identify previously uncharacterized protein-coding host genes that may contribute to the pathogenesis of obesity-associated insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Our approach revealed that expression of both the gene encoding ectodysplasin A (Eda), the causal gene in X-linked hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia (XLHED), and its intronic miRNA, miR-676, was increased in the livers of obese mice. Moreover, hepatic EDA expression is increased in obese human subjects and reduced upon weight loss, and its hepatic expression correlates with systemic insulin resistance. We also found that reducing miR-676 expression in db/db mice increases the expression of proteins involved in fatty acid oxidation and reduces the expression of inflammatory signaling components in the liver. Further, we found that Eda expression in mouse liver is controlled via PPARgamma and RXR-alpha, increases in circulation under conditions of obesity, and promotes JNK activation and inhibitory serine phosphorylation of IRS1 in skeletal muscle. In accordance with these findings, gain- and loss-of-function approaches reveal that liver-derived EDA regulates systemic glucose metabolism, suggesting that EDA is a hepatokine that can contribute to impaired skeletal muscle insulin sensitivity in obesity.
PXD007703	29106408	Cell-type-specific metabolic labeling of nascent proteomes in vivo. 	Cell type-specific metabolic labelling of nascent proteomes in vivo	ANL, Azidonorleucine, BONCAT, FUNCAT, Metabolic labeling, nascent proteomes	Although advances in protein labeling methods have made it possible to measure the proteome of mixed cell populations, it has not been possible to isolate cell-type-specific proteomes in vivo. This is because the existing methods for metabolic protein labeling in vivo access all cell types. We report the development of a transgenic mouse line where Cre-recombinase-induced expression of a mutant methionyl-tRNA synthetase (L274G) enables the cell-type-specific labeling of nascent proteins with a non-canonical amino-acid and click chemistry. Using immunoblotting, imaging and mass spectrometry, we use our transgenic mouse to label and analyze proteins in excitatory principal neurons and Purkinje neurons in vitro (brain slices) and in vivo. We discover more than 200 proteins that are differentially regulated in hippocampal excitatory neurons by exposing mice to an environment with enriched sensory cues. Our approach can be used to isolate, analyze and quantitate cell-type-specific proteomes and their dynamics in healthy and diseased tissues.
PXD007800	29107329	Cytosolic Protein Vms1 Links Ribosome Quality Control to Mitochondrial and Cellular Homeostasis. 	Cytosolic protein Vms1 links ribosome quality control to mitochondrial and cellular homeostasis	Ltn1, Mitochondria, RQC, Vms1	Eukaryotic cells have evolved extensive protein quality-control mechanisms to remove faulty translation products. Here, we show that yeast cells continually produce faulty mitochondrial polypeptides that stall on the ribosome during translation but are imported into the mitochondria. The cytosolic protein Vms1, together with the E3 ligase Ltn1, protects against the mitochondrial toxicity of these proteins and maintains cell viability under respiratory conditions. In the absence of these factors, stalled polypeptides aggregate after import and sequester critical mitochondrial chaperone and translation machinery. Aggregation depends on C-terminal alanyl/threonyl sequences (CAT-tails) that are attached to stalled polypeptides on 60S ribosomes by Rqc2. Vms1 binds to 60S ribosomes at the mitochondrial surface and antagonizes Rqc2, thereby facilitating import, impeding aggregation, and directing aberrant polypeptides to intra-mitochondrial quality control. Vms1 is a key component of a rescue pathway for ribosome-stalled mitochondrial polypeptides that are inaccessible to ubiquitylation due to coupling of translation and translocation.
PXD006089	29107595	Activation of the Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Interferes with Early Embryonic Development. 	AhR interactome in early embryonic development	AHR, NuRD, embryonic development, environmental pollutants, interactome	The transcriptional program of early embryonic development is tightly regulated by a set of well-defined transcription factors that suppress premature expression of differentiation genes and sustain the pluripotent identity. It is generally accepted that this program can be perturbed by environmental factors such as chemical pollutants; however, the precise molecular mechanisms remain unknown. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a widely expressed nuclear receptor that senses environmental stimuli and modulates target gene expression. Here, we have investigated the AHR interactome in embryonic stem cells by mass spectrometry and show that ectopic activation of AHR during early differentiation disrupts the differentiation program via the chromatin remodeling complex NuRD (nucleosome remodeling and deacetylation). The activated AHR/NuRD complex altered the expression of differentiation-specific genes that control the first two developmental decisions without affecting the pluripotency program. These findings identify a mechanism that allows environmental stimuli to disrupt embryonic development through AHR signaling.
PXD007928	29107940	Structure of the human MHC-I peptide-loading complex. 	Cross-linking of the human MHC-I peptide-loading complex	MHC-I peptide-loading complex, cross-linking, cryo-electron microscopy, structure	The peptide-loading complex (PLC) is a transient, multisubunit membrane complex in the endoplasmic reticulum that is essential for establishing a hierarchical immune response. The PLC coordinates peptide translocation into the endoplasmic reticulum with loading and editing of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) molecules. After final proofreading in the PLC, stable peptide-MHC-I complexes are released to the cell surface to evoke a T-cell response against infected or malignant cells. Sampling of different MHC-I allomorphs requires the precise coordination of seven different subunits in a single macromolecular assembly, including the transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP1 and TAP2, jointly referred to as TAP), the oxidoreductase ERp57, the MHC-I heterodimer, and the chaperones tapasin and calreticulin. The molecular organization of and mechanistic events that take place in the PLC are unknown owing to the heterogeneous composition and intrinsically dynamic nature of the complex. Here, we isolate human PLC from Burkitt's lymphoma cells using an engineered viral inhibitor as bait and determine the structure of native PLC by electron cryo-microscopy. Two endoplasmic reticulum-resident editing modules composed of tapasin, calreticulin, ERp57, and MHC-I are centred around TAP in a pseudo-symmetric orientation. A multivalent chaperone network within and across the editing modules establishes the proofreading function at two lateral binding platforms for MHC-I molecules. The lectin-like domain of calreticulin senses the MHC-I glycan, whereas the P domain reaches over the MHC-I peptide-binding pocket towards ERp57. This arrangement allows tapasin to facilitate peptide editing by clamping MHC-I. The translocation pathway of TAP opens out into a large endoplasmic reticulum lumenal cavity, confined by the membrane entry points of tapasin and MHC-I. Two lateral windows channel the antigenic peptides to MHC-I. Structures of PLC captured at distinct assembly states provide mechanistic insight into the recruitment and release of MHC-I. Our work defines the molecular symbiosis of an ABC transporter and an endoplasmic reticulum chaperone network in MHC-I assembly and provides insight into the onset of the adaptive immune response.
PXD007087	29109154	Hierarchical protein targeting and secretion is controlled by an affinity switch in the type III secretion system of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli. 	An affinity switch controls hierarchical Type III protein targeting and secretion	EPEC, IMVs, Surface proteolysis, T3SS	Type III secretion (T3S), a protein export pathway common to Gram-negative pathogens, comprises a trans-envelope syringe, the injectisome, with a cytoplasm-facing translocase channel. Exported substrates are chaperone-delivered to the translocase, EscV in enteropathogenic Escherichia coli, and cross it in strict hierarchical manner, for example, first "translocators", then "effectors". We dissected T3S substrate targeting and hierarchical switching by reconstituting them in vitro using inverted inner membrane vesicles. EscV recruits and conformationally activates the tightly membrane-associated pseudo-effector SepL and its chaperone SepD. This renders SepL a high-affinity receptor for translocator/chaperone pairs, recognizing specific chaperone signals. In a second, SepD-coupled step, translocators docked on SepL become secreted. During translocator secretion, SepL/SepD suppress effector/chaperone binding to EscV and prevent premature effector secretion. Disengagement of the SepL/SepD switch directs EscV to dedicated effector export. These findings advance molecular understanding of T3S and reveal a novel mechanism for hierarchical trafficking regulation in protein secretion channels.
PXD007710	29109432	ALS Associated Mutations in Matrin 3 Alter Protein-Protein Interactions and Impede mRNA Nuclear Export. 	ALS Associated Mutations in Matrin 3 Alter Protein-Protein Interactions and Impede mRNA Nuclear Export	ALS, LC/MS-MS, Matrin-3, TREX	Mutations in Matrin 3 have recently been linked to ALS, though the mechanism that induces disease in these patients is unknown. To define the protein interactome of wild-type and ALS-linked MATR3 mutations, we performed immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry using NSC-34 cells expressing human wild-type or mutant Matrin 3. Gene ontology analysis identified a novel role for Matrin 3 in mRNA transport centered on proteins in the TRanscription and EXport (TREX) complex, known to function in mRNA biogenesis and nuclear export. ALS-linked mutations in Matrin 3 led to its re-distribution within the nucleus, decreased co-localization with endogenous Matrin 3 and increased co-localization with specific TREX components. Expression of disease-causing Matrin 3 mutations led to nuclear mRNA export defects of both global mRNA and more specifically the mRNA of TDP-43 and FUS. Our findings identify a potential pathogenic mechanism attributable to MATR3 mutations and further link cellular transport defects to ALS.
PXD007266	29109709	Vanillin Promotes the Germination of Antrodia camphorata Arthroconidia through PKA and MAPK Signaling Pathways. 	Protein patterns of Antrodia camphorata arthroconidia	Antrodia camphorata, arthroconidia, iTRAQ	Wild fruiting bodies of medicinal mushroom Antrodia camphorata are only found on the endemic species bull camphor tree, Cinnamomum kanehirae, in Taiwan. Despite the evident importance of the host components in promoting the growth of A. camphorata, insights into the underlying mechanisms are still lacking. Here, we first evaluated effects of the compounds from C. kanehirai, C. camphora, and A. camphorata, and their structural analogs on the germination rate of A. camphorata arthroconidia. Among the 54 tested compounds, vanillin (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzaldehyde) was determined as the optimum germination promoter, while o-vanillin and 1-octen-3-ol as major negative regulators of arthroconidia germination. Second, the protein patterns of arthroconidia after 24 h of incubation in the presence or absence of vanillin were compared via isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based proteomics. Via bioinformatic analysis, it was found that 61 proteins might relate to the germination of arthroconidia, in which 16 proteins might involve in two potential protein kinase A (PKA) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways in the vanillin-promoted germination of A. camphorata arthroconidia. Last, the mRNA expression levels of the 16 germination-related genes in the potential PKA and MAPK signaling pathways were analyzed by quantitative real time PCR. Together, our results are beneficial for the elucidation of molecular mechanisms underlying the germination of A. camphorata arthroconidia.
PXD005676	29111974	Architecture of TAF11/TAF13/TBP complex suggests novel regulation properties of general transcription factor TFIID. 	Architecture of TAF11/TAF13/TBP complex suggests novel regulatory state of human general transcription factor TFIID	DNA binding, TAF11, TAF13, TATA-binding protein, TFIID, histone fold	General transcription factor TFIID is a key component of RNA polymerase II transcription initiation. Human TFIID is a megadalton-sized complex comprising TATA-binding protein (TBP) and 13 TBP-associated factors (TAFs). TBP binds to core promoter DNA, recognizing the TATA-box. We identified a ternary complex formed by TBP and the histone fold (HF) domain-containing TFIID subunits TAF11 and TAF13. We demonstrate that TAF11/TAF13 competes for TBP binding with TATA-box DNA, and also with the N-terminal domain of TAF1 previously implicated in TATA-box mimicry. In an integrative approach combining crystal coordinates, biochemical analyses and data from cross-linking mass-spectrometry (CLMS), we determine the architecture of the TAF11/TAF13/TBP complex, revealing TAF11/TAF13 interaction with the DNA binding surface of TBP. We identify a highly conserved C-terminal TBP-interaction domain (CTID) in TAF13, which is essential for supporting cell growth. Our results thus have implications for cellular TFIID assembly and suggest a novel regulatory state for TFIID function.
PXD007689	29113996	Characterization of the Molecular Mechanisms Underlying Glucose Stimulated Insulin Secretion from Isolated Pancreatic beta-cells Using Post-translational Modification Specific Proteomics (PTMomics). 	Cellular signaling underlying GSIS in pancreatic beta-cells	GSIS, Rat, beta-cells, islets	Normal pancreatic islet beta-cells (PBCs) abundantly secrete insulin in response to elevated blood glucose levels, in order to maintain an adequate control of energy balance and glucose homeostasis. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the insulin secretion are unclear. Improving our understanding of glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) mechanisms under normal conditions is a prerequisite for developing better interventions against diabetes. Here, we aimed at identifying novel signaling pathways involved in the initial release of insulin from PBCs after glucose stimulation using quantitative strategies for the assessment of phosphorylated proteins and sialylated N-linked (SA) glycoproteins.Islets of Langerhans derived from newborn rats with a subsequent 9-10 days of maturation in vitro were stimulated with 20 mm glucose for 0 min (control), 5 min, 10 min, and 15 min. The isolated islets were subjected to time-resolved quantitative phosphoproteomics and sialiomics using iTRAQ-labeling combined with enrichment of phosphorylated peptides and formerly SA glycopeptides and high-accuracy LC-MS/MS. Using bioinformatics we analyzed the functional signaling pathways during GSIS, including well-known insulin secretion pathways. Furthermore, we identified six novel activated signaling pathways (e.g. agrin interactions and prolactin signaling) at 15 min GSIS, which may increase our understanding of the molecular mechanism underlying GSIS. Moreover, we validated some of the regulated phosphosites by parallel reaction monitoring, which resulted in the validation of eleven new phosphosites significantly regulated on GSIS. Besides protein phosphorylation, alteration in SA glycosylation was observed on several surface proteins on brief GSIS. Interestingly, proteins important for cell-cell interaction, cell movement, cell-ECM interaction and Focal Adhesion (e.g. integrins, semaphorins, and plexins) were found regulated at the level of sialylation, but not in protein expression. Collectively, we believe that this comprehensive Proteomics and PTMomics survey of signaling pathways taking place during brief GSIS of primary PBCs is contributing to understanding the complex signaling underlying GSIS.
PXD006438	29117212	Quantitative label-free proteomic analysis of human urine to identify novel candidate protein biomarkers for schistosomiasis. 	Quantitative label-free proteomic analysis of human urine to identify novel protein biomarkers for schistosomiasis	QExactive, Schistosoma haematobium, biomarkers, bladder cancer, discovery proteomics, schistosomiasis	BACKGROUND: Schistosomiasis is a chronic neglected tropical disease that is characterized by continued inflammatory challenges to the exposed population and it has been established as a possible risk factor in the aetiology of bladder cancer. Improved diagnosis of schistosomiasis and its associated pathology is possible through mass spectrometry to identify biomarkers among the infected population, which will influence early detection of the disease and its subtle morbidity. METHODOLOGY: A high-throughput proteomic approach was used to analyse human urine samples for 49 volunteers from Eggua, a schistosomiasis endemic community in South-West, Nigeria. The individuals were previously screened for Schistosoma haematobium and structural bladder pathologies via microscopy and ultrasonography respectively. Samples were categorised into schistosomiasis, schistosomiasis with bladder pathology, bladder pathology, and a normal healthy control group. These samples were analysed to identify potential protein biomarkers. RESULTS: A total of 1306 proteins and 9701 unique peptides were observed in this study (FDR = 0.01). Fifty-four human proteins were found to be potential biomarkers for schistosomiasis and bladder pathologies due to schistosomiasis by label-free quantitative comparison between groups. Thirty-six (36) parasite-derived potential biomarkers were also identified, which include some existing putative schistosomiasis biomarkers that have been previously reported. Some of these proteins include Elongation factor 1 alpha, phosphopyruvate hydratase, histone H4 and heat shock proteins (HSP 60, HSP 70). CONCLUSION: These findings provide an in-depth analysis of potential schistosoma and human host protein biomarkers for diagnosis of chronic schistosomiasis caused by Schistosoma haematobium and its pathogenesis.
PXD006494	29117645	Proteomic profiling of TGFBI-null mouse corneas reveals only minor changes in matrix composition supportive of TGFBI knockdown as therapy against TGFBI-linked corneal dystrophies. 	Proteomic profiling of TGFBIp-null mouse corneas reveals minor changes in the extracellular matrix composition supportive of TGFBI knockdown as therapy against TGFBI-linked corneal dystrophies	Cornea, ECM, Periostin, TGFBIp, iTRAQ	TGFBIp is a constituent of the extracellular matrix in many human tissues including the cornea, where it is one of the most abundant proteins expressed. TGFBIp interacts with Type I, II, IV, VI, and XII collagens as well as several members of the integrin family, suggesting it plays an important role in maintaining structural integrity and possibly corneal transparency as well. Significantly, more than 60 point mutations within the TGFBI gene have been reported to result in aberrant TGFBIp folding and aggregation in the cornea, resulting in severe visual impairment and blindness. Several studies have focused on targeting TGFBIp in the cornea as a therapeutic approach to treat TGFBI-linked corneal dystrophies, but the effect of this approach on corneal homeostasis and matrix integrity remained unknown. In the current study, we evaluated the histological and proteomic profiles of corneas from TGFBI-deficient mice as well as potential redundant functions of the paralogous protein POSTN. The absence of TGFBIp in mouse corneas did not grossly affect the collagen scaffold, and POSTN is unable to compensate for loss of TGFBIp. Proteomic comparison of wild-type and TGFBI(-/-) mice revealed 11 proteins were differentially regulated, including Type VI and XII collagens. However, as these alterations did not manifest at the macroscopic and behavioral levels, these data support partial or complete TGFBI knockdown as a potential therapy against TGFBI-linked corneal dystrophies. Lastly, in situ hybridization verified TGFBI mRNA in the epithelial cells but not in other cell types, supportive of a therapy directed specifically at this lineage.
PXD007960	29117863	RNA-binding activity of TRIM25 is mediated by its PRY/SPRY domain and is required for ubiquitination. 	RNA-binding activity of TRIM25 is mediated by its PRY/SPRY domain and is required for ubiquitination	HeLa, RNA, SILAC, ubiquitination	BACKGROUND: TRIM25 is a novel RNA-binding protein and a member of the Tripartite Motif (TRIM) family of E3 ubiquitin ligases, which plays a pivotal role in the innate immune response. However, there is scarce knowledge about its RNA-related roles in cell biology. Furthermore, its RNA-binding domain has not been characterized. RESULTS: Here, we reveal that the RNA-binding activity of TRIM25 is mediated by its PRY/SPRY domain, which we postulate to be a novel RNA-binding domain. Using CLIP-seq and SILAC-based co-immunoprecipitation assays, we uncover TRIM25's endogenous RNA targets and protein binding partners. We demonstrate that TRIM25 controls the levels of Zinc Finger Antiviral Protein (ZAP). Finally, we show that the RNA-binding activity of TRIM25 is important for its ubiquitin ligase activity towards itself (autoubiquitination) and its physiologically relevant target ZAP. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that many other proteins with the PRY/SPRY domain could have yet uncharacterized RNA-binding potential. Together, our data reveal new insights into the molecular roles and characteristics of RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligases and demonstrate that RNA could be an essential factor in their enzymatic activity.
PXD005467	29118029	Graphical Interpretation and Analysis of Proteins and their Ontologies (GiaPronto): A One-Click Graph Visualization Software for Proteomics Data Sets. 	Time-resolved Global and Chromatin Proteomics during Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV-1) Infection	Herpes simplex virus (HSV-1) infection, chromatin dynamics, histone modifications, lytic infection, phosphoproteomics, post-translational modifications (PTMs), viral life cycle	Here we present a free interactive web tool to process and visualize proteomics data sets with a single click. GiaPronto can process all proteomics quantification methods, i.e. label-free, SILAC and isobaric labeling, and analyze post-translational modifications (PTMs). The software performs normalization and statistics, assists determination of regulated proteins, biomarkers and Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment, and provides high resolution images and tables for further data analysis. We foresee that GiaPronto will become the most rapid and simple tool for assessing data quality and determining most relevant features of proteomic data sets. GiaPronto is available at giapronto.diskinlab.org.
PXD007101	29122726	Improvement of ubiquitylation site detection by Orbitrap mass spectrometry. 	Improvement of ubiquitination site detection by Orbitrap mass spectrometry.	Hela, Orbitrap Lumos, SILAC, U2OS, Ubiquitinome, diGly peptides, mouse brain tissue, ubiquitin, ubiquitination	Ubiquitylation is an important posttranslational protein modification that is involved in many cellular events. Immunopurification of peptides containing a K-epsilon-diglycine (diGly) remnant as a mark of ubiquitylation combined with mass spectrometric detection has resulted in an explosion of the number of identified ubiquitylation sites. Here, we present several significant improvements to this workflow, including fast, offline and crude high pH reverse-phase fractionation of tryptic peptides into only three fractions with simultaneous desalting prior to immunopurification and better control of the peptide fragmentation settings in the Orbitrap HCD cell. In addition, more efficient sample cleanup using a filter plug to retain the antibody beads results in a higher specificity for diGly peptides and less non-specific binding. These relatively simple modifications of the protocol result in the routine detection of over 23,000 diGly peptides from HeLa cells upon proteasome inhibition. The efficacy of this strategy is shown for lysates of both non-labeled and SILAC labeled cell lines. Furthermore, we demonstrate that this strategy is useful for the in-depth analysis of the endogenous, unstimulated ubiquitinome of in vivo samples such as mouse brain tissue. This study presents a valuable addition to the toolbox for ubiquitylation site analysis to uncover the deep ubiquitinome. SIGNIFICANCE: A K-epsilon-diglycine (diGly) mark on peptides after tryptic digestion of proteins indicates a site of ubiquitylation, a posttranslational modification involved in a wide range of cellular processes. Here, we report several improvements to methods for the isolation and detection of diGly peptides from complex biological mixtures such as cell lysates and brain tissue. This adapted method is robust, reproducible and outperforms previously published methods in terms of number of modified peptide identifications from a single sample. In-depth analysis of the ubiquitinome using mass spectrometry will lead to a better understanding of the roles of protein ubiquitylation in cellular events.
PXD022140	29123261	A new panel of pancreatic cancer biomarkers discovered using a mass spectrometry-based pipeline. 	A new panel of pancreatic cancer biomarkers discovered using a mass spectrometry-based pipeline	LC-MS, MRM, biomarker, pancreatic cancer, serum	BACKGROUND: Pancreatic carcinoma (PC) is an aggressive malignancy that lacks strategies for early detection. This study aimed to develop a coherent, high-throughput and non-discriminatory pipeline for the novel clinical biomarker discovery of PC. METHODS: We combined mass spectrometry (MS)-intensive methods such as isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation with two-dimensional liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (iTRAQ-2DLC-MS/MS), 1D-targeted LC-MS/MS, prime MRM (P-MRM) and stable isotope dilution-based MRM (SID-MRM) to analyse serum samples from healthy people (normal control, NC), patients with benign diseases (BD) and PC patients to identify novel biomarkers of PC. RESULTS: On the basis of the newly developed pipeline, we identified >1000 proteins, verified 142 differentially expressed proteins and finally targeted four proteins for absolute quantitation in 100 serum samples. The novel biomarker panel of apolipoprotein E (APOE), inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H3 (ITIH3), apolipoprotein A-I (APOA1), apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1), combining with CA19-9, statistically-significantly improved the sensitivity (95%) and specificity (94.1%), outperforming CA19-9 alone, for the diagnosis of PC. CONCLUSIONS: We developed a highly efficient pipeline for biomarker discovery, verification and validation, with each step systematically informing the next. A panel of proteins that might be clinically relevant biomarkers for PC was found.
PXD007986	29124795	Proteomic analysis of lysine acetylation provides strong evidence for involvement of acetylated proteins in plant meiosis and tapetum function. 	Protein acetylation landscape of developing rice anthers	Rice, anther development, lysine acetylation, meiosis	Protein lysine acetylation (KAC) is a dynamic and reversible post-translational modification that has important biological roles in many organisms. Although KAC has been shown to affect reproductive development and meiosis in yeast and animals, similar studies are largely lacking in flowering plants, especially proteome-scale investigations for particular reproductive stages. Here, we report results from a proteomic investigation to detect the KAC status of the developing rice anthers near the time of meiosis (RAM), providing strong biochemical evidence for roles of many KAC-affected proteins during anther development and meiosis in rice. We identified a total of 1354 KAC sites in 676 proteins. Among these, 421 acetylated proteins with 629 KAC sites are novel, greatly enriching our knowledge on KAC in flowering plants. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis showed chromatin silencing, protein folding, fatty acid biosynthetic process and response to stress to be over-represented. In addition, certain potentially specific KAC motifs in RAM were detected. Importantly, 357 rice meiocyte proteins were acetylated; and four proteins genetically identified to be important for rice tapetum and pollen development were acetylated on 14 KAC sites in total. Furthermore, 47 putative secretory proteins were detected to exhibit acetylated status in RAM. Moreover, by comparing our lysine acetylome with the RAM phosphoproteome we obtained previously, we proposed a correlation between KAC and phosphorylation as a potential modulatory mechanism in rice RAM. This study provides the first global survey of KAC in plant reproductive development, making a promising starting point for further functional analysis of KAC during rice anther development and meiosis.
PXD007214	29125462	Systematic proteomic analysis of LRRK2-mediated Rab GTPase phosphorylation establishes a connection to ciliogenesis. 	Systematic proteomic analysis of LRRK2-mediated Rab GTPase phosphorylation establishes a connection to ciliogenesis	LRRK2, Parkinsons disease, RabGTPases	We previously reported that Parkinson's disease (PD) kinase LRRK2 phosphorylates a subset of Rab GTPases on a conserved residue in their switch-II domains (Steger et al., 2016) (PMID: 26824392). Here, we systematically analyzed the Rab protein family and found 14 of them (Rab3A/B/C/D, Rab5A/B/C, Rab8A/B, Rab10, Rab12, Rab29, Rab35 and Rab43) to be specifically phosphorylated by LRRK2, with evidence for endogenous phosphorylation for ten of them (Rab3A/B/C/D, Rab8A/B, Rab10, Rab12, Rab35 and Rab43). Affinity enrichment mass spectrometry revealed that the primary ciliogenesis regulator, RILPL1 specifically interacts with the LRRK2-phosphorylated forms of Rab8A and Rab10, whereas RILPL2 binds to phosphorylated Rab8A, Rab10, and Rab12. Induction of primary cilia formation by serum starvation led to a two-fold reduction in ciliogenesis in fibroblasts derived from pathogenic LRRK2-R1441G knock-in mice. These results implicate LRRK2 in primary ciliogenesis and suggest that Rab-mediated protein transport and/or signaling defects at cilia may contribute to LRRK2-dependent pathologies.
PXD007211	29126204	Proteomic analysis of germinal vesicles in the domestic cat model reveals candidate nuclear proteins involved in oocyte competence acquisition. 	Proteomic analysis of germinal vesicles from preantral vs antral follicles in the domestic cat model	TMT GV	STUDY QUESTION: Do nuclear proteins in the germinal vesicle (GV) contribute to oocyte competence acquisition during folliculogenesis? SUMMARY ANSWER: Proteomic analysis of GVs identified candidate proteins for oocyte competence acquisition, including a key RNA processing protein-heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2/B1 (hnRNPA2B1). WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: The domestic cat GV, which is physiologically similar to the human GV, gains the intrinsic ability to resume meiosis and support early embryo development during the pre-antral-to-antral follicle transition. However, little is known about nuclear proteins that contribute to this developmental process. STUDY DESIGN SIZE, DURATION: GVs were enriched from pre-antral (incompetent) and antral (competent) follicles from 802 cat ovaries. Protein lysates were subjected to quantitative proteomic analysis to identify differentially expressed proteins in GVs from the two follicular categories. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Two biological replicates (from independent pools of ovaries) of pre-antral versus antral samples were labeled by tandem mass tags and then assessed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Proteomic data were analyzed according to gene ontology and a protein-protein interaction network. Immunofluorescent staining and protein inhibition assays were used for validation. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: A total of 174 nuclear proteins was identified, with 54 being up-regulated and 22 down-regulated (>=1.5-fold) after antrum formation. Functional protein analysis through gene ontology over-representation tests revealed that changes in molecular network within the GVs during this transitional phase were related to chromatin reorganization, gene transcription, and maternal RNA processing and storage. Protein inhibition assays verified that hnRNPA2B1, a key nuclear protein identified, was required for oocyte meiotic maturation and subsequent blastocyst formation. LARGE SCALE DATA: Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007211. LIMITATIONS REASONS FOR CAUTION: Proteins identified by proteomic comparison may (i) be involved in processes other than competence acquisition during the pre-antral-to-antral transition or (ii) be co-expressed in other macrostructures besides the GV. Expressional and functional validations should be performed for candidate proteins before downstream application. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: Collective results generated a blueprint to better understand the molecular mechanisms involved in GV competence acquisition and identified potential nuclear competence markers for human fertility preservation. STUDY FUNDING AND COMPETING INTEREST(S): Funded by the National Center for Research Resources (R01 RR026064), a component of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and currently by the Office of Research Infrastructure Programs/Office of the Director (R01 OD010948). The authors declare that there is no conflict of interest.
PXD007175	29126343	Oxidative stress-triggered interactions between the succinyl- and acetyl-proteomes of rice leaves. 	Oxidative stress-triggered interactions between the succinyl- and acetyl-proteomes of rice leaves	Rice, hydrogen peroxide, lysine acetylation, lysine succinylation	Protein lysine acylations, such as succinylation and acetylation, are important post-translational modification (PTM) mechanisms, with key roles in cellular regulation. Antibody-based affinity enrichment, high-resolution liquid chromatography mass spectrometry analysis, and integrated bioinformatics analysis were used to characterize the lysine succinylome (Ksuc ) and acetylome (Kace ) of rice leaves. In total, 2,593 succinylated and 1,024 acetylated proteins were identified, of which 723 were simultaneously acetylated and succinylated. Proteins involved in photosynthetic carbon metabolism such as the large and small subunits of RuBisCO, ribosomal functions, and other key processes were subject to both PTMs. Preliminary insights into oxidant-induced changes to the rice acetylome and succinylome were gained from treatments with hydrogen peroxide. Exposure to oxidative stress did not regulate global changes in the rice acetylome or succinylome but rather led to modifications on a specific subset of the identified sites. De-succinylation of recombinant catalase (CATA) and glutathione S-transferase (OsGSTU6) altered the activities of these enzymes showing that this PTM may have a regulatory function. These findings not only greatly extend the list of acetylated and/or succinylated proteins but they also demonstrate the close cooperation between these PTMs in leaf proteins with key metabolic functions.
PXD007765	29127277	Dual protein kinase and nucleoside kinase modulators for rationally designed polypharmacology. 	Dual protein kinase/ nucleoside kinase modulat ors for rationally designed polypharmacology	LTQ-Velos-Orbitrap, labelfree	Masitinib, a highly selective protein kinase inhibitor, can sensitise gemcitabine-refractory cancer cell lines when used in combination with gemcitabine. Here we report a reverse proteomic approach that identifies the target responsible for this sensitisation: the deoxycytidine kinase (dCK). Masitinib, as well as other protein kinase inhibitors, such as imatinib, interact with dCK and provoke an unforeseen conformational-dependent activation of this nucleoside kinase, modulating phosphorylation of nucleoside analogue drugs. This phenomenon leads to an increase of prodrug phosphorylation of most of the chemotherapeutic drugs activated by this nucleoside kinase. The unforeseen dual activity of protein kinase inhibition/nucleoside kinase activation could be of great therapeutic benefit, through either reducing toxicity of therapeutic agents by maintaining effectiveness at lower doses or by counteracting drug resistance initiated via down modulation of dCK target.
PXD006825	29127378	First insights into the pleiotropic role of vrf (yedF), a newly characterized gene of Salmonella Typhimurium. 	First insights into the pleiotropic role of vrf (yedF), a newly characterized  gene of Salmonella Typhimurium	Salmonella, Virulence, vrf, yedF	Salmonella possesses virulence determinants that allow replication under extreme conditions and invasion of host cells, causing disease. Here, we examined four putative genes predicted to encode membrane proteins (ydiY, ybdJ, STM1441 and ynaJ) and a putative transcriptional factor (yedF). These genes were identified in a previous study of a S. Typhimurium clinical isolate and its multidrug-resistant counterpart. For STM1441 and yedF a reduced ability to interact with HeLa cells was observed in the knock-out mutants, but an increase in this ability was absent when these genes were overexpressed, except for yedF which phenotype was rescued when yedF was restored. In the absence of yedF, decreased expression was seen for: i) virulence-related genes involved in motility, chemotaxis, attachment and survival inside the host cell; ii) global regulators of the invasion process (hilA, hilC and hilD); and iii) factors involved in LPS biosynthesis. In contrast, an increased expression was observed for anaerobic metabolism genes. We propose yedF is involved in the regulation of Salmonella pathogenesis and contributes to the activation of the virulence machinery. Moreover, we propose that, when oxygen is available, yedF contributes sustained repression of the anaerobic pathway. Therefore, we recommend this gene be named vrf, for virulence-related factor.
PXD006738	29127410	Ultrafiltration combined with size exclusion chromatography efficiently isolates extracellular vesicles from cell culture media for compositional and functional studies. 	Ultrafiltration combined with Size Exclusion Chromatography efficiently isolates Extracellular Vesicles from Cell Culture Media for compositional and functional Studies	extracellular vesicles	Appropriate isolation methods are essential for unravelling the relative contribution of extracellular vesicles (EVs) and the EV-free secretome to homeostasis and disease. We hypothesized that ultrafiltration followed by size exclusion chromatography (UF-SEC) provides well-matched concentrates of EVs and free secreted molecules for proteomic and functional studies. Conditioned media of BEAS-2B bronchial epithelial cells were concentrated on 10 kDa centrifuge filters, followed by separation of EVs and free protein using sepharose CL-4B SEC. Alternatively, EVs were isolated by ultracentrifugation. EV recovery was estimated by bead-coupled flow cytometry and tuneable resistive pulse sensing. The proteomic composition of EV isolates and SEC protein fractions was characterized by nano LC-MS/MS. UF-SEC EVs tended to have a higher yield and EV-to-protein rate of purity than ultracentrifugation EVs. UF-SEC EVs and ultracentrifugation EVs showed similar fold-enrichments for biological pathways that were distinct from those of UF-SEC protein. Treatment of BEAS-2B cells with UF-SEC protein, but not with either type of EV isolate increased the IL-8 concentration in the media whereas EVs, but not protein induced monocyte adhesion to endothelial cells. Thus, UF-SEC is a useful alternative for ultracentrifugation and allows comparing the proteomic composition and functional effects of EVs and free secreted molecules.
PXD006690	29128334	A Map of Human Mitochondrial Protein Interactions Linked to Neurodegeneration Reveals New Mechanisms of Redox Homeostasis and NF-kappaB Signaling. 	A Map of Human Mitochondrial Protein Interactions Linked to Neurodegeneration Reveals New Molecular Determinants in Redox Homeostasis and NF-B Signaling	Autism, Mitochondria, Mitochondrial Proteins, NF-kB signaling, Neurodegeneration, Parkinsons Disease, Protein-protein interactions	Mitochondrial protein (MP) dysfunction has been linked to neurodegenerative disorders (NDs); however, the discovery of the molecular mechanisms underlying NDs has been impeded by the limited characterization of interactions governing MP function. Here, using mass spectrometry (MS)-based analysis of 210 affinity-purified mitochondrial (mt) fractions isolated from 27 epitope-tagged human ND-linked MPs in HEK293 cells, we report a high-confidence MP network including 1,964 interactions among 772 proteins (>90% previously unreported). Nearly three-fourths of these interactions were confirmed in mouse brain and multiple human differentiated neuronal cell lines by primary antibody immunoprecipitation and MS, with many linked to NDs and autism. We show that the SOD1-PRDX5 interaction, critical for mt redox homeostasis, can be perturbed by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-linked SOD1 allelic variants and establish a functional role for ND-linked factors coupled with IkappaBepsilon in NF-kappaB activation. Our results identify mechanisms for ND-linked MPs and expand the human mt interaction landscape.
PXD007861	29129717	A Chemoproteomic Approach to Query the Degradable Kinome Using a Multi-kinase Degrader. 	A Chemproteomics Approach to Query the Degradable Kinome Using a Multi-kinase Degrader, part 2	kinase, ligand, protac	Heterobifunctional molecules that recruit E3 ubiquitin ligases, such as cereblon, for targeted protein degradation represent an emerging pharmacological strategy. A major unanswered question is how generally applicable this strategy is to all protein targets. In this study, we designed a multi-kinase degrader by conjugating a highly promiscuous kinase inhibitor with a cereblon-binding ligand, and used quantitative proteomics to discover 28 kinases, including BTK, PTK2, PTK2B, FLT3, AURKA, AURKB, TEC, ULK1, ITK, and nine members of the CDK family, as degradable. This set of kinases is only a fraction of the intracellular targets bound by the degrader, demonstrating that successful degradation requires more than target engagement. The results guided us to develop selective degraders for FLT3 and BTK, with potentials to improve disease treatment. Together, this study demonstrates an efficient approach to triage a gene family of interest to identify readily degradable targets for further studies and pre-clinical developments.
PXD005761	29129743	Comprehensive identification of proteins binding to RNA G-quadruplex motifs in the 5' UTR of tumor-associated mRNAs. 	Comprehensive identification of proteins binding to RNA G-quadruplex motifs in the 5' UTR of tumor-associated mRNAs	ARPC2, Bcl-2, G-quadruplexes, MMP16, NRAS, RBPs, RNA, SILAC, Shotgun proteomics, cancer, post-transcriptional regulation, translational regulation	G-quadruplex structures in the 5' UTR of mRNAs are widely considered to suppress translation without affecting transcription. The current study describes the comprehensive analysis of proteins binding to four different G-quadruplex motifs located in mRNAs of the cancer-related genes Bcl-2, NRAS, MMP16, and ARPC2. Following metabolic labeling (Stable Isotope Labeling with Amino acids in Cell culture, SILAC) of proteins in the human cell line HEK293, G-quadruplex binding proteins were enriched by pull-down assays and identified by LC-orbitrap mass spectrometry. We found different patterns of interactions for the G-quadruplex motifs under investigation. While the G-quadruplexes in the mRNAs of NRAS and MMP16 specifically interacted with a small number of proteins, the Bcl-2 and ARPC2 G-quadruplexes exhibited a broad range of proteinaceous interaction partners with 99 and 82 candidate proteins identified in at least two replicates, respectively. The use of a control composed of samples from all G-quadruplex-forming sequences and their mutated controls ensured that the identified proteins are specific for RNA G-quadruplex structures and are not general RNA-binding proteins. Independent validation experiments based on pull-down assays and Western blotting confirmed the MS data. Among the interaction partners were many proteins known to bind to RNA, including multiple heterogenous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). Several of the candidate proteins are likely to reflect stalling of the ribosome by RNA G-quadruplex structures. Interestingly, additional proteins were identified that have not previously been described to interact with RNA. Gene ontology analysis of the candidate proteins revealed that many interaction partners are known to be tumor related. The majority of the identified RNA G-quadruplex interacting proteins are thought to be involved in post-transcriptional processes, particularly in splicing. These findings indicate that protein-G-quadruplex interactions are not only important for the fine-tuning of translation but are also relevant to the regulation of mRNA maturation and may play an important role in tumor biology. Proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005761.
PXD007738	29129916	A post-transcriptional program coordinated by CSDE1 prevents intrinsic neural differentiation of human embryonic stem cells. 	A post-transcriptional program coordinated by CSDE1 prevents intrinsic neural differentiation of human embryonic stem cells	Comparison hESCs versus their differentiated counterparts	While the transcriptional network of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) has been extensively studied, relatively little is known about how post-transcriptional modulations determine hESC function. RNA-binding proteins play central roles in RNA regulation, including translation and turnover. Here we show that the RNA-binding protein CSDE1 (cold shock domain containing E1) is highly expressed in hESCs to maintain their undifferentiated state and prevent default neural fate. Notably, loss of CSDE1 accelerates neural differentiation and potentiates neurogenesis. Conversely, ectopic expression of CSDE1 impairs neural differentiation. We find that CSDE1 post-transcriptionally modulates core components of multiple regulatory nodes of hESC identity, neuroectoderm commitment and neurogenesis. Among these key pro-neural/neuronal factors, CSDE1 binds fatty acid binding protein 7 (FABP7) and vimentin (VIM) mRNAs, as well as transcripts involved in neuron projection development regulating their stability and translation. Thus, our results uncover CSDE1 as a central post-transcriptional regulator of hESC identity and neurogenesis.
PXD006489	29130603	Proteogenomic Re-Annotation of Coccidioides posadasii Strain Silveira. 	Proteogenomic Re-annotation of Coccidioides posadasii strain Silveira	Coccidioides, Valley Fever, coccidioidomycosis, genomics, proteogenomics	The aims of this study are to provide protein-based evidence upon which to reannotate the genome of Coccidiodes posadasii, one of two closely related species of Coccidioides, a dimorphic fungal pathogen that causes coccidioidomycosis, also called Valley fever. Proteins present in lysates and filtrates of in vitro grown mycelia and parasitic phase spherules from C. posadasii strain Silveira are analyzed using a GeLC-MS/MS method. Acquired spectra are processed with a proteogenomics workflow comprising a Silveira proteome database, a six-frame translation of the Silveira genome and an ab initio gene prediction tool prior to validation against published ESTs. This study provides evidence for 837 genes expressed at the protein level, of which 169 proteins (20.2%) are putative proteins and 103 (12.3%) are not annotated in the Silveira genome. Additionally, 275 novel peptides are derived from intragenic regions of the genome and 13 from intergenic regions, resulting in 172 gene refinements. Additionally, we are the first group to report translationally active retrotransposon elements in a Coccidioides spp. Our study reveals that the currently annotated genome of C. posadasii str. Silveira needs refinement, which is likely to be the case for many nonmodel organisms.
PXD006662	29131639	Proteomic Characterization of Transcription and Splicing Factors Associated with a Metastatic Phenotype in Colorectal Cancer. 	Proteomic characterization of transcription and splicing factors associated with a more invasive phenotype in colorectal cancer	cell lines, colon cancer, metastasis, splicing, transcription	We investigated new transcription and splicing factors associated with the metastatic phenotype in colorectal cancer. A concatenated tandem array of consensus transcription factor (TF)-response elements was used to pull down nuclear extracts in two different pairs of colorectal cancer cells, KM12SM/KM12C and SW620/480, genetically related but differing in metastatic ability. Proteins were analyzed by label-free LC-MS and quantified with MaxLFQ. We found 240 proteins showing a significant dysregulation in highly metastatic KM12SM cells relative to nonmetastatic KM12C cells and 257 proteins in metastatic SW620 versus SW480. In both cell lines there were similar alterations in genuine TFs and components of the splicing machinery like UPF1, TCF7L2/TCF-4, YBX1, or SRSF3. However, a significant number of alterations were cell-line specific. Functional silencing of MAFG, TFE3, TCF7L2/TCF-4, and SRSF3 in KM12 cells caused alterations in adhesion, survival, proliferation, migration, and liver homing, supporting their role in metastasis. Finally, we investigated the prognostic value of the altered TFs and splicing factors in cancer patients. SRSF3 and SFPQ showed significant prognostic value. We observed that SRSF3 displayed a gradual loss of expression associated with cancer progression. Loss of SRSF3 expression was significantly associated with poor survival and shorter disease-free survival, particularly in early stages, in colorectal cancer.
PXD035880	29132502	Transcriptomic and proteomic landscape of mitochondrial dysfunction reveals secondary coenzyme Q deficiency in mammals. 	Transcriptomic and proteomic landscape of mitochondrial dysfunction reveals secondary coenzyme Q deficiency in mammals	LFQ, Mitochondria, coenzyme Q	Dysfunction of the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system is a major cause of human disease and the cellular consequences are highly complex. Here, we present comparative analyses of mitochondrial proteomes, cellular transcriptomes and targeted metabolomics of five knockout mouse strains deficient in essential factors required for mitochondrial DNA gene expression, leading to OXPHOS dysfunction. Moreover, we describe sequential protein changes during post-natal development and progressive OXPHOS dysfunction in time course analyses in control mice and a middle lifespan knockout, respectively. Very unexpectedly, we identify a new response pathway to OXPHOS dysfunction in which the intra-mitochondrial synthesis of coenzyme Q (ubiquinone, Q) and Q levels are profoundly decreased, pointing towards novel possibilities for therapy. Our extensive omics analyses provide a high-quality resource of altered gene expression patterns under severe OXPHOS deficiency comparing several mouse models, that will deepen our understanding, open avenues for research and provide an important reference for diagnosis and treatment.
PXD003519	29133510	Single Cell Immuno-Laser Microdissection Coupled to Label-Free Proteomics to Reveal the Proteotypes of Human Brain Cells After Ischemia. 	Single Cell Immuno-laser Microdissection Coupled to Label-free Proteomics to Reveal the Proteotypes of Human Brain Cells After Ischemia	biomarker, brain ischemia, label-free, laser micro-dissection, stroke	Cerebral ischemia entails rapid tissue damage in the affected brain area causing devastating neurological dysfunction. How each component of the neurovascular unit contributes or responds to the ischemic insult in the context of the human brain has not been solved yet. Thus, the analysis of the proteome is a straightforward approach to unraveling these cell proteotypes. In this study, post-mortem brain slices from ischemic stroke patients were obtained corresponding to infarcted (IC) and contralateral (CL) areas. By means of laser microdissection, neurons and blood brain barrier structures (BBB) were isolated and analyzed using label-free quantification. MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003519. Ninety proteins were identified only in neurons, 260 proteins only in the BBB and 261 proteins in both cell types. Bioinformatics analyses revealed that repair processes, mainly related to synaptic plasticity, are outlined in microdissected neurons, with nonexclusive important functions found in the BBB. A total of 30 proteins showing p < 0.05 and fold-change> 2 between IC and CL areas were considered meaningful in this study: 13 in neurons, 14 in the BBB and 3 in both cell types. Twelve of these proteins were selected as candidates and analyzed by immunohistofluorescence in independent brains. The MS findings were completely verified for neuronal SAHH2 and SRSF1 whereas the presence in both cell types of GABT and EAA2 was only validated in neurons. In addition, SAHH2 showed its potential as a prognostic biomarker of neurological improvement when analyzed early in the plasma of ischemic stroke patients. Therefore, the quantitative proteomes of neurons and the BBB (or proteotypes) after human brain ischemia presented here contribute to increasing the knowledge regarding the molecular mechanisms of ischemic stroke pathology and highlight new proteins that might represent putative biomarkers of brain ischemia or therapeutic targets.
PXD006139	29133594	Competitive Kinase Enrichment Proteomics Reveals that Abemaciclib Inhibits GSK3beta and Activates WNT Signaling. 	Competitive Kinase Enrichment Proteomics Reveals that Abemaciclib Inhibits Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 Beta and Activates WNT Signaling	GSK3beta, Kinase, WNT signaling, chemoproteomics, polypharmacology	The cellular and organismal phenotypic response to a small-molecule kinase inhibitor is defined collectively by the inhibitor's targets and their functions. The selectivity of small-molecule kinase inhibitors is commonly determined in vitro, using purified kinases and substrates. Recently, competitive chemical proteomics has emerged as a complementary, unbiased, cell-based methodology to define the target landscape of kinase inhibitors. Here, we evaluated and optimized a competitive multiplexed inhibitor bead mass spectrometry (MIB/MS) platform using cell lysates, live cells, and treated mice. Several clinically active kinase inhibitors were profiled, including trametinib, BMS-777607, dasatinib, abemaciclib, and palbociclib. MIB/MS competition analyses of the cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6 (CDK4/6) inhibitors abemaciclib and palbociclib revealed overlapping and unique kinase targets. Competitive MIB/MS analysis of abemaciclib revealed 83 target kinases, and dose-response MIB/MS profiling revealed glycogen synthase kinase 3 alpha and beta (GSK3alpha and beta) and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II delta and gamma (CAMKIIdelta and gamma) as the most potently inhibited. Cell-based and in vitro kinase assays show that in contrast to palbociclib, abemaciclib directly inhibits GSK3alpha/beta and CAMKIIgamma/delta kinase activity at low nanomolar concentrations. GSK3beta phosphorylates beta-catenin to suppress WNT signaling, while abemaciclib (but not palbociclib or ribociclib) potently activates beta-catenin-dependent WNT signaling. These data illustrate the power of competitive chemical proteomics to define kinase target specificities for kinase inhibitors, thus informing clinical efficacy, dose-limiting toxicities, and drug-repurposing efforts.Implications: This study uses a rapid and quantitative proteomics approach to define inhibitor-target data for commonly administered therapeutics and provides a cell-based alternative to in vitro kinome profiling. Mol Cancer Res; 16(2); 333-44. (c)2017 AACR.
PXD005625	29133847	Female mice lacking Pald1 exhibit endothelial cell apoptosis and emphysema. 	Female mice lacking Pald1 exhibit endothelial cell apoptosis and emphysema	Hpgd, Pald1, emphysema, knock-out, lung	Paladin (Pald1, mKIAA1274 or x99384) was identified in screens for vascular-specific genes and is a putative phosphatase. Paladin has also been proposed to be involved in various biological processes such as insulin signaling, innate immunity and neural crest migration. To determine the role of paladin we have now characterized the Pald1 knock-out mouse in a broad array of behavioral, physiological and biochemical tests. Here, we show that female, but not male, Pald1 heterozygous and homozygous knock-out mice display an emphysema-like histology with increased alveolar air spaces and impaired lung function with an obstructive phenotype. In contrast to many other tissues where Pald1 is restricted to the vascular compartment, Pald1 is expressed in both the epithelial and mesenchymal compartments of the postnatal lung. However, in Pald1 knock-out females, there is a specific increase in apoptosis and proliferation of endothelial cells, but not in non-endothelial cells. This results in a transient reduction of endothelial cells in the maturing lung. Our data suggests that Pald1 is required during lung vascular development and for normal function of the developing and adult lung in a sex-specific manner. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a sex-specific effect on endothelial cell apoptosis.
PXD005306	29133896	The food-borne pathogen Campylobacter jejuni responds to the bile salt deoxycholate with countermeasures to reactive oxygen species. 	Global functional impacts of Campylobacter jejuni stress induced by exposure to deoxycholate	Deoxycholate, bile, salt	Bile plays an important role in digestion, absorption of fats, and the excretion of waste products, while concurrently providing a critical barrier against colonization by harmful bacteria. Previous studies have demonstrated that gut pathogens react to bile by adapting their protein synthesis. The ability of pathogens to respond to bile is remarkably complex and still incompletely understood. Here we show that Campylobacter jejuni, a leading bacterial cause of human diarrheal illness worldwide, responds to deoxycholate, a component of bile, by altering global gene transcription in a manner consistent with a strategy to mitigate exposure to reactive oxygen stress. More specifically, continuous growth of C. jejuni in deoxycholate was found to: 1) induce the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS); 2) decrease succinate dehydrogenase activity (complex II of the electron transport chain); 3) increase catalase activity that is involved in H2O2 breakdown; and 4) result in DNA strand breaks. Congruently, the addition of 4-hydroxy-TEMPO (TEMPOL), a superoxide dismutase mimic that reacts with superoxide, rescued the growth of C. jejuni cultured in the presence of deoxycholate. We postulate that continuous exposure of a number of enteric pathogens to deoxycholate stimulates a conserved survival response to this stressor.
PXD006934	29134766	Comparative Analyses of Data Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometric Approaches: DIA, WiSIM-DIA, and Untargeted DIA. 	Comparative analyses of data independent acquisition mass spectrometric approaches: DIA, WiSIM-DIA and directDIA	DDA, DIA, WiSIM, WiSIM-DIA, directDIA	Data-independent acquisition (DIA) is an emerging technology for quantitative proteomics. Current DIA focusses on the identification and quantitation of fragment ions that are generated from multiple peptides contained in the same selection window of several to tens of m/z. An alternative approach is WiSIM-DIA, which combines conventional DIA with wide-SIM (wide selected-ion monitoring) windows to partition the precursor m/z space to produce high-quality precursor ion chromatograms. However, WiSIM-DIA has been underexplored; it remains unclear if it is a viable alternative to DIA. We demonstrate that WiSIM-DIA quantified more than 24 000 unique peptides over five orders of magnitude in a single 2 h analysis of a neuronal synapse-enriched fraction, compared to 31 000 in DIA. There is a strong correlation between abundance values of peptides quantified in both the DIA and WiSIM-DIA datasets. Interestingly, the S/N ratio of these peptides is not correlated. We further show that peptide identification directly from DIA spectra identified >2000 proteins, which included unique peptides not found in spectral libraries generated by DDA.
PXD008068	29136377	Quantifying Missing (Phospho)Proteome Regions with the Broad-Specificity Protease Subtilisin. 	Quantifying missing (phospho)proteome regions with the broad-specificity protease subtilisin	Pro-rich regions, alternative enzymes, missing proteins, novel phosphorylation sites, proteome coverage, sample preparation, trypsin	Despite huge efforts to map the human proteome using mass spectrometry the overall sequence coverage achieved to date is still below 50%. Reasons for missing areas of the proteome comprise protease-resistant domains including the lack/excess of enzymatic cleavage sites, nonunique peptide sequences, impaired peptide ionization/separation and low expression levels. To access novel areas of the proteome the beneficial use of enzymes complementary to trypsin, such as Glu-C, Asp-N, Lys-N, Arg-C, LysargiNase has been reported. Here, we present how the broad-specificity protease subtilisin enables mapping of previously hidden areas of the proteome. We systematically evaluated its digestion efficiency and reproducibility and compared it to the gold standard in the field, trypsin. Notably, subtilisin allows reproducible near-complete digestion of cells lysates in 1-5 min. As expected from its broad specificity the generation of overlapping peptide sequences reduces the number of identified proteins compared to trypsin (8363 vs 6807; 1% protein FDR). However, subtilisin considerably improved the coverage of missing and particularly proline-rich areas of the proteome. Along 14 628 high confidence phosphorylation sites identified in total, only 33% were shared between both enzymes, while 37% were exclusive to subtilisin. Notably, 926 of these were not even accessible by additional in silico digestion with either Asp-N, Arg-C, Glu-C, Lys-C, or Lys-N. Thus, subtilisin might be particularly beneficial for system-wide profiling of post-translational modification sites. Finally, we demonstrate that subtilisin can be used for reporter-ion based in-depth quantification, providing a precision comparable to trypsin-despite broad specificity and fast digestion that may increase technical variance.
PXD006204	29139296	Differential Content of Proteins, mRNAs, and miRNAs Suggests that MDSC and Their Exosomes May Mediate Distinct Immune Suppressive Functions. 	Determining qualitative and quantitative differences in the protein, mRNA and miRNA content of myeloid-derived suppressor cells and their released exosomes	Exosomes, myeloid-derived suppressor cells, spectral counting	Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) are immature myeloid cells that accumulate in the circulation and the tumor microenvironment of most cancer patients. There, MDSC suppress both adaptive and innate immunity, hindering immunotherapies. The inflammatory milieu often present in cancers facilitates MDSC suppressive activity, causing aggressive tumor progression and metastasis. MDSC from tumor-bearing mice release exosomes, which carry biologically active proteins and mediate some of the immunosuppressive functions characteristic of MDSC. Studies on other cell types have shown that exosomes may also carry RNAs which can be transferred to local and distant cells, yet the mRNA and microRNA cargo of MDSC-derived exosomes has not been studied to date. Here, the cargo of MDSC and their exosomes was interrogated with the goal of identifying and characterizing molecules that may facilitate MDSC suppressive potency. Because inflammation is an established driving force for MDSC suppressive activity, we used the well-established 4T1 mouse mammary carcinoma system, which includes "conventional" as well as "inflammatory" MDSC. We provide evidence that MDSC-derived exosomes carry proteins, mRNAs, and microRNAs with different quantitative profiles than those of their parental cells. Several of these molecules have known or predicted functions consistent with MDSC suppressive activity, suggesting a potential mechanistic redundancy.
PXD006266	29141230	Sub-minute Phosphoregulation of Cell Cycle Systems during Plasmodium Gamete Formation. 	Sub-minute phosphoregulation of cell-cycle systems during Plasmodium gamete formation revealed by a high-resolution time course	LC-MSMS. TMT, Phosphorylation, Plasmodium Berghei	The transmission of malaria parasites to mosquitoes relies on the rapid induction of sexual reproduction upon their ingestion into a blood meal. Haploid female and male gametocytes become activated and emerge from their host cells, and the males enter the cell cycle to produce eight microgametes. The synchronized nature of gametogenesis allowed us to investigate phosphorylation signaling during its first minute in Plasmodium berghei via a high-resolution time course of the phosphoproteome. This revealed an unexpectedly broad response, with proteins related to distinct cell cycle events undergoing simultaneous phosphoregulation. We implicate several protein kinases in the process, and we validate our analyses on the plant-like calcium-dependent protein kinase 4 (CDPK4) and a homolog of serine/arginine-rich protein kinases (SRPK1). Mutants in these kinases displayed distinct phosphoproteomic disruptions, consistent with differences in their phenotypes. The results reveal the central role of protein phosphorylation in the atypical cell cycle regulation of a divergent eukaryote.
PXD006138	29141914	Proteotranscriptomics Reveal Signaling Networks in the Ovarian Cancer Microenvironment. 	Ovarian high grade serous carcinoma ascites cell proteoms	HGSOC, OVCA, T cells, cancer, high grade serous ovarian carcinoma, macrophages, ovarian carcinoma	Ovarian cancer is characterized by early transcoelomic metastatic spread via the peritoneal fluid, where tumor cell spheroids (TU), tumor-associated T cells (TAT), and macrophages (TAM) create a unique microenvironment promoting cancer progression, chemoresistance, and immunosuppression. However, the underlying signaling mechanisms remain largely obscure. To chart these signaling networks, we performed comprehensive proteomic and transcriptomic analyses of TU, TAT, and TAM from ascites of ovarian cancer patients. We identify multiple intercellular signaling pathways driven by protein or lipid mediators that are associated with clinical outcome. Beyond cytokines, chemokines and growth factors, these include proteins of the extracellular matrix, immune checkpoint regulators, complement factors, and a prominent network of axon guidance molecules of the ephrin, semaphorin, and slit families. Intriguingly, both TU and TAM from patients with a predicted short survival selectively produce mediators supporting prometastatic events, including matrix remodeling, stemness, invasion, angiogenesis, and immunosuppression, whereas TAM associated with a longer survival express cytokines linked to effector T-cell chemoattraction and activation. In summary, our study uncovers previously unrecognized signaling networks in the ovarian cancer microenvironment that are of potential clinical relevance.
PXD006322	29142109	The Ndc80 complex targets Bod1 to human mitotic kinetochores. 	Bod1 interactome in mitotic HeLa cells	Interactome, Mitosis	Regulation of protein phosphatase activity by endogenous protein inhibitors is an important mechanism to control protein phosphorylation in cells. We recently identified Biorientation defective 1 (Bod1) as a small protein inhibitor of protein phosphatase 2A containing the B56 regulatory subunit (PP2A-B56). This phosphatase controls the amount of phosphorylation of several kinetochore proteins and thus the establishment of load-bearing chromosome-spindle attachments in time for accurate separation of sister chromatids in mitosis. Like PP2A-B56, Bod1 directly localizes to mitotic kinetochores and is required for correct segregation of mitotic chromosomes. In this report, we have probed the spatio-temporal regulation of Bod1 during mitotic progression. Kinetochore localization of Bod1 increases from nuclear envelope breakdown until metaphase. Phosphorylation of Bod1 at threonine 95 (T95), which increases Bod1's binding to and inhibition of PP2A-B56, peaks in prometaphase when PP2A-B56 localization to kinetochores is highest. We demonstrate here that kinetochore targeting of Bod1 depends on the outer kinetochore protein Ndc80 and not PP2A-B56. Crucially, Bod1 depletion functionally affects Ndc80 phosphorylation at the N-terminal serine 55 (S55), as well as a number of other phosphorylation sites within the outer kinetochore, including Knl1 at serine 24 and 60 (S24, S60), and threonine T943 and T1155 (T943, T1155). Therefore, Ndc80 recruits a phosphatase inhibitor to kinetochores which directly feeds forward to regulate Ndc80, and Knl1 phosphorylation, including sites that mediate the attachment of microtubules to kinetochores.
PXD008307	29144447	BCAT1 restricts alphaKG levels in AML stem cells leading to IDHmut-like DNA hypermethylation. 	Tandem mass tag (TMT) quantitative proteomics of human acute myeloid leukaemia (AML)	AML, TMT, leukemic stem cells	The branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) pathway and high levels of BCAA transaminase 1 (BCAT1) have recently been associated with aggressiveness in several cancer entities. However, the mechanistic role of BCAT1 in this process remains largely uncertain. Here, by performing high-resolution proteomic analysis of human acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) stem-cell and non-stem-cell populations, we find the BCAA pathway enriched and BCAT1 protein and transcripts overexpressed in leukaemia stem cells. We show that BCAT1, which transfers alpha-amino groups from BCAAs to alpha-ketoglutarate (alphaKG), is a critical regulator of intracellular alphaKG homeostasis. Further to its role in the tricarboxylic acid cycle, alphaKG is an essential cofactor for alphaKG-dependent dioxygenases such as Egl-9 family hypoxia inducible factor 1 (EGLN1) and the ten-eleven translocation (TET) family of DNA demethylases. Knockdown of BCAT1 in leukaemia cells caused accumulation of alphaKG, leading to EGLN1-mediated HIF1alpha protein degradation. This resulted in a growth and survival defect and abrogated leukaemia-initiating potential. By contrast, overexpression of BCAT1 in leukaemia cells decreased intracellular alphaKG levels and caused DNA hypermethylation through altered TET activity. AML with high levels of BCAT1 (BCAT1(high)) displayed a DNA hypermethylation phenotype similar to cases carrying a mutant isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH(mut)), in which TET2 is inhibited by the oncometabolite 2-hydroxyglutarate. High levels of BCAT1 strongly correlate with shorter overall survival in IDH(WT)TET2(WT), but not IDH(mut) or TET2(mut) AML. Gene sets characteristic for IDH(mut) AML were enriched in samples from patients with an IDH(WT)TET2(WT)BCAT1(high) status. BCAT1(high) AML showed robust enrichment for leukaemia stem-cell signatures, and paired sample analysis showed a significant increase in BCAT1 levels upon disease relapse. In summary, by limiting intracellular alphaKG, BCAT1 links BCAA catabolism to HIF1alpha stability and regulation of the epigenomic landscape, mimicking the effects of IDH mutations. Our results suggest the BCAA-BCAT1-alphaKG pathway as a therapeutic target to compromise leukaemia stem-cell function in patients with IDH(WT)TET2(WT) AML.
PXD007694	29145658	Characterization of Detergent Insoluble Proteome in Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy. 	Characterization of detergent insoluble proteome in chronic traumatic encephalopathy	AD, Alzheimers Disease, Dementia Pugilistica, Detergent Insoluble Proteome, Human Brain CTE, Proteostasis	Quantitative proteomics of postmortem human brain can identify dysfunctional proteins that contribute to neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia. Similar studies in chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) are limited, therefore we hypothesized that proteomic sequencing of CTE frontal cortex brain homogenates from varying CTE pathologic stages may provide important new insights into this disorder. Quantitative proteomics of control, CTE and AD brains was performed to characterize differentially expressed proteins, and we identified over 4000 proteins in CTE brains, including significant enrichment of the microtubule associated protein tau. We also found enrichment and pathologic aggregation of RNA processing factors as seen previously in AD, supporting the previously recognized overlap between AD and CTE. In addition to these similarities, we identified CTE-specific enrichment of proteins which increase with increasing severity of CTE pathology. NADPH dehydrogenase quinone 1 (NQO1) was one of the proteins which showed significant enrichment in CTE and also correlated with increasing CTE stage. NQO1 demonstrated neuropathologic correlation with hyperphosphorylated tau in glial cells, mainly astrocytes. These results demonstrate that quantitative proteomic analysis of CTE postmortem human brain can identify disease relevant findings and novel cellular pathways involved in CTE pathogenesis.
PXD006343	29146960	Assessing species biomass contributions in microbial communities via metaproteomics. 	Metaproteomics of phototrophic biomats from two soda lakes in the Canadian Rocky Mountains	1D-LC, biomass assessment, metagenomics, metaproteome, metaproteomics	Microbial community structure can be analyzed by quantifying cell numbers or by quantifying biomass for individual populations. Methods for quantifying cell numbers are already available (e.g., fluorescence in situ hybridization, 16-S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing), yet high-throughput methods for assessing community structure in terms of biomass are lacking. Here we present metaproteomics-based methods for assessing microbial community structure using protein abundance as a measure for biomass contributions of individual populations. We optimize the accuracy and sensitivity of the method using artificially assembled microbial communities and show that it is less prone to some of the biases found in sequencing-based methods. We apply the method to communities from two different environments, microbial mats from two alkaline soda lakes, and saliva from multiple individuals. We show that assessment of species biomass contributions adds an important dimension to the analysis of microbial community structure.
PXD006257	29148164	Protein Profiling of Non-model Plant Cuminum cyminum by Gel-Based Proteomic Approach. 	Proteome profiling of Cumin by Q-Exactive HF mass spectrometer	LCMS, Plant proteins, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, machine learning, peptide observability	INTRODUCTION: Cumin (Cuminum cyminum), a popular spice has been widely used in traditional medicine to cure various ailments. Despite the existence of scientific literature about its pharmacological properties, no successful proteome profiling has yet been attempted. OBJECTIVE: To optimise extraction of cumin proteins and analyse its profile by shotgun proteomics, using one-dimensional electrophoresis coupled with nano-ESI-LC-MS/MS. METHODOLOGY: As a first step, we have compared three extraction protocols for total proteins extraction from cumin. Extracted proteins were separated on one-dimensional gel and analysed by state-of-the-art linear ion trap (LTQ)-Orbitrap Velose and Q Exactive HF mass spectrometer. RESULTS: Evaluation of extraction method revealed significant differences in protein yield and proteome composition between the three extracts. LC-MS/MS allowed identification of several proteins with functional significance in various biological processes. CONCLUSION: This study provides identification of a large number of proteins and offers a molecular basis for future research on potential pharmacologically active cumin proteins. Copyright (c) 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
PXD008177	29149599	Autophagosomal Content Profiling Reveals an LC3C-Dependent Piecemeal Mitophagy Pathway. 	proximity-proteomics-based autophagosome content profiling	HeLa, Orbitrap Elite, proxiity labeling	Autophagy allows the degradation of cytosolic endogenous and exogenous material in the lysosome. Substrates are engulfed by double-membrane vesicles, coined autophagosomes, which subsequently fuse with lysosomes. Depending on the involvement of specific receptor proteins, autophagy occurs in a selective or nonselective manner. While this process is well understood at the level of bulky cargo such as mitochondria and bacteria, we know very little about individual proteins and protein complexes that are engulfed and degraded by autophagy. In contrast to the critical role of autophagy in balancing proteostasis, our current knowledge of the autophagic degradome is very limited. Here, we combined proximity labeling with quantitative proteomics to systematically map the protein inventory of autophagosomes. Using this strategy, we uncovered a basal, housekeeping mitophagy pathway that involves piecemeal degradation of mitochondrial proteins in a LC3C- and p62-dependent manner and contributes to mitochondrial homeostasis maintenance when cells rely on oxidative phosphorylation.
PXD008054	29150924	Comprehensive Profiling of Lysine Acetylome in Baculovirus Infected Silkworm (Bombyx mori) Cells. 	Comprehensive Profiling of Lysine Acetylome in Baculovirus Infected Silkworm (Bombyx mori) Cells	BmNPV, Bombyx mori, acetylome	Bombyx mori is one of the key lepidopteran model species, and is economically important for silk production and proteinaceous drug expression. Baculovirus and insect host are important natural biological models for studying host-pathogen interactions. The impact of Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus (BmNPV) infection on the proteome and acetylome of Bombyx mori ovarian (BmN) cells are explored to facilitate a better understanding of infection-driven interactions between BmNPV and host in vitro. The proteome and acetylome are profiled through six-plex Tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling-based quantitative proteomics. A total of 4194 host proteins are quantified, of which 33 are upregulated and 47 are downregulated in BmN cells at 36 h post-infection. Based on the proteome, quantifiable differential Kac proteins are identified and functionally annotated to gene expression regulation, energy metabolism, substance synthesis, and metabolism after BmNPV infection. Altogether, 644 Kac sites in 431 host proteins and 39 Kac sites in 22 viral proteins are identified and quantified in infected BmN cells. Our study demonstrates that BmNPV infection globally impacts the proteome and acetylome of BmN cells. The viral proteins are also acetylated by the host acetyltransferase. Protein acetylation is essential for cellular self-regulation and response to virus infection. This study provides new insights for understanding the host-virus interaction mechanisms, and the role of acetylation in BmN cellular response to viral infection.
PXD004275	29152854	An Approach to Incorporate Multi-Enzyme Digestion into C-TAILS for C-Terminomics Studies. 	Combination of multi-enzyme digestions and C-TAILS approach for deep screening of C-terminome	C-TAILS, Protein C-termini, SCII, multi-enzyme	Protein C-termini study is still a challenging task and far behind its counterpart, N-termini study. MS based C-terminomics study is often hampered by the low ionization efficiency of C-terminal peptides and the lack of efficient enrichment methods. We previously optimized the C-terminal amine-based isotope labeling of substrates (C-TAILS) method and identified 369 genuine protein C-termini in Escherichia coli. A key limitation of C-TAILS is that the prior protection of amines and carboxylic groups at protein level makes Arg-C as the only specific enzyme in practice. Herein, we report an approach combining multi-enzyme digestion and C-TAILS, which significantly increases the identification rate of C-terminal peptides and consequently improves the applicability of C-TAILS in biological studies. We carry out a systematic study and confirm that the omission of the prior amine protection at protein level has a negligible influence and allows the application of multi-enzyme digestion. We successfully apply five different enzyme digestions to C-TAILS, including trypsin, Arg-C, Lys-C, Lys-N, and Lysarginase. As a result, we identify a total of 722 protein C-termini in E. coli, which is at least 66% more than the results using any single enzyme. Moreover, the favored enzyme and enzyme combination are discovered. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004275.
PXD008316	29154753	Cyclin A/Cdk1 modulates Plk1 activity in prometaphase to regulate kinetochore-microtubule attachment stability. 	Cyclin A/Cdk1 modulates Plk1 activity in prometaphase to regulate k-MT attachment stability	Cdk1, Cylin A, Plk1, mitosis	The fidelity of chromosome segregation in mitosis is safeguarded by the precise regulation of kinetochore microtubule (k-MT) attachment stability. Previously, we demonstrated that Cyclin A/Cdk1 destabilizes k-MT attachments to promote faithful chromosome segregation. Here, we use quantitative phosphoproteomics to identify 156 Cyclin A/Cdk1 substrates in prometaphase. One Cyclin A/Cdk1 substrate is myosin phosphatase targeting subunit 1 (MYPT1), and we show that MYPT1 localization to kinetochores depends on Cyclin A/Cdk1 activity and that MYPT1 destabilizes k-MT attachments by negatively regulating Plk1 at kinetochores. Thus, Cyclin A/Cdk1 phosphorylation primes MYPT1 for Plk1 binding. Interestingly, priming of PBIP1 by Plk1 itself (self-priming) increased in MYPT1-depleted cells showing that MYPT1 provides a molecular link between the processes of Cdk1-dependent priming and self-priming of Plk1 substrates. These data demonstrate cross-regulation between Cyclin A/Cdk1-dependent and Plk1-dependent phosphorylation of substrates during mitosis to ensure efficient correction of k-MT attachment errors necessary for high mitotic fidelity.
PXD007062	29154927	Integrative transcriptome and proteome analyses define marked differences between Neospora caninum isolates throughout the tachyzoite lytic cycle. 	Proteome analyses define marked differences between N. caninum isolates throughout the tachyzoite lytic cycle	Lytic cycle, Neospora, Tachyzoite, Virulence.	Neospora caninum is one of the main causes of transmissible abortion in cattle. Intraspecific variations in virulence have been widely shown among N. caninum isolates. However, the molecular basis governing such variability have not been elucidated to date. In this study label free LC-MS/MS was used to investigate proteome differences between the high virulence isolate Nc-Spain7 and the low virulence isolate Nc-Spain1H throughout the tachyzoite lytic cycle. The results showed greater differences in the abundance of proteins at invasion and egress with 77 and 62 proteins, respectively. During parasite replication, only 19 proteins were differentially abundant between isolates. The microneme protein repertoire involved in parasite invasion and egress was more abundant in the Nc-Spain1H isolate, which displays a lower invasion rate. Rhoptry and dense granule proteins, proteins related to metabolism and stress responses also showed differential abundances between isolates. Comparative RNA-Seq analyses during tachyzoite egress were also performed, revealing an expression profile of genes associated with the bradyzoite stage in the low virulence Nc-Spain1H isolate. The differences in proteome and RNA expression profiles between these two isolates reveal interesting insights into likely mechanisms involved in specific phenotypic traits and virulence in N. caninum. SIGNIFICANCE: The molecular basis that governs biological variability in N. caninum and the pathogenesis of neosporosis has not been well-established yet. This is the first study in which high throughput technology of LC-MS/MS and RNA-Seq is used to investigate differences in the proteome and transcriptome between two well-characterized isolates. Both isolates displayed different proteomes throughout the lytic cycle and the transcriptomes also showed marked variations but were inconsistent with the proteome results. However, both datasets identified a pre-bradyzoite status of the low virulence isolate Nc-Spain1H. This study reveals interesting insights into likely mechanisms involved in virulence in N. caninum and shed light on a subset of proteins that are potentially involved in the pathogenesis of this parasite.
PXD003738	29155090	Proteome and phosphoproteome analysis of commensally induced dendritic cell maturation states. 	Proteome and phophoproteome analysis of distinct dendritic cell maturation states	Dendritic cells, Voronoi treemaps, inflammation, maturation, pathobionts, phosphoproteomics, shotgun proteomics, signaling pathways, symbionts	Dendritic cells (DCs) can shape the immune system towards an inflammatory or tolerant state depending on the bacterial antigens and the environment they encounter. In this study we provide a proteomic catalogue of differentially expressed proteins between distinct DC maturation states, brought about by bacteria that differ in their endotoxicity. To achieve this, we have performed proteomics and phosphoproteomics on murine DC cultures. Symbiont and pathobiont bacteria were used to direct dendritic cells into a semi-mature and fully-mature state, respectively. The comparison of semi-mature and fully-mature DCs revealed differential expression in 103 proteins and differential phosphorylation in 118 phosphosites, including major regulatory factors of central immune processes. Our analyses predict that these differences are mediated by upstream elements such as SOCS1, IRF3, ABCA1, TLR4, and PTGER4. Our analyses indicate that the symbiont bacterial strain affects DC proteome in a distinct way, by downregulating inflammatory proteins and activating anti-inflammatory upstream regulators. Biological significance In this study we have investigated the responses of immune cells to distinct bacterial stimuli. We have used the symbiont bacterial strain B. vulgatus and the pathobiont E. coli strain to stimulate cultured primary dendritic cells and performed a shotgun proteome analysis to investigate the protein expression and phosphorylation level differences on a genome level. We have observed expression and phosphorylation level differences in key immune regulators, transcription factors and signal transducers. Moreover, our subsequent bioinformatics analysis indicated regulation at several signaling pathways such as PPAR signaling, LXR/RXR activation and glucocorticoid signaling pathways, which are not studied in detail in an inflammation and DC maturation context. Our phosphoproteome analysis showed differential phosphorylation in 118 phosphosites including those belonging to epigenetic regulators, transcription factors and major cell cycle regulators. We anticipate that our study will facilitate further investigation of immune cell proteomes under different inflammatory and non-inflammatory conditions.
PXD020892	29155091	Dynamic molecular events associated to Plasmodium berghei gametogenesis through proteomic approach. 	Dynamic molecular events associated to Plasmodium berghei gametogenesis through proteomic approach	Exflagellation, Gametogenesis, Phosphopeptide, Plasmodium, Quantitative proteomics	Plasmodium mature sexual cycle occurs in the vector mosquitoes and ensures the transmission to a new host. Gametogenesis takes place within minutes in the vector midgut. Gametocytes have to complete a deep nuclear reorganization, quick differentiation, and in the case of male gametocytes, intracytoplasmic flagellum assembly that results in free-swimming microgametes required for macrogamete fertilization. In efforts to improve our knowledge of molecular mechanisms involved in gamete morphogenesis, we carried out a nanoLC/MSMS based quantitative proteomic analysis throughout the xanthurenic acid-induced gametogenesis of the rodent parasite P. berghei. Time-course analyses were performed 7 and 15min after gametogenesis induction. From 2617 iTRAQ-labelled peptides, 49 proteins were found differentially abundant. Proteins related to RNA translation, DNA, and protein biosynthesis were most prominent and strongly regulated. The energetic metabolic pathway, glycolysis, environmental stress response, RNA/protein biosynthesis, mitosis and axoneme formation, both related to tubulin-associated cytoskeleton dynamic, were predominant regulated cell processes at protein level during the differentiation. Our results also include 26 phosphoproteins in gametocytes/gametes. This first iTRAQ-based proteomic time course analysis of Plasmodium gamete development sheds light on the biological protein orchestration within gametogenesis. SIGNIFICANCE: Malaria is one of the most serious and widespread parasitic diseases that affected humans in medicine history. The increasing emergence of resistance of parasites from Plasmodium genus to the available antimalarial drugs and the absence of efficient vaccines require an urgent need of development of new therapeutic strategies to fight against that disease. The sexual reproduction is a key step of Plasmodium life cycle and constitutes an attractive target for the development of new therapeutic approaches since it would control malaria based on an inhibition of the parasite transmission to Anopheles, and then to humans. Male and female gamete formation (gametogenesis) is thus a biological event that is determinant for the perpetuation of the parasite in which drastic morphological and metabolic changes occur in a short time interval, resulting in the production of 8 male gametes from a male gametocyte, and fertilization of the female gamete. Development of such transmission-blocking strategies required in deep understanding of the molecular and cellular events associated to gametogenesis. Despite several studies, our understanding on gametogenesis is still incomplete and requires further investigations. This work is the first large-scale quantitative proteomic insight into the P. berghei gamete morphogenesis providing valuable time course data. Plasmodium gametogenesis clearly requires regulation of expression and phosphorylation of proteins belonging to different metabolic pathways and functions, in order to produce mature male and female gametes.
PXD005013	29156374	Genetic profiling and surface proteome analysis of human atrial stromal cells and rat ventricular epicardium-derived cells reveals novel insights into their cardiogenic potential. 	Genetic profiling and surface proteome analysis of epicardial derived cells reveals cardiogenic potential	EPDC, stem cell, surface proteome	Epicardium-derived cells (EPDC) and atrial stromal cells (ASC) display cardio-regenerative potential, but the molecular details are still unexplored. Signals which induce activation, migration and differentiation of these cells are largely unknown. Here we have isolated rat ventricular EPDC and rat/human ASC and performed genetic and proteomic profiling. EPDC and ASC expressed epicardial/mesenchymal markers (WT-1, Tbx18, CD73, CD90, CD44, CD105), cardiac markers (Gata4, Tbx5, troponin T) and also contained phosphocreatine. We used cell surface biotinylation to isolate plasma membrane proteins of rEPDC and hASC, Nano-liquid chromatography with subsequent mass spectrometry and bioinformatics analysis identified 396 rat and 239 human plasma membrane proteins with 149 overlapping proteins. Functional GO-term analysis revealed several significantly enriched categories related to extracellular matrix (ECM), cell migration/differentiation, immunology or angiogenesis. We identified receptors for ephrin and growth factors (IGF, PDGF, EGF, anthrax toxin) known to be involved in cardiac repair and regeneration. Functional category enrichment identified clusters around integrins, PI3K/Akt-signaling and various cardiomyopathies. Our study indicates that EPDC and ASC have a similar molecular phenotype related to cardiac healing/regeneration. The cell surface proteome repository will help to further unravel the molecular details of their cardio-regenerative potential and their role in cardiac diseases.
PXD007783	29157262	Immunoproteomic analysis of the excretory-secretory products of Trichinella pseudospiralis adult worms and newborn larvae. 	Immunoproteomic analysis of the excretory-secretory products of the Trichinella pseudospiralis adult worms and newborn larvae	Excretory-secretory proteins, Immunoproteomics, MALDI-TOF / TOF-MS / MS, Trichinella pseudospiralis	BACKGROUND: The nematode Trichinella pseudospiralis is an intracellular parasite of mammalian skeletal muscle cells and exists in a non-encapsulated form. Previous studies demonstrated that T. pseudospiralis could induce a lower host inflammatory response. Excretory-secretory (ES) proteins as the most important products of host-parasite interaction may play the main functional role in alleviating host inflammation. However, the ES products of T. pseudospiralis early stage are still unknown. The identification of the ES products of the early stage facilitates the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of the immunomodulation and may help finding early diagnostic markers. RESULTS: In this study, we used two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE)-based western blotting coupled with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/TOF-MS/MS) to separate and identify the T. pseudospiralis adult worms ES products immunoreaction-positive proteins. In total, 400 protein spots were separated by 2-DE. Twenty-eight protein spots were successfully identified using the sera from infected pigs and were characterized to correlate with 12 different proteins of T. pseudospiralis, including adult-specific DNase II-10, poly-cysteine and histidine-tailed protein isoform 2, serine protease, serine/threonine-protein kinase ULK3, enolase, putative venom allergen 5, chymotrypsin-like elastase family member 1, uncharacterized protein, peptidase inhibitor 16, death-associated protein 1, deoxyribonuclease II superfamily and golgin-45. Bioinformatic analyses showed that the identified proteins have a wide diversity of molecular functions, especially deoxyribonuclease II (DNase II) activity and serine-type endopeptidase activity. CONCLUSIONS: Early candidate antigens from the ES proteins of T. pseudospiralis have been screened and identified. Our results suggest these proteins may play key roles during the T. pseudospiralis infection and suppress the host immune response. Further, they are the most likely antigen for early diagnosis and the development of a vaccine against the parasite.
PXD002814	29157807	A comparative proteomic study of secretomes in kaempferitrin-treated CTX TNA2 astrocytic cells. 	kaempferitrin-induced secretome analyses in rat CTX TNA2 astrocytic cell line	astrocyte, kaempferitrin, secretome	ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Kaempferitrin is extracted in significantly high quantities from the leaves of Cinnamomum osmophloeum (C.O) and Bauhinia forficata, and are used as an antidiabetic herbal remedy in China and Brazil. Commercial product using dry Cinnamomum osmophloeum leaves has been sold locally in Taiwan. Oral administration of kaempferitrin reduced blood sugar in diabetic rats. AIM OF THE STUDY: Though previously demonstrated to activate the classical insulin signaling pathways, a mechanism for kaempferitrin is still not fully understood. Also, studies on kaempferitrin on immune related cells have been inconclusive, and people consuming extract containing kaempferitrin often happen to be at high risk of diabetes and neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, for kaempferitrin to be used every day, a comprehensive study is needed. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Astrocytic cell line was used as a model to test the differentially regulated secretomes, to test kaempferitrin effect on CNS glia, on pro-inflammatory cytokines, and to test how different the mechanism of kaempferitrin is from that of insulin. CTX TNA2 astrocytic cells were differentially treated with and without 10 microM kaempferitrin for 24 h, and the conditioned medium was collected. For the proteomic study, protein in conditioned medium was trypsin digested, and resulting peptides in kaempferitrin/non-treated sample pair were differentially dimethyl labeled. The labeled peptides were further fractionated by StageTip-based strong-exchange method before LC-MS/MS analyses. Levels of interesting proteins were verified using Western or Eliza. C.O. leaf crude extract treated samples were included for a comparison of effects of purified kaempferitrin vs. kaempferitrin containing crude extract. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Data were obtained via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002814. It was found that no pro-inflammatory cytokines or inhibitory ECM were elevated upon treatment of kaempferitrin or a crude extract of C.O. leaves. This suggests that prolonged use of kaempferitrin containing herbs may not increase pro-inflammatory reaction. LDL-R trafficking between the cell membrane and the extracellular niche was regulated by kaempferitrin toward reduced secretion. Our proteomic study also demonstrated that molecules related to plasma membrane recycling were regulated by kaempferitrin. Our discoveries provide evidence that link kaempferitrin regulation for LDL-R and membrane recycling to the blood lipid regulation by the C.O. leaves extract. However, these proteins were differently regulated when cells were treated with crude extract. This demonstrates that the molecular interactions within crude extract of herbs are complex and may not act similar to the compound purified from the crude extract.
PXD006914	29158163	Identification of tissue damage, extracellular matrix remodeling and bacterial challenge as common mechanisms associated with high-risk cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas. 	Proteomics study of skin tissues from RDEB cSCC, low-risk cSCC and metastasizing cSCC	cutaneus squamous cell carcinoma, formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue, label-free quantitation, liquid chromatography - tandem mass spectrometry, recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa	In this study we used a genetic extracellular matrix (ECM) disease to identify mechanisms associated with aggressive behavior of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC). cSCC is one of the most common malignancies and usually has a good prognosis. However, some cSCCs recur or metastasize and cause significant morbidity and mortality. Known factors that are associated with aggressiveness of cSCCs include tumor grading, size, localization and microinvasive behavior. To investigate molecular mechanisms that influence biologic behavior we used global proteomic and histologic analyses of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue of primary human cSCCs. We compared three groups: non-recurring, non-metastasizing low-risk sporadic cSCCs; metastasizing sporadic cSCCs; and cSCCs from patients with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (RDEB). RDEB is a genetic skin blistering and ECM disease caused by collagen VII deficiency. Patients commonly suffer from high-risk early onset cSCCs that frequently metastasize. The results indicate that different processes are associated with formation of RDEB cSCCs compared to sporadic cSCCs. Sporadic cSCCs show signs of UV damage, whereas RDEB cSCCs have higher mutational rates and display tissue damage, inflammation and subsequent remodeling of the dermal ECM as tumor initiating factors. Interestingly the two high-risk groups - high-risk metastasizing sporadic cSCCs and RDEB cSCCs - are both associated with tissue damage and ECM remodeling in gene-ontology enrichment and Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins analyses. In situ histologic analyses validate these results. The high-risk cSCCs also show signatures of enhanced bacterial challenge. Histologic analyses confirm correlation of bacterial colonization with worse prognosis. Collectively, this unbiased study - performed directly on human patient material - reveals that common microenvironmental alterations linked to ECM remodeling and increased bacterial challenges are denominators of high-risk cSCCs. The proteins identified here could serve as potential diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets in high-risk cSCCs.
PXD005670	29158290	A Comparative Proteome Profile of Female Mouse Gonads Suggests a Tight Link between the Electron Transport Chain and Meiosis Initiation. 	Mouse female gonad quantitative MS	MS, PGC, female, gonad	Generation of haploid gametes by meiosis is a unique property of germ cells and is critical for sexual reproduction. Leaving mitosis and entering meiosis is a key step in germ cell development. Several inducers or intrinsic genes are known to be important for meiotic initiation, but the regulation of meiotic initiation, especially at the protein level, is still not well understood. We constructed a comparative proteome profile of female mouse fetal gonads at specific time points (11.5, 12.5, and 13.5 days post coitum), spanning a critical window for initiation of meiosis in female germ cells. We identified 3666 proteins, of which 473 were differentially expressed. Further bioinformatics analysis showed that these differentially expressed proteins were enriched in the mitochondria, especially in the electron transport chain and, notably, 9 proteins in electron transport chain Complex I were differentially expressed. We disrupted the mitochondrial electron transport chain function by adding the complex I inhibitor, rotenone to 11.5 days post coitum female gonads cultured in vitro. This treatment resulted in a decreased proportion of meiotic germ cells, as assessed by staining for histone gammaH2AX. Rotenone treatment also caused decreased ATP levels, increased reactive oxygen species levels and failure of the germ cells to undergo premeiotic DNA replication. These effects were partially rescued by adding Coenzyme Q10. Taken together, our results suggested that a functional electron transport chain is important for meiosis initiation. Our characterization of the quantitative proteome of female gonads provides an inventory of proteins, useful for understanding the mechanisms of meiosis initiation and female fertility.
PXD007244	29158377	Evidence for rRNA 2'-O-methylation plasticity: Control of intrinsic translational capabilities of human ribosomes. 	Effect of rRNA methylation defect on protein composition of human ribosomes	fibrillarin, nanoLC-MS/MS, ribosomes	Ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs) are main effectors of messenger RNA (mRNA) decoding, peptide-bond formation, and ribosome dynamics during translation. Ribose 2'-O-methylation (2'-O-Me) is the most abundant rRNA chemical modification, and displays a complex pattern in rRNA. 2'-O-Me was shown to be essential for accurate and efficient protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells. However, whether rRNA 2'-O-Me is an adjustable feature of the human ribosome and a means of regulating ribosome function remains to be determined. Here we challenged rRNA 2'-O-Me globally by inhibiting the rRNA methyl-transferase fibrillarin in human cells. Using RiboMethSeq, a nonbiased quantitative mapping of 2'-O-Me, we identified a repertoire of 2'-O-Me sites subjected to variation and demonstrate that functional domains of ribosomes are targets of 2'-O-Me plasticity. Using the cricket paralysis virus internal ribosome entry site element, coupled to in vitro translation, we show that the intrinsic capability of ribosomes to translate mRNAs is modulated through a 2'-O-Me pattern and not by nonribosomal actors of the translational machinery. Our data establish rRNA 2'-O-Me plasticity as a mechanism providing functional specificity to human ribosomes.
PXD007134	29158831	Identification and Validation of a Salivary Protein Panel to Detect Heart Failure Early. 	Identification and validation of a salivary protein panel to detect heart failure early	Heart failure, Saliva, diagnosis, multi-biomarker strategies	BACKGROUND: Over 26 million people suffer from heart failure (HF) globally. Current diagnosis of HF relies on clinical evaluation, blood assays and imaging techniques. Our aim is to develop a diagnostic assay to detect HF in at risk individuals within the community using human saliva as a medium, potentially leading to a simple, safe early warning system. METHODS: Saliva samples were collected from healthy controls (n=36) and HF patients (n=75). Salivary proteome profiles were analysed by Sequential Window Acquisition of All Theoretical fragment ion spectra - Mass Spectrometry (SWATH-MS). A total of 738 proteins were quantified and 177 proteins demonstrated significant differences between HF patients and healthy controls. Candidate biomarkers were chosen based on their abundance and difference between the two cohorts. A multi-protein panel was developed using logistic regression analysis. The diagnostic performance of the multi-protein panel was assessed using receiver operative characteristic curves. The candidate proteins were further confirmed, using western blot analysis, and validated technically, using an independent biological cohort. RESULTS: A group of six proteins were chosen in the discovery phase as potential candidates based on their differences in the abundance between the two cohorts. During the validation phase, two of the proteins were not detected with western blotting and as such were removed. The final panel consists of four proteins with sensitivity of 83.3%, specificity of 62.5% with an area under ROC curve of 0.78 in discriminating healthy controls from NYHA class I/II HF patients, and was validated in a second independent cohort study. CONCLUSION: Analysis of salivary proteome using SWATH-MS revealed novel HF-specific protein candidates yielding high diagnostic performance. A multi-centre longitudinal clinical trial will be the next step before clinical implementation of this panel.
PXD006580	29159966	Interrogating marine virus-host interactions and elemental transfer with BONCAT and nanoSIMS-based methods. 	Viral BONCAT: Detection of HPG incorporation into newly synthesized viral proteins via proteomics	BONCAT, Metaproteomics, click chemistry, marine viruses, viral ecology	While the collective impact of marine viruses has become more apparent over the last decade, a deeper understanding of virus-host dynamics and the role of viruses in nutrient cycling would benefit from direct observations at the single-virus level. We describe two new complementary approaches - stable isotope probing coupled with nanoscale secondary ion mass spectrometry (nanoSIMS) and fluorescence-based biorthogonal non-canonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) - for studying the activity and biogeochemical influence of marine viruses. These tools were developed and tested using several ecologically relevant model systems (Emiliania huxleyi/EhV207, Synechococcus sp. WH8101/Syn1 and Escherichia coli/T7). By resolving carbon and nitrogen enrichment in viral particles, we demonstrate the power of nanoSIMS tracer experiments in obtaining quantitative estimates for the total number of viruses produced directly from a particular production pathway (by isotopically labelling host substrates). Additionally, we show through laboratory experiments and a pilot field study that BONCAT can be used to directly quantify viral production (via epifluorescence microscopy) with minor sample manipulation and no dependency on conversion factors. This technique can also be used to detect newly synthesized viral proteins. Together these tools will help fill critical gaps in our understanding of the biogeochemical impact of viruses in the ocean.
PXD006095	29164889	Comparison of Quantitative Mass Spectrometry Platforms for Monitoring Kinase ATP Probe Uptake in Lung Cancer. 	Comparison of Targeted MS Methods in Activity-Based Protein Profiling 1: DDA	Activity-Based Protein Profiling, DDA, DIA, Lung Cancer, PRM, SRM/MRM	Recent developments in instrumentation and bioinformatics have led to new quantitative mass spectrometry platforms including LC-MS/MS with data-independent acquisition (DIA) and targeted analysis using parallel reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (LC-PRM), which provide alternatives to well-established methods, such as LC-MS/MS with data-dependent acquisition (DDA) and targeted analysis using multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (LC-MRM). These tools have been used to identify signaling perturbations in lung cancers and other malignancies, supporting the development of effective kinase inhibitors and, more recently, providing insights into therapeutic resistance mechanisms and drug repurposing opportunities. However, detection of kinases in biological matrices can be challenging; therefore, activity-based protein profiling enrichment of ATP-utilizing proteins was selected as a test case for exploring the limits of detection of low-abundance analytes in complex biological samples. To examine the impact of different MS acquisition platforms, quantification of kinase ATP uptake following kinase inhibitor treatment was analyzed by four different methods: LC-MS/MS with DDA and DIA, LC-MRM, and LC-PRM. For discovery data sets, DIA increased the number of identified kinases by 21% and reduced missingness when compared with DDA. In this context, MRM and PRM were most effective at identifying global kinome responses to inhibitor treatment, highlighting the value of a priori target identification and manual evaluation of quantitative proteomics data sets. We compare results for a selected set of desthiobiotinylated peptides from PRM, MRM, and DIA and identify considerations for selecting a quantification method and postprocessing steps that should be used for each data acquisition strategy.
PXD004973	29166617	Spatiotemporal Proteomic Profiling of Huntington's Disease Inclusions Reveals Widespread Loss of Protein Function. 	Spatiotemporal proteomic profiling of Huntington's disease mice reveals widespread loss of protein function	Huntingtons disease / inclusion bodies / neurodegeneration / quantitative proteomics	Aggregation of polyglutamine-expanded huntingtin exon 1 (HttEx1) in Huntington's disease (HD) proceeds from soluble oligomers to late-stage inclusions. The nature of the aggregates and how they lead to neuronal dysfunction is not well understood. We employed mass spectrometry (MS)-based quantitative proteomics to dissect spatiotemporal mechanisms of neurodegeneration using the R6/2 mouse model of HD. Extensive remodeling of the soluble brain proteome correlated with insoluble aggregate formation during disease progression. In-depth and quantitative characterization of the aggregates uncovered an unprecedented complexity of several hundred proteins. Sequestration to aggregates depended on protein expression levels and sequence features such as low-complexity regions or coiled-coil domains. In a cell-based HD model, overexpression of a subset of the sequestered proteins in most cases rescued viability and reduced aggregate size. Our spatiotemporally resolved proteome resource of HD progression indicates that widespread loss of cellular protein function contributes to aggregate-mediated toxicity.
PXD006807	29167316	Quantitative Phosphoproteomic Analysis Reveals Shared and Specific Targets of Arabidopsis Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases (MAPKs) MPK3, MPK4, and MPK6. 	Shared and specific targets of Arabidopsis immune MAPKs	MAPKinases, immunity, phosphoproteomics, signaling	In Arabidopsis, mitogen-activated protein kinases MPK3, MPK4, and MPK6 constitute essential relays for a variety of functions including cell division, development and innate immunity. Although some substrates of MPK3, MPK4 and MPK6 have been identified, the picture is still far from complete. To identify substrates of these MAPKs likely involved in cell division, growth and development we compared the phosphoproteomes of wild-type and mpk3, mpk4, and mpk6. To study the function of these MAPKs in innate immunity, we analyzed their phosphoproteomes following microbe-associated molecular pattern (MAMP) treatment. Partially overlapping substrates were retrieved for all three MAPKs, showing target specificity to one, two or all three MAPKs in different biological processes. More precisely, our results illustrate the fact that the entity to be defined as a specific or a shared substrate for MAPKs is not a phosphoprotein but a particular (S/T)P phosphorylation site in a given protein. One hundred fifty-two peptides were identified to be differentially phosphorylated in response to MAMP treatment and/or when compared between genotypes and 70 of them could be classified as putative MAPK targets. Biochemical analysis of a number of putative MAPK substrates by phosphorylation and interaction assays confirmed the global phosphoproteome approach. Our study also expands the set of MAPK substrates to involve other protein kinases, including calcium-dependent (CDPK) and sugar nonfermenting (SnRK) protein kinases.
PXD006067	29167320	MAPKs Influence Pollen Tube Growth by Controlling the Formation of Phosphatidylinositol 4,5-Bisphosphate in an Apical Plasma Membrane Domain. 	A mitogen-activated protein kinase limits the apical formation of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate during polarized cell expansion of pollen tubes	5)P2, MAP-kinase, PI4P 5-kinase, Polar tip growth, PtdIns(4, phosphorylation	An apical plasma membrane domain enriched in the regulatory phospholipid phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P2] is critical for polar tip growth of pollen tubes. How the biosynthesis of PtdIns(4,5)P2 by phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinases (PI4P 5-kinases) is controlled by upstream signaling is currently unknown. The pollen-expressed PI4P 5-kinase PIP5K6 is required for clathrin-mediated endocytosis and polar tip growth in pollen tubes. Here, we identify PIP5K6 as a target of the pollen-expressed mitogen-activated protein kinase MPK6 and characterize the regulatory effects. Based on an untargeted mass spectrometry approach, phosphorylation of purified recombinant PIP5K6 by pollen tube extracts could be attributed to MPK6. Recombinant MPK6 phosphorylated residues T590 and T597 in the variable insert of the catalytic domain of PIP5K6, and this modification inhibited PIP5K6 activity in vitro. PIP5K6 interacted with MPK6 in yeast two-hybrid tests, immuno-pull-down assays, and by bimolecular fluorescence complementation at the apical plasma membrane of pollen tubes. In vivo, MPK6 expression resulted in reduced plasma membrane association of a fluorescent PtdIns(4,5)P2 reporter and decreased endocytosis without impairing membrane association of PIP5K6. Effects of PIP5K6 expression on pollen tube growth and cell morphology were attenuated by coexpression of MPK6 in a phosphosite-dependent manner. Our data indicate that MPK6 controls PtdIns(4,5)P2 production and membrane trafficking in pollen tubes, possibly contributing to directional growth.
PXD007932	29167427	Scallop genome reveals molecular adaptations to semi-sessile life and neurotoxins. 	Scallop byssal protein identification	Scallop byssus, adhesion, protein identification	Bivalve molluscs are descendants of an early-Cambrian lineage superbly adapted to benthic filter feeding. Adaptations in form and behavior are well recognized, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. Here, we investigate the genome, various transcriptomes, and proteomes of the scallop Chlamys farreri, a semi-sessile bivalve with well-developed adductor muscle, sophisticated eyes, and remarkable neurotoxin resistance. The scallop's large striated muscle is energy-dynamic but not fully differentiated from smooth muscle. Its eyes are supported by highly diverse, intronless opsins expanded by retroposition for broadened spectral sensitivity. Rapid byssal secretion is enabled by a specialized foot and multiple proteins including expanded tyrosinases. The scallop uses hepatopancreas to accumulate neurotoxins and kidney to transform to high-toxicity forms through expanded sulfotransferases, probably as deterrence against predation, while it achieves neurotoxin resistance through point mutations in sodium channels. These findings suggest that expansion and mutation of those genes may have profound effects on scallop's phenotype and adaptation.
PXD006450	29168982	N-terminomics reveals control of Arabidopsis seed storage proteins and proteases by the Arg/N-end rule pathway. 	Quantitative N-terminome of N-end rule mutant in Arabidopsis	N-end rule mutant etiolated seedlings TMT- labelling TAILS, N-terminome	The N-end rule pathway of targeted protein degradation is an important regulator of diverse processes in plants but detailed knowledge regarding its influence on the proteome is lacking. To investigate the impact of the Arg/N-end rule pathway on the proteome of etiolated seedlings, we used terminal amine isotopic labelling of substrates with tandem mass tags (TMT-TAILS) for relative quantification of N-terminal peptides in prt6, an Arabidopsis thaliana N-end rule mutant lacking the E3 ligase PROTEOLYSIS6 (PRT6). TMT-TAILS identified over 4000 unique N-terminal peptides representing c. 2000 protein groups. Forty-five protein groups exhibited significantly increased N-terminal peptide abundance in prt6 seedlings, including cruciferins, major seed storage proteins, which were regulated by Group VII Ethylene Response Factor (ERFVII) transcription factors, known substrates of PRT6. Mobilisation of endosperm alpha-cruciferin was delayed in prt6 seedlings. N-termini of several proteases were downregulated in prt6, including RD21A. RD21A transcript, protein and activity levels were downregulated in a largely ERFVII-dependent manner. By contrast, cathepsin B3 protein and activity were upregulated by ERFVIIs independent of transcript. We propose that the PRT6 branch of the pathway regulates protease activities in a complex manner and optimises storage reserve mobilisation in the transition from seed to seedling via control of ERFVII action.
PXD007863	29172542	Enzyme and Chemical Assisted N-Terminal Blocked Peptides Analysis, ENCHANT, as a Selective Proteomics Approach Complementary to Conventional Shotgun Approach. 	Enzyme and Chemical Assisted N-Terminal Blocked Peptides Analysis, ENCHANT, as a Selective Proteomics Approach Complementary to Conventional Shotgun Approach	CNBr-activated Sepharose 4B, DIA, N-terminal blocked peptides, Single-charge ion inclusion	Shotgun (bottom-up) approach has been widely applied in large-scale proteomics studies. The inherent shortages of shotgun approach lie in that the generated peptides often overwhelm the analytical capacity of current LC-MS/MS systems and that high-abundance proteins often hamper the identification of low-abundance proteins when analyzing complex samples. To reduce the sample complexity and relieve the problems caused by abundant proteins, herein we introduce a modified selective proteomics approach, termed ENCHANT, for enzyme and chemical assisted N-terminal blocked peptides analysis. Modified from our previous Nalpha-acetylome approach, ENCHANT aims to analyze three kinds of peptides, acetylated protein N-termini, N-terminal glutamine and N-terminal cysteine containing peptides. Application of ENCHANT to HeLa cells allowed to identify 3375 proteins, 19.6% more than that by conventional shotgun approach. More importantly, ENCHANT demonstrated an excellent complementarity to conventional shotgun approach with the overlap of 34.5%. In terms of quantification using data independent acquisition (DIA) technology, ENCHANT quantified 23.9% more proteins than conventional shotgun approach with the overlap of 27.6%. Therefore, our results strongly suggest that ENCHANT is a promising selective proteomics approach, which is complementary to conventional shotgun approach in both qualitative and quantitative proteomics studies. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007863.
PXD012658	29172549	Proteomic Characterization of Dermal Interstitial Fluid Extracted Using a Novel Microneedle-Assisted Technique. 	Proteomic Characterization of Human Dermal Interstitial Fluid	ISF, Interstitial Fluid	As wearable fitness devices have gained commercial acceptance, interest in real-time monitoring of an individual's physiological status using noninvasive techniques has grown. Microneedles have been proposed as a minimally invasive technique for sampling the dermal interstitial fluid (ISF) for clinical monitoring and diagnosis, but little is known about its composition. In this study, a novel microneedle array was used to collect dermal ISF from three healthy human donors and compared with matching serum and plasma samples. Using a shotgun quantitative proteomic approach, 407 proteins were quantified with at least one unique peptide, and of those, 135 proteins were differently expressed at least 2-fold. Collectively, these proteins tended to originate from the cytoplasm, membrane bound vesicles, and extracellular vesicular exosomes. Proteomic analysis confirmed previously published work that indicates that ISF is highly similar to both plasma and serum. In this study, less than one percent of proteins were uniquely identified in ISF. Taken together, ISF could serve as a minimally invasive alternative for blood-derived fluids with potential for real-time monitoring applications.
PXD006247	29176613	Global landscape of cell envelope protein complexes in Escherichia coli. 	Global Landscape of Cell Envelope Protein Complexes in Escherichia coli	Cell Envelope, Cell envelope Protein complexes, Cell envelope proteins, Escherichia coli, Macromolecues, Multi-protein complexes, Protein-protein interactions	Bacterial cell envelope protein (CEP) complexes mediate a range of processes, including membrane assembly, antibiotic resistance and metabolic coordination. However, only limited characterization of relevant macromolecules has been reported to date. Here we present a proteomic survey of 1,347 CEPs encompassing 90% inner- and outer-membrane and periplasmic proteins of Escherichia coli. After extraction with non-denaturing detergents, we affinity-purified 785 endogenously tagged CEPs and identified stably associated polypeptides by precision mass spectrometry. The resulting high-quality physical interaction network, comprising 77% of targeted CEPs, revealed many previously uncharacterized heteromeric complexes. We found that the secretion of autotransporters requires translocation and the assembly module TamB to nucleate proper folding from periplasm to cell surface through a cooperative mechanism involving the beta-barrel assembly machinery. We also establish that an ABC transporter of unknown function, YadH, together with the Mla system preserves outer membrane lipid asymmetry. This E. coli CEP 'interactome' provides insights into the functional landscape governing CE systems essential to bacterial growth, metabolism and drug resistance.
PXD006321	29176891	Quantitative proteomic analysis of amastigotes from Leishmania (L.) amazonensis LV79 and PH8 strains reveals molecular traits associated with the virulence phenotype. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of amastigotes from Leishmania (L.) amazonensis LV79 and PH8 strains reveals molecular traits associated with the virulence phenotype	Leishmania amazonensis, clustering, lesion-derived amastigotes, proteome comparison, virulence	BACKGROUND: Leishmaniasis is an antropozoonosis caused by Leishmania parasites that affects around 12 million people in 98 different countries. The disease has different clinical forms, which depend mainly on the parasite genetics and on the immunologic status of the host. The promastigote form of the parasite is transmitted by an infected female phlebotomine sand fly, is internalized by phagocytic cells, mainly macrophages, and converts into amastigotes which replicate inside these cells. Macrophages are important cells of the immune system, capable of efficiently killing intracellular pathogens. However, Leishmania can evade these mechanisms due to expression of virulence factors. Different strains of the same Leishmania species may have different infectivity and metastatic phenotypes in vivo, and we have previously shown that analysis of amastigote proteome can give important information on parasite infectivity. Differential abundance of virulence factors probably accounts for the higher virulence of PH8 strain parasites shown in this work. In order to test this hypothesis, we have quantitatively compared the proteomes of PH8 and LV79 lesion-derived amastigotes using a label-free proteomic approach. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In the present work, we have compared lesion development by L. (L.) amazonensis PH8 and LV79 strains in mice, showing that they have different virulence in vivo. Viability and numbers of lesion-derived amastigotes were accordingly significantly different. Proteome profiles can discriminate parasites from the two strains and several proteins were differentially expressed. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: This work shows that PH8 strain is more virulent in mice, and that lesion-derived parasites from this strain are more viable and more infective in vitro. Amastigote proteome comparison identified GP63 as highly expressed in PH8 strain, and Superoxide Dismutase, Tryparedoxin Peroxidase and Heat Shock Protein 70 as more abundant in LV79 strain. The expression profile of all proteins and of the differential ones precisely classified PH8 and LV79 samples, indicating that the two strains have proteins with different abundances and that proteome profiles correlate with their phenotypes.
PXD006776	29176937	Proteomic profiling identifies markers for inflammation-related tumor-fibroblast interaction. 	Proteome Profiling Identifies Markers for Inflammation-Related Tumor-Fibroblast Interaction in Colorectal Cancer	Q Exactive orbitrap, Tissue proteomics, colorectal cancer, shotgun proteomics	BACKGROUND: Cancer associated fibroblasts are activated in the tumor microenvironment and contribute to tumor progression, angiogenesis, extracellular matrix remodeling, and inflammation. METHODS: To identify proteins characteristic for fibroblasts in colorectal cancer we used liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to derive protein abundance from whole-tissue homogenates of human colorectal cancer/normal mucosa pairs. Alterations of protein levels were determined by two-sided t test with greater than threefold difference and an FDR of < 0.05. Public available datasets were used to predict proteins of stromal origin and link protein with mRNA regulation. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the localization of selected proteins. RESULTS: We identified a set of 24 proteins associated with inflammation, matrix organization, TGFbeta receptor signaling and angiogenesis mainly originating from the stroma. Most prominent were increased abundance of SerpinB5 in the parenchyme and latent transforming growth factor beta-binding protein, thrombospondin-B2, and secreted protein acidic-and-cysteine-rich in the stroma. Extracellular matrix remodeling involved collagens type VIII, XII, XIV, and VI as well as lysyl-oxidase-2. In silico analysis of mRNA levels demonstrated altered expression in the tumor and the adjacent normal tissue as compared to mucosa of healthy individuals indicating that inflammatory activation affected the surrounding tissue. Immunohistochemistry of 26 tumor specimen confirmed upregulation of SerpinB5, thrombospondin B2 and secreted protein acidic-and-cysteine-rich. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the feasibility of detecting tumor- and compartment-specific protein-signatures that are functionally meaningful by proteomic profiling of whole-tissue extracts together with mining of RNA expression datasets. The results provide the basis for further exploration of inflammation-related stromal markers in larger patient cohorts and experimental models.
PXD008223	29180430	Def1 interacts with TFIIH and modulates RNA polymerase II transcription. 	CX-MS of TFIIH and Def1 complex	Def1, RNA polymerase II, TFIIH, stress response, transcription	The DNA damage response is an essential process for the survival of living cells. In a subset of stress-responsive genes in humans, Elongin controls transcription in response to multiple stimuli, such as DNA damage, oxidative stress, and heat shock. Yeast Elongin (Ela1-Elc1), along with Def1, is known to facilitate ubiquitylation and degradation of RNA polymerase II (pol II) in response to multiple stimuli, yet transcription activity has not been examined. We have found that Def1 copurifies from yeast whole-cell extract with TFIIH, the largest general transcription factor required for transcription initiation and nucleotide excision repair. The addition of recombinant Def1 and Ela1-Elc1 enhanced transcription initiation in an in vitro reconstituted system including pol II, the general transcription factors, and TFIIS. Def1 also enhanced transcription restart from TFIIS-induced cleavage in a pol II transcribing complex. In the Deltadef1 strain, heat shock genes were misregulated, indicating that Def1 is required for induction of some stress-responsive genes in yeast. Taken together, our results extend the understanding of the molecular mechanism of transcription regulation on cellular stress and reveal functional similarities to the mammalian system.
PXD005425	29180619	The STUbL RNF4 regulates protein group SUMOylation by targeting the SUMO conjugation machinery. 	RNF4-knockdown and RNF4-TULIP identified proteins	RNF4, SUMO, Ubiquitin	SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligases (STUbLs) mediate the ubiquitylation of SUMOylated proteins to modulate their functions. In search of direct targets for the STUbL RNF4, we have developed TULIP (targets for ubiquitin ligases identified by proteomics) to covalently trap targets for ubiquitin E3 ligases. TULIP methodology could be widely employed to delineate E3 substrate wiring. Here we report that the single SUMO E2 Ubc9 and the SUMO E3 ligases PIAS1, PIAS2, PIAS3, ZNF451, and NSMCE2 are direct RNF4 targets. We confirm PIAS1 as a key RNF4 substrate. Furthermore, we establish the ubiquitin E3 ligase BARD1, a tumor suppressor and partner of BRCA1, as an indirect RNF4 target, regulated by PIAS1. Interestingly, accumulation of BARD1 at local sites of DNA damage increases upon knockdown of RNF4. Combined, we provide an insight into the role of the STUbL RNF4 to balance the role of SUMO signaling by directly targeting Ubc9 and SUMO E3 ligases.
PXD006620	29181981	Comprehensive Proteomic Investigation of Ebf1 Heterozygosity in Pro-B Lymphocytes Utilizing Data Independent Acquisition. 	A comprehensive Proteomic Investigation of Ebf1 Heterozygosity in pro B lymphocytes utilizing Data Independent Acquisition (DIA) and Data Dependent Acquisition (DDA) Approaches	DDA, DIA, Maxquant, Spectronaut, trascription factor	Early B cell factor 1 (EBF1) is one of the key transcription factors required for orchestrating B-cell lineage development. Although studies have shown that Ebf1 haploinsufficiency is involved in the development of leukemia, no study has been conducted that characterizes the global effect of Ebf1 heterozygosity on the proteome of pro-B lymphocytes. Here, we employ both data independent acquisition (DIA) and shotgun data dependent acquisition (DDA) workflows for profiling proteins that are differently expressed between Ebf1(+/+) and Ebf1(+/-) cells. Both DDA and DIA were able to reveal the downregulation of the EBF1 transcription factor in Ebf1(+/-) pro-B lymphocytes. Further examination of differentially expressed proteins by DIA revealed that, similar to EBF1, the expression of other B-cell lineage regulators, such as TCF3 and Pax5, is also downregulated in Ebf1 heterozygous cells. Functional DIA analysis of differentially expressed proteins showed that EBF1 heterozygosity resulted in the deregulation of at least eight transcription factors involved in lymphopoiesis and the deregulation of key proteins playing crucial roles in survival, development, and differentiation of pro-B lymphocytes.
PXD006932	29183128	Performance Evaluation of the Q Exactive HF-X for Shotgun Proteomics. 	Performance evaluation of the Q Exactive HF-X for shotgun proteomics	ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, Q Exactive HF-X Bottom-up Shotgun proteomics Q Exactive DIA DDA, benchmarking, machine learning, retention time	Progress in proteomics is mainly driven by advances in mass spectrometric (MS) technologies. Here we benchmarked the performance of the latest MS instrument in the benchtop Orbitrap series, the Q Exactive HF-X, against its predecessor for proteomics applications. A new peak-picking algorithm, a brighter ion source, and optimized ion transfers enable productive MS/MS acquisition above 40 Hz at 7500 resolution. The hardware and software improvements collectively resulted in improved peptide and protein identifications across all comparable conditions, with an increase of up to 50 percent at short LC-MS gradients, yielding identification rates of more than 1000 unique peptides per minute. Alternatively, the Q Exactive HF-X is capable of achieving the same proteome coverage as its predecessor in approximately half the gradient time or at 10-fold lower sample loads. The Q Exactive HF-X also enables rapid phosphoproteomics with routine analysis of more than 5000 phosphopeptides with short single-shot 15 min LC-MS/MS measurements, or 16 700 phosphopeptides quantified across ten conditions in six gradient hours using TMT10-plex and offline peptide fractionation. Finally, exciting perspectives for data-independent acquisition are highlighted with reproducible identification of 55 000 unique peptides covering 5900 proteins in half an hour of MS analysis.
PXD006767	29183786	Characterization of Protein Methyltransferases Rkm1, Rkm4, Efm4, Efm7, Set5 and Hmt1 Reveals Extensive Post-Translational Modification. 	Characterisation of protein methyltransferases Rkm1, Rkm4, Efm4, Efm7, Set5 and Hmt1 reveals extensive post-translational modification	Efm4, Efm7, Hmt1, Metyltransferases, Post-translational modifications, Rkm1, Rkm4, Set5	Protein methylation is one of the major post-translational modifications (PTMs) in the cell. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, over 20 protein methyltransferases (MTases) and their respective substrates have been identified. However, the way in which these MTases are modified and potentially subject to regulation remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated six overexpressed S. cerevisiae protein MTases (Rkm1, Rkm4, Efm4, Efm7, Set5 and Hmt1) to identify PTMs of potential functional relevance. We identified 48 PTM sites across the six MTases, including phosphorylation, acetylation and methylation. Forty-two sites are novel. We contextualized the PTM sites in structural models of the MTases and revealed that many fell in catalytic pockets or enzyme-substrate interfaces. These may regulate MTase activity. Finally, we compared PTMs on Hmt1 with those on its human homologs PRMT1, PRMT3, CARM1, PRMT6 and PRMT8. This revealed that several PTMs are conserved from yeast to human, whereas others are only found in Hmt1. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD006767.
PXD007167	29183913	Spectral Library Based Analysis of Arginine Phosphorylations in Staphylococcus aureus. 	Spectral library based analysis of arginine phosphorylations in Staphylococcus aureus	Staphylococcus aureus, arginine phosphorylation, gel-free proteomics, phosphopeptide enrichment, spectral library	Reversible protein phosphorylation is one of the major mechanisms in the regulation of protein expression and protein activity, controlling physiological functions of the important human pathogen Staphylococcus aureus Phosphorylations at serine, threonine and tyrosine are known to influence for example protein activity in central metabolic pathways and the more energy-rich phosphorylations at histidine, aspartate or cysteine can be found as part of two component system sensor domains or mediating bacterial virulence. In addition to these well-known phosphorylations, the phosphorylation at arginine residues plays an essential role. Hence, the deletion mutant S. aureus COL DeltaptpB (protein tyrosine phosphatase B) was studied because the protein PtpB is assumed to be an arginine phosphatase. A gel-free approach was applied to analyze the changes in the phosphoproteome of the deletion mutant DeltaptpB and the wild type in growing cells, thereby focusing on the occurrence of phosphorylation on arginine residues. In order to enhance the reliability of identified phosphorylation sites at arginine residues, a subset of arginine phosphorylated peptides was chemically synthesized. Combined spectral libraries based on phosphoenriched samples, synthetic arginine phosphorylated peptides and classical proteome samples provide a sophisticated tool for the analysis of arginine phosphorylations. This way, 212 proteins phosphorylated on serine, threonine, tyrosine or arginine residues were identified within the mutant DeltaptpB and 102 in wild type samples. Among them, 207 arginine phosphosites were identified exclusively within the mutant DeltaptpB, widely distributed along the whole bacterial metabolism. This identification of putative targets of PtpB allows further investigation of the physiological relevance of arginine phosphorylations and provides the basis for reliable quantification of arginine phosphorylations in bacteria.
PXD006281	29184101	A meta-proteomics approach to study the interspecies interactions affecting microbial biofilm development in a model community. 	Meta-Proteomics profiling of a four species biofilm	Biofilm, Metaproteomics, Soil Isolates, drip flow reactor, metaproteomics	Microbial biofilms are omnipresent in nature and relevant to a broad spectrum of industries ranging from bioremediation and food production to biomedical applications. To date little is understood about how multi-species biofilm communities develop and function on a molecular level, due to the complexity of these biological systems. Here we apply a meta-proteomics approach to investigate the mechanisms influencing biofilm formation in a model consortium of four bacterial soil isolates; Stenotrophomonas rhizophila, Xanthomonas retroflexus, Microbacterium oxydans and Paenibacillus amylolyticus. Protein abundances in community and single species biofilms were compared to describe occurring inter-species interactions and the resulting changes in active metabolic pathways. To obtain full taxonomic resolution between closely related species and empower correct protein quantification, we developed a novel pipeline for generating reduced reference proteomes for spectral database searches. Meta-proteomics profiling indicated that community development is dependent on cooperative interactions between community members facilitating cross-feeding on specific amino acids. Opposite regulation patterns of fermentation and nitrogen pathways in Paenibacillus amylolyticus and Xanthomonas retroflexus may, however, indicate that competition for limited resources also affects community development. Overall our results demonstrate the multitude of pathways involved in biofilm formation in mixed communities.
PXD007996	29186685	Noncanonical Pathway for Regulation of CCL2 Expression by an mTORC1-FOXK1 Axis Promotes Recruitment of Tumor-Associated Macrophages. 	Noncanonical pathway for regulation of CCL2 expression by an mTORC1-FOXK1 axis promotes recruitment of tumor-associated macrophages	HeLa LC-MS/MS	C-C chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) plays pivotal roles in tumor formation, progression, and metastasis. Although CCL2 expression has been found to be dependent on the nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB signaling pathway, the regulation of CCL2 production in tumor cells has remained unclear. We have identified a noncanonical pathway for regulation of CCL2 production that is mediated by mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) but independent of NF-kappaB. Multiple phosphoproteomics approaches identified the transcription factor forkhead box K1 (FOXK1) as a downstream target of mTORC1. Activation of mTORC1 induces dephosphorylation of FOXK1, resulting in transactivation of the CCL2 gene. Inhibition of the mTORC1-FOXK1 axis attenuated insulin-induced CCL2 production as well as the accumulation of tumor-associated monocytes-macrophages and tumor progression in mice. Our results suggest that FOXK1 directly links mTORC1 signaling and CCL2 expression in a manner independent of NF-kappaB and that CCL2 produced by this pathway contributes to tumor progression.
PXD006091	29187380	Nbeal2 interacts with Dock7, Sec16a, and Vac14. 	Characterisation of NBEAL2 interactome in HEK293T cells	NBEAL2, protein interactions, tandem affinity purification	Mutations in NBEAL2, the gene encoding the scaffolding protein Nbeal2, are causal of gray platelet syndrome (GPS), a rare recessive bleeding disorder characterized by platelets lacking alpha-granules and progressive marrow fibrosis. We present here the interactome of Nbeal2 with additional validation by reverse immunoprecipitation of Dock7, Sec16a, and Vac14 as interactors of Nbeal2. We show that GPS-causing mutations in its BEACH domain have profound and possible effects on the interaction with Dock7 and Vac14, respectively. Proximity ligation assays show that these 2 proteins are physically proximal to Nbeal2 in human megakaryocytes. In addition, we demonstrate that Nbeal2 is primarily localized in the cytoplasm and Dock7 on the membrane of or in alpha-granules. Interestingly, platelets from GPS cases and Nbeal2-/- mice are almost devoid of Dock7, resulting in a profound dysregulation of its signaling pathway, leading to defective actin polymerization, platelet activation, and shape change. This study shows for the first time proteins interacting with Nbeal2 and points to the dysregulation of the canonical signaling pathway of Dock7 as a possible cause of the aberrant formation of platelets in GPS cases and Nbeal2-deficient mice.
PXD006892	29187526	Aurora A kinase phosphorylates Hec1 to regulate metaphase kinetochore-microtubule dynamics. 	Aurora A kinase phosphorylates Hec1 to regulate metaphase kinetochore-microtubule dynamics.	human Aurora A kinase Hec1	Precise regulation of kinetochore-microtubule attachments is essential for successful chromosome segregation. Central to this regulation is Aurora B kinase, which phosphorylates kinetochore substrates to promote microtubule turnover. A critical target of Aurora B is the N-terminal "tail" domain of Hec1, which is a component of the NDC80 complex, a force-transducing link between kinetochores and microtubules. Although Aurora B is regarded as the "master regulator" of kinetochore-microtubule attachment, other mitotic kinases likely contribute to Hec1 phosphorylation. In this study, we demonstrate that Aurora A kinase regulates kinetochore-microtubule dynamics of metaphase chromosomes, and we identify Hec1 S69, a previously uncharacterized phosphorylation target site in the Hec1 tail, as a critical Aurora A substrate for this regulation. Additionally, we demonstrate that Aurora A kinase associates with inner centromere protein (INCENP) during mitosis and that INCENP is competent to drive accumulation of the kinase to the centromere region of mitotic chromosomes. These findings reveal that both Aurora A and B contribute to kinetochore-microtubule attachment dynamics, and they uncover an unexpected role for Aurora A in late mitosis.
PXD005860	29187882	Proteomic analysis of lung metastases in a murine breast cancer model reveals divergent influence of CTSB and CTSL overexpression. 	Proteomic analysis of lung metastases in a murine breast cancer model reveals divergent influence of CTSB and CTSL overexpression	breast cancer, dimethyl-labelling, metastasis, murine	Studies in the MMTV-PyMT (PyMT) breast cancer mouse model have shown a strong influence of the lysosomal cysteine cathepsins B or L on lung metastasis formation. Transgenic expression of human CTSB (tgCTSB) or CTSL (tgCTSL) both led to similar metastatic phenotypes with increased metastatic burden in the PyMT mice. However, recent studies in other tumor models proved marked differences in effects of either cathepsin on the proteome composition. We sought to analyze and compare proteome changes in the metastatic proteome of PyMT mice expressing either tgCTSB or tgCTSL to evaluate similarities and differences in those models. Performing an explorative, quantitative proteome comparison based on LC-MS/MS, we identified up to 3,000 proteins from murine lung metastases in three independent biological replicates per genotype. In both cases, when compared to wild-type (WT) mice, we noticed a pronounced impact of transgene cathepsin expression on the metastasis proteome. Highlights include increased moesin, integrin beta 1 and vinexin levels in the tgCTSB dataset and increased saposin and granulin levels in the tgCTSL dataset. Importantly, non-supervised hierarchical clustering clearly separated tgCTSB vs. tgCTSL induced proteome changes. In summary, tgCTSB and tgCTSL both display a strong and distinct impact on proteome composition of lung macrometastases in the PyMT model. Our observations suggest that they impact malignant behavior in distinct ways, thus further emphasizing interest into their tumor-contextual functionality.
PXD006693	29191787	Post-translational regulation of metabolism in fumarate hydratase deficient cancer cells. 	Post-translational regulation of metabolism in Fumarate Hydratase deficient cancer cells	Fumarate, LC-MS, phosphoproteomics	Deregulated signal transduction and energy metabolism are hallmarks of cancer and both play a fundamental role in tumorigenesis. While it is increasingly recognised that signalling and metabolism are highly interconnected, the underpinning mechanisms of their co-regulation are still largely unknown. Here we designed and acquired proteomics, phosphoproteomics, and metabolomics experiments in fumarate hydratase (FH) deficient cells and developed a computational modelling approach to identify putative regulatory phosphorylation-sites of metabolic enzymes. We identified previously reported functionally relevant phosphosites and potentially novel regulatory residues in enzymes of the central carbon metabolism. In particular, we showed that pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDHA1) enzymatic activity is inhibited by increased phosphorylation in FH-deficient cells, restricting carbon entry from glucose to the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Moreover, we confirmed PDHA1 phosphorylation in human FH-deficient tumours. Our work provides a novel approach to investigate how post-translational modifications of enzymes regulate metabolism and could have important implications for understanding the metabolic transformation of FH-deficient cancers with potential clinical applications.
PXD005336	29191878	The target landscape of clinical kinase drugs. 	Target Landscape of Clinical Kinase Inhibitors	Kinase inhibitors, chemical proteomics, clinical kinase inhibitors, selectivity, target	Kinase inhibitors are important cancer therapeutics. Polypharmacology is commonly observed, requiring thorough target deconvolution to understand drug mechanism of action. Using chemical proteomics, we analyzed the target spectrum of 243 clinically evaluated kinase drugs. The data revealed previously unknown targets for established drugs, offered a perspective on the "druggable" kinome, highlighted (non)kinase off-targets, and suggested potential therapeutic applications. Integration of phosphoproteomic data refined drug-affected pathways, identified response markers, and strengthened rationale for combination treatments. We exemplify translational value by discovering SIK2 (salt-inducible kinase 2) inhibitors that modulate cytokine production in primary cells, by identifying drugs against the lung cancer survival marker MELK (maternal embryonic leucine zipper kinase), and by repurposing cabozantinib to treat FLT3-ITD-positive acute myeloid leukemia. This resource, available via the ProteomicsDB database, should facilitate basic, clinical, and drug discovery research and aid clinical decision-making.
PXD005654	29192002	MS Western, a Method of Multiplexed Absolute Protein Quantification is a Practical Alternative to Western Blotting. 	MS Western, a Method of Multiplexed Absolute Protein Quantification is a Practical Alternative to Western Blotting	Absolute Quantification, GeLC-MS/MS	Absolute quantification of proteins elucidates the molecular composition, regulation and dynamics of multiprotein assemblies and networks. Here we report on a method termed MS Western that accurately determines the molar abundance of dozens of user-selected proteins at the subfemtomole level in whole cell or tissue lysates without metabolic or chemical labeling and without using specific antibodies. MS Western relies on GeLC-MS/MS and quantifies proteins by in-gel codigestion with an isotopically labeled QconCAT protein chimera composed of concatenated proteotypic peptides. It requires no purification of the chimera and relates the molar abundance of all proteotypic peptides to a single reference protein. In comparative experiments, MS Western outperformed immunofluorescence Western blotting by the protein detection specificity, linear dynamic range and sensitivity of protein quantification. To validate MS Western in an in vivo experiment, we quantified the molar content of zebrafish core histones H2A, H2B, H3 and H4 during ten stages of early embryogenesis. Accurate quantification (CV<10%) corroborated the anticipated histones equimolar stoichiometry and revealed an unexpected trend in their total abundance.
PXD006196	29192156	Unbiased Quantitative Proteomics Reveals a Crucial Role of the Allergen Context for the Activation of Human Dendritic Cells. 	moDCs HPLC-MS/MS -  Unbiased Quantitative Proteomics Reveals a Crucial Role of the Allergen Context for the Activation of Human Dendritic Cells	HPLC-MS/MS, moDC	Worldwide, more than 1 billion people suffer from allergic diseases. However, until now it is not fully understood how certain proteins can induce allergic immune responses, while others cannot. Studies suggest that allergenicity is a process not only determined by properties of the allergen itself but also by costimulatory factors, that are not classically associated with allergic reactions. To investigate the allergenicity of the major birch pollen allergen Bet v 1 and the impact of adjuvants associated with pollen, e.g. lipopolysaccharide (LPS), we performed quantitative proteome analysis to study the activation of monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDCs). Thus, we treated cells with birch pollen extract (BPE), recombinant Bet v 1, and LPS followed by proteomic profiling via high-performance liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) using isobaric labelling. Enrichment and pathway analysis revealed the influence of regulated proteins especially in cytokine signalling and dendritic cell activation. We found highly regulated, but differentially expressed proteins after treatment with BPE and LPS, whereas the cellular response to Bet v 1 was limited. Our findings lead to the conclusion that Bet v 1 needs a specific "allergen context" involving cofactors apart from LPS to induce an immune response in human moDCs.
PXD004807	29192207	Discovery of naturally occurring ESR1 mutations in breast cancer cell lines modelling endocrine resistance. 	Comparative shotgun proteomics in wt-SUM44 and SUM44-LTED, using RIME and dimethyl-labelling	RIME, SUM44, breast cancer, dimethyl-labelling	Resistance to endocrine therapy remains a major clinical problem in breast cancer. Genetic studies highlight the potential role of estrogen receptor-alpha (ESR1) mutations, which show increased prevalence in the metastatic, endocrine-resistant setting. No naturally occurring ESR1 mutations have been reported in in vitro models of BC either before or after the acquisition of endocrine resistance making functional consequences difficult to study. We report the first discovery of naturally occurring ESR1 (Y537C) and ESR1 (Y537S) mutations in MCF7 and SUM44 ESR1-positive cell lines after acquisition of resistance to long-term-estrogen-deprivation (LTED) and subsequent resistance to fulvestrant (ICIR). Mutations were enriched with time, impacted on ESR1 binding to the genome and altered the ESR1 interactome. The results highlight the importance and functional consequence of these mutations and provide an important resource for studying endocrine resistance.
PXD005414	29192674	Landscape of the regulatory elements for lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation pathway. 	Landscape of the Regulatory Elements for Lysine 2-Hydroxyisobutyrylation Pathway	HeLa, PTM, lysine 2-Hydroxyisobutyrylation	Short-chain fatty acids and their corresponding acyl-CoAs sit at the crossroads of metabolic pathways and play important roles in diverse cellular processes. They are also precursors for protein post-translational lysine acylation modifications. A noteworthy example is the newly identified lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib) that is derived from 2-hydroxyisobutyrate and 2-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA. Histone Khib has been shown to be associated with active gene expression in spermatogenic cells. However, the key elements that regulate this post-translational lysine acylation pathway remain unknown. This has hindered characterization of the mechanisms by which this modification exerts its biological functions. Here we show that Esa1p in budding yeast and its homologue Tip60 in human could add Khib to substrate proteins both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, we have identified HDAC2 and HDAC3 as the major enzymes to remove Khib. Moreover, we report the first global profiling of Khib proteome in mammalian cells, identifying 6 548 Khib sites on 1 725 substrate proteins. Our study has thus discovered both the "writers" and "erasers" for histone Khib marks, and major Khib protein substrates. These results not only illustrate the landscape of this new lysine acylation pathway, but also open new avenues for studying diverse functions of cellular metabolites associated with this pathway.
PXD007066	29193311	Proteomics analysis of human breast milk to assess breast cancer risk. 	Proteomics Analysis of Human Breast Milk to Assess Breast Cancer Risk	Biomarkers, Breast cancer, Breast milk	Detection of breast cancer (BC) in young women is challenging because mammography, the most common tool for detecting BC, is not effective on the dense breast tissue characteristic of young women. In addition to the limited means for detecting their BC, young women face a transient increased risk of pregnancy-associated BC. As a consequence, reproductively active women could benefit significantly from a tool that provides them with accurate risk assessment and early detection of BC. One potential method for detection of BC is biochemical monitoring of proteins and other molecules in bodily fluids such as serum, nipple aspirate, ductal lavage, tear, urine, saliva and breast milk. Of all these fluids, only breast milk provides access to a large volume of breast tissue, in the form of exfoliated epithelial cells, and to the local breast environment, in the form of molecules in the milk. Thus, analysis of breast milk is a non-invasive method with significant potential for assessing BC risk. Here we analyzed human breast milk by mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics to build a biomarker signature for early detection of BC. Ten milk samples from eight women provided five paired-groups (cancer versus control) for analysis of dysregulatedproteins: two within woman comparisons (milk from a diseased breast versus a healthy breast of the same woman) and three across women comparisons (milk from a woman with cancer versus a woman without cancer). Despite a wide range in the time between milk donation and cancer diagnosis (cancer diagnosis occurred from 1 month before to 24 months after milk donation), the levels of some proteins differed significantly between cancer and control in several of the five comparison groups. These pilot data are supportive of the idea that molecular analysis of breast milk will identify proteins informative for early detection and accurate assessment of BC risk, and warrant further research. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007066.
PXD005602	29193752	The Proteomic Response of Bacillus pumilus Cells to Glucose Starvation. 	The response of B.pumilus cells to glucose starvation	Keywords Bacillus pumilus/ glucose starvation/ proteome	Since starvation for carbon sources is a common condition for bacteria in nature and it can also occur in industrial fermentation processes due to mixing zones, knowledge about the response of cells to carbon starvation is beneficial. The preferred carbon source for bacilli is glucose. The response of Bacillus pumilus cells to glucose starvation using metabolic labeling and quantitative proteomics was analyzed. Glucose starvation led to an extensive reprogramming of the protein expression pattern in B. pumilus. The amounts of proteins of the central carbon metabolic pathways (glycolysis and TCC) remained stable in starving cells. Proteins for gluconeogenesis were found in higher amounts during starvation. Furthermore, many proteins involved in acquisition and usage of alternative carbon sources were present in elevated amounts in starving cells. Enzymes for fatty acid degradation and proteases and peptidases were also found in higher abundance when cells entered stationary phase. Among the proteins found in lower amounts were many enzymes involved in amino acid and nucleotide synthesis and several NRPS and PKS proteins.
PXD008257	29194379	Isolation and Characterization of Serum Extracellular Vesicles (EVs) from Atlantic Salmon Infected with Piscirickettsia Salmonis. 	Vaccination agaisnt intracellular pathogen for aquaculture	P. salmonis, salmon, serum	Secretion of extracellular vesicles (EVs) is a common feature of both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells. Isolated EVs have been shown to contain different types of molecules, including proteins and nucleic acids, and are reported to be key players in intercellular communication. Little is known, however, of EV secretion in fish, or the effect of infection on EV release and content. In the present study, EVs were isolated from the serum of healthy and Piscirickettsia salmonis infected Atlantic salmon in order to evaluate the effect of infection on EV secretion. P. salmonis is facultative intracellular bacterium that causes a systemic infection disease in farmed salmonids. EVs isolated from both infected and non-infected fish had an average diameter of 230-300 nm, as confirmed by transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking, and flow cytometry. Mass spectrometry identified 180 proteins in serum EVs from both groups of fish. Interestingly, 35 unique proteins were identified in serum EVs isolated from the fish infected with P. salmonis. These unique proteins included proteasomes subunits, granulins, and major histocompatibility class I and II. Our results suggest that EV release could be part of a mechanism in which host stimulatory molecules are released from infected cells to promote an immune response.
PXD008259	29195270	Compositional Proteomics: Effects of Spatial Constraints on Protein Quantification Utilizing Isobaric Tags. 	Compositional Proteomics: The Effects of Spatial Constraints on Protein Quantification Utilizing Isobaric Tags	Bayesian Hierarchical Modeling, Interference, Isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantitation (iTRAQ), Partially Pooled Variance, Ratio Compression, SPS-FTMS3, Tandem Mass Tags (TMT)	Mass spectrometry (MS) has become an accessible tool for whole proteome quantitation with the ability to characterize protein expression across thousands of proteins within a single experiment. A subset of MS quantification methods (e.g., SILAC and label-free) monitor the relative intensity of intact peptides, where thousands of measurements can be made from a single mass spectrum. An alternative approach, isobaric labeling, enables precise quantification of multiple samples simultaneously through unique and sample specific mass reporter ions. Consequently, in a single scan, the quantitative signal comes from a limited number of spectral features (<=11). The signal observed for these features is constrained by automatic gain control, forcing codependence of concurrent signals. The study of constrained outcomes primarily belongs to the field of compositional data analysis. We show experimentally that isobaric tag proteomics data are inherently compositional and highlight the implications for data analysis and interpretation. We present a new statistical model and accompanying software that improves estimation accuracy and the ability to detect changes in protein abundance. Finally, we demonstrate a unique compositional effect on proteins with infinite changes. We conclude that many infinite changes will appear small and that the magnitude of these estimates is highly dependent on experimental design.
PXD006572	29196338	Proteomics and metabolomics identify molecular mechanisms of aging potentially predisposing for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 	Aging-related proteome alterations in B cells may predispose for chronic lymphocytic leukemia - cytoplasmic proteins of young B cells	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Q Exactive orbitrap, aging, fatty acid beta oxidation, glutaminolysis, primary human B lymphocytes, shotgun proteomics	B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), the most common type of leukemia in adults, is still essentially incurable despite the development of novel therapeutic strategies. This reflects the incomplete understanding of the pathophysiology of this disease. A comprehensive proteome analysis of primary human B-CLL cells and B cells from younger as well as elderly healthy donors was performed. For comparison, the chronic B cell leukemia cell line JVM-13 was also included. A principal component analysis comprising 6,945 proteins separated these four groups, placing B cells of aged-matched controls between those of young donors and B-CLL patients, while identifying JVM-13 as poorly related cells. Mass spectrometric proteomics data have been made fully accessible via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006570-PXD006572, PXD006576, PXD006578, and PXD006589-PXD006591. Remarkably, B cells from aged controls displayed significant regulation of proteins related to stress management in mitochondria and ROS stress such as DLAT, FIS1, and NDUFAB1, and DNA repair, including RAD9A, MGMT, and XPA. ROS levels were indeed found significantly increased in B cells but not in T cells or monocytes from aged individuals. These alterations may be relevant for tumorigenesis and were observed similarly in B-CLL cells. In B-CLL cells, some remarkable unique features like the loss of tumor suppressor molecules PNN and JARID2, the stress-related serotonin transporter SLC6A4, and high expression of ZNF207, CCDC88A, PIGR and ID3, otherwise associated with stem cell phenotype, were determined. Alterations of metabolic enzymes were another outstanding feature in comparison to normal B cells, indicating increased beta-oxidation of fatty acids and increased consumption of glutamine. Targeted metabolomics assays corroborated these results. The present findings identify a potential proteome signature for immune senescence in addition to previously unrecognized features of B-CLL cells and suggest that aging may be accompanied by cellular reprogramming functionally relevant for predisposing B cells to transform to B-CLL cells.
PXD004060	29196464	Deconstruction of a Metastatic Tumor Microenvironment Reveals a Common Matrix Response in Human Cancers. 	Human omentum from patients with High-grade serous ovarian cancer	extracellular matrix, matrisome, ovarian cancer	We have profiled, for the first time, an evolving human metastatic microenvironment by measuring gene expression, matrisome proteomics, cytokine and chemokine levels, cellularity, extracellular matrix organization, and biomechanical properties, all on the same sample. Using biopsies of high-grade serous ovarian cancer metastases that ranged from minimal to extensive disease, we show how nonmalignant cell densities and cytokine networks evolve with disease progression. Multivariate integration of the different components allowed us to define, for the first time, gene and protein profiles that predict extent of disease and tissue stiffness, while also revealing the complexity and dynamic nature of matrisome remodeling during development of metastases. Although we studied a single metastatic site from one human malignancy, a pattern of expression of 22 matrisome genes distinguished patients with a shorter overall survival in ovarian and 12 other primary solid cancers, suggesting that there may be a common matrix response to human cancer.Significance: Conducting multilevel analysis with data integration on biopsies with a range of disease involvement identifies important features of the evolving tumor microenvironment. The data suggest that despite the large spectrum of genomic alterations, some human malignancies may have a common and potentially targetable matrix response that influences the course of disease. Cancer Discov; 8(3); 304-19. (c)2017 AACR.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 253.
PXD007908	29196607	Blue light-excited LOV1 and LOV2 domains cooperatively regulate the kinase activity of full-length phototropin2 from Arabidopsis. 	AtPhot2, Autophosphorylation, Gel	phosphorylation, phototropin2	Phototropin2 (phot2) is a blue-light (BL) receptor that regulates BL-dependent activities for efficient photosynthesis in plants. phot2 comprises two BL-receiving light-oxygen-voltage-sensing domains (LOV1 and LOV2) and a kinase domain. BL-excited LOV2 is thought to be primarily responsible for the BL-dependent activation of the kinase. However, the molecular mechanisms by which small BL-induced conformational changes in the LOV2 domain are transmitted to the kinase remain unclear. Here, we used full-length wild-type and mutant phot2 proteins from Arabidopsis to study their molecular properties in the dark and under BL irradiation. Phosphorylation assays and absorption measurements indicated that the LOV1 domain assists the thermal relaxation of BL-excited LOV2 and vice versa. Using small-angle X-ray scattering and electron microscopy, we observed that phot2 forms a dimer and has a rod shape with a maximum length of 188 Aa and a radius of gyration of 44 Aa. Under BL, phot2 displayed large conformational changes that bent the rod shape. By superimposing the crystal structures of the LOV1 dimer, LOV2, and a homology model of the kinase to the observed changes, we inferred that the BL-dependent change consisted of positional shifts of both LOV2 and the kinase relative to LOV1. Furthermore, phot2 mutants lacking the photocycle in LOV1 or LOV2 still exhibited conformational changes under BL, suggesting that LOV1 and LOV2 cooperatively contribute to the conformational changes that activate the kinase. These results suggest that BL-activated LOV1 contributes to the kinase activity of phot2. We discuss the possible intramolecular interactions and signaling mechanisms in phot2.
PXD006454	29197336	Contrasting patterns of evolutionary constraint and novelty revealed by comparative sperm proteomic analysis in Lepidoptera. 	Combined sperm proteome of the monarch butterfly Danaus plexippus	evolution, lepidoptera, monarch butterfly, parasperm, sperm	BACKGROUND: Rapid evolution is a hallmark of reproductive genetic systems and arises through the combined processes of sequence divergence, gene gain and loss, and changes in gene and protein expression. While studies aiming to disentangle the molecular ramifications of these processes are progressing, we still know little about the genetic basis of evolutionary transitions in reproductive systems. Here we conduct the first comparative analysis of sperm proteomes in Lepidoptera, a group that exhibits dichotomous spermatogenesis, in which males produce a functional fertilization-competent sperm (eupyrene) and an incompetent sperm morph lacking nuclear DNA (apyrene). Through the integrated application of evolutionary proteomics and genomics, we characterize the genomic patterns potentially associated with the origination and evolution of this unique spermatogenic process and assess the importance of genetic novelty in Lepidopteran sperm biology. RESULTS: Comparison of the newly characterized Monarch butterfly (Danaus plexippus) sperm proteome to those of the Carolina sphinx moth (Manduca sexta) and the fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster) demonstrated conservation at the level of protein abundance and post-translational modification within Lepidoptera. In contrast, comparative genomic analyses across insects reveals significant divergence at two levels that differentiate the genetic architecture of sperm in Lepidoptera from other insects. First, a significant reduction in orthology among Monarch sperm genes relative to the remainder of the genome in non-Lepidopteran insect species was observed. Second, a substantial number of sperm proteins were found to be specific to Lepidoptera, in that they lack detectable homology to the genomes of more distantly related insects. Lastly, the functional importance of Lepidoptera specific sperm proteins is broadly supported by their increased abundance relative to proteins conserved across insects. CONCLUSIONS: Our results identify a burst of genetic novelty amongst sperm proteins that may be associated with the origin of heteromorphic spermatogenesis in ancestral Lepidoptera and/or the subsequent evolution of this system. This pattern of genomic diversification is distinct from the remainder of the genome and thus suggests that this transition has had a marked impact on lepidopteran genome evolution. The identification of abundant sperm proteins unique to Lepidoptera, including proteins distinct between specific lineages, will accelerate future functional studies aiming to understand the developmental origin of dichotomous spermatogenesis and the functional diversification of the fertilization incompetent apyrene sperm morph.
PXD006829	29198108	Functional and Proteomic Alterations of F1 Capacitated Spermatozoa of Adult Mice Following Gestational Exposure to Bisphenol A. 	BPA Gestational Exposure Affects F1 Capacitated Spermatozoa	2-DE, ESI-MS/MS, Spermatozoa	Studies regarding bisphenol A (BPA) exposure and male (in)fertility have conventionally focused on modifications in ejaculated spermatozoa function from exposed individuals. However, mammalian spermatozoa are incapable of fertilization prior to achieving capacitation, the penultimate step in maturation. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate BPA-induced changes in capacitated spermatozoa and assess the consequences on subsequent fertilization. Here, we demonstrate the effect of gestational BPA exposure (50 mug/kg bw/day, 5 mg/kg bw/day, and 50 mg/kg bw/day) on the functions, biochemical properties, and proteomic profiles of F1 capacitated spermatozoa from adult mice. The data showed that high concentrations of BPA inhibited motility, motion kinematics, and capacitation of spermatozoa, perhaps because of increased lipid peroxidation and protein tyrosine nitration, and decreased intracellular ATP levels and protein kinase-A activity in spermatozoa. We also found that BPA compromised the rates of fertilization and early embryonic development. Differentially expressed proteins identified between BPA-exposed and control groups play a critical role in energy metabolism, stress responses, and fertility. Protein function abnormalities were responsible for the development of several diseases according to bioinformatics analysis. On the basis of these results, gestational exposure to BPA may alter capacitated spermatozoa function and the proteomic profile, ultimately affecting their fertility potential.
PXD007673	29199018	Chemical Crosslinking Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Protein Conformations and Supercomplexes in Heart Tissue. 	Chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry for systems structural biology in mouse heart tissue.	Cross-linking, Heart, Protein-Protein Interactions, Structural Biology	While modern structural biology technologies have greatly expanded the size and type of protein complexes that can now be studied, the ability to derive large-scale structural information on proteins and complexes as they exist within tissues is practically nonexistent. Here, we demonstrate the application of crosslinking mass spectrometry to identify protein structural features and interactions in tissue samples, providing systems structural biology insight into protein complexes as they exist in the mouse heart. This includes insights into multiple conformational states of sarcomere proteins, as well as interactions among OXPHOS complexes indicative of supercomplex assembly. The extension of crosslinking mass spectrometry analysis into the realm of tissues opens the door to increasing our understanding of protein structures and interactions within the context of the greater biological system.
PXD007579	29203214	Unravelling the differences: comparative proteomic analysis of a clonal virulent and an attenuated Histomonas meleagridis strain. 	Comparative proteome analysis of a clonal virulent and attenuated Histomonas meleagridis strain.	2-DE, Histomonas meleagridis, MALDI-TOF/TOF, proteome analysis.	The current study focused on Histomonas meleagridis, a unicellular protozoan, responsible for histomonosis in poultry. Recently, the occurrence of the disease increased due to the ban of effective chemotherapeutic drugs. Basic questions regarding the molecular biology, virulence mechanisms or even life cycle of the flagellate are still puzzling. In order to address some of these issues, we conducted a comparative proteomic analysis of a virulent and an attenuated H. meleagridis strain traced back to a single cell and propagated in vitro as monoxenic mono-eukaryotic cultures. Using two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) for proteome visualization with computational 2-DE gel image and statistical analysis, upregulated proteins in either of the two H. meleagridis strains were detected. Statistical analysis fulfilling two criteria (>=threefold upregulation and P < 0.05) revealed 119 differentially expressed protein spots out of which 62 spots were noticed in gels with proteins from the virulent and 57 spots in gels with proteins from the attenuated culture. Mass spectrometric analysis of 32 protein spots upregulated in gels of the virulent strain identified 17 as H. meleagridis-specific. The identification revealed that these spots belonged to eight different proteins, with the majority related to cellular stress management. Two ubiquitous cellular proteins, actin and enolase, were upregulated in multiple gel positions in this strain, indicating either post-translational modification or truncation, or even both. Additionally, a known virulence factor named legumain cysteine peptidase was also detected. In contrast to this, mass spectrometric analysis of 49 protein spots, upregulated in gels of the attenuated strain, singled out 32 spots as specific for the flagellate. These spots were shown to correspond to 24 different proteins that reflect the increased metabolism, in vitro adaptation of the parasite, and amoeboid morphology. In addition to H. meleagridis proteins, the analysis identified differential expression of Escherichia coli DH5alpha proteins that could have been influenced by the co-cultivated H. meleagridis strain, indicating a reciprocal interaction of these two organisms during monoxenic cultivation.
PXD008606	29203643	The N-Terminal CCHC Zinc Finger Motif Mediates Homodimerization of Transcription Factor BCL11B. 	BCL11B_AP-MS -  The N-terminal CCHC zinc finger motif mediates homodimerization of the transcription factor BCL11B	AP-MS, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Co-immuno precipitation, Human Proteome Project, PPIN, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), SRM	The BCL11B gene encodes a Kruppel-like, sequence-specific zinc finger (ZF) transcription factor that acts as either a repressor or an activator, depending on its posttranslational modifications. The importance of BCL11B in numerous biological processes in multiple organs has been well established in mouse knockout models. The phenotype of the first de novo monoallelic germ line missense mutation in the BCL11B gene (encoding N441K) strongly implies that the mutant protein acts in a dominant-negative manner by neutralizing the unaffected protein through the formation of a nonfunctional dimer. Using a Foerster resonance energy transfer-assisted fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS-FRET) assay and affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry (AP-MS), we show that the N-terminal CCHC zinc finger motif is necessary and sufficient for the formation of the BCL11B dimer. Mutation of the CCHC ZF in BCL11B abolishes its transcription-regulatory activity. In addition, unlike wild-type BCL11B, this mutant is incapable of inducing cell cycle arrest and protecting against DNA damage-driven apoptosis. Our results confirm the BCL11B dimerization hypothesis and prove its importance for BCL11B function. By mapping the relevant regions to the CCHC domain, we describe a previously unidentified mechanism of transcription factor homodimerization.
PXD008094	29203663	Selected reaction monitoring approach for validating peptide biomarkers. 	A Selected Reaction Monitoring Approach for Validating Candidate Biomarkers	Clinical Proteomics, Diagnostics, Quantitative Proteomics, Targeted Detecton	We here describe a selected reaction monitoring (SRM)-based approach for the discovery and validation of peptide biomarkers for cancer. The first stage of this approach is the direct identification of candidate peptides through comparison of proteolytic peptides derived from the plasma of cancer patients or healthy individuals. Several hundred candidate peptides were identified through this method, providing challenges for choosing and validating the small number of peptides that might prove diagnostically useful. To accomplish this validation, we used 2D chromatography coupled with SRM of candidate peptides. We applied this approach, called sequential analysis of fractionated eluates by SRM (SAFE-SRM), to plasma from cancer patients and discovered two peptides encoded by the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase A (PPIA) gene whose abundance was increased in the plasma of ovarian cancer patients. At optimal thresholds, elevated levels of at least one of these two peptides was detected in 43 (68.3%) of 63 women with ovarian cancer but in none of 50 healthy controls. In addition to providing a potential biomarker for ovarian cancer, this approach is generally applicable to the discovery of peptides characteristic of various disease states.
PXD006617	29204150	Rhizobium Impacts on Seed Productivity, Quality, and Protection of Pisum sativum upon Disease Stress Caused by Didymella pinodes: Phenotypic, Proteomic, and Metabolomic Traits. 	The Impact of Rhizobium on Seed Productivity and Quality of Pisum sativum Upon Disease Stress Caused by Didymella pinodes	Didymella pinodes, Pea, Pisum sativum, Rhizobium, Seeds	In field peas, ascochyta blight is one of the most common fungal diseases caused by Didymella pinodes. Despite the high diversity of pea cultivars, only little resistance has been developed until to date, still leading to significant losses in grain yield. Rhizobia as plant growth promoting endosymbionts are the main partners for establishment of symbiosis with pea plants. The key role of Rhizobium as an effective nitrogen source for legumes seed quality and quantity improvement is in line with sustainable agriculture and food security programs. Besides these growth promoting effects, Rhizobium symbiosis has been shown to have a priming impact on the plants immune system that enhances resistance against environmental perturbations. This is the first integrative study that investigates the effect of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viceae (Rlv) on phenotypic seed quality, quantity and fungal disease in pot grown pea (Pisum sativum) cultivars with two different resistance levels against D. pinodes through metabolomics and proteomics analyses. In addition, the pathogen effects on seed quantity components and quality are assessed at morphological and molecular level. Rhizobium inoculation decreased disease severity by significant reduction of seed infection level. Rhizobium symbiont enhanced yield through increased seed fresh and dry weights based on better seed filling. Rhizobium inoculation also induced changes in seed proteome and metabolome involved in enhanced P. sativum resistance level against D. pinodes. Besides increased redox and cell wall adjustments light is shed on the role of late embryogenesis abundant proteins and metabolites such as the seed triterpenoid Soyasapogenol. The results of this study open new insights into the significance of symbiotic Rhizobium interactions for crop yield, health and seed quality enhancement and reveal new metabolite candidates involved in pathogen resistance.
PXD004930	29205401	How many proteins can be identified in a 2DE gel spot within an analysis of a complex human cancer tissue proteome? 	Human intracranial tumors LC-MS/MS	2D-gel, intracranial tumors	Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) in proteomics is traditionally assumed to contain only one or two proteins in each 2DE spot. However, 2DE resolution is being complemented by the rapid development of high sensitivity mass spectrometers. Here we compared MALDI-MS, LC-Q-TOF MS and LC-Orbitrap Velos MS for the identification of proteins within one spot. With LC-Orbitrap Velos MS each Coomassie Blue-stained 2DE spot contained an average of at least 42 and 63 proteins/spot in an analysis of a human glioblastoma proteome and a human pituitary adenoma proteome, respectively, if a single gel spot was analyzed. If a pool of three matched gel spots was analyzed this number further increased up to an average of 230 and 118 proteins/spot for glioblastoma and pituitary adenoma proteome, respectively. Multiple proteins per spot confirm the necessity of isotopic labeling in large-scale quantification of different protein species in a proteome. Furthermore, a protein abundance analysis revealed that most of the identified proteins in each analyzed 2DE spot were low-abundance proteins. Many proteins were present in several of the analyzed spots showing the ability of 2DE-MS to separate at the protein species level. Therefore, 2DE coupled with high-sensitivity LC-MS has a clearly higher sensitivity as expected until now to detect, identify and quantify low abundance proteins in a complex human proteome with an estimated resolution of about 500 000 protein species. This clearly exceeds the resolution power of bottom-up LC-MS investigations.
PXD007698	29208683	IL-33 and ST2 mediate FAK-dependent antitumor immune evasion through transcriptional networks. 	Proteomic analysis of IL33-proximal proteins in squamous cell carcinoma cells	BioID, FAK, IL1RL1, IL33, LC-MS, SCC, ST2, chromatin, transcription, tumour growth	Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) mediates tumor cell-intrinsic behaviors that promote tumor growth and metastasis. We previously showed that FAK also induces the expression of inflammatory genes that inhibit antitumor immunity in the microenvironment. We identified a crucial, previously unknown role for the dual-function cytokine interleukin-33 (IL-33) in FAK-dependent immune evasion. In murine squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) cells, specifically nuclear FAK enhanced the expression of the genes encoding IL-33, the chemokine CCL5, and the soluble, secreted form of the IL-33 receptor, called soluble ST2 (sST2). The abundance of IL-33 and CCL5 was increased in FAK-positive SCC cells but not in normal keratinocytes. IL-33 associated with FAK in the nucleus, and the FAK-IL-33 complex interacted with a network of chromatin modifiers and transcriptional regulators, including TAF9, WDR82, and BRD4, which promote the activity of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) and its induction of genes encoding chemokines, including CCL5. We did not detect secretion of IL-33 from FAK-positive SCC cells; thus, we propose that the increased production and secretion of sST2 likely sequesters IL-33 secreted by other cell types within the tumor environment, thus blocking its stimulatory effects on infiltrating host immune cells. Depleting FAK, IL-33, or sST2 from SCC cells before implantation induced tumor regression in syngeneic mice, except when CD8(+) T cells were co-depleted. Our data provide mechanistic insight into how FAK controls the tumor immune environment, namely, through a transcriptional regulatory network mediated by nuclear IL-33. Targeting this axis may boost antitumor immunity in patients.
PXD006863	29208752	Effects of Alanyl-Glutamine Treatment on the Peritoneal Dialysis Effluent Proteome Reveal Pathomechanism-Associated Molecular Signatures. 	TMT-FASP-LC-MS analysis of peritoneal dialysis effluent	TMT, biomarkers, cytoprotection, peritoneal dialysis, plasma proteins	Peritoneal dialysis (PD) is a modality of renal replacement therapy in which the high volumes of available PD effluent (PDE) represents a rich source of biomarkers for monitoring disease and therapy. Although this information could help guide the management of PD patients, little is known about the potential of PDE to define pathomechanism-associated molecular signatures in PD.We therefore subjected PDE to a high-performance multiplex proteomic analysis after depletion of highly-abundant plasma proteins and enrichment of low-abundance proteins. A combination of label-free and isobaric labeling strategies was applied to PDE samples from PD patients (n = 20) treated in an open-label, randomized, two-period, cross-over clinical trial with standard PD fluid or with a novel PD fluid supplemented with alanyl-glutamine (AlaGln).With this workflow we identified 2506 unique proteins in the PDE proteome, greatly increasing coverage beyond the 171 previously-reported proteins. The proteins identified range from high abundance plasma proteins to low abundance cellular proteins, and are linked to larger numbers of biological processes and pathways, some of which are novel for PDE. Interestingly, proteins linked to membrane remodeling and fibrosis are overrepresented in PDE compared with plasma, whereas the proteins underrepresented in PDE suggest decreases in host defense, immune-competence and response to stress. Treatment with AlaGln-supplemented PD fluid is associated with reduced activity of membrane injury-associated mechanisms and with restoration of biological processes involved in stress responses and host defense.Our study represents the first application of the PDE proteome in a randomized controlled prospective clinical trial of PD. This novel proteomic workflow allowed detection of low abundance biomarkers to define pathomechanism-associated molecular signatures in PD and their alterations by a novel therapeutic intervention.
PXD006752	29208753	Compartment-resolved Proteomic Analysis of Mouse Aorta during Atherosclerotic Plaque Formation Reveals Osteoclast-specific Protein Expression. 	Compartment-resolved proteomic analysis of mouse aorta during atherosclerotic plaque formation	ApoE, Atherosclerosis, ECM, QDSP, mouse model	Atherosclerosis leads to vascular lesions that involve major rearrangements of the vascular proteome, especially of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Using single aortas from ApoE knock out mice, we quantified formation of plaques by single-run, high-resolution mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics. To probe localization on a proteome-wide scale we employed quantitative detergent solubility profiling. This compartment- and time-resolved resource of atherogenesis comprised 5117 proteins, 182 of which changed their expression status in response to vessel maturation and atherosclerotic plaque development. In the insoluble ECM proteome, 65 proteins significantly changed, including relevant collagens, matrix metalloproteinases and macrophage derived proteins. Among novel factors in atherosclerosis, we identified matrilin-2, the collagen IV crosslinking enzyme peroxidasin as well as the poorly characterized MAM-domain containing 2 (Mamdc2) protein as being up-regulated in the ECM during atherogenesis. Intriguingly, three subunits of the osteoclast specific V-ATPase complex were strongly increased in mature plaques with an enrichment in macrophages thus implying an active de-mineralization function.
PXD006814	29209155	Optimization of quantitative proteomic analysis of clots generated from plasma of patients with venous thromboembolism. 	Optimization of quantitative proteomic analysis of clots	MED FASP, clot, venous thromboembolism	BACKGROUND: It is well known that fibrin network binds a large variety of proteins, including inhibitors and activators of fibrinolysis, which may affect clot properties, such as stability and susceptibility to fibrinolysis. Specific plasma clot composition differs between individuals and may change in disease states. However, the plasma clot proteome has not yet been in-depth analyzed, mainly due to technical difficulty related to the presence of a highly abundant protein-fibrinogen and fibrin that forms a plasma clot. METHODS: The aim of our study was to optimize quantitative proteomic analysis of fibrin clots prepared ex vivo from citrated plasma of the peripheral blood drawn from patients with prior venous thromboembolism (VTE). We used a multiple enzyme digestion filter aided sample preparation, a multienzyme digestion (MED) FASP method combined with LC-MS/MS analysis performed on a Proxeon Easy-nLC System coupled to the Q Exactive HF mass spectrometer. We also evaluated the impact of peptide fractionation with pipet-tip strong anion exchange (SAX) method on the obtained results. RESULTS: Our proteomic approach revealed 476 proteins repeatedly identified in the plasma fibrin clots from patients with VTE including extracellular vesicle-derived proteins, lipoproteins, fibrinolysis inhibitors, and proteins involved in immune responses. The MED FASP method using three different enzymes: LysC, trypsin and chymotrypsin increased the number of identified peptides and proteins and their sequence coverage as compared to a single step digestion. Peptide fractionation with a pipet-tip strong anion exchange (SAX) protocol increased the depth of proteomic analyses, but also extended the time needed for sample analysis with LC-MS/MS. CONCLUSIONS: The MED FASP method combined with a label-free quantification is an excellent proteomic approach for the analysis of fibrin clots prepared ex vivo from citrated plasma of patients with prior VTE.
PXD006143	29209593	Analysis of the Salivary Gland Transcriptome of Unfed and Partially Fed Amblyomma sculptum Ticks and Descriptive Proteome of the Saliva. 	Amblyomma sculptum sialotranscriptome and proteome	Amblyomma, RNA-seq, blood feeding, salivary glands, spotted fever, tick, transcriptome	Ticks are obligate blood feeding ectoparasites that transmit a wide variety of pathogenic microorganisms to their vertebrate hosts. Amblyomma sculptum is vector of Rickettsia rickettsii, the causative agent of Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF), the most lethal rickettsiosis that affects humans. It is known that the transmission of pathogens by ticks is mainly associated with the physiology of the feeding process. Pathogens that are acquired with the blood meal must first colonize the tick gut and later the salivary glands (SG) in order to be transmitted during a subsequent blood feeding via saliva. Tick saliva contains a complex mixture of bioactive molecules with anticlotting, antiplatelet aggregation, vasodilatory, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory properties to counteract both the hemostasis and defense mechanisms of the host. Besides facilitating tick feeding, the properties of saliva may also benefits survival and establishment of pathogens in the host. In the current study, we compared the sialotranscriptome of unfed A. sculptum ticks and those fed for 72 h on rabbits using next generation RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). The total of reads obtained were assembled in 9,560 coding sequences (CDSs) distributed in different functional classes. CDSs encoding secreted proteins, including lipocalins, mucins, protease inhibitors, glycine-rich proteins, metalloproteases, 8.9 kDa superfamily members, and immunity-related proteins were mostly upregulated by blood feeding. Selected CDSs were analyzed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction preceded by reverse transcription (RT-qPCR), corroborating the transcriptional profile obtained by RNA-seq. Finally, high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis revealed 124 proteins in saliva of ticks fed for 96-120 h. The corresponding CDSs of 59 of these proteins were upregulated in SG of fed ticks. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the proteome of A. sculptum saliva. The functional characterization of the identified proteins might reveal potential targets to develop vaccines for tick control and/or blocking of R. rickettsii transmission as well as pharmacological bioproducts with antihemostatic, anti-inflammatory and antibacterial activities.
PXD006514	29212935	Tetraspanin CD63 Bridges Autophagic and Endosomal Processes To Regulate Exosomal Secretion and Intracellular Signaling of Epstein-Barr Virus LMP1 	HEK293 CD63 CRISPR cell-derived small EVs	CD63, CRISPR, extracellular vesicles, tetraspanin	The tetraspanin protein CD63 has been recently described as a key factor in extracellular vesicle (EV) production and endosomal cargo sorting. In the context of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection, CD63 is required for the efficient packaging of the major viral oncoprotein latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) into exosomes and other EV populations and acts as a negative regulator of LMP1 intracellular signaling. Accumulating evidence has also pointed to intersections of the endosomal and autophagy pathways in maintaining cellular secretory processes and as sites for viral assembly and replication. Indeed, LMP1 can activate the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway to suppress host cell autophagy and facilitate cell growth and proliferation. Despite the growing recognition of cross talk between endosomes and autophagosomes and its relevance to viral infection, little is understood about the molecular mechanisms governing endosomal and autophagy convergence. Here, we demonstrate that CD63-dependent vesicle protein secretion directly opposes intracellular signaling activation downstream of LMP1, including mTOR-associated proteins. Conversely, disruption of normal autolysosomal processes increases LMP1 secretion and dampens signal transduction by the viral protein. Increases in mTOR activation following CD63 knockout are coincident with the development of serum-dependent autophagic vacuoles that are acidified in the presence of high LMP1 levels. Altogether, these findings suggest a key role of CD63 in regulating the interactions between endosomal and autophagy processes and limiting cellular signaling activity in both noninfected and virally infected cells.IMPORTANCE The close connection between extracellular vesicles and viruses is becoming rapidly and more widely appreciated. EBV, a human gamma herpesvirus that contributes to the progression of a multitude of lymphomas and carcinomas in immunocompromised or genetically susceptible populations, packages its major oncoprotein, LMP1, into vesicles for secretion. We have recently described a role of the host cell protein CD63 in regulating intracellular signaling of the viral oncoprotein by shuttling LMP1 into exosomes. Here, we provide strong evidence of the utility of CD63-dependent EVs in regulating global intracellular signaling, including mTOR activation by LMP1. We also demonstrate a key role of CD63 in coordinating endosomal and autophagic processes to regulate LMP1 levels within the cell. Overall, this study offers new insights into the complex intersection of cellular secretory and degradative mechanisms and the implications of these processes in viral replication.
PXD007980	29215036	Proteomics and antivenomics of Echis carinatus carinatus venom: Correlation with pharmacological properties and pathophysiology of envenomation. 	Echis carinatus carinatus (India) venom proteomics	shotgun proteomics, snake venom	The proteome composition of Echis carinatus carinatus venom (ECV) from India was studied for the first time by tandem mass spectrometry analysis. A total of 90, 47, and 22 distinct enzymatic and non-enzymatic proteins belonging to 15, 10, and 6 snake venom protein families were identified in ECV by searching the ESI-LC-MS/MS data against non-redundant protein databases of Viperidae (taxid 8689), Echis (taxid 8699) and Echis carinatus (taxid 40353), respectively. However, analysis of MS/MS data against the Transcriptome Shotgun Assembly sequences (87 entries) of conger E. coloratus identified only 14 proteins in ECV. Snake venom metalloproteases and snaclecs, the most abundant enzymatic and non-enzymatic proteins, respectively in ECV account for defibrinogenation and the strong in vitro pro-coagulant activity. Further, glutaminyl cyclase, aspartic protease, aminopeptidase, phospholipase B, vascular endothelial growth factor, and nerve growth factor were reported for the first time in ECV. The proteome composition of ECV was well correlated with its biochemical and pharmacological properties and clinical manifestations observed in Echis envenomed patients. Neutralization of enzymes and pharmacological properties of ECV, and immuno-cross-reactivity studies unequivocally point to the poor recognition of <20 kDa ECV proteins, such as PLA2, subunits of snaclec, and disintegrin by commercial polyvalent antivenom.
PXD007681	29215871	MPA Portable: A Stand-Alone Software Package for Analyzing Metaproteome Samples on the Go. 	Evaluation of the MPA Portable software performance on analyzing benchmark datasets	Bioinformatics, Data visualization, Metaproteomics, Protein identification	Metaproteomics, the mass spectrometry-based analysis of proteins from multispecies samples faces severe challenges concerning data analysis and results interpretation. To overcome these shortcomings, we here introduce the MetaProteomeAnalyzer (MPA) Portable software. In contrast to the original server-based MPA application, this newly developed tool no longer requires computational expertise for installation and is now independent of any relational database system. In addition, MPA Portable now supports state-of-the-art database search engines and a convenient command line interface for high-performance data processing tasks. While search engine results can easily be combined to increase the protein identification yield, an additional two-step workflow is implemented to provide sufficient analysis resolution for further postprocessing steps, such as protein grouping as well as taxonomic and functional annotation. Our new application has been developed with a focus on intuitive usability, adherence to data standards, and adaptation to Web-based workflow platforms. The open source software package can be found at https://github.com/compomics/meta-proteome-analyzer .
PXD006700	29217617	Two-Step Coimmunoprecipitation (TIP) Enables Efficient and Highly Selective Isolation of Native Protein Complexes. 	Two-Step Co-Immunoprecipitation (TIP) Enables an Efficient and Highly Selective Isolation of Native Protein-Complexes	CD95, CHIP, IKK, Immunoprecipitation, NFKB, TIP, antibody, bTIP, bridging, chromatin, co-IP, co-immunoprecipitation, monoclonal, polyclonal, primary cells	Coimmunoprecipitation (co-IP) is one of the most frequently used techniques to study protein-protein (PPIs) or protein-nucleic acid interactions (PNIs). However, the presence of coprecipitated contaminants is a well-recognized issue associated with single-step co-IPs. To overcome this limitation, we developed the two-step co-IP (TIP) strategy that enables sequential coimmunoprecipitations of endogenous protein complexes. TIP can be performed with a broad range of mono- and polyclonal antibodies targeting a single protein or different components of a given complex. TIP results in a highly selective enrichment of protein complexes and thus outperforms single-step co-IPs for downstream applications such as mass spectrometry for the identification of PPIs and quantitative PCR for the analysis of PNIs. We benchmarked TIP for the identification of CD95/FAS-interacting proteins in primary human CD4(+) T cells, which recapitulated all major known interactors, but also enabled the proteomics discovery of PPM1G and IPO7 as new interaction partners. For its feasibility and high performance, we propose TIP as an advanced tool for the isolation of highly purified protein-protein and protein-nucleic acid complexes under native expression conditions.
PXD007918	29217618	Lipopolysaccharide Upregulates Palmitoylated Enzymes of the Phosphatidylinositol Cycle: An Insight from Proteomic Studies. 	LPS upregulates palmitoylated enzymes of the phosphatidylinositol cycle. An insight from proteomic studies.	LPS, S-palmitoylation. mass spectrometry	Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is a component of the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria that induces strong proinflammatory reactions of mammals. These processes are triggered upon sequential binding of LPS to CD14, a GPI-linked plasma membrane raft protein, and to the TLR4/MD2 receptor complex. We have found earlier that upon LPS binding, CD14 triggers generation of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P2], a lipid controlling subsequent proinflammatory cytokine production. Here we show that stimulation of RAW264 macrophage-like cells with LPS induces global changes of the level of fatty-acylated, most likely palmitoylated, proteins. Among the acylated proteins that were up-regulated in those conditions were several enzymes of the phosphatidylinositol cycle. Global profiling of acylated proteins was performed by metabolic labeling of RAW264 cells with 17ODYA, an analogue of palmitic acid functionalized with an alkyne group, followed by detection and enrichment of labeled proteins using biotin-azide/streptavidin and their identification with mass spectrometry. This proteomic approach revealed that 154 fatty-acylated proteins were up-regulated, 186 downregulated, and 306 not affected in cells stimulated with 100 ng/ml LPS for 60 min. The acylated proteins affected by LPS were involved in diverse biological functions, as found by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis. Detailed studies of 17ODYA-labeled and immunoprecipitated proteins revealed that LPS induces S-palmitoylation, hence activation, of type II phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase (PI4KII) beta, which phosphorylates phosphatidylinositol to phosphatidylinositol 4-monophosphate, a PI(4,5)P2 precursor. Silencing of PI4KIIbeta and PI4KIIalpha inhibited LPS-induced expression and production of proinflammatory cytokines, especially in the TRIF-dependent signaling pathway of TLR4. Reciprocally, this LPS-induced signaling pathway was significantly enhanced after overexpression of PI4KIIbeta or PI4KIIalpha; this was dependent on palmitoylation of the kinases. However, the S-palmitoylation of PI4KIIalpha, hence its activity, was constitutive in RAW264 cells. Taken together the data indicate that LPS triggers S-palmitoylation and activation of PI4KIIbeta, which generates PI(4)P involved in signaling pathways controlling production of proinflammatory cytokines.
PXD008174	29217619	microRNA-4331 Promotes Transmissible Gastroenteritis Virus (TGEV)-induced Mitochondrial Damage Via Targeting RB1, Upregulating Interleukin-1 Receptor Accessory Protein (IL1RAP), and Activating p38 MAPK Pathway In Vitro. 	microRNA-4331 promotes TGEV-induced mitochondrial damage via targeting RB1, up-regulating IL1RAP, and activating p38 MAPK pathway in vitro	IL1RAP, RB1, microR-4331, mitochondrial damage, p38 MAPK, transmissible gastroenteritis virus	Transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV), a member of the coronaviridae family, could cause fatal diarrhea of piglets and result in numerous economic losses. Previous studies demonstrated that TGEV infection could lead to mitochondrial damage and upregulate miR-4331 level. So miR-4331 may play an important regulatory role in the control of mitochondrial function. To explore the potential role of miR-4331 in mitochondrial damage, we adopted a strategy consisting of quantitative proteomic analysis of porcine kidney (PK-15) cells in response to miR-4331 and TGEV infection. Eventually, 69 differentially expressed proteins were gained. The target of miR-4331 was identified. The effects of miR-4331 and its target RB1 on mitochondrial Ca(2+) level, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), interleukin-1 receptor accessory protein (IL1RAP), p38 MAPK signaling pathway were investigated. The results showed that miR-4331 elevated mitochondrial Ca(2+) level, reduced MMP, targets Retinoblastoma 1 (RB1), upregulated IL1RAP, and induced activation of p38 MAPK pathway during TGEV infection. RB1 was identified as the direct targets of miR-4331 and downregulated IL1RAP, suppressed the activation of p38 MPAK, and attenuated TGEV-induced mitochondrial damage. In addition, IL1RAP played a positive role in activating p38 MAPK signaling and negative role in TGEV-induced mitochondrial damage. The data indicate that miR-4331 aggravates TGEV-induced mitochondrial damage by repressing expression of RB1, promoting IL1RAP, and activating p38 MAPK pathway.
PXD006816	29222160	The interactome of intact mitochondria by cross-linking mass spectrometry provides evidence for coexisting respiratory supercomplexes. 	mitochondria cross-linking mass spectrometry	cross-linking mass spectrometry, heart, mitochondria	Mitochondria exert an immense amount of cytophysiological functions, but the structural basis of most of these processes is still poorly understood. Here we use cross-linking mass spectrometry to probe the organization of proteins in native mouse heart mitochondria. Our approach provides the largest survey of mitochondrial protein interactions reported so far. In total, we identify 3,322 unique residue-to-residue contacts involving half of the mitochondrial proteome detected by bottom-up proteomics. The obtained mitochondrial protein interactome gives insights in the architecture and submitochondrial localization of defined protein assemblies, and reveals the mitochondrial localization of four proteins not yet included in the MitoCarta database. As one of the highlights, we show that the oxidative phosphorylation complexes I-V exist in close spatial proximity, providing direct evidence for supercomplex assembly in intact mitochondria. The specificity of these contacts is demonstrated by comparative analysis of mitochondria after high salt treatment, which disrupts the native supercomplexes and substantially changes the mitochondrial interactome.
PXD006901	29225558	Vulvar squamous cell carcinoma aggressiveness is associated with differential expression of collagen and STAT1. 	Vulvar squamous cell carcinoma aggressiveness associated with differential expression of collagen and STAT1	FFPE Tissue, cell adhesion, cytokine, stroma immune	BACKGROUND: Vulvar squamous cell carcinoma (vSCC) is a rare but debilitating disease. One vSCC variant comprises tumor cells that grow and expand as a cohesive sheet of cells that "pushes" and compresses the associated lymphoplasmacytic (LPC) stroma. Another vSCC variant features tumor cells that grow in loose association with one another and infiltrate the associated fibromyxoid (FMX) stroma consisting mainly of extracellular matrix. Clinically, infiltrative vSCC with FMX stroma (Inf/FMX) is significantly associated with lymph node metastases and recurrence. METHODS: An unbiased proteomic approach was used to identify pathways involved in the development of the different vSCC variants. Proteins extracted from formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissues of 10 cases of pushing vSCC with LPC stroma (Push/LPC) and eight cases of Inf/FMX were subjected to liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). RESULTS: Analysis identified 2265 different proteins in the 18 samples of vSCC. Of these, 282 proteins were differentially expressed between vSCC variants. Of these, 45 were higher and 237 lower in Inf/FMX compared to Push/LPC tumors. Consistent with the desmoplastic morphology and increased picrosirius red staining, expression of subunits of several collagens (Col 1, 3, 6, 14) was higher in the more aggressive Inf/FMX tumors. In contrast, signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1), an important regulator of several inflammatory pathways, was expressed at lower levels in the Inf/FMX tumors. This finding was confirmed by immunohistochemistry using an antibody to STAT1. Informatics analysis of the differing profiles identified differences in pathways associated with integrin signaling and inflammation mediated by chemokines and cytokines. CONCLUSIONS: Comparing the proteomic profiles of vSCC morphologic variants indicates that increased expression of collagen subunits and decreased expression of STAT1 are associated with a more aggressive tumor variant, defined by increased incidence of nodal metastases and tumor recurrence. Informatic analyses further identify that both alterations in cell interaction with matrix and immune function differ with tumor aggressiveness. Identification of these pathways provides a molecular basis for understanding aggressiveness of vSCC.
PXD005955	29226804	Systems Pharmacology Dissection of Cholesterol Regulation Reveals Determinants of Large Pharmacodynamic Variability between Cell Lines. 	Systems pharmacology dissection of cholesterol regulation reveals determinants of large pharmacodynamic variability between cell lines	GW3965, HEK293, HMGCS1, Hela Kyoto, HepG2, Huh7, LDLR, LXR, NPC1, SREBP, SREBP1, SREBP2, T0901317, atorvastatin, cholesterol homeostasis, cholesterol regulation	In individuals, heterogeneous drug-response phenotypes result from a complex interplay of dose, drug specificity, genetic background, and environmental factors, thus challenging our understanding of the underlying processes and optimal use of drugs in the clinical setting. Here, we use mass-spectrometry-based quantification of molecular response phenotypes and logic modeling to explain drug-response differences in a panel of cell lines. We apply this approach to cellular cholesterol regulation, a biological process with high clinical relevance. From the quantified molecular phenotypes elicited by various targeted pharmacologic or genetic treatments, we generated cell-line-specific models that quantified the processes beneath the idiotypic intracellular drug responses. The models revealed that, in addition to drug uptake and metabolism, further cellular processes displayed significant pharmacodynamic response variability between the cell lines, resulting in cell-line-specific drug-response phenotypes. This study demonstrates the importance of integrating different types of quantitative systems-level molecular measurements with modeling to understand the effect of pharmacological perturbations on complex biological processes.
PXD007827	29227475	An ALOX12-12-HETE-GPR31 signaling axis is a key mediator of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury. 	Proteomics analysis of different stages during mouse hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury	6-plex TMT, Liver	Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury is a common clinical issue lacking effective therapy and validated pharmacological targets. Here, using integrative 'omics' analysis, we identified an arachidonate 12-lipoxygenase (ALOX12)-12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12-HETE)-G-protein-coupled receptor 31 (GPR31) signaling axis as a key determinant of the hepatic IR process. We found that ALOX12 was markedly upregulated in hepatocytes during ischemia to promote 12-HETE accumulation and that 12-HETE then directly binds to GPR31, triggering an inflammatory response that exacerbates liver damage. Notably, blocking 12-HETE production inhibits IR-induced liver dysfunction, inflammation and cell death in mice and pigs. Furthermore, we established a nonhuman primate hepatic IR model that closely recapitulates clinical liver dysfunction following liver resection. Most strikingly, blocking 12-HETE accumulation effectively attenuated all pathologies of hepatic IR in this model. Collectively, this study has revealed previously uncharacterized metabolic reprogramming involving an ALOX12-12-HETE-GPR31 axis that functionally determines hepatic IR procession. We have also provided proof of concept that blocking 12-HETE production is a promising strategy for preventing and treating IR-induced liver damage.
PXD008305	29229697	Temporal Proteomics of Inducible RNAi Lines of Clp Protease Subunits Identifies Putative Protease Substrates. 	Time-resolved inducible knock-down of Clp protease subunits in tobacco identifies putative protease substrates	Clp protease, Nicotiana tabacum, chloroplast, inducible RNAi, protease substrate, protein degradation, shotgun proteomics	The Clp protease in the chloroplasts of plant cells is a large complex composed of at least 13 nucleus-encoded subunits and one plastid-encoded subunit, which are arranged in several ring-like structures. The proteolytic P-ring and the structurally similar R-ring form the core complex that contains the proteolytic chamber. Chaperones of the HSP100 family help with substrate unfolding, and additional accessory proteins are believed to assist with Clp complex assembly and/or to promote complex stability. Although the structure and function of the Clp protease have been studied in great detail in both bacteria and chloroplasts, the identification of bona fide protease substrates has been very challenging. Knockout mutants of genes for protease subunits are of limited value, due to their often pleiotropic phenotypes and the difficulties with distinguishing primary effects (i.e. overaccumulation of proteins that represent genuine protease substrates) from secondary effects (proteins overaccumulating for other reasons). Here, we have developed a new strategy for the identification of candidate substrates of plant proteases. By combining ethanol-inducible knockdown of protease subunits with time-resolved analysis of changes in the proteome, proteins that respond immediately to reduced protease activity can be identified. In this way, secondary effects are minimized and putative protease substrates can be identified. We have applied this strategy to the Clp protease complex of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and identified a set of chloroplast proteins that are likely degraded by Clp. These include several metabolic enzymes but also a small number of proteins involved in photosynthesis.
PXD007856	29229823	Sex determination of human remains from peptides in tooth enamel. 	Sex determination of human remains from peptides in tooth enamel	Tooth enamel	The assignment of biological sex to archaeological human skeletons is a fundamental requirement for the reconstruction of the human past. It is conventionally and routinely performed on adults using metric analysis and morphological traits arising from postpubertal sexual dimorphism. A maximum accuracy of ~95% is possible if both the cranium and os coxae are present and intact, but this is seldom achievable for all skeletons. Furthermore, for infants and juveniles, there are no reliable morphological methods for sex determination without resorting to DNA analysis, which requires good DNA survival and is time-consuming. Consequently, sex determination of juvenile remains is rarely undertaken, and a dependable and expedient method that can correctly assign biological sex to human remains of any age is highly desirable. Here we present a method for sex determination of human remains by means of a minimally destructive surface acid etching of tooth enamel and subsequent identification of sex chromosome-linked isoforms of amelogenin, an enamel-forming protein, by nanoflow liquid chromatography mass spectrometry. Tooth enamel is the hardest tissue in the human body and survives burial exceptionally well, even when the rest of the skeleton or DNA in the organic fraction has decayed. Our method can reliably determine the biological sex of humans of any age using a body tissue that is difficult to cross-contaminate and is most likely to survive. The application of this method will make sex determination of adults and, for the first time, juveniles a reliable and routine activity in future bioarcheological and medico-legal science contexts.
PXD006837	29229923	Eml1 loss impairs apical progenitor spindle length and soma shape in the developing cerebral cortex. 	Eml1-associated proteins in mouse neural progenitors	Eml1, cortical development, microtubules, neural progenitors	The ventricular zone (VZ) of the developing cerebral cortex is a pseudostratified epithelium that contains progenitors undergoing precisely regulated divisions at its most apical side, the ventricular lining (VL). Mitotic perturbations can contribute to pathological mechanisms leading to cortical malformations. The HeCo mutant mouse exhibits subcortical band heterotopia (SBH), likely to be initiated by progenitor delamination from the VZ early during corticogenesis. The causes for this are however, currently unknown. Eml1, a microtubule (MT)-associated protein of the EMAP family, is impaired in these mice. We first show that MT dynamics are perturbed in mutant progenitor cells in vitro. These may influence interphase and mitotic MT mechanisms and indeed, centrosome and primary cilia were altered and spindles were found to be abnormally long in HeCo progenitors. Consistently, MT and spindle length regulators were identified in EML1 pulldowns from embryonic brain extracts. Finally, we found that mitotic cell shape is also abnormal in the mutant VZ. These previously unidentified VZ characteristics suggest altered cell constraints which may contribute to cell delamination.
PXD007289	29230394	Acetylome of Acinetobacter baumannii SK17 Reveals a Highly-Conserved Modification of Histone-Like Protein HU. 	Acetylome of Acinetobacter baumannii SK17 reveals a highly-conserved modification of histone-like protein HU	Acetylome, Acinetobacter baumannii, LC MSMS	Lysine acetylation is a prevalent post-translational modification in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Whereas this modification is known to play pivotal roles in eukaryotes, the function and extent of this modification in prokaryotic cells remain largely unexplored. Here we report the acetylome of a pair of antibiotic-sensitive and -resistant nosocomial pathogen Acinetobacter baumannii SK17-S and SK17-R. A total of 145 lysine acetylation sites on 125 proteins was identified, and there are 23 acetylated proteins found in both strains, including histone-like protein HU which was found to be acetylated at Lys13. HU is a dimeric DNA-binding protein critical for maintaining chromosomal architecture and other DNA-dependent functions. To analyze the effects of site-specific acetylation, homogenously Lys13-acetylated HU protein, HU(K13ac) was prepared by genetic code expansion. Whilst not exerting an obvious effect on the oligomeric state, Lys13 acetylation alters both the thermal stability and DNA binding kinetics of HU. Accordingly, this modification likely destabilizes the chromosome structure and regulates bacterial gene transcription. This work indicates that acetyllysine plays an important role in bacterial epigenetics.
PXD005596	29233035	From the wound to the bench: exoproteome interplay between wound-colonizing Staphylococcus aureus strains and co-existing bacteria. 	Staphylococcus aureus coinfection	. aureus, Bacillus thuringiensis, K. oxytoca, chronic wound, co-culture, exoproteome	Wound-colonizing microorganisms can form complex and dynamic polymicrobial communities where pathogens and commensals may co-exist, cooperate or compete with each other. The present study was aimed at identifying possible interactions between different bacteria isolated from the same chronic wound of a patient with the genetic blistering disease epidermolysis bullosa (EB). Specifically, this involved two different isolates of the human pathogen Staphylococcus aureus, and isolates of Bacillus thuringiensis and Klebsiella oxytoca. Particular focus was attributed to interactions of S. aureus with the two other species, because of the high staphylococcal prevalence among chronic wounds. Intriguingly, upon co-cultivation, none of the wound isolates inhibited each other's growth. Since the extracellular proteome of bacterial pathogens is a reservoir of virulence factors, the exoproteomes of the staphylococcal isolates in monoculture and co-culture with B. thuringiensis and K. oxytoca were characterized by Mass Spectrometry to explore the inherent relationships between these co-exisiting bacteria. This revealed a massive reduction in the number of staphylococcal exoproteins upon co-culturing with K. oxytoca or B. thuringiensis. Interestingly, this decrease was particularly evident for extracellular proteins with a predicted cytoplasmic localization, which were recently implicated in staphylococcal virulence and epidemiology. Furthermore, our exoproteome analysis uncovered potential cooperativity between the two different S. aureus isolates. Altogether, the observed exoproteome variations upon co-culturing are indicative of unprecedented adaptive mechanisms that set limits to the production of secreted staphylococcal virulence factors.
PXD007051	29233185	Phosphoproteomics reveals network rewiring to a pro-adhesion state in annexin-1-deficient mammary epithelial cells. 	Phosphoproteomics reveals network rewiring to a pro-adhesion state in Annexin-1-deficient mammary epithelial cells	Annexin-1, adhesion, breast cancer, mammary epithelial cells, network analysis, phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: Annexin-1 (ANXA1) plays pivotal roles in regulating various physiological processes including inflammation, proliferation and apoptosis, and deregulation of ANXA1 functions has been associated with tumorigenesis and metastasis events in several types of cancer. Though ANXA1 levels correlate with breast cancer disease status and outcome, its distinct functional involvement in breast cancer initiation and progression remains unclear. We hypothesized that ANXA1-responsive kinase signaling alteration and associated phosphorylation signaling underlie early events in breast cancer initiation events and hence profiled ANXA1-dependent phosphorylation changes in mammary gland epithelial cells. METHODS: Quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis of mammary gland epithelial cells derived from ANXA1-heterozygous and ANXA1-deficient mice was carried out using stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based mass spectrometry. Kinase and signaling changes underlying ANXA1 perturbations were derived by upstream kinase prediction and integrated network analysis of altered proteins and phosphoproteins. RESULTS: We identified a total of 8110 unique phosphorylation sites, of which 582 phosphorylation sites on 372 proteins had ANXA1-responsive changes. A majority of these phosphorylation changes occurred on proteins associated with cytoskeletal reorganization spanning the focal adhesion, stress fibers, and also the microtubule network proposing new roles for ANXA1 in regulating microtubule dynamics. Comparative analysis of regulated global proteome and phosphoproteome highlighted key differences in translational and post-translational effects of ANXA1, and suggested closely coordinated rewiring of the cell adhesion network. Kinase prediction analysis suggested activity modulation of calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMK2), P21-activated kinase (PAK), extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and IkappaB kinase (IKK) upon loss of ANXA1. Integrative analysis revealed regulation of the WNT and Hippo signaling pathways in ANXA1-deficient mammary epithelial cells, wherein there is downregulation of transcriptional effects of TEA domain family (TEAD) suggestive of ANXA1-responsive transcriptional rewiring. CONCLUSIONS: The phosphoproteome landscape uncovered several novel perspectives for ANXA1 in mammary gland biology and highlighted its involvement in key signaling pathways modulating cell adhesion and migration that could contribute to breast cancer initiation.
PXD007034	29233912	Dynamic secretome of Trichomonas vaginalis: Case study of beta-amylases. 	Dynamic T. vaginalis secretome and secretion of beta-amalyses	Trichomonas vaginalis, secretome	The secretion of virulence factors by parasitic protists into the host environment plays a fundamental role in multifactorial host-parasite interactions. Several effector proteins are known to be secreted by Trichomonas vaginalis, a human parasite of the urogenital tract. However, a comprehensive profiling of the T. vaginalis secretome remains elusive, as do the mechanisms of protein secretion. In this study, we used high-resolution label-free quantitative MS to analyze the T. vaginalis secretome, considering that secretion is a time- and temperature-dependent process, to define the cutoff for secreted proteins. In total, we identified 2 072 extracellular proteins, 89 of which displayed significant quantitative increases over time at 37 degreesC. These 89 bona fide secreted proteins were sorted into 13 functional categories. Approximately half of the secreted proteins were predicted to possess transmembrane helixes. These proteins mainly include putative adhesins and leishmaniolysin-like metallopeptidases. The other half of the soluble proteins include several novel potential virulence factors, such as DNaseII, pore-forming proteins, and beta-amylases. Interestingly, current bioinformatic tools predicted the secretory signal in only 18% of the identified T. vaginalis-secreted proteins. Therefore, we used beta-amylases as a model to investigate the T. vaginalis secretory pathway. We demonstrated that two beta-amylases (BA1 and BA2) are transported via the classical endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi pathways, and in the case of BA1, we showed that the protein is glycosylated with multiple N-linked glycans of Hex5HexNAc2 structure. The secretion was inhibited by brefeldin A but not by FLI-06. Another two beta-amylases (BA3 and BA4), which are encoded in the T. vaginalis genome but absent from the secretome, were targeted to the lysosomal compartment. Collectively, under defined in vitro conditions, our analysis provides a comprehensive set of constitutively secreted proteins that can serve as a reference for future comparative studies, and it provides the first information about the classical secretory pathway in this parasite.
PXD008083	29234005	Proteomic analyses identify ARH3 as a serine mono-ADP-ribosylhydrolase. 	Proteomic analyses identify ARH3 as a serine mono-ADP-ribosylhydrolase	ADP-ribosylation, ARH3, EThcD, HCD, Mef, Mono-ADP-ribosyl(-acceptor) hydrolases, PARG, PARP, PTM	ADP-ribosylation is a posttranslational modification that exists in monomeric and polymeric forms. Whereas the writers (e.g. ARTD1/PARP1) and erasers (e.g. PARG, ARH3) of poly-ADP-ribosylation (PARylation) are relatively well described, the enzymes involved in mono-ADP-ribosylation (MARylation) have been less well investigated. While erasers for the MARylation of glutamate/aspartate and arginine have been identified, the respective enzymes with specificity for serine were missing. Here we report that, in vitro, ARH3 specifically binds and demodifies proteins and peptides that are MARylated. Molecular modeling and site-directed mutagenesis of ARH3 revealed that numerous residues are critical for both the mono- and the poly-ADP-ribosylhydrolase activity of ARH3. Notably, a mass spectrometric approach showed that ARH3-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts are characterized by a specific increase in serine-ADP-ribosylation in vivo under untreated conditions as well as following hydrogen peroxide stress. Together, our results establish ARH3 as a serine mono-ADP-ribosylhydrolase and as an important regulator of the basal and stress-induced ADP-ribosylome.
PXD002773	29235492	Proteome-wide Analysis of Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation in Developing Rice (Oryza sativa) Seeds. 	Oryza sativa Lysine Acetylation LC-MS/MS	Lysine Acetylation, Oryza sativa	Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation is a recently identified protein post-translational modification that is known to affect the association between histone and DNA. However, non-histone protein lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation remains largely unexplored. Utilizing antibody-based affinity enrichment and nano-HPLC/MS/MS analyses of 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation peptides, we efficaciously identified 9,916 2-hydroxyisobutyryl lysine sites on 2,512 proteins in developing rice seeds, representing the first lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylome dataset in plants. Functional annotation analyses indicated that a wide variety of vital biological processes were preferably targeted by lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation, including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, TCA cycle, starch biosynthesis, lipid metabolism, protein biosynthesis and processing. Our finding showed that 2-hydroxyisobutyrylated histone sites were conserved across plants, human, and mouse. A number of 2-hydroxyisobutyryl sites were shared with other lysine acylations in both histone and non-histone proteins. Comprehensive analysis of the lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation sites illustrated that the modification sites were highly sequence specific with distinct motifs, and they had less surface accessibility than other lysine residues in the protein. Overall, our study provides the first systematic analysis of lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation proteome in plants, and it serves as an important resource for future investigations of the regulatory mechanisms and functions of lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation.
PXD005582	292354	Biogenic amine metabolism in Tourette syndrome. 	Proteomic Analysis of Lysine Succinylation in oryza sativa	oryza sativa succinylation	Biogenic amine metabolism in the central nervous system of 9 children with Tourette syndrome was evaluated by quantitation of their metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid by a gas chromatographic/mass spectrometric method. Homovanillic acid (HVA), 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethylene glycol (MHPG) were measured in CSF before and after oral administration of probenecid. Dopamine metabolism appeared defective, as both baseline and accumulated levels of HVA after probenecid were decreased. Serotonin metabolism also appeared defective in some patients with low baseline and low accumulated levels of 5-HIAA after probenecid. Taken together with other clinical features of this disease, the results suggest an underlying disorder of dopamine and serotonin metabolism in Tourette syndrome.
PXD006270	29237727	N-linked Glycan Micro-heterogeneity in Glycoproteins of Arabidopsis. 	Profiling the level of N-glycan structural heterogeneity in Arabidopsis N-glycoproteins	N-glycosylation, glycopeptides	N-glycosylation is one of the most common protein post-translational modifications in eukaryotes and has a relatively conserved core structure between fungi, animals and plants. In plants, the biosynthesis of N-glycans has been extensively studied with all the major biosynthetic enzymes characterized. However, few studies have applied advanced mass spectrometry to profile intact plant N-glycopeptides. In this study, we use hydrophilic enrichment, high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry with complementary and triggered fragmentation to profile Arabidopsis N-glycopeptides from microsomal membranes of aerial tissues. A total of 492 N-glycosites were identified from 324 Arabidopsis proteins with extensive N-glycan structural heterogeneity revealed through 1110 N-glycopeptides. To demonstrate the precision of the approach, we also profiled N-glycopeptides from the mutant (xylt) of beta-1,2-xylosyltransferase, an enzyme in the N-glycan biosynthetic pathway. This analysis represents the most comprehensive and unbiased collection of Arabidopsis N-glycopeptides revealing an unsurpassed level of detail on the micro-heterogeneity present in N-glycoproteins of Arabidopsis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006270.
PXD006679	29238335	Treatment with Cefotaxime Affects Expression of Conjugation Associated Proteins and Conjugation Transfer Frequency of an IncI1 Plasmid in Escherichia coli. 	Treatment with Cefotaxime Affects Expression of Conjugation Associated Proteins and Conjugation Transfer Frequency of an IncI1 Plasmid in Escherichia coli	Escherichia coli, antibiotics, iTRAQ	Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is the major mechanism responsible for spread of antibiotic resistance. Antibiotic treatment has been suggested to promote HGT, either by directly affecting the conjugation process itself or by selecting for conjugations subsequent to DNA transfer. However, recent research suggests that the effect of antibiotic treatment on plasmid conjugation frequencies, and hence the spread of resistance plasmids, may have been overestimated. We addressed the question by quantifying transfer proteins and conjugation frequencies of a blaCTX-M-1 encoding IncI1 resistance plasmid in Escherichia coli MG1655 in the presence and absence of therapeutically relevant concentrations of cefotaxime (CTX). Analysis of the proteome by iTRAQ labeling and liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry revealed that Tra proteins were significantly up-regulated in the presence of CTX. The up-regulation of the transfer machinery was confirmed at the transcriptional level for five selected genes. The CTX treatment did not cause induction of the SOS-response as revealed by absence of significantly regulated SOS associated proteins in the proteome and no significant up-regulation of recA and sfiA genes. The frequency of plasmid conjugation, measured in an antibiotic free environment, increased significantly when the donor was pre-grown in broth containing CTX compared to growth without this drug, regardless of whether blaCTX-M-1 was located on the plasmid or in trans on the chromosome. The results shows that antibiotic treatment can affect expression of a plasmid conjugation machinery and subsequent DNA transfer.
PXD008146	29238343	Thrombospondin-1 Partly Mediates the Cartilage Protective Effect of Adipose-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells in Osteoarthritis. 	secretome of human chondrocytes and adipose mesenchymal stem cells	adipose, chondrocyte, mesenchymal stem cell	OBJECTIVE: Assuming that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) respond to the osteoarthritic joint environment to exert a chondroprotective effect, we aimed at investigating the molecular response setup by MSCs after priming by osteoarthritic chondrocytes in cocultures. METHODS: We used primary human osteoarthritic chondrocytes and adipose stem cells (ASCs) in mono- and cocultures and performed a high-throughput secretome analysis. Among secreted proteins differentially induced in cocultures, we identified thrombospondin-1 (THBS1) as a potential candidate that could be involved in the chondroprotective effect of ASCs. RESULTS: Secretome analysis revealed significant induction of THBS1 in ASCs/chondrocytes cocultures at mRNA and protein levels. We showed that THBS1 was upregulated at late stages of MSC differentiation toward chondrocytes and that recombinant THBS1 (rTHBS1) exerted a prochondrogenic effect on MSC indicating a role of THBS1 during chondrogenesis. However, compared to control ASCs, siTHBS1-transfected ASCs did not decrease the expression of hypertrophic and inflammatory markers in osteoarthritic chondrocytes, suggesting that THBS1 was not involved in the reversion of osteoarthritic phenotype. Nevertheless, downregulation of THBS1 in ASCs reduced their immunosuppressive activity, which was consistent with the anti-inflammatory role of rTHBS1 on T lymphocytes. THBS1 function was then evaluated in the collagenase-induced OA model by comparing siTHBS1-transfected and control ASCs. The protective effect of ASCs evaluated by histological and histomorphological analysis of cartilage and bone was not seen with siTHBS1-transfected ASCs. CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that THBS1 did not exert a direct protective effect on chondrocytes but might reduce inflammation, subsequently explaining the therapeutic effect of ASCs in OA.
PXD005585	29238354	Unravelling Protein-Protein Interaction Networks Linked to Aliphatic and Indole Glucosinolate Biosynthetic Pathways in Arabidopsis. 	GFPtrap enrichment of CYP83A1 and CYP83B1	CYP83A1, CYP83B1, GFPtrap, affinity enrichment, glucosinolate biosynthesis, seedling	Within the cell, biosynthetic pathways are embedded in protein-protein interaction networks. In Arabidopsis, the biosynthetic pathways of aliphatic and indole glucosinolate defense compounds are well-characterized. However, little is known about the spatial orchestration of these enzymes and their interplay with the cellular environment. To address these aspects, we applied two complementary, untargeted approaches-split-ubiquitin yeast 2-hybrid and co-immunoprecipitation screens-to identify proteins interacting with CYP83A1 and CYP83B1, two homologous enzymes specific for aliphatic and indole glucosinolate biosynthesis, respectively. Our analyses reveal distinct functional networks with substantial interconnection among the identified interactors for both pathway-specific markers, and add to our knowledge about how biochemical pathways are connected to cellular processes. Specifically, a group of protein interactors involved in cell death and the hypersensitive response provides a potential link between the glucosinolate defense compounds and defense against biotrophic pathogens, mediated by protein-protein interactions.
PXD006876	29241553	Comprehensive Proteomic Characterization of Ontogenic Changes in Hematopoietic Stem and Progenitor Cells. 	Foetal and adult HSPCs -  Comprehensive Proteomic Characterization of Ontogenic Changes in Hematopoietic Stem and Progenitor Cells	adult bone marrow, foetal liver, haematopoiesis	Hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) in the fetus and adult possess distinct molecular landscapes that regulate cell fate and change their susceptibility to initiation and progression of hematopoietic malignancies. Here, we applied in-depth quantitative proteomics to comprehensively describe and compare the proteome of fetal and adult HSPCs. Our data uncover a striking difference in complexity of the cellular proteomes, with more diverse adult-specific HSPC proteomic signatures. The differential protein content in fetal and adult HSPCs indicate distinct metabolic profiles and protein complex stoichiometries. Additionally, adult characteristics include an arsenal of proteins linked to viral and bacterial defense, as well as protection against ROS-induced protein oxidation. Further analyses show that interferon alpha, as well as Neutrophil elastase, has distinct functional effects in fetal and adult HSPCs. This study provides a rich resource aimed toward an enhanced mechanistic understanding of normal and malignant hematopoiesis during fetal and adult life.
PXD005454	29242247	CHIP Regulates Aquaporin-2 Quality Control and Body Water Homeostasis. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of kidney distal convoluted tubule and cortical collecting duct cells following long-term hormonal stimulation	cortical collecting duct, distal convoluted tubule, hormone, kidney, long-term	The importance of the kidney distal convoluted tubule (DCT) and cortical collecting duct (CCD) is highlighted by various water and electrolyte disorders that arise when the unique transport properties of these segments are disturbed. Despite this critical role, little is known about which proteins have a regulatory role in these cells and how these cells can be regulated by individual physiologic stimuli. By combining proteomics, bioinformatics, and cell biology approaches, we found that the E3 ubiquitin ligase CHIP is highly expressed throughout the collecting duct; is modulated in abundance by vasopressin; interacts with aquaporin-2 (AQP2), Hsp70, and Hsc70; and can directly ubiquitylate the water channel AQP2 in vitro shRNA knockdown of CHIP in CCD cells increased AQP2 protein t1/2 and reduced AQP2 ubiquitylation, resulting in greater levels of AQP2 and phosphorylated AQP2. CHIP knockdown increased the plasma membrane abundance of AQP2 in these cells. Compared with wild-type controls, CHIP knockout mice or novel CRISPR/Cas9 mice without CHIP E3 ligase activity had greater AQP2 abundance and altered renal water handling, with decreased water intake and urine volume, alongside higher urine osmolality. We did not observe significant changes in other water- or sodium-transporting proteins in the gene-modified mice. In summary, these results suggest that CHIP regulates AQP2 and subsequently, renal water handling.
PXD006939	29242379	High-throughput and Sensitive Immunopeptidomics Platform Reveals Profound Interferongamma-Mediated Remodeling of the Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) Ligandome. 	High-throughput MS-based immunopeptidomics	HLA peptides, HLA-I, HLA-II, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, affinity purification, machine learning	Comprehensive knowledge of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class-I and class-II peptides presented to T-cells is crucial for designing innovative therapeutics against cancer and other diseases. However methodologies for their purification for mass-spectrometry analysis have been a major limitation. We designed a novel high-throughput, reproducible and sensitive method for sequential immuno-affinity purification of HLA-I and -II peptides from up to 96 samples in a plate format, suitable for both cell lines and tissues. Our methodology drastically reduces sample-handling and can be completed within five hours. We challenged our methodology by extracting HLA peptides from multiple replicates of tissues (n = 7) and cell lines (n = 21, 10(8) cells per replicate), which resulted in unprecedented depth, sensitivity and high reproducibility (Pearson correlations up to 0.98 and 0.97 for HLA-I and HLA-II). Because of the method's achieved sensitivity, even single measurements of peptides purified from 10(7) B-cells resulted in the identification of more than 1700 HLA-I and 2200 HLA-II peptides. We demonstrate the feasibility of performing drug-screening by using ovarian cancer cells treated with interferon gamma (IFNgamma). Our analysis revealed an augmented presentation of chymotryptic-like and longer ligands associated with IFNgamma induced changes of the antigen processing and presentation machinery. This straightforward method is applicable for basic and clinical applications.
PXD007958	29243818	The function of two type II metacaspases in woody tissues of Populus trees. 	Populus metacaspases	Cell death, LC-MSe, Populus, Wood formation, metacaspase	Metacaspases (MCs) are cysteine proteases that are implicated in programmed cell death of plants. AtMC9 (Arabidopsis thaliana Metacaspase9) is a member of the Arabidopsis MC family that controls the rapid autolysis of the xylem vessel elements, but its downstream targets in xylem remain uncharacterized. PttMC13 and PttMC14 were identified as AtMC9 homologs in hybrid aspen (Populus tremula x tremuloides). A proteomic analysis was conducted in xylem tissues of transgenic hybrid aspen trees which carried either an overexpression or an RNA interference construct for PttMC13 and PttMC14. The proteomic analysis revealed modulation of levels of both previously known targets of metacaspases, such as Tudor staphylococcal nuclease, heat shock proteins and 14-3-3 proteins, as well as novel proteins, such as homologs of the PUTATIVE ASPARTIC PROTEASE3 (PASPA3) and the cysteine protease RD21 by PttMC13 and PttMC14. We identified here the pathways and processes that are modulated by PttMC13 and PttMC14 in xylem tissues. In particular, the results indicate involvement of PttMC13 and/or PttMC14 in downstream proteolytic processes and cell death of xylem elements. This work provides a valuable reference dataset on xylem-specific metacaspase functions for future functional and biochemical analyses.
PXD007817	29247059	Rice Paddy Nitrospirae Carry and Express Genes Related to Sulfate Respiration: Proposal of the New Genus "Candidatus Sulfobium". 	Proteomics of Nitrospirae -  Rice paddy Nitrospirae encode and express genes related to sulfate respiration: proposal of the new genus Candidatus Sulfobium	Nitrospirae, bacteria, soil	Nitrospirae spp. distantly related to thermophilic, sulfate-reducing Thermodesulfovibrio species are regularly observed in environmental surveys of anoxic marine and freshwater habitats. Here we present a metaproteogenomic analysis of Nitrospirae bacterium Nbg-4 as a representative of this clade. Its genome was assembled from replicated metagenomes of rice paddy soil that was used to grow rice in the presence and absence of gypsum (CaSO4.2H2O). Nbg-4 encoded the full pathway of dissimilatory sulfate reduction and showed expression of this pathway in gypsum-amended anoxic bulk soil as revealed by parallel metaproteomics. In addition, Nbg-4 encoded the full pathway of dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonia (DNRA), with expression of its first step being detected in bulk soil without gypsum amendment. The relative abundances of Nbg-4 were similar under both treatments, indicating that Nbg-4 maintained stable populations while shifting its energy metabolism. Whether Nbg-4 is a strict sulfate reducer or can couple sulfur oxidation to DNRA by operating the pathway of dissimilatory sulfate reduction in reverse could not be resolved. Further genome reconstruction revealed the potential to utilize butyrate, formate, H2, or acetate as an electron donor; the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway was expressed under both treatments. Comparison to publicly available Nitrospirae genome bins revealed the pathway for dissimilatory sulfate reduction also in related Nitrospirae recovered from groundwater. Subsequent phylogenomics showed that such microorganisms form a novel genus within the Nitrospirae, with Nbg-4 as a representative species. Based on the widespread occurrence of this novel genus, we propose for Nbg-4 the name "Candidatus Sulfobium mesophilum," gen. nov., sp. nov.IMPORTANCE Rice paddies are indispensable for the food supply but are a major source of the greenhouse gas methane. If it were not counterbalanced by cryptic sulfur cycling, methane emission from rice paddy fields would be even higher. However, the microorganisms involved in this sulfur cycling are little understood. By using an environmental systems biology approach with Italian rice paddy soil, we could retrieve the population genome of a novel member of the phylum Nitrospirae This microorganism encoded the full pathway of dissimilatory sulfate reduction and expressed it in anoxic paddy soil under sulfate-enriched conditions. Phylogenomics and comparison to the results of environmental surveys showed that such microorganisms are actually widespread in freshwater and marine environments. At the same time, they represent an undiscovered genus within the little-explored phylum Nitrospirae Our results will be important for the design of enrichment strategies and postgenomic studies to further understanding of the contribution of these novel Nitrospirae spp. to the global sulfur cycle.
PXD008150	29247198	Cell shape information is transduced through tension-independent mechanisms. 	Cell shape information is transduced through tension-independent mechanisms		The shape of a cell within tissues can represent the history of chemical and physical signals that it encounters, but can information from cell shape regulate cellular phenotype independently? Using optimal control theory to constrain reaction-diffusion schemes that are dependent on different surface-to-volume relationships, we find that information from cell shape can be resolved from mechanical signals. We used microfabricated 3-D biomimetic chips to validate predictions that shape-sensing occurs in a tension-independent manner through integrin beta3 signaling pathway in human kidney podocytes and smooth muscle cells. Differential proteomics and functional ablation assays indicate that integrin beta3 is critical in transduction of shape signals through ezrin-radixin-moesin (ERM) family. We used experimentally determined diffusion coefficients and experimentally validated simulations to show that shape sensing is an emergent cellular property enabled by multiple molecular characteristics of integrin beta3. We conclude that 3-D cell shape information, transduced through tension-independent mechanisms, can regulate phenotype.
PXD007788	29248469	Venom-gland transcriptomics and venom proteomics of the Hentz striped scorpion (Centruroides hentzi; Buthidae) reveal high toxin diversity in a harmless member of a lethal family. 	Centruroides henzti venom -  Venom-gland transcriptomics and venom proteomics of the Hentz striped scorpion (Centruroides hentzi; Buthidae) reveal high toxin diversity in a harmless member of a lethal family	venom	Of the 14 extant scorpion families, Buthidae has the most thoroughly characterized venoms. Most of this characterization, however, has been limited to species with medically significant stings, including members of the Centruroides genus, which have caused human deaths (e.g., Centruroides sculpturatus). To understand the origin and evolution of highly toxic venoms, we should also characterize the more harmless venoms of close relatives. We used Illumina sequencing to separately characterize the venom-gland transcriptomes of a male and female Hentz striped scorpion (Centruroides hentzi) and performed independent quantitative mass-spectrometry analysis of the venom from each individual, providing the first full venom characterization of a Centruroides species that poses no serious threat to humans. We identified 59 venom proteins that were proteomically confirmed, 63 additional transcripts that were identified on the basis of homology to known toxins, and 355 nontoxins expressed in the venom-glands. The most abundant toxins belonged to the Na(+) and K(+)-channel toxin classes. Antimicrobial peptides and peptidases were also identified, along with a large group of venom proteins that could not be classified based on homology, suggesting C. hentzi is a source of previously untapped toxin diversity.
PXD005833	29248718	Proteomic Characterization of Prostate Cancer to Distinguish Nonmetastasizing and Metastasizing Primary Tumors and Lymph Node Metastases. 	The Proteomic Fingerprint of Prostate Cancer in Primary Tumors and  Recurrent Lymph Node Metastases	Lymph node metastases, Prostate Cancer, immunohistochemistry, label free, shotgun proteomics	Patients with metastatic prostate cancer (PCa) have a poorer prognosis than patients with organ-confined tumors. We strove to uncover the proteome signature of primary PCa and associated lymph node metastases (LNMs) in order to identify proteins that may indicate or potentially promote metastases formation. We performed a proteomic comparative profiling of PCa tissue from radical prostatectomy (RPE) of patients without nodal metastases or relapse at the time of surgical resection (n=5) to PCa tissue from RPE of patients who suffered from nodal relapse (n=5). For the latter group, we also included patient-matched tissue of the nodal metastases. All samples were formalin fixed and paraffin embedded. We identified and quantified more than 1200 proteins by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry with subsequent label-free quantification. An increase of ribosomal or proteasomal proteins in LNM (compared to corresponding PCa) became apparent, while extracellular matrix components rather decreased. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) corroborated accumulation of poly-(ADP-ribose)-polymerase 1 and N-myc-downstream-regulated-gene 3, alpha/beta hydrolase domain-containing protein 11, and protein phosphatase slingshot homolog 3 in LNM. These findings strengthen the present interest in examining PARP inhibitors for the treatment of aggressive PCa. IHC also corroborated increased abundance of retinol dehydrogenase 11 in metastasized primary PCa compared to organ-confined PCa. Generally, metastasizing primary tumors were characterized by an enrichment of proteins involved in cellular lipid metabolic processes with concomitant decrease of cell adhesion proteins. This study highlights the usefulness of a combined proteomic-IHC approach to explore novel aspects in tumor biology. Our initial results open novel opportunities for follow-up studies.
PXD007862	29249144	BioSITe: A Method for Direct Detection and Quantitation of Site-Specific Biotinylation. 	BIOSITe: A novel method for direct detection of site specific biotinylation	BCR ABL, BioID, BioSITe, Biotinylation, IP, peptide, proximity dependent biotinylation	Biotin-based labeling strategies are widely employed to study protein-protein interactions, subcellular proteomes and post-translational modifications, as well as, used in drug discovery. While the high affinity of streptavidin for biotin greatly facilitates the capture of biotinylated proteins, it still presents a challenge, as currently employed, for the recovery of biotinylated peptides. Here we describe a strategy designated Biotinylation Site Identification Technology (BioSITe) for the capture of biotinylated peptides for LC-MS/MS analyses. We demonstrate the utility of BioSITe when applied to proximity-dependent labeling methods, APEX and BioID, as well as biotin-based click chemistry strategies for identifying O-GlcNAc-modified sites. We demonstrate the use of isotopically labeled biotin for quantitative BioSITe experiments that simplify differential interactome analysis and obviate the need for metabolic labeling strategies such as SILAC. Our data also highlight the potential value of site-specific biotinylation in providing spatial and topological information about proteins and protein complexes. Overall, we anticipate that BioSITe will replace the conventional methods in studies where detection of biotinylation sites is important.
PXD008108	29249356	Nudt21 Controls Cell Fate by Connecting Alternative Polyadenylation to Chromatin Signaling. 	Interacting protein identification	LCMS, immunoprecipitation	Cell fate transitions involve rapid gene expression changes and global chromatin remodeling, yet the underlying regulatory pathways remain incompletely understood. Here, we identified the RNA-processing factor Nudt21 as a novel regulator of cell fate change using transcription-factor-induced reprogramming as a screening assay. Suppression of Nudt21 enhanced the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells, facilitated transdifferentiation into trophoblast stem cells, and impaired differentiation of myeloid precursors and embryonic stem cells, suggesting a broader role for Nudt21 in cell fate change. We show that Nudt21 directs differential polyadenylation of over 1,500 transcripts in cells acquiring pluripotency, although only a fraction changed protein levels. Remarkably, these proteins were strongly enriched for chromatin regulators, and their suppression neutralized the effect of Nudt21 during reprogramming. Collectively, our data uncover Nudt21 as a novel post-transcriptional regulator of cell fate and establish a direct, previously unappreciated link between alternative polyadenylation and chromatin signaling.
PXD007684	29249665	FZD4 Marks Lateral Plate Mesoderm and Signals with NORRIN to Increase Cardiomyocyte Induction from Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Cardiac Progenitors. 	Cell Surface Capture of mouse PSC-derived Cardiac Progenitor Cells	cardiac progenitor cell, pluripotent stem cell	The identification of cell surface proteins on stem cells or stem cell derivatives is a key strategy for the functional characterization, isolation, and understanding of stem cell population dynamics. Here, using an integrated mass spectrometry- and microarray-based approach, we analyzed the surface proteome and transcriptome of cardiac progenitor cells (CPCs) generated from the stage-specific differentiation of mouse and human pluripotent stem cells. Through bioinformatics analysis, we have identified and characterized FZD4 as a marker for lateral plate mesoderm. Additionally, we utilized FZD4, in conjunction with FLK1 and PDGFRA, to further purify CPCs and increase cardiomyocyte (CM) enrichment in both mouse and human systems. Moreover, we have shown that NORRIN presented to FZD4 further increases CM output via proliferation through the canonical WNT pathway. Taken together, these findings demonstrate a role for FZD4 in mammalian cardiac development.
PXD005848	29251506	Scanning Quadrupole Data-Independent Acquisition, Part B: Application to the Analysis of the Calcineurin-Interacting Proteins during Treatment of Aspergillus fumigatus with Azole and Echinocandin Antifungal Drugs. 	Scanning Quadruople  DIA - aspergillus fumigatus	aspergillus fumigatus	Calcineurin is a critical cell-signaling protein that orchestrates growth, stress response, virulence, and antifungal drug resistance in several fungal pathogens. Blocking calcineurin signaling increases the efficacy of several currently available antifungals and suppresses drug resistance. We demonstrate the application of a novel scanning quadrupole DIA method for the analysis of changes in the proteins coimmunoprecipitated with calcineurin during therapeutic antifungal drug treatments of the deadly human fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. Our experimental design afforded an assessment of the precision of the method as demonstrated by peptide- and protein-centric analysis from eight replicates of the study pool QC samples. Two distinct classes of clinically relevant antifungal drugs that are guideline recommended for the treatment of invasive "aspergillosis" caused by Aspergillus fumigatus, the azoles (voriconazole) and the echinocandins (caspofungin and micafungin), which specifically target the fungal plasma membrane and the fungal cell wall, respectively, were chosen to distinguish variations occurring in the proteins coimmunoprecipitated with calcineurin. Novel potential interactors were identified in response to the different drug treatments that are indicative of the possible role for calcineurin in regulating these effectors. Notably, treatment with voriconazole showed increased immunoprecipitation of key proteins involved in membrane ergosterol biosynthesis with calcineurin. In contrast, echinocandin (caspofungin or micafungin) treatments caused increased immunoprecipitation of proteins involved in cell-wall biosynthesis and septation. Furthermore, abundant coimmunoprecipitation of ribosomal proteins with calcineurin occurred exclusively in echinocandins treatment, indicating reprogramming of cellular growth mechanisms during different antifungal drug treatments. While variations in the observed calcineurin immunoprecipitated proteins may also be due to changes in their expression levels under different drug treatments, this study suggests an important role for calcineurin-dependent cellular mechanisms in response to antifungal treatment of A. fumigatus that warrants future studies.
PXD008380	29251727	Labeling and identifying cell-specific proteomes in the mouse brain. 	Labelling and identifying cell-specific proteomes in the mouse brain	Enrichment, In-vivo, Labelling, Neuron, Unnatrual amino acid	We develop an approach to tag proteomes synthesized by specific cell types in dissociated cortex, brain slices, and the brains of live mice. By viral-mediated expression of an orthogonal pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase-tRNAXXX pair in a cell type of interest and providing a non-canonical amino acid with a chemical handle, we selectively label neuronal or glial proteomes. The method enables the identification of proteins from spatially and genetically defined regions of the brain.
PXD005913	29253183	Nuclear poly(A)-binding protein 1 is an ATM target and essential for DNA double-strand break repair. 	Nuclear poly(A)-binding protein 1 is an ATM target and essential for DNA double-strand break rep	DNA damage response, PABPN1	The DNA damage response (DDR) is an extensive signaling network that is robustly mobilized by DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). The primary transducer of the DSB response is the protein kinase, ataxia-telangiectasia, mutated (ATM). Here, we establish nuclear poly(A)-binding protein 1 (PABPN1) as a novel target of ATM and a crucial player in the DSB response. PABPN1 usually functions in regulation of RNA processing and stability. We establish that PABPN1 is recruited to the DDR as a critical regulator of DSB repair. A portion of PABPN1 relocalizes to DSB sites and is phosphorylated on Ser95 in an ATM-dependent manner. PABPN1 depletion sensitizes cells to DSB-inducing agents and prolongs the DSB-induced G2/M cell-cycle arrest, and DSB repair is hampered by PABPN1 depletion or elimination of its phosphorylation site. PABPN1 is required for optimal DSB repair via both nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination repair (HRR), and specifically is essential for efficient DNA-end resection, an initial, key step in HRR. Using mass spectrometry analysis, we capture DNA damage-induced interactions of phospho-PABPN1, including well-established DDR players as well as other RNA metabolizing proteins. Our results uncover a novel ATM-dependent axis in the rapidly growing interface between RNA metabolism and the DDR.
PXD007620	29255136	Specificity of Phosphorylation Responses to Mitogen Activated Protein (MAP) Kinase Pathway Inhibitors in Melanoma Cells. 	Specificity of phosphorylation responses to MAP kinase pathway inhibitors in melanoma cells, experiment 1 of 2	GDC0994, Melanoma, SCH772984, SILAC, selumetinib, trametinib	The BRAF-MKK1/2-ERK1/2 pathway is constitutively activated in response to oncogenic mutations of BRAF in many cancer types, including melanoma. Although small molecules that inhibit oncogenic BRAF and MAP kinase kinase (MKK)1/2 have been successful in clinical settings, resistance invariably develops. High affinity inhibitors of ERK1/2 have been shown in preclinical studies to bypass the resistance of melanoma and colon cancer cells to BRAF and MKK1/2 inhibitors, and are thus promising additions to current treatment protocols. But still unknown is how molecular responses to ERK1/2 inhibitors compare with inhibitors currently in clinical use. Here, we employ quantitative phosphoproteomics to evaluate changes in phosphorylation in response to the ERK inhibitors, SCH772984 and GDC0994, and compare these to the clinically used MKK1/2 inhibitor, trametinib. Combined with previous studies measuring phosphoproteomic responses to the MKK1/2 inhibitor, selumetinib, and the BRAF inhibitor, vemurafenib, the outcomes reveal key insights into pathway organization, phosphorylation specificity and off-target effects of these inhibitors. The results demonstrate linearity in signaling from BRAF to MKK1/2 and from MKK1/2 to ERK1/2. They identify likely targets of direct phosphorylation by ERK1/2, as well as inhibitor off-targets, including an off-target regulation of the p38alpha mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway by the MKK1/2 inhibitor, trametinib, at concentrations used in the literature but higher than in vivo drug concentrations. In addition, several known phosphorylation targets of ERK1/2 are insensitive to MKK or ERK inhibitors, revealing variability in canonical pathway responses between different cell systems. By comparing multiple inhibitors targeted to multiple tiers of protein kinases in the MAPK pathway, we gain insight into regulation and new targets of the oncogenic BRAF driver pathway in cancer cells, and a useful approach for evaluating the specificity of drugs and drug candidates.
PXD007984	29255150	RNA degradation by the plant RNA exosome involves both phosphorolytic and hydrolytic activities. 	Composition of Arabidopsis RNA exosomes having incorporated wild type or mutated myc-tagged RRP41 proteins	RNA degradation, RNA exosome, RRP41	The RNA exosome provides eukaryotic cells with an essential 3'-5' exoribonucleolytic activity, which processes or eliminates many classes of RNAs. Its nine-subunit core (Exo9) is structurally related to prokaryotic phosphorolytic exoribonucleases. Yet, yeast and animal Exo9s have lost the primordial phosphorolytic capacity and rely instead on associated hydrolytic ribonucleases for catalytic activity. Here, we demonstrate that Arabidopsis Exo9 has retained a distributive phosphorolytic activity, which contributes to rRNA maturation processes, the hallmark of exosome function. High-density mapping of 3' extremities of rRNA maturation intermediates reveals the intricate interplay between three exoribonucleolytic activities coordinated by the plant exosome. Interestingly, the analysis of RRP41 protein diversity across eukaryotes suggests that Exo9's intrinsic activity operates throughout the green lineage, and possibly in some earlier-branching non-plant eukaryotes. Our results reveal a remarkable evolutionary variation of this essential RNA degradation machine in eukaryotes.
PXD007848	29255173	The autophagy receptor ALLO-1 and the IKKE-1 kinase control clearance of paternal mitochondria in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	GFP-Trap-IP-phospho	GFP-Trap	In Caenorhabditis elegans embryos, paternally provided organelles, including mitochondria, are eliminated by a process of selective autophagy called allophagy, the mechanism by which mitochondrial DNA is inherited maternally. However, it remains unclear how paternal organelles are recognized and targeted for autophagy. Here, we identified an autophagy receptor for allophagy, ALLO-1. ALLO-1 is essential for autophagosome formation around paternal organelles and directly binds to the worm LC3 homologue LGG-1 through its LC3-interacting region (LIR) motif. After fertilization, ALLO-1 accumulates on the paternal organelles before autophagosome formation, and this localization depends on the ubiquitin modification of the paternal organelles. We also identified IKKE-1, a worm homologue of the TBK1 and IKKepsilon family kinase, as another critical regulator of allophagy. IKKE-1 interacts with ALLO-1, and the IKKE-1-dependent phosphorylation of ALLO-1 is important for paternal organelle clearance. Thus, we propose that ALLO-1 is the allophagy receptor whose function is regulated by IKKE-1-dependent phosphorylation.
PXD007942	29255264	Identification of H3K4me1-associated proteins at mammalian enhancers. 	Identification of H3 Lysine 4 Monomethylation Associated Proteins at Mammalian Enhancers	BAF, and Enhancers, monomethylation of Histone H3 at lysine 4 (H3K4me1)	Enhancers act to regulate cell-type-specific gene expression by facilitating the transcription of target genes. In mammalian cells, active or primed enhancers are commonly marked by monomethylation of histone H3 at lysine 4 (H3K4me1) in a cell-type-specific manner. Whether and how this histone modification regulates enhancer-dependent transcription programs in mammals is unclear. In this study, we conducted SILAC mass spectrometry experiments with mononucleosomes and identified multiple H3K4me1-associated proteins, including many involved in chromatin remodeling. We demonstrate that H3K4me1 augments association of the chromatin-remodeling complex BAF to enhancers in vivo and that, in vitro, H3K4me1-marked nucleosomes are more efficiently remodeled by the BAF complex. Crystal structures of the BAF component BAF45C indicate that monomethylation, but not trimethylation, is accommodated by BAF45C's H3K4-binding site. Our results suggest that H3K4me1 has an active role at enhancers by facilitating binding of the BAF complex and possibly other chromatin regulators.
PXD007250	29256016	On the Reproducibility of Label-Free Quantitative Cross-Linking/Mass Spectrometry. 	On the reproducibility of label-free quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry	Skyline, cross-linking, mass-spectrometry, quatitation	Quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry (QCLMS) is an emerging approach to study conformational changes of proteins and multi-subunit complexes. Distinguishing protein conformations requires reproducibly identifying and quantifying cross-linked peptides. Here we analyzed the variation between multiple cross-linking reactions using bis[sulfosuccinimidyl] suberate (BS(3))-cross-linked human serum albumin (HSA) and evaluated how reproducible cross-linked peptides can be identified and quantified by LC-MS analysis. To make QCLMS accessible to a broader research community, we developed a workflow that integrates the established software tools MaxQuant for spectra preprocessing, Xi for cross-linked peptide identification, and finally Skyline for quantification (MS1 filtering). Out of the 221 unique residue pairs identified in our sample, 124 were subsequently quantified across 10 analyses with coefficient of variation (CV) values of 14% (injection replica) and 32% (reaction replica). Thus our results demonstrate that the reproducibility of QCLMS is in line with the reproducibility of general quantitative proteomics and we establish a robust workflow for MS1-based quantitation of cross-linked peptides. Graphical Abstract  .
PXD004736	29256494	Biotinylation by antibody recognition-a method for proximity labeling. 	Biotinylation by antibody recognition - A novel method for proximity labeling	LMNA biotin proximiy labeling	The high-throughput detection of organelle composition and proteomic mapping of protein environment directly from primary tissue as well as the identification of interactors of insoluble proteins that form higher-order structures have remained challenges in biological research. We report a proximity-based labeling approach that uses an antibody to a target antigen to guide biotin deposition onto adjacent proteins in fixed cells and primary tissues, which allows proteins in close proximity to the target antigen to be captured and identified by mass spectrometry. We demonstrated the specificity and sensitivity of our method by examining the well-studied mitochondrial matrix. We then used the method to profile the dynamic interactome of lamin A/C in multiple cell and tissue types under various treatment conditions. The ability to detect proximal proteins and putative interactors in intact tissues, and to quantify changes caused by different conditions or in the presence of disease mutations, can provide a window into cell biology and disease pathogenesis.
PXD006632	29257953	Evolutionary Proteomics Uncovers Ancient Associations of Cilia with Signaling Pathways. 	Evolutionary proteomics uncovers ciliary signaling components	Choanoflagellate, Nematostella vectensis, Salpingoeca rosetta, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, cilia, evolution, sea anemone, sea urchin, signaling	Cilia are organelles specialized for movement and signaling. To infer when during evolution signaling pathways became associated with cilia, we characterized the proteomes of cilia from sea urchins, sea anemones, and choanoflagellates. We identified 437 high-confidence ciliary candidate proteins conserved in mammals and discovered that Hedgehog and G-protein-coupled receptor pathways were linked to cilia before the origin of bilateria and transient receptor potential (TRP) channels before the origin of animals. We demonstrated that candidates not previously implicated in ciliary biology localized to cilia and further investigated ENKUR, a TRP channel-interacting protein identified in the cilia of all three organisms. ENKUR localizes to motile cilia and is required for patterning the left-right axis in vertebrates. Moreover, mutation of ENKUR causes situs inversus in humans. Thus, proteomic profiling of cilia from diverse eukaryotes defines a conserved ciliary proteome, reveals ancient connections to signaling, and uncovers a ciliary protein that underlies development and human disease.
PXD008192	29258228	Multi-Omic Biogeography of the Gastrointestinal Microbiota of a Pre-Weaned Lamb. 	Multi-omic biogeography of the gastrointestinal microbiota of a pre-weaned lamb	Metaproteomics, microbial community, mucosa, ruminant, sheep	The digestive functions of the pre-weaned lamb gastrointestinal tracts (GITs) have been the subject of much research in recent years, but the microbial and host functions underlying these complex processes remain largely unknown. Here, we undertook a proof-of-principle metaproteogenomic investigation on luminal and mucosal samples collected from 10 GITs of a 30-day-old pre-weaned lamb. We demonstrate that the analysis of the diverse ecological niches along the GITs can reveal microbiota composition and metabolic functions, although low amounts of microbial proteins could be identified in the small intestinal and mucosal samples. Our data suggest that a 30-day lamb has already developed mature microbial functions in the forestomachs, while the effect of the milky diet appears to be more evident in the remaining GITs. We also report the distribution and the relative abundance of the host functions, active at the GIT level, with a special focus on those involved in digestive processes. In conclusion, this pilot study supports the suitability of a metaproteogenomic approach to the characterization of microbial and host functions of the lamb GITs, opening the way to further studies aimed at investigating the impact of early dietary interventions on the GIT microbiota of small ruminants.
PXD008245	29259000	Genes Important for Schizosaccharomyces pombe Meiosis Identified Through a Functional Genomics Screen. 	A functional genomics screen identifies genes required for Schizosaccharomyces pombe meiosis	Meiosis, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, chromosome segregation, sporulation	Meiosis is a specialized cell division that generates gametes, such as eggs and sperm. Errors in meiosis result in miscarriages and are the leading cause of birth defects; however, the molecular origins of these defects remain unknown. Studies in model organisms are beginning to identify the genes and pathways important for meiosis, but the parts list is still poorly defined. Here we present a comprehensive catalog of genes important for meiosis in the fission yeast, Schizosaccharomyces pombe Our genome-wide functional screen surveyed all nonessential genes for roles in chromosome segregation and spore formation. Novel genes important at distinct stages of the meiotic chromosome segregation and differentiation program were identified. Preliminary characterization implicated three of these genes in centrosome/spindle pole body, centromere, and cohesion function. Our findings represent a near-complete parts list of genes important for meiosis in fission yeast, providing a valuable resource to advance our molecular understanding of meiosis.
PXD003569	29260567	Stoichiometry, Absolute Abundance, and Localization of Proteins in the Bacillus cereus Spore Coat Insoluble Fraction Determined Using a QconCAT Approach. 	Stoichiometry and absolute abundance of proteins in the Bacillus cereus spore insoluble fraction determined using a QconCAT approach	Bacillus cereus, QconCAT, quantitative proteomics, spores	Spores of Bacillus cereus pose a threat to food safety due to their high resistance to the heat or acid treatments commonly used to make food microbiologically safe. Spores may survive these treatments and later resume growth either on foodstuffs or, after ingestion, upon entering the gut they are capable of producing toxins, which cause either vomiting or diarrhea. The outer layers of the spore, the spore coat and exosporium, consist primarily of proteins that may serve as potential biomarkers for detection. The major morphogenetic protein CotE is important for correct assembly and attachment of the outermost layer, the exosporium, and by extension retention of many proteins. However, characterization of the proteins affected by deletion of CotE has been limited to electrophoretic patterns. Here we report the effect of CotE deletion on the insoluble fraction of the spore proteome through liquid chromatography-Fourier transform tandem mass spectrometry (LC-FTMS/MS) analysis. A total of 560 proteins have been identified in both mutant and wild-type spore coat isolates. A further 163 proteins were identified exclusively in wild-type spore isolates indicating that they are dependent on CotE for their association with the spore. Several of these are newly confirmed as associated with the exosporium, namely BC_2569 (BclF), BC_3345, BC_2427, BC_2878, BC_0666, BC_2984, BC_3481, and BC_2570. A total of 153 proteins were only identified in DeltaCotE spore isolates. This was observed for proteins that are known or likely to be interacting with or are encased by CotE. Crucial spore proteins were quantified using a QconCAT reference standard, the first time this was used in a biochemically heterogeneous system. This allowed us to determine the absolute abundance of 21 proteins, which spanned across three orders of magnitude and together covered 5.66% +/- 0.51 of the total spore weight. Applying the QconCAT methodology to the DeltaCotE mutant allowed us to quantify 4.13% +/- 0.14 of the spore total weight and revealed a reduction in abundance for most known exosporium associated proteins upon CotE deletion. In contrast, several proteins, either known or likely to be interacting with or encased by CotE (i.e., GerQ), were more abundant. The results obtained provide deeper insight into the layered spore structure such as which proteins are exposed on the outside of the spore. This information is important for developing detection methods for targeting spores in a food safety setting. Furthermore, protein stoichiometry and determination of the abundance of germination mediating enzymes provides useful information for germination and outgrowth model development.
PXD007994	29260870	Reversible Lysine Derivatization Enabling Improved Arg-C Digestion, a Highly Specific Arg-C Digestion Using Trypsin. 	Reversible Lysine Derivatization Enables High Specificity of Arg-C Digestion Using Trypsin	Arg-C, Lys-C, citraconylation, trypsin	The bottom-up proteomics approach has become an important strategy in diverse areas of biological research, and the enzymatic digestion is essential for this technology. Endopeptidase Arg-C catalyzing the hydrolytic cleavage of peptide bonds C-terminal to arginine could be an important protease in bottom-up proteomics. However, it has been seldom applied due to its low specificity and high cost. In this report, the reversible amine derivatization method (citraconylation and decitraconylation) was introduced and optimized toward a real Arg-C digestion using trypsin. Combination of the reversible derivatization and trypsin digestion (termed iArg-C digestion for improved Arg-C digestion) resulted in 64.2% more peptide identification (11 925 +/- 199 vs 7262 +/- 59) and significantly higher cleavage specificity (95.6% vs 73.6%) than the conventional Arg-C digestion. Comparison of iArg-C digestion with the widely used trypsin and Lys-C digestion revealed that iArg-C performed slightly better than Lys-C although not comparable to trypsin. Therefore, the well-established iArg-C digestion method is a promising approach for proteomics studies and could be used as the prior alternative digestion method to trypsin digestion in order to achieve higher proteome coverage. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007994.
PXD005584	29263404	Identifying the ubiquitination targets of E6AP by orthogonal ubiquitin transfer. 	Identifying the Ubiquitination Targets of E6AP by Orthogonal Ubiquitin Transfer	IAP, Ubiquitin, conjugate	E3 ubiquitin (UB) ligases are the ending modules of the E1-E2-E3 cascades that transfer UB to cellular proteins and regulate their biological functions. Identifying the substrates of an E3 holds the key to elucidate its role in cell regulation. Here, we construct an orthogonal UB transfer (OUT) cascade to identify the substrates of E6AP, a HECT E3 also known as Ube3a that is implicated in cancer and neurodevelopmental disorders. We use yeast cell surface display to engineer E6AP to exclusively transfer an affinity-tagged UB variant (xUB) to its substrate proteins. Proteomic identification of xUB-conjugated proteins in HEK293 cells affords 130 potential E6AP targets. Among them, we verify that MAPK1, CDK1, CDK4, PRMT5, beta-catenin, and UbxD8 are directly ubiquitinated by E6AP in vitro and in the cell. Our work establishes OUT as an efficient platform to profile E3 substrates and reveal the cellular circuits mediated by the E3 enzymes.
PXD007126	29269415	Identification of a precursor processing protease from the spider Cupiennius salei essential for venom neurotoxin maturation. 	Identification of a precursor processing protease from the spider Cupiennius salei essential for venom neurotoxin maturation	Cupiennius salei, PQM, enzyme purification, iPQM, neurotoxin, processing quadruplet motif, propeptide, protease, venom	Spider venom neurotoxins and cytolytic peptides are expressed as elongated precursor peptides, which are post-translationally processed by proteases to yield the active mature peptides. The recognition motifs for these processing proteases, first published more than 10 years ago, include the processing quadruplet motif (PQM) and the inverted processing quadruplet motif (iPQM). However, the identification of the relevant proteases was still pending. Here we describe the purification of a neurotoxin precursor processing protease from the venom of the spider Cupiennius salei The chymotrypsin-like serine protease is a 28-kDa heterodimer with optimum activity at venom's pH of 6.0. We designed multiple synthetic peptides mimicking the predicted cleavage sites of neurotoxin precursors. Using these peptides as substrates, we confirm the biochemical activity of the protease in propeptide removal from neurotoxin precursors by cleavage C-terminal of the PQM. Furthermore, the PQM protease also cleaves the iPQM relevant for heterodimerization of a subgroup of neurotoxins. An involvement in the maturing of cytolytic peptides is very likely, due to high similarity of present protease recognition motifs. Finally, bioinformatics analysis, identifying sequences of homolog proteins from 18 spiders of 9 families, demonstrate the wide distribution and importance of the isolated enzyme for spiders. In summary, we establish the first example of a PQM protease, essential for maturing of spider venom neurotoxins. In the future, the here described protease may be established as a powerful tool for production strategies of recombinant toxic peptides, adapted to the maturing of spider venom toxins.
PXD003112	29269732	Systems analysis identifies melanoma-enriched pro-oncogenic networks controlled by the RNA binding protein CELF1. 	Quantitative proteomics of CELF1-silenced human melanoma cell lines	CELF1, Velos Orbitrap, iTRAQ, melanoma	Melanomas are well-known for their altered mRNA expression profiles. Yet, the specific contribution of mRNA binding proteins (mRBPs) to melanoma development remains unclear. Here we identify a cluster of melanoma-enriched genes under the control of CUGBP Elav-like family member 1 (CELF1). CELF1 was discovered with a distinct prognostic value in melanoma after mining the genomic landscape of the 692 known mRBPs across different cancer types. Genome-wide transcriptomic, proteomic, and RNA-immunoprecipitation studies, together with loss-of-function analyses in cell lines, and histopathological evaluation in clinical biopsies, revealed an intricate repertoire of CELF1-RNA interactors with minimal overlap with other malignancies. This systems approach uncovered the oncogene DEK as an unexpected target and downstream effector of CELF1. Importantly, CELF1 and DEK were found to represent early-induced melanoma genes and adverse indicators of overall patient survival. These results underscore novel roles of CELF1 in melanoma, illustrating tumor type-restricted functions of RBPs in cancer.
PXD007975	29270132	Discovery of a Potential Plasma Protein Biomarker Panel for Acute-on-Chronic Liver Failure Induced by Hepatitis B Virus. 	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Plasma Samples from Chronic Hepatitis B and Chronic Liver Failure Patients for Biomarker Discovery	CHB, HBV-ACLF, biomarker., iTRAQ	Hepatitis B virus (HBV)-associated acute-on-chronic liver failure (HBV-ACLF), characterized by an acute deterioration of liver function in the patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB), is lack of predicting biomarkers for prognosis. Plasma is an ideal sample for biomarker discovery due to inexpensive and minimally invasive sampling and good reproducibility. In this study, immuno-depletion of high-abundance plasma proteins followed by iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic approach was employed to analyze plasma samples from 20 healthy control people, 20 CHB patients and 20 HBV-ACLF patients, respectively. As a result, a total of 427 proteins were identified from these samples, and 42 proteins were differentially expressed in HBV-ACLF patients as compared to both CHB patients and healthy controls. According to bioinformatics analysis results, 6 proteins related to immune response (MMR), inflammatory response (OPN, HPX), blood coagulation (ATIII) and lipid metabolism (APO-CII, GP73) were selected as biomarker candidates. Further ELISA analysis confirmed the significant up-regulation of GP73, MMR, OPN and down-regulation of ATIII, HPX, APO-CII in HBV-ACLF plasma samples (p < 0.01). Moreover, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis revealed high diagnostic value of these candidates in assessing HBV-ACLF. In conclusion, present quantitative proteomic study identified 6 novel HBV-ACLF biomarker candidates and might provide fundamental information for development of HBV-ACLF biomarker.
PXD002600	29270287	Hypoxic 3D in vitro culture models reveal distinct resistance processes to TKIs in renal cancer cells. 	Protein expression in TKI-resistant RCC cells.	kidney cancer, label free, stem cell	BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to determine the effect of hypoxia on axitinib and sorafenib-treated renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cells. Hypoxia is a crucial factor influencing transcription process via protein modulation, which was shown i.e. in pancreatic cancer. Until now, hypoxia has been defined as associated with poorer outcome and inducing chemotherapy resistance in solid tumors. The unique phenomenon of pseudo-hypoxia connected with vhl mutation was observed in clear-cell, but not in papillary RCC, and the treatment of this subtype of cancer is still challenging. Despite the introduction of new antiangiogenic targeted therapies (inter alia tyrosine kinase inhibitors, TKIs), patients still develop both primary and acquired resistance. Overcoming resistance to TKIs, also in papillary RCC, may be possible by finding significantly modified protein expression. To do this, hypoxic 3D in vitro models must be developed to mimic both molecular pathways typical for low oxygen tension and cell-cell dynamics in tumor-like spatial structures. RESULTS: Clear-cell and papillary renal cell carcinoma (cc and pRCC) cell lines were used in the study to determine the impact of hypoxia on primary drug resistance phenomenon previously observed in papillary, but not in ccRCC. Resistance was confirmed in monolayer culture and in 3D models in soft agar and suspension culture. Human papillary kidney cancer stem-like cells (HKCSCs) cultured in hypoxia developed resistance to sorafenib, while when cultured in normoxia resistance to axitinib has developed. Flow cytometry revealed that hypoxia decreased proliferation rates in all investigated RCC cells. In HKCSCs, there was an increase of quiescent cells (Ki67-) and percentage of cells arrested in S phase. It also appeared that map2k1 and eif4b protein expression is altered in papillary RCC resistant to tested drugs at different oxygen tensions. Also, HKCSCs did not express vegfr-1, braf nor c-kit, TKIs target receptors, which were present in ccRCC cells sensitive to TKI treatment. CONCLUSIONS: The results confirm that low oxygen tension affects RCC cells. Hypoxia facilitates induction of sorafenib resistance in pRCC and induces map2k1 overexpression, while normoxic axitinib-resistant cells up-regulated eif4b. Further studies may determine if map2k1 or eif4b proteins play a role in pRCC resistance to TKIs. It is also of interest to establish if other than vegfr-1, braf, c-kit receptors can serve as potential molecular targets for more effective anti-RCC strategies.
PXD006678	29273780	Extracellular ATP elicits DORN1-mediated RBOHD phosphorylation to regulate stomatal aperture. 	Extracellular ATP elicits DORN1-mediated RBOHD phosphorylation to regulate stomatal aperture	Phosphorylation, Plant, Purinergic signaling, purinoceptors kinase	In addition to acting as a cellular energy source, ATP can also act as a damage-associated molecular pattern in both animals and plants. Stomata are leaf pores that control gas exchange and, therefore, impact critical functions such as photosynthesis, drought tolerance, and also are the preferred entry point for pathogens. Here we show the addition of ATP leads to the rapid closure of leaf stomata and enhanced resistance to the bacterial pathogen Psuedomonas syringae. This response is mediated by ATP recognition by the receptor DORN1, followed by direct phosphorylation of the NADPH oxidase RBOHD, resulting in elevated production of reactive oxygen species and stomatal closure. Mutation of DORN1 phosphorylation sites on RBOHD eliminates the ability of ATP to induce stomatal closure. The data implicate purinergic signaling via DORN1 in the control of stomatal aperture with important implications for the control of plant photosynthesis, water homeostasis, pathogen resistance, and ultimately yield.
PXD008122	29274231	Structural insights into the assembly and polyA signal recognition mechanism of the human CPSF complex. 	Structural insights into the assembly and polyA signal recognition mechanism of the human CPSF complex	Chemical cross-linking, DSS, RNA, polyA, structural proteomics	3' polyadenylation is a key step in eukaryotic mRNA biogenesis. In mammalian cells, this process is dependent on the recognition of the hexanucleotide AAUAAA motif in the pre-mRNA polyadenylation signal by the cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF) complex. A core CPSF complex comprising CPSF160, WDR33, CPSF30 and Fip1 is sufficient for AAUAAA motif recognition, yet the molecular interactions underpinning its assembly and mechanism of PAS recognition are not understood. Based on cross-linking-coupled mass spectrometry, crystal structure of the CPSF160-WDR33 subcomplex and biochemical assays, we define the molecular architecture of the core human CPSF complex, identifying specific domains involved in inter-subunit interactions. In addition to zinc finger domains in CPSF30, we identify using quantitative RNA-binding assays an N-terminal lysine/arginine-rich motif in WDR33 as a critical determinant of specific AAUAAA motif recognition. Together, these results shed light on the function of CPSF in mediating PAS-dependent RNA cleavage and polyadenylation.
PXD008034	29274402	Proteome analysis of an Escherichia coli ptsN-null strain under different nitrogen regimes. 	Proteome analysis of Escherichia coli ptsN-null strain under different nitrogen regimes	Ntr, PII, PTS, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, machine learning, nitrogen	The carbohydrate-uptake phosphorelay PTS system plays a key role in metabolic regulation in Bacteria controlling the utilization of secondary carbon sources. Some bacteria, such as Escherichia coli, encode a paralogous system named PTS(Ntr) (nitrogen related PTS). PTS(Ntr) is composed of EI(Ntr) (ptsP), NPr (ptsO), and EIIA(Ntr) (ptsN). These proteins act as a phosphorelay system from phosphoenolpyruvate to EI(Ntr), NPr and them to EIIA(Ntr). PTS(Ntr) is not involved in carbohydrate uptake and it may be dedicated to performing regulatory functions. The phosphorylation state of EI(Ntr) is regulated by allosteric binding of glutamine and 2-oxoglutarate, metabolites whose intracellular levels reflect the nitrogen status. Although PTS(Ntr) is designated as having nitrogen-sensory properties, no major effect of this system on nitrogen regulation has been described in E. coli. Here we show that an E. coli ptsN deletion mutant has impaired growth in minimal medium. Proteome analysis of the incrementptsN strain under different nitrogen regimes revealed no involvement in regulation of the canonical nitrogen regulatory (Ntr) system. The proteomic data support the conclusion that ptsN is required to balance the activities of the sigma factors RpoS and RpoD in such way that, in the absence of ptsN, RpoS-dependent genes are preferentially expressed. SIGNIFICANCE: The nitrogen related PTS(Ntr) phosphorelay system has been hypothesized to participate in the control of nitrogen metabolism. Here we used a proteomics approach to show that an Escherichia coli ptsN null strain, which misses the final module of PTS(Ntr) phosphorelay, has no significant effects on nitrogen metabolism under different nitrogen regimes. We noted that ptsN is required for fitness under minimal medium and for the proper balance between RpoS and sigma 70 activities in such way that, in the absence of ptsN, RpoS-dependent genes are preferentially expressed.
PXD006308	29274750	Rabbit seminal plasma proteome: The importance of the genetic origin. 	COMPARISON OF RABBIT SEMINAL PLASMA PROTEOME BETWEEN GENETIC LINES AND SEASONS	genetic line, rabbit, season, seminal plasma	The present study was conducted to characterise rabbit seminal plasma proteins (SP proteins) focusing on the influence of the genetic origin and seasonality. In addition, beta-NGF protein quantity in SP was determined. Semen samples were recovered from January to December 2014 using 6 males belonging to genotype A and six from genotype R. For each genotype, one pooled sample at the beginning, middle and end of each season was selected to develop the experiment. A total of 24 pools (3 for each season and genetic line) were analysed. SP proteins of the two experimental groups were recovered and subjected to in-solution digestion nano LC-MS/MS and bioinformatics analysis. The resulting library included 402 identified proteins validated with >=95% Confidence (unused Score >= 1.3). These data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006308. Only 6 proteins were specifically implicated in reproductive processes according to Gene Ontology annotation. Twenty-three proteins were differentially expressed between genotypes, 11 over-expressed in genotype A and 12 in genotype R. Regarding the effect of season on rabbit SP proteome, results showed that there is no clear pattern of protein variation throughout the year. Similar beta-NGF relative quantity was observed between seasons and genotypes. In conclusion, this study generates the largest library of SP proteins reported to date in rabbits and provides evidence that genotype is related to a specific abundance of SP proteins.
PXD007265	29275043	Signatures of protein expression revealed by secretome analyses of cancer associated fibroblasts and melanoma cell lines. 	Human melanoma cell lines secretome analysis	cancer, melanoma, secretome	The imbalance of cellular homeostasis during oncogenesis together with the high heterogeneity of tumor-associated stromal cells have a marked effect on the repertoire of the proteins secreted by malignant cells (the secretome). Hence, the study of tumoral secretomes provides insights for understanding the cross-talk between cells within the tumor microenvironment as well as the key effectors for the establishment of the pre-metastatic niche in distant tumor sites. In this context, we performed a proteomic analysis of the secretomes derived from four cell lines: a paired set of fibroblasts - Hs 895. T, a cell line obtained from a lung node metastatic site from a patient who had melanoma and Hs 895.Sk, a skin fibroblast cell line (derived from the same patient); two malignant metastatic melanoma cell lines - A375, a malignant melanoma cell line from primary source and SH-4, a cell line derived from pleural effusion of a patient with metastatic melanoma. Clustering of expression profiles together with functional enrichment analysis resulted in patterns that mirrored each cell type. In addition, these patterns might be the result of cell-specific protein expression programs and reveal the emergence of trends in the co-expression of functionally related proteins in cellular melanoma models. SIGNIFICANCE: Melanoma is an aggressive skin cancer and a lethal melanocytic neoplasm with increasing annual number of cases, faster than any other solid tumor. In this context, the imbalance of cellular homeostasis during oncogenesis together with the high heterogeneity of tumor-associated stromal cells have a marked effect on the repertoire of the proteins secreted by malignant cells (the secretome). Therefore, the identification of protein expression patterns in malignant cells together with functional enrichment analysis provide insights into cell-specific protein expression programs and may reveal the emergence of trends in the co-expression of functionally related proteins regardless of cell type. Moreover, the identification of networks of protein interactions together with their expression profiles can be used for the targeted analysis of co-expressed proteins, allowing the identification of regulatory motifs in melanoma protein-protein interaction networks.
PXD007695	29275994	A Proximity Labeling Strategy Provides Insights into the Composition and Dynamics of Lipid Droplet Proteomes. 	Lipid droplet-targeted APEX proteome	APEX, ERAD, Lipid droplet	Lipid droplet (LD) functions are regulated by a complement of integral and peripheral proteins that associate with the bounding LD phospholipid monolayer. Defining the composition of the LD proteome has remained a challenge due to the presence of contaminating proteins in LD-enriched buoyant fractions. To overcome this limitation, we developed a proximity labeling strategy that exploits LD-targeted APEX2 to biotinylate LD proteins in living cells. Application of this approach to two different cell types identified the vast majority of previously validated LD proteins, excluded common contaminating proteins, and revealed new LD proteins. Moreover, quantitative analysis of LD proteome dynamics uncovered a role for endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation in controlling the composition of the LD proteome. These data provide an important resource for future LD studies and demonstrate the utility of proximity labeling to study the regulation of LD proteomes.
PXD006129	29276171	Bifidobacteria or Fiber Protects against Diet-Induced Microbiota-Mediated Colonic Mucus Deterioration. 	Fiber-associated microbiota protects against diet-induced amelioration of the colonic mucus barrier	Gut microbiota, Metaproteomics, Western diet, barrier function, diet-microbe-host interaction, fiber, metabolic disease, mucus layer, obesity	Diet strongly affects gut microbiota composition, and gut bacteria can influence the colonic mucus layer, a physical barrier that separates trillions of gut bacteria from the host. However, the interplay between a Western style diet (WSD), gut microbiota composition, and the intestinal mucus layer is less clear. Here we show that mice fed a WSD have an altered colonic microbiota composition that causes increased penetrability and a reduced growth rate of the inner mucus layer. Both barrier defects can be prevented by transplanting microbiota from chow-fed mice. In addition, we found that administration of Bifidobacterium longum was sufficient to restore mucus growth, whereas administration of the fiber inulin prevented increased mucus penetrability in WSD-fed mice. We hypothesize that the presence of distinct bacteria is crucial for proper mucus function. If confirmed in humans, these findings may help to better understand diseases with an affected mucus layer, such as ulcerative colitis.
PXD008200	29276520	Combined (15)N-Labeling and TandemMOAC Quantifies Phosphorylation of MAP Kinase Substrates Downstream of MKK7 in Arabidopsis. 	Combined 15N-Labelling and TandemMOAC Quantifies Phosphorylation of MAP Kinase Substrates Downstream of MKK7 in Arabidopsis	15N labeling, MAPK, MPK Substrate, Phosphoproteomics, Tandem MOAC	Reversible protein phosphorylation is a widespread posttranslational modification that plays a key role in eukaryotic signal transduction. Due to the dynamics of protein abundance, low stoichiometry and transient nature of protein phosphorylation, the detection and accurate quantification of substrate phosphorylation by protein kinases remains a challenge in phosphoproteome research. Here, we combine tandem metal-oxide affinity chromatography (tandemMOAC) with stable isotope (15)N metabolic labeling for the measurement and accurate quantification of low abundant, transiently phosphorylated peptides by mass spectrometry. Since tandemMOAC is not biased toward the enrichment of acidophilic, basophilic, or proline-directed kinase substrates, the method is applicable to identify targets of all these three types of protein kinases. The MKK7-MPK3/6 module, for example, is involved in the regulation of plant development and plant basal and systemic immune responses, but little is known about downstream cascade components. Using our here described phosphoproteomics approach we identified several MPK substrates downstream of the MKK7-MPK3/6 phosphorylation cascade in Arabidopsis. The identification and validation of dynamin-related protein 2 as a novel phosphorylation substrate of the MKK7-MPK3/6 module establishes a novel link between MPK signaling and clathrin-mediated vesicle trafficking.
PXD007189	29277563	The physiology of Agaricus bisporus in semi-commercial compost cultivation appears to be highly conserved among unrelated isolates. 	The physiology of Agaricus bisporus in semi-commercial compost cultivation appears to be highly conserved among unrelated isolates	Agaricus bisporus, CAZy genes, compost, physiology	The white button mushroom Agaricus bisporus is one of the most widely produced edible fungus with a great economical value. Its commercial cultivation process is often performed on wheat straw and animal manure based compost that mainly contains lignocellulosic material as a source of carbon and nutrients for the mushroom production. As a large portion of compost carbohydrates are left unused in the current mushroom cultivation process, the aim of this work was to study wild-type A. bisporus strains for their potential to convert the components that are poorly utilized by the commercial strain A15. We therefore focused our analysis on the stages where the fungus is producing fruiting bodies. Growth profiling was used to identify A. bisporus strains with different abilities to use plant biomass derived polysaccharides, as well as to transport and metabolize the corresponding monomeric sugars. Six wild-type isolates with diverse growth profiles were compared for mushroom production to A15 strain in semi-commercial cultivation conditions. Transcriptome and proteome analyses of the three most interesting wild-type strains and A15 indicated that the unrelated A. bisporus strains degrade and convert plant biomass polymers in a highly similar manner. This was also supported by the chemical content of the compost during the mushroom production process. Our study therefore reveals a highly conserved physiology for unrelated strains of this species during growth in compost.
PXD007229	29277971	Intake of Fish Oil Specifically Modulates Colonic Muc2 Expression in Middle-Aged Rats by Suppressing the Glycosylation Process. 	Rat colon LC-MSMS -  Intake of Fish Oil Specifically Modulates Colonic Muc2 Expression in Middle-Aged Rats by Suppressing the Glycosylation Process	Rat, colon	SCOPE: Dietary fats have been shown to affect gut microbiota composition and aging gene expression of middle-aged rats at a normal dose, but little is known about such an effect on gut barrier. In this study, the changes in colonic Muc2 expression are investigated and the underlying mechanism is also proposed. METHODS AND RESULTS: 36 middle-aged Sprague-Dawley rats are assigned to one of the diets containing soybean oil, lard, or fish oil (4%). The rats are fed for 5 weeks and then goblet cells, Muc2 expression, and inflammatory cytokines in the colon are measured. Proteome analysis is performed. Compared with the lard and soybean oil diet groups, intake of fish oil decreases the number of goblet cells, and inhibits Muc2 and TLRs expression in the colon of middle-aged rats, which would impair mucus barrier. Several key enzymes involved in glycosylation process, including Agr2, Gale, Gne, Pmm2, Pdxdc1, Plch1, Pfkp, Cmpk1, and Rexo2, show the lowest abundance in the fish oil diet group. CONCLUSION: Intake of fish oil at a normal dose downregulates colonic Muc2 expression. This negative effect of fish oil may involve the suppression of mucin glycosylation process.
PXD006297	29278294	Chemotherapy Immunophenoprofiles in Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer by Personalized Membrane Proteomics. 	Membrane Proteome Profiling of Peripheral Immune Cells in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients Treated with First Line Combination Chemotherapy	immune cell profiling, llung adenocarcinoma, membrane proteomics	OBJECTIVES: No study has addressed how the immune status at the molecular level is affected by first-line pemetrexed and cisplatin (PEM-CIS) combination therapy in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Thus, we aimed to identify the immune status from membrane proteome alterations in patients with NSCLC upon PEM-CIS treatment. METHODS: The paired peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were collected from four patients with lung adenocarcinoma before and after the first regimen of PEM-CIS treatment and applied quantitative membrane proteomics analysis. RESULT: In the personalized PBMC membrane proteome profiles, 2424 proteins were identified as displaying patient-specific responsive patterns. We discovered an elevated neutrophil activity and a more suppressive T-cell phenotype with the downregulation of cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4 degradation and the upregulation of type 2 T-helper and T-regulatory cells in the patient with the highest progression-free survival (PFS) of 14.5 months. Patients with a PFS of 2 months showed higher expressions of T-cell subsets, MHC class II pathways, and T-cell receptor signaling, which indicated an activated immune status. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Without the additional isolation of specific immune cell populations, our study demonstrated that PEM-CIS chemotherapy altered patients' immune system in terms of neutrophils, T cells, and antigen presentation pathways.
PXD007825	29280593	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis in Candida albicans Using SILAC-Based Mass Spectrometry. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis in Candida albicans using SILAC-based mass spectrometry	Candida albicans, Cdc14, SILAC, nativeSILAC	Stable isotope labelling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) in conjunction with MS analysis is a sensitive and reliable technique for quantifying relative differences in protein abundance and posttranslational modifications between cell populations. We develop and utilise SILAC-MS workflows for quantitative proteomics in the fungal pathogen Candida albicans. Arginine metabolism provides important cues for escaping host defences during pathogenesis, which limits the use of auxotrophs in Candida research. Our strategy eliminates the need for engineering arginine auxotrophs for SILAC experiments and allows the use of ARG4 as selectable marker during strain construction. Cells that are auxotrophic for lysine are successfully labelled with both lysine and arginine stable isotopes. We find that prototrophic C. albicans preferentially uses exogenous arginine and down-regulates internal production, which allow it to achieve high incorporation rates. However, similar to other yeast, C. albicans is able to metabolise heavy arginine to heavy proline, which compromised the accuracy of protein quantification. A computational method is developed to correct for the incorporation of heavy proline. In addition, we utilise the developed SILAC labelling in C. albicans for the global quantitative proteomic analysis of a strain expressing a phosphatase-dead mutant Cdc14(PD) .
PXD007633	29285300	Renal oncocytoma characterized by the defective complex I of the respiratory chain boosts the synthesis of the ROS scavenger glutathione. 	Renal oncocytoma characterized by the defective complex I of the respiratory chain  boosts the synthesis of the ROS scavenger glutathione	Renal oncocytoma - Complex I deficiency - Glutathione metabolism - mtDNA mutation	Renal oncocytomas are rare benign tumors of the kidney and characterized by a deficient complex I (CI) enzyme activity of the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system caused by mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations. Yet, little is known about the underlying molecular mechanisms and alterations of metabolic pathways in this tumor. We compared renal oncocytomas with adjacent matched normal kidney tissues on a global scale by multi-omics approaches, including whole exome sequencing (WES), proteomics, metabolomics, and metabolic pathway simulation. The abundance of proteins localized to mitochondria increased more than 2-fold, the only exception was a strong decrease in the abundance for CI subunits that revealed several pathogenic heteroplasmic mtDNA mutations by WES. We also observed renal oncocytomas to dysregulate main metabolic pathways, shunting away from gluconeogenesis and lipid metabolism. Nevertheless, the abundance of energy carrier molecules such as NAD(+), NADH, NADP, ATP, and ADP were significantly higher in renal oncocytomas. Finally, a substantial 5000-fold increase of the reactive oxygen species scavenger glutathione can be regarded as a new hallmark of renal oncocytoma. Our findings demonstrate that renal oncocytomas undergo a metabolic switch to eliminate ATP consuming processes to ensure a sufficient energy supply for the tumor.
PXD008407	29286311	Comparative Proteomics Analysis of Urine Reveals Down-Regulation of Acute Phase Response Signaling and LXR/RXR Activation Pathways in Prostate Cancer. 	LC-MSMS analysis of human urine to identify early diagnostic biomarkers for prostate cancer	Prostate cancer, Urine, diagnostic biomarkers	Detecting prostate cancer (PCa) using non-invasive diagnostic markers still remains a challenge. The aim of this study was the identification of urine proteins that are sufficiently sensitive and specific to detect PCa in the early stages. Comparative proteomics profiling of urine from patients with PCa, benign prostate hyperplasia, bladder cancer, and renal cancer, coupled with bioinformatics analysis, were performed. Statistically significant difference in abundance showed 20 and 85 proteins in the 2-D DIGE/MS and label-free LC-MS/MS experiments, respectively. In silico analysis indicated activation, binding, and cell movement of subset of immune cells as the top affected cellular functions in PCa, together with the down-regulation of Acute Phase Response Signaling and Liver X Receptor/ Retinoid X Receptor (LXR/RXR) activation pathways. The most promising biomarkers were 35, altered in PCa when compared to more than one group. Half of these have confirmed localization in normal or PCa tissues. Twenty proteins (CD14, AHSG, ENO1, ANXA1, CLU, COL6A1, C3, FGA, FGG, HPX, PTGDS, S100A9, LMAN2, ITIH4, ACTA2, GRN, HBB, PEBP1, CTSB, SPP1) are oncogenes, tumor suppressors, and multifunctional proteins with highly confirmed involvement in PCa, while 9 (AZU1, IGHG1, RNASE2, PZP, REG1A, AMY1A, AMY2A, ACTG2, COL18A1) have been associated with different cancers, but not with PCa so far, and may represent novel findings. LC-MS/MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008407.
PXD008510	29288089	Exploring the molecular complexity of Triatoma dimidiata sialome. 	Triatoma dimidiata salivary glands LC-MSMS	Saliva, Salivary glands, Triatoma dimidiata	Triatoma dimidiata, a Chagas disease vector widely distributed along Central America, has great capability for domestic adaptation as the majority of specimens caught inside human dwellings or in peridomestic areas fed human blood. Exploring the salivary compounds that overcome host haemostatic and immune responses is of great scientific interest. Here, we provide a deeper insight into its salivary gland molecules. We used high-throughput RNA sequencing to examine in depth the T. dimidiata salivary gland transcriptome. From >51 million reads assembled, 92.21% are related to putative secreted proteins. Lipocalin is the most abundant gene family, confirming it is an expanded family in Triatoma genus salivary repertoire. Other putatively secreted members include phosphatases, odorant binding protein, hemolysin, proteases, protease inhibitors, antigen-5 and antimicrobial peptides. This work expands the previous set of functionally annotated sequences from T. dimidiata salivary glands available in NCBI from 388 to 3815. Additionally, we complemented the salivary analysis through proteomics (available data via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008510), disclosing the set complexity of 119 secreted proteins and validating the transcriptomic results. Our large-scale approach enriches the pharmacologically active molecules database and improves our knowledge about the complexity of salivary compounds from haematophagous vectors and their biological interactions. SIGNIFICANCE: Several haematophagous triatomine species can transmit Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease. Due to the reemergence of this disease, new drugs for its prevention and treatment are considered priorities. For this reason, the knowledge of vector saliva emerges as relevant biological finding, contributing to the design of different strategies for vector control and disease transmission. Here we report the transcriptomic and proteomic compositions of the salivary glands (sialome) of the reduviid bug Triatoma dimidiata, a relevant Chagas disease vector in Central America. Our results are robust and disclosed unprecedented insights into the notable diversity of its salivary glands content, revealing relevant anti-haemostatic salivary gene families. Our work expands almost ten times the previous set of functionally annotated sequences from T. dimidiata salivary glands available in NCBI. Moreover, using an integrated transcriptomic and proteomic approach, we showed a correlation pattern of transcription and translation processes for the main gene families found, an important contribution to the research of triatomine sialomes. Furthermore, data generated here reinforces the secreted proteins encountered can greatly contribute for haematophagic habit, Trypanosoma cruzi transmission and development of therapeutic agent studies.
PXD005254	29288232	N-Glycoproteomic Characterization of Mannosidase and Xylosyltransferase Mutant Strains of Chlamydomonasreinhardtii. 	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii Mannosidase 1A and Xylosyltransferase1A N-glycosylation LC/MS-MS	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, N-gylcoproteomics	At present, only little is known about the enzymatic machinery required for N-glycosylation in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, leading to the formation of N-glycans harboring Xyl and methylated Man. This machinery possesses new enzymatic features, as C. reinhardtii N-glycans are independent of beta1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I. Here we have performed comparative N-glycoproteomic analyses of insertional mutants of mannosidase 1A (IM Man1A ) and xylosyltransferase 1A (IM XylT1A ). The disruption of man1A affected methylation of Man and the addition of terminal Xyl. The absence of XylT1A led to shorter N-glycans compared to the wild type. The use of a IM Man1A xIM XylT1A double mutant revealed that the absence of Man1A suppressed the IM XylT1A phenotype, indicating that the increased N-glycan trimming is regulated by core beta1,2-Xyl and is dependent on Man1A activity. These data point toward an enzymatic cascade in the N-glycosylation pathway of C. reinhardtii with interlinked roles of Man1A and XylT1A. The results described herein represent the first step toward a functional characterization of the enzymatic N-glycosylation machinery in C. reinhardtii.
PXD003746	29290610	Reciprocal Regulation of the TOR Kinase and ABA Receptor Balances Plant Growth and Stress Response. 	Reciprocal regulation of the TOR kinase and ABA receptor balances plant growth and stress response	ABA Receptor, Abscisic Acid, Phosphorylation, Raptor, SnRK2, Target of Rapamycin	As sessile organisms, plants must adapt to variations in the environment. Environmental stress triggers various responses, including growth inhibition, mediated by the plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA). The mechanisms that integrate stress responses with growth are poorly understood. Here, we discovered that the Target of Rapamycin (TOR) kinase phosphorylates PYL ABA receptors at a conserved serine residue to prevent activation of the stress response in unstressed plants. This phosphorylation disrupts PYL association with ABA and with PP2C phosphatase effectors, leading to inactivation of SnRK2 kinases. Under stress, ABA-activated SnRK2s phosphorylate Raptor, a component of the TOR complex, triggering TOR complex dissociation and inhibition. Thus, TOR signaling represses ABA signaling and stress responses in unstressed conditions, whereas ABA signaling represses TOR signaling and growth during times of stress. Plants utilize this conserved phospho-regulatory feedback mechanism to optimize the balance of growth and stress responses.
PXD006605	29291729	Insights into the molecular regulation of monolignol-derived product biosynthesis in the growing hemp hypocotyl. 	Insights In The Molecular Regulation Of Monolignol-derived Product Biosynthesis In The Growing Hemp Hypocotyl	Cannabis sativa, cell wall, lignan, lignin	BACKGROUND: Lignin and lignans are both derived from the monolignol pathway. Despite the similarity of their building blocks, they fulfil different functions in planta. Lignin strengthens the tissues of the plant, while lignans are involved in plant defence and growth regulation. Their biosyntheses are tuned both spatially and temporally to suit the development of the plant (water conduction, reaction to stresses). We propose to study the general molecular events related to monolignol-derived product biosynthesis, especially lignin. It was previously shown that the growing hemp hypocotyl (between 6 and 20 days after sowing) is a valid system to study secondary growth and the molecular events accompanying lignification. The present work confirms the validity of this system, by using it to study the regulation of lignin and lignan biosynthesis. Microscopic observations, lignin analysis, proteomics, together with in situ laccase and peroxidase activity assays were carried out to understand the dynamics of lignin synthesis during the development of the hemp hypocotyl. RESULTS: Based on phylogenetic analysis and targeted gene expression, we suggest a role for the hemp dirigent and dirigent-like proteins in lignan biosynthesis. The transdisciplinary approach adopted resulted in the gene- and protein-level quantification of the main enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of monolignols and their oxidative coupling (laccases and class III peroxidases), in lignin deposition (dirigent-like proteins) and in the determination of the stereoconformation of lignans (dirigent proteins). CONCLUSIONS: Our work sheds light on how, in the growing hemp hypocotyl, the provision of the precursors needed to synthesize the aromatic biomolecules lignin and lignans is regulated at the transcriptional and proteomic level.
PXD002825	29296177	ISG15 silencing increases cisplatin resistance via activating p53-mediated cell DNA repair. 	Down-regulation of Vimentin Increased Drug Resistance in Ovarian Cancer Cells	Cisplatin, Drug-resistance, Ovarian cancer cell line, Vimentin	Tumor cells frequently evolved resistance to cisplatin that greatly compromises the efficacy of chemotherapy. Identification of the mechanisms underlying drug resistance is important for developing new therapeutic approaches. ISG15 is found to be elevated in many human carcinomas and cancer cell lines. Here, we identified that the expressions of ISG15 and ISG15-conjugating system were downregulated in drug resistant A549/DDP cells compared to drug sensitive A549 cells. Silencing of ISG15 robustly elevated the resistance to cisplatin, suggesting ISG15 plays an important role in cisplatin resistance. Quantitative proteomics identified 1296 differentially expressed proteins between the control and ISG15 knockdown cells, showing that ISG15 silencing upregulated proteins in p53 pathway, adherens junction and nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway. We also found that ISG15 silencing induced cell cycle arrest through stabilizing p53 and increasing HnRNP K expression, which allowed the prolonged time for cells to repair cisplatin-damaged DNA. Taken together, we proved that ISG15 downregulation activated the DNA damage/repair pathway to enhance cisplatin resistance in tumor cells.
PXD006799	29298419	Oxygen-Sensitive Remodeling of Central Carbon Metabolism by Archaic eIF5B. 	Oxygen-Sensitive Remodeling of Central Carbon Metabolism by Archaic eIF5B	Carbon metabolism, IF2, MATRIX, eIF5B, evolution, hypoxia, oxygen, translation	The eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5B (eIF5B) is a homolog of IF2, an ancient translation factor that enables initiator methionine-tRNAi(Met) (met-tRNAi(Met)) loading on prokaryotic ribosomes. While it can be traced back to the last universal common ancestor, eIF5B is curiously dispensable in modern aerobic yeast and mammalian cells. Here, we show that eIF5B is an essential element of the cellular hypoxic cap-dependent protein synthesis machinery. System-wide interrogation of dynamic translation machineries by MATRIX (mass spectrometry analysis of active translation factors using ribosome density fractionation and isotopic labeling experiments) demonstrated augmented eIF5B activity in hypoxic translating ribosomes. Global translatome studies revealed central carbon metabolism, cellular hypoxic adaptation, and ATF4-mediated stress response as major eIF5B-dependent pathways. These primordial processes rely on eIF5B even in the presence of oxygen and active eIF2, the canonical recruiter of met-tRNAi(Met) in eukaryotes. We suggest that aerobic eukarya retained eIF5B/IF2 to remodel anaerobic pathways during episodes of oxygen deficiency.
PXD008266	29298676	A multi-omics approach reveals function of Secretory Carrier-Associated Membrane Proteins in wood formation of Populus trees. 	A proteomics approach reveals function of Secretory Carrier-Associated Membrane Proteins in wood formation of Populus trees	HDMSE, Populus, Wood formation, xylem	BACKGROUND: Secretory Carrier-Associated Membrane Proteins (SCAMPs) are highly conserved 32-38 kDa proteins that are involved in membrane trafficking. A systems approach was taken to elucidate function of SCAMPs in wood formation of Populus trees. Phenotypic and multi-omics analyses were performed in woody tissues of transgenic Populus trees carrying an RNAi construct for Populus tremula x tremuloides SCAMP3 (PttSCAMP3; Potri.019G104000). RESULTS: The woody tissues of the transgenic trees displayed increased amounts of both polysaccharides and lignin oligomers, indicating increased deposition of both the carbohydrate and lignin components of the secondary cell walls. This coincided with a tendency towards increased wood density as well as significantly increased thickness of the suberized cork in the transgenic lines. Multivariate OnPLS (orthogonal projections to latent structures) modeling of five different omics datasets (the transcriptome, proteome, GC-MS metabolome, LC-MS metabolome and pyrolysis-GC/MS metabolome) collected from the secondary xylem tissues of the stem revealed systemic variation in the different variables in the transgenic lines, including changes that correlated with the changes in the secondary cell wall composition. The OnPLS model also identified a rather large number of proteins that were more abundant in the transgenic lines than in the wild type. Several of these were related to secretion and/or endocytosis as well as both primary and secondary cell wall biosynthesis. CONCLUSIONS: Populus SCAMP proteins were shown to influence accumulation of secondary cell wall components, including polysaccharides and phenolic compounds, in the woody tissues of Populus tree stems. Our multi-omics analyses combined with the OnPLS modelling suggest that this function is mediated by changes in membrane trafficking to fine-tune the abundance of cell wall precursors and/or proteins involved in cell wall biosynthesis and transport. The data provides a multi-level source of information for future studies on the function of the SCAMP proteins in plant stem tissues.
PXD007815	29298896	Mechanistic insights into acephalic spermatozoa syndrome-associated mutations in the human SUN5 gene. 	Identification of SUN5 interactors from mouse testis lysate	GST pulldown, SUN5	Acephalic spermatozoa syndrome has been reported for many decades; it is characterized by very few intact spermatozoa and tailless sperm heads in the semen and causes severe male infertility. The only gene in which mutations have been found to be associated with this syndrome encodes Sad1 and UNC84 domain-containing 5 (SUN5), a testis-specific nuclear envelope protein. The functional role of SUN5 has been well-studied in mouse models, but the molecular basis for the pathogenic effects of mutations in the human SUN5 gene remains elusive. Here, we report a new SUN5 mutation (c.475C-->T; p.Arg159*), and explore the pathogenic effects of all known SUN5 mutations on acephalic spermatozoa syndrome. Using an artificial splicing system, we found that the intronic mutation affects the splicing of SUN5 mRNA, yielding a premature stop codon that results in a truncated SUN5 protein. We also found that SUN5 interacts with the coupling apparatus protein DnaJ heat shock protein family (Hsp40) member B13 (DNAJB13) during spermatogenesis, and the substitutions in the SUN5 SUN domain impair its interaction with DNAJB13. Furthermore, we observed that many SUN5 mutations affect the secondary structure of the protein and influence its folding and cellular localization. In summary, our findings indicate an interaction of SUN5 with DNAJB13 during spermatogenesis, provide mechanistic insights into the functional role of this interaction in sperm head-tail integration, and elucidate the molecular etiology of acephalic spermatozoa syndrome-associated SUN5 mutations.
PXD008382	29301589	Linking FOXO3, NCOA3, and TCF7L2 to Ras pathway phenotypes through a genome-wide forward genetic screen in human colorectal cancer cells. 	Linking FOXO3, NCOA3, and TCF7L2 to Ras pathway phenotypes through a genome-wide forward genetic screen in human colorectal cancer cellsLinking FOXO3, NCOA3, and TCF7L2 to Ras pathway phenotypes through a genome-wide forward genetic screen in human colore	: Forward genetics, Ras pathway, colorectal cancer, piggyBac transposon	BACKGROUND: The Ras pathway genes KRAS, BRAF, or ERBBs have somatic mutations in ~ 60% of human colorectal carcinomas. At present, it is unknown whether the remaining cases lack mutations activating the Ras pathway or whether they have acquired mutations in genes hitherto unknown to belong to the pathway. METHODS: To address the second possibility and extend the compendium of Ras pathway genes, we used genome-wide transposon mutagenesis of two human colorectal cancer cell systems deprived of their activating KRAS or BRAF allele to identify genes enabling growth in low glucose, a Ras pathway phenotype, when targeted. RESULTS: Of the 163 recurrently targeted genes in the two different genetic backgrounds, one-third were known cancer genes and one-fifth had links to the EGFR/Ras/MAPK pathway. When compared to cancer genome sequencing datasets, nine genes also mutated in human colorectal cancers were identified. Among these, stable knockdown of FOXO3, NCOA3, and TCF7L2 restored growth in low glucose but reduced MEK/MAPK phosphorylation, reduced anchorage-independent growth, and modulated expressions of GLUT1 and Ras pathway related proteins. Knockdown of NCOA3 and FOXO3 significantly decreased the sensitivity to cetuximab of KRAS mutant but not wild-type cells. CONCLUSIONS: This work establishes a proof-of-concept that human cell-based genome-wide forward genetic screens can assign genes to pathways with clinical importance in human colorectal cancer.
PXD011255	29301953	The G Protein beta-Subunit, AGB1, Interacts with FERONIA in RALF1-Regulated Stomatal Movement. 	co-immunoprecipitation of the Arabidopsis G protein beta subunit AGB1	AGB1, co-immunoprecipitation, heterotrimeric G protein	Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding (G) proteins are composed of Galpha, Gbeta, and Ggamma subunits and function as molecular switches in signal transduction. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), there are one canonical Galpha (GPA1), three extra-large Galpha (XLG1, XLG2, and XLG3), one Gbeta (AGB1), and three Ggamma (AGG1, AGG2, and AGG3) subunits. To elucidate AGB1 molecular signaling, we performed immunoprecipitation using plasma membrane-enriched proteins followed by mass spectrometry to identify the protein interactors of AGB1. After eliminating proteins present in the control immunoprecipitation, commonly identified contaminants, and organellar proteins, a total of 103 candidate AGB1-associated proteins were confidently identified. We identified all of the G protein subunits except XLG1, receptor-like kinases, Ca(2+) signaling-related proteins, and 14-3-3-like proteins, all of which may couple with or modulate G protein signaling. We confirmed physical interaction between AGB1 and the receptor-like kinase FERONIA (FER) using bimolecular fluorescence complementation. The Rapid Alkalinization Factor (RALF) family of polypeptides have been shown to be ligands of FER. In this study, we demonstrate that RALF1 regulates stomatal apertures and does so in a G protein-dependent manner, inhibiting stomatal opening and promoting stomatal closure in Columbia but not in agb1 mutants. We further show that AGGs and XLGs, but not GPA1, participate in RALF1-mediated stomatal signaling. Our results suggest that FER acts as a G protein-coupled receptor for plant heterotrimeric G proteins.
PXD008270	29304333	Tyrosine-1 of RNA Polymerase II CTD Controls Global Termination of Gene Transcription in Mammals. 	Tyrosine-1 of RNA polymerase II CTD controls global termination of gene transcription in mammals	CTD, Divergent transcription., Promoter-proximal pausing, RNA Polymerase II, Read-through transcription, Transcription termination, Tyrosine1	The carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase (Pol) II is composed of a repetition of YSPTSPS heptads and functions as a loading platform for protein complexes that regulate transcription, splicing, and maturation of RNAs. Here, we studied mammalian CTD mutants to analyze the function of tyrosine1 residues in the transcription cycle. Mutation of 3/4 of the tyrosine residues (YFFF mutant) resulted in a massive read-through transcription phenotype in the antisense direction of promoters as well as in the 3' direction several hundred kilobases downstream of genes. The YFFF mutant shows reduced Pol II at promoter-proximal pause sites, a loss of interaction with the Mediator and Integrator complexes, and impaired recruitment of these complexes to chromatin. Consistent with these observations, Pol II loading at enhancers and maturation of snRNAs are altered in the YFFF context genome-wide. We conclude that tyrosine1 residues of the CTD control termination of transcription by Pol II.
PXD008103	29305937	Of mice and men: Traces of life in the death registries of the 1630 plague in Milano. 	Proteomics study of 1630 death registries	EVA film, yersina pestis	The death registries of the plague epidemic of 1630, stored at the Archivio di Stato of Milano, have been interrogated via the EVA film technology (ethyl vinyl acetate film studded with crushed strong anion and cation exchangers as well as C8 resins). The EVA diskettes have been left in contact with the lower right margins of 11 different pages pertaining to the peak months of the raging disease (June through end of September) for 60-90min and then the captured material, after elution and digestion, analysed by mass spectrometry. The main findings: 17 Yersiniaceae family proteins, 31 different human keratins, 22 unique mouse keratins, about 400 peptides from different bacterial strains, 58 human tissue proteins and 130 additional mouse and rat tissue proteins. In addition, >60 plant proteins (notably potato, corn, rice, carrot and chickpeas), likely representing the meagre meals of the scribes, contaminating the pages, were detected. The significance of these unique findings is amply illustrated in the body of the article. SIGNIFICANCE: Archivists, historians, librarians usually explore the texts of ancient and modern manuscript in order to extract the meaning of the writing and understand the mood, feelings, political, philosophical and/or religious ideas therein expressed by the authors. With the present EVA methodology (the only one, at present, able to access our Cultural Heritage without damaging or contaminating it) we interrogate, instead, the support, be it paper, parchment, wood panel, cloth, canvas and the like, in order to extract invisible data, such as the presence of drugs, medicaments, infectious pathogens, human and environmental contaminants. Metabolites, proteins and peptides thus captured are then analysed via mass spectrometry. The unique data mined by this technology should considerably enlarge the (so far) restricted horizon of the writing exploration and add new insight on the environmental conditions in which such documents were produced as well as, importantly, on the health/pathological conditions of the authors. It is believed that the present technology, as here reported, will become the officially accepted one for exploring the world Cultural Heritage.
PXD006904	29306331	Fc gamma receptors are expressed in the developing rat brain and activate downstream signaling molecules upon cross-linking with immune complex. 	Fc Gamma Receptor (FcgammaR) Expression and Signaling in the Developing Rat Brain	Brain, Fc gamma receptors, neuron culture	BACKGROUND: Exposure of the developing brain to immune mediators, including antibodies, is postulated to increase risk for neurodevelopmental disorders and neurodegenerative disease. It has been suggested that immunoglobulin G-immune complexes (IgG-IC) activate Fc gamma receptors (FcgammaR) expressed on neurons to modify signaling events in these cells. However, testing this hypothesis is hindered by a paucity of data regarding neuronal FcgammaR expression and function. METHODS: FcgammaR transcript expression in the hippocampus, cortex, and cerebellum of neonatal male and female rats was investigated ex vivo and in mixed cultures of primary hippocampal and cortical neurons and astrocytes using quantitative PCR analyses. Expression at the protein level in mixed cultures of primary hippocampal and cortical neurons and astrocytes was determined by immunocytochemistry, western blotting, proteotype analysis, and flow cytometry. The functionality of these receptors was assessed by measuring changes in intracellular calcium levels, Erk phosphorylation, and IgG internalization following stimulation with IgG-immune complexes. RESULTS: FcgrIa, FcgrIIa, FcgrIIb, FcgrIIIa, and Fcgrt transcripts were detectable in the cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum at postnatal days 1 and 7. These transcripts were also present in primary hippocampal and cortical cell cultures, where their expression was modulated by IFNgamma. Expression of FcgammaRIa, FcgammaRIIb, and FcgammaRIIIa, but not FcgammaRIIa or FcRn proteins, was confirmed in cultured hippocampal and cortical neurons and astrocytes at the single cell level. A subpopulation of these cells co-expressed the activating FcgammaRIa and the inhibitory FcgammaRIIb. Functional analyses demonstrated that exposure of hippocampal and cortical cell cultures to IgG-IC increases intracellular calcium and Erk phosphorylation and triggers FcgammaR-mediated internalization of IgG. CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that developing neurons and astrocytes in the hippocampus and the cortex express signaling competent FcgammaR. These findings suggest that IgG antibodies may influence normal neurodevelopment or function via direct interactions with FcgammaR on non-immune cells in the brain.
PXD006543	29307493	A Map of Protein-Metabolite Interactions Reveals Principles of Chemical Communication. 	A map of protein-metabolite interactions reveals principles of chemical communication	DIA-MS, E.coli, LiP-SMap, limited proteolysis, small molecules	Metabolite-protein interactions control a variety of cellular processes, thereby playing a major role in maintaining cellular homeostasis. Metabolites comprise the largest fraction of molecules in cells, but our knowledge of the metabolite-protein interactome lags behind our understanding of protein-protein or protein-DNA interactomes. Here, we present a chemoproteomic workflow for the systematic identification of metabolite-protein interactions directly in their native environment. The approach identified a network of known and novel interactions and binding sites in Escherichia coli, and we demonstrated the functional relevance of a number of newly identified interactions. Our data enabled identification of new enzyme-substrate relationships and cases of metabolite-induced remodeling of protein complexes. Our metabolite-protein interactome consists of 1,678 interactions and 7,345 putative binding sites. Our data reveal functional and structural principles of chemical communication, shed light on the prevalence and mechanisms of enzyme promiscuity, and enable extraction of quantitative parameters of metabolite binding on a proteome-wide scale.
PXD008542	29309035	Dissection of affinity captured LINE-1 macromolecular complexes. 	Dissection of affinity captured LINE-1 macromolecular complexes	L1, LINE-1, RNP, affinity proteomics, biochemistry, interactome, protein interactions, retrotransposon, ribonucleoprotein	Long Interspersed Nuclear Element-1 (LINE-1, L1) is a mobile genetic element active in human genomes. L1-encoded ORF1 and ORF2 proteins bind L1 RNAs, forming ribonucleoproteins (RNPs). These RNPs interact with diverse host proteins, some repressive and others required for the L1 lifecycle. Using differential affinity purifications, quantitative mass spectrometry, and next generation RNA sequencing, we have characterized the proteins and nucleic acids associated with distinctive, enzymatically active L1 macromolecular complexes. Among them, we describe a cytoplasmic intermediate that we hypothesize to be the canonical ORF1p/ORF2p/L1-RNA-containing RNP, and we describe a nuclear population containing ORF2p, but lacking ORF1p, which likely contains host factors participating in target-primed reverse transcription.
PXD006851	29312173	Proteomic View of the Crosstalk between Lactobacillus mucosae and Intestinal Epithelial Cells in Co-culture Revealed by Q Exactive-Based Quantitative Proteomics. 	Lactobacillus mucosae LM1 and intestinal cell interaction	IPEC-J2, Label-free proteomics, Lactobacillus, host-microbe interaction	Lactobacilli are bacteria that are beneficial to host health, but information on communication between Lactobacilli and host cells in the intestine is lacking. In this study, we examined the proteomes of the Lactobacillus mucosae strain LM1, as a model of beneficial bacteria, and the intestinal porcine epithelial cell line (IPEC-J2) after co-culture. Label-free proteomics demonstrated the high-throughput capability of the technique, and robust characterization of the functional profiles and changes in the bacteria and intestinal cells was achieved in pure and mixed cultures. After co-culture, we identified totals of 376 and 653 differentially expressed proteins in the LM1 and IPEC-J2 proteomes, respectively. The major proteomic changes in the LM1 strain occurred in the functional categories of transcription, general function, and translation, whereas those in IPEC-J2 cells involved metabolic and cellular processes, and cellular component organization/biogenesis. Among them, elongation factor Tu, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and phosphocarrier protein HPr, which are known to be involved in bacterial adhesion, were upregulated in LM1. In contrast, proteins involved in tight junction assembly, actin organization, and genetic information processing (i.e., histones and signaling pathways) were significantly upregulated in IPEC-J2 cells. Furthermore, we identified functional pathways that are possibly involved in host-microbe crosstalk and response. These findings will provide novel insights into host-bacteria communication and the molecular mechanism of probiotic establishment in the intestine.
PXD008134	29312376	Proteome and Acetyl-Proteome Profiling of Camellia sinensis cv. 'Anjin Baicha' during Periodic Albinism Reveals Alterations in Photosynthetic and Secondary Metabolite Biosynthetic Pathways. 	Quantitative acetyl-proteome profiling of Camellia sinensis cv.Anji Baicha' during periodic albinism reveal lysine acetylation of proteins involved in photosynthesis and secondary metabolite biosynthetic pathways	Acetylation, Acetylome, Developmental stages, Metabolism, Tea plant, albino, post-translational modification	Tea leaf color is not only important from an aesthetics standpoint but is also related to tea quality. To investigate the molecular mechanisms that determine tea leaf color, we examined Camellia sinensis cv. 'Anjin Baicha' (an albino tea cultivar) by tandem mass tag isobaric labeling to generate a high-resolution proteome and acetyl-proteome atlas of three leaf developmental stages. We identified a total of 7,637 proteins and quantified 6,256; of these, 3,232 were classified as differentially accumulated proteins (DAPs). We also identified 3,161 lysine acetylation sites in 1,752 proteins and quantified 2,869 in 1,612 proteins. The acetylation levels at 468 sites were significantly altered across the three developmental stages during periodic albinism; the corresponding proteins were associated with a variety of biological processes. Interestingly, a large number of DAPs and acetylated proteins with increased/decreased acetylation were related to photosynthesis and secondary metabolite biosynthetic pathways, suggesting that the accumulation or acetylation level of these proteins regulates periodic albinism in 'Anjin Baicha.' Additionally, overlap between succinylome and acetylome among three 'Anjin Baicha' developmental stages were found. These data provide important insight into the mechanisms of leaf coloration in the tea plant. The mass spectrometry data have been deposited to Proteome X change via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier PXD008134.
PXD008264	29314611	Membranal and Blood-Soluble HLA Class II Peptidome Analyses Using Data-Dependent and Independent Acquisition. 	HLA class II peptidome analysis using data-dependent and data-independent acquisition	DIA, HLA class II, Immunopeptidomics, MHC class II	The interaction between HLA class II peptide complexes on antigen-presenting cells and CD4(+) T cells is of fundamental importance for anticancer and antipathogen immunity as well as for the maintenance of immunological tolerance. To study CD4(+) T cell reactivities, detailed knowledge of the presented peptides is necessary. In recent years, dramatic advances in the characterization of membranal and soluble HLA class I peptidomes could be observed. However, the same is not true for HLA class II peptidomes, where only few studies identify more than hundred peptides. Here we describe a MS-based workflow for the characterization of membranal and soluble HLA class II DR and DQ peptidomes. Using this workflow, we identify a total of 8595 and 3727 HLA class II peptides from Maver-1 and DOHH2 cells, respectively. Based on this data, a motif-based binding predictor is developed and compared to NetMHCIIpan 3.1. We then apply the workflow to human plasma, resulting in the identification of between 34 and 152 HLA-DR and between 100 and 180 HLA-DQ peptides, respectively. Finally, we implement a data-independent acquisition workflow to increase reproducibility and sensitivity of HLA class II peptidome characterizations.
PXD004001	29315472	Early prognostic factors in septic shock cancer patients: a prospective study with a proteomic approach. 	Early predictive factors of mortality in onco-hematology patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit for septic shock: A proteomic approach.	Sepsis, von Willebrand Factor	BACKGROUND: Organ failures are the main prognostic factors in septic shock. The aim was to assess classical clinico-biological parameters evaluating organ dysfunctions at intensive care unit admission, combined with proteomics, on day-30 mortality in critically ill onco-hematology patients admitted to the intensive care unit for septic shock. METHODS: This was a prospective monocenter cohort study. Clinico-biological parameters were collected at admission. Plasma proteomics analyses were performed, including protein profiling using isobaric Tag for Relative and Absolute Quantification (iTRAQ) and subsequent validation by ELISA. RESULTS: Sixty consecutive patients were included. Day-30 mortality was 47%. All required vasopressors, 32% mechanical ventilation, 33% non-invasive ventilation and 13% renal-replacement therapy. iTRAQ-based proteomics identified von Willebrand factor as a protein of interest. Multivariate analysis identified four factors independently associated with day-30 mortality: positive fluid balance in the first 24 h (odds ratio = 1.06, 95% CI = 1.01-1.12, P = 0.02), severe acute respiratory failure (odds ratio = 6.14, 95% CI = 1.04-36.15, P = 0.04), von Willebrand factor plasma level > 439 ng/ml (odds ratio = 9.7, 95% CI = 1.52-61.98, P = 0.02), and bacteremia (odds ratio = 6.98, 95% CI = 1.17-41.6, P = 0.03). CONCLUSION: Endothelial dysfunction, revealed by proteomics, appears as an independent prognostic factor on day-30 mortality, as well as hydric balance, acute respiratory failure and bacteremia, in critically ill cancer patients admitted to the intensive care unit. Endothelial failure is underestimated in clinical practice and represents an innovative therapeutic target.
PXD008452	29317357	Novel identified aluminum hydroxide-induced pathways prove monocyte activation and pro-inflammatory preparedness. 	Monocyte responses to Al(OH)3 adjuvant	alum-based adjuvant, innate immune response, quantitative proteomics	Aluminum-based adjuvants are the most widely used adjuvants in human vaccines. A comprehensive understanding of the mechanism of action of aluminum adjuvants at the molecular level, however, is still elusive. Here, we unravel the effects of aluminum hydroxide Al(OH)3 by a systems-wide analysis of the Al(OH)3-induced monocyte response. Cell response analysis by cytokine release was combined with (targeted) transcriptome and full proteome analysis. Results from this comprehensive study revealed two novel pathways to become activated upon monocyte stimulation with Al(OH)3: the first pathway was IFNbeta signaling possibly induced by DAMP sensing pathways like TLR or NOD1 activation, and second the HLA class I antigen processing and presentation pathway. Furthermore, known mechanisms of the adjuvant activity of Al(OH)3 were elucidated in more detail such as inflammasome and complement activation, homeostasis and HLA-class II upregulation, possibly related to increased IFNgamma gene expression. Altogether, our study revealed which immunological pathways are activated upon stimulation of monocytes with Al(OH)3, refining our knowledge on the adjuvant effect of Al(OH)3 in primary monocytes. SIGNIFICANCE: Aluminum salts are the most used adjuvants in human vaccines but a comprehensive understanding of the working mechanism of alum adjuvants at the molecular level is still elusive. Our Systems Vaccinology approach, combining complementary molecular biological, immunological and mass spectrometry-based techniques gave a detailed insight in the molecular mechanisms and pathways induced by Al(OH)3 in primary monocytes. Several novel immunological relevant cellular pathways were identified: type I interferon secretion potentially induced by TLR and/or NOD like signaling, the activation of the inflammasome and the HLA Class-I and Class-II antigen presenting pathways induced by IFNgamma. This study highlights the mechanisms of the most commonly used adjuvant in human vaccines by combing proteomics, transcriptomics and cytokine analysis revealing new potential mechanisms of action for Al(OH)3.
PXD006638	29317475	Omics Assisted N-terminal Proteoform and Protein Expression Profiling On Methionine Aminopeptidase 1 (MetAP1) Deletion. 	An OMICS perspective on N-terminal Methionine Excision	MetAP, MetAP1, N-terminal proteomics, iMet excision, shotgun	Excision of the N-terminal initiator methionine (iMet) residue from nascent peptide chains is an essential and omnipresent protein modification carried out by methionine aminopeptidases (MetAPs) that accounts for a major source of N-terminal proteoform diversity. Although MetAP2 is known to be implicated in processes such as angiogenesis and proliferation in mammals, the physiological role of MetAP1 is much less clear. In this report we studied the omics-wide effects of human MetAP1 deletion and general MetAP inhibition. The levels of iMet retention are inversely correlated with cellular proliferation rates. Further, despite the increased MetAP2 expression on MetAP1 deletion, MetAP2 was unable to restore processing of Met-Ser-, Met-Pro-, and Met-Ala- starting N termini as inferred from the iMet retention profiles observed, indicating a higher activity of MetAP1 over these N termini. Proteome and transcriptome expression profiling point to differential expression of proteins implicated in lipid metabolism, cytoskeleton organization, cell proliferation and protein synthesis upon perturbation of MetAP activity.
PXD006384	29319931	Metaproteomics of Colonic Microbiota Unveils Discrete Protein Functions among Colitic Mice and Control Groups. 	Metaproteomics of colonic microbiota unveils discrete protein functions among colitic mice and control groups	16S sequencing, ComPIL, Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Metaproteomics, Microbiota, MudPIT, Rag1 -/-, T cell transfer, murine colitis	Metaproteomics can greatly assist established high-throughput sequencing methodologies to provide systems biological insights into the alterations of microbial protein functionalities correlated with disease-associated dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiota. Here, the authors utilize the well-characterized murine T cell transfer model of colitis to find specific changes within the intestinal luminal proteome associated with inflammation. MS proteomic analysis of colonic samples permitted the identification of =~10 000-12 000 unique peptides that corresponded to 5610 protein clusters identified across three groups, including the colitic Rag1(-/-) T cell recipients, isogenic Rag1(-/-) controls, and wild-type mice. The authors demonstrate that the colitic mice exhibited a significant increase in Proteobacteria and Verrucomicrobia and show that such alterations in the microbial communities contributed to the enrichment of specific proteins with transcription and translation gene ontology terms. In combination with 16S sequencing, the authors' metaproteomics-based microbiome studies provide a foundation for assessing alterations in intestinal luminal protein functionalities in a robust and well-characterized mouse model of colitis, and set the stage for future studies to further explore the functional mechanisms of altered protein functionalities associated with dysbiosis and inflammation.
PXD006501	29320704	Extracellular Vesicles Provide a Means for Tissue Crosstalk during Exercise. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of the human extracellular vesicle proteome reveals a novel mechanism for tissue cross-talk during exercise	Arterio-venous, Exercise, Exosome, Extracellular Vesicle, Integrin, Muscle, Myokine	Exercise stimulates the release of molecules into the circulation, supporting the concept that inter-tissue signaling proteins are important mediators of adaptations to exercise. Recognizing that many circulating proteins are packaged in extracellular vesicles (EVs), we employed quantitative proteomic techniques to characterize the exercise-induced secretion of EV-contained proteins. Following a 1-hr bout of cycling exercise in healthy humans, we observed an increase in the circulation of over 300 proteins, with a notable enrichment of several classes of proteins that compose exosomes and small vesicles. Pulse-chase and intravital imaging experiments suggested EVs liberated by exercise have a propensity to localize in the liver and can transfer their protein cargo. Moreover, by employing arteriovenous balance studies across the contracting human limb, we identified several novel candidate myokines, released into circulation independently of classical secretion. These data identify a new paradigm by which tissue crosstalk during exercise can exert systemic biological effects.
PXD007114	29320736	The RNA Polymerase II Factor RPAP1 Is Critical for Mediator-Driven Transcription and Cell Identity. 	The RNA Polymerase II factor RPAP1 is critical for Mediator-driven transcription and cell identity	RNA pol II, RPAP1, cell identity, mediator	The RNA polymerase II-associated protein 1 (RPAP1) is conserved across metazoa and required for stem cell differentiation in plants; however, very little is known about its mechanism of action or its role in mammalian cells. Here, we report that RPAP1 is essential for the expression of cell identity genes and for cell viability. Depletion of RPAP1 triggers cell de-differentiation, facilitates reprogramming toward pluripotency, and impairs differentiation. Mechanistically, we show that RPAP1 is essential for the interaction between RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) and Mediator, as well as for the recruitment of important regulators, such as the Mediator-specific RNA Pol II factor Gdown1 and the C-terminal domain (CTD) phosphatase RPAP2. In agreement, depletion of RPAP1 diminishes the loading of total and Ser5-phosphorylated RNA Pol II on many genes, with super-enhancer-driven genes among the most significantly downregulated. We conclude that Mediator/RPAP1/RNA Pol II is an ancient module, conserved from plants to mammals, critical for establishing and maintaining cell identity.
PXD007255	29321187	Infection by the Helminth Parasite Fasciola hepatica Requires Rapid Regulation of Metabolic, Virulence, and Invasive Factors to Adjust to Its Mammalian Host. 	Proteomic analysis of Fasciola hepatica somatic proteome and secretome	ES proteins, Fasciola hepatica, NEJ, metacercariae, secretome, somatic proteome	The parasite Fasciola hepatica infects a broad range of mammals with impunity. Following ingestion of parasites (metacercariae) by the host, newly excysted juveniles (NEJ) emerge from their cysts, rapidly penetrate the duodenal wall and migrate to the liver. Successful infection takes just a few hours and involves negotiating hurdles presented by host macromolecules, tissues and micro-environments, as well as the immune system. Here, transcriptome and proteome analysis of ex vivo F. hepatica metacercariae and NEJ reveal the rapidity and multitude of metabolic and developmental alterations that take place in order for the parasite to establish infection. We found that metacercariae despite being encased in a cyst are metabolically active, and primed for infection. Following excystment, NEJ expend vital energy stores and rapidly adjust their metabolic pathways to cope with their new and increasingly anaerobic environment. Temperature increases induce neoblast proliferation and the remarkable up-regulation of genes associated with growth and development. Cysteine proteases synthesized by gastrodermal cells are secreted to facilitate invasion and tissue degradation, and tegumental transporters, such as aquaporins, are varied to deal with osmotic/salinity changes. Major proteins of the total NEJ secretome include proteases, protease inhibitors and anti-oxidants, and an array of immunomodulators that likely disarm host innate immune effector cells. Thus, the challenges of infection by F. hepatica parasites are met by rapid metabolic and physiological adjustments that expedite tissue invasion and immune evasion; these changes facilitate parasite growth, development and maturation. Our molecular analysis of the critical processes involved in host invasion has identified key targets for future drug and vaccine strategies directed at preventing parasite infection.
PXD007650	29321741	ATP Modifies the Proteome of Extracellular Vesicles Released by Microglia and Influences Their Action on Astrocytes. 	ATP MODIFIES THE PROTEOME OF EXTRACELLULAR VESICLES RELEASED BY MICROGLIA AND INFLUENCES THEIR ACTION ON ASTROCYTES	ATP, astrocyte activation, extracellular vesicles, microglia	Extracellular ATP is among molecules promoting microglia activation and inducing the release of extracellular vesicles (EVs), which are potent mediators of intercellular communication between microglia and the microenvironment. We previously showed that EVs produced under ATP stimulation (ATP-EVs) propagate a robust inflammatory reaction among astrocytes and microglia in vitro and in mice with subclinical neuroinflammation (Verderio et al., 2012). However, the proteome of EVs released upon ATP stimulation has not yet been elucidated. In this study we applied a label free proteomic approach to characterize the proteome of EVs released constitutively and during microglia activation with ATP. We show that ATP drives sorting in EVs of a set of proteins implicated in cell adhesion/extracellular matrix organization, autophagy-lysosomal pathway and cellular metabolism, that may influence the response of recipient astrocytes to EVs. These data provide new clues to molecular mechanisms involved in microglia response to ATP and in microglia signaling to the environment via EVs.
PXD007682	29322032	The Multiple Localized Glyceraldehyde-3-Phosphate Dehydrogenase Contributes to the Attenuation of the Francisella tularensis dsbA Deletion Mutant. 	Francisella tularensis DsbA mutant MS/SILAC analysis	Francisella tularensis, Q-Exactive, SILAC	The DsbA homolog of Francisella tularensis was previously demonstrated to be required for intracellular replication and animal death. Disruption of the dsbA gene leads to a pleiotropic phenotype that could indirectly affect a number of different cellular pathways. To reveal the broad effects of DsbA, we compared fractions enriched in membrane proteins of the wild-type FSC200 strain with the dsbA deletion strain using a SILAC-based quantitative proteomic analysis. This analysis enabled identification of 63 proteins with significantly altered amounts in the dsbA mutant strain compared to the wild-type strain. These proteins comprise a quite heterogeneous group including hypothetical proteins, proteins associated with membrane structures, and potential secreted proteins. Many of them are known to be associated with F. tularensis virulence. Several proteins were selected for further studies focused on their potential role in tularemia's pathogenesis. Of them, only the gene encoding glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, an enzyme of glycolytic pathway, was found to be important for full virulence manifestations both in vivo and in vitro. We next created a viable mutant strain with deleted gapA gene and analyzed its phenotype. The gapA mutant is characterized by reduced virulence in mice, defective replication inside macrophages, and its ability to induce a protective immune response against systemic challenge with parental wild-type strain. We also demonstrate the multiple localization sites of this protein: In addition to within the cytosol, it was found on the cell surface, outside the cells, and in the culture medium. Recombinant GapA was successfully obtained, and it was shown that it binds host extracellular serum proteins like plasminogen, fibrinogen, and fibronectin.
PXD007527	29322779	Mining the Secretome of C2C12 Muscle Cells: Data Dependent Experimental Approach To Analyze Protein Secretion Using Label-Free Quantification and Peptide Based Analysis. 	Mining the secretome of C2C12 muscle cells	ESI-LC-MS/MS, LSPFP, Plexin-B2, Secretome, proteolytic processing, skeletal muscle cells	Secretome analysis faces several challenges including detection of low abundant proteins and the discrimination of bona fide secreted proteins from false-positive identifications stemming from cell leakage or serum. Here, we developed a two-step secretomics approach and applied it to the analysis of secreted proteins of C2C12 skeletal muscle cells since the skeletal muscle has been identified as an important endocrine organ secreting myokines as signaling molecules. First, we compared culture supernatants with corresponding cell lysates by mass spectrometry-based proteomics and label-free quantification. We identified 672 protein groups as candidate secreted proteins due to their higher abundance in the secretome. On the basis of Brefeldin A mediated blocking of classical secretory processes, we estimated a sensitivity of >80% for the detection of classical secreted proteins for our experimental approach. In the second step, the peptide level information was integrated with UniProt based protein information employing the newly developed bioinformatics tool "Lysate and Secretome Peptide Feature Plotter" (LSPFP) to detect proteolytic protein processing events that might occur during secretion. Concerning the proof of concept, we identified truncations of the cytoplasmic part of the protein Plexin-B2. Our workflow provides an efficient combination of experimental workflow and data analysis to identify putative secreted and proteolytic processed proteins.
PXD006122	29324989	Synaptic markers of cognitive decline in neurodegenerative diseases: a proteomic approach. 	Proteomics on post-mortem human brain tissue of patients with Alzheimer`s, Parkinson`s and Lewy body dementias.	Alzheimer, Brodmann area 9, HiRIEF, LCMS, Lewy body, Parkinson, brain, prefrontal cortex, synaptic	See Attems and Jellinger (doi:10.1093/brain/awx360) for a scientific commentary on this article.Cognitive changes occurring throughout the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases are directly linked to synaptic loss. We used in-depth proteomics to compare 32 post-mortem human brains in the prefrontal cortex of prospectively followed patients with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease with dementia, dementia with Lewy bodies and older adults without dementia. In total, we identified 10 325 proteins, 851 of which were synaptic proteins. Levels of 25 synaptic proteins were significantly altered in the various dementia groups. Significant loss of SNAP47, GAP43, SYBU (syntabulin), LRFN2, SV2C, SYT2 (synaptotagmin 2), GRIA3 and GRIA4 were further validated on a larger cohort comprised of 92 brain samples using ELISA or western blot. Cognitive impairment before death and rate of cognitive decline significantly correlated with loss of SNAP47, SYBU, LRFN2, SV2C and GRIA3 proteins. Besides differentiating Parkinson's disease dementia, dementia with Lewy bodies, and Alzheimer's disease from controls with high sensitivity and specificity, synaptic proteins also reliably discriminated Parkinson's disease dementia from Alzheimer's disease patients. Our results suggest that these particular synaptic proteins have an important predictive and discriminative molecular fingerprint in neurodegenerative diseases and could be a potential target for early disease intervention.
PXD006145	29328543	The Sarda Sheep Host Fecal Proteome. 	The sheep host fecal proteome -  The Sarda Sheep Host Fecal Proteome	gut, sheep, stool	The first characterization of the sheep fecal microbiota was recently reported, as obtained by using a multi meta-omic approach. Here, the mass spectra generated by single-run LC/high-resolution MS in the context of that study were reanalyzed using a host-specific database, in order to gain insights for the first time into the host fecal proteome of healthy Sarda sheep. On the whole, 5349 non-redundant tryptic peptide sequences were identified, belonging to 1046 different proteins. The "core" fecal proteome (common to all animals) comprised 431 proteins, mainly related to biological processes as immune response and proteolysis. Proteins involved in the immune/inflammatory response and peptidases were specifically investigated. This dataset provides novel insights into the repertoire of proteins secreted in the sheep intestinal lumen, and constitutes the basis for future shotgun and targeted proteomics studies aimed at monitoring changes in the sheep fecal proteome in response to production variables, infectious/inflammatory states, and variations in the gut microbiota. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006145.
PXD008136	29328915	Retrovirus-like Gag Protein Arc1 Binds RNA and Traffics across Synaptic Boutons. 	S2 exosome MS -  Retrovirus-like Gag Protein Arc1 Binds RNA and Traffics across Synaptic Boutons	Drosophila, NMJ, S2, arc, dArc1, exosomes	Arc/Arg3.1 is required for synaptic plasticity and cognition, and mutations in this gene are linked to autism and schizophrenia. Arc bears a domain resembling retroviral/retrotransposon Gag-like proteins, which multimerize into a capsid that packages viral RNA. The significance of such a domain in a plasticity molecule is uncertain. Here, we report that the Drosophila Arc1 protein forms capsid-like structures that bind darc1 mRNA in neurons and is loaded into extracellular vesicles that are transferred from motorneurons to muscles. This loading and transfer depends on the darc1-mRNA 3' untranslated region, which contains retrotransposon-like sequences. Disrupting transfer blocks synaptic plasticity, suggesting that transfer of dArc1 complexed with its mRNA is required for this function. Notably, cultured cells also release extracellular vesicles containing the Gag region of the Copia retrotransposon complexed with its own mRNA. Taken together, our results point to a trans-synaptic mRNA transport mechanism involving retrovirus-like capsids and extracellular vesicles.
PXD008358	29329550	Systematic quantitative analysis of H2A and H2B variants by targeted proteomics. 	Systematic quantitative analysis of H2A and H2B variants by targeted proteomics	Chromatin, Histone variants, PRM, SRM, Spermatogenesis, Targeted proteomics	BACKGROUND: Histones organize DNA into chromatin through a variety of processes. Among them, a vast diversity of histone variants can be incorporated into chromatin and finely modulate its organization and functionality. Classically, the study of histone variants has largely relied on antibody-based assays. However, antibodies have a limited efficiency to discriminate between highly similar histone variants. RESULTS: In this study, we established a mass spectrometry-based analysis to address this challenge. We developed a targeted proteomics method, using selected reaction monitoring or parallel reaction monitoring, to quantify a maximum number of histone variants in a single multiplexed assay, even when histones are present in a crude extract. This strategy was developed on H2A and H2B variants, using 55 peptides corresponding to 25 different histone sequences, among which a few differ by a single amino acid. The methodology was then applied to mouse testis extracts in which almost all histone variants are expressed. It confirmed the abundance profiles of several testis-specific histones during successive stages of spermatogenesis and the existence of predicted H2A.L.1 isoforms. This methodology was also used to explore the over-expression pattern of H2A.L.1 isoforms in a mouse model of male infertility. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that targeted proteomics is a powerful method to quantify highly similar histone variants and isoforms. The developed method can be easily transposed to the study of human histone variants, whose abundance can be deregulated in various diseases.
PXD006406	29331515	MHC class I loaded ligands from breast cancer cell lines: A potential HLA-I-typed antigen collection. 	MHC class I loaded ligands from breast cancer cell lines: A potential HLA-I-typed antigen collection	Breast cancer, HLA typing, MHC class 1 ligands, RNA-seq, cell lines, immune system, immunoprecipitation, peptide sequencing	To build a catalog of peptides presented by breast cancer cells, we undertook systematic MHC class I immunoprecipitation followed by elution of MHC class I-loaded peptides in breast cancer cells. We determined the sequence of 3196 MHC class I ligands representing 1921 proteins from a panel of 20 breast cancer cell lines. After removing duplicate peptides, i.e., the same peptide eluted from more than one cell line, the total number of unique peptides was 2740. Of the unique peptides eluted, more than 1750 had been previously identified, and of these, sixteen have been shown to be immunogenic. Importantly, half of these immunogenic peptides were shared between different breast cancer cell lines. MHC class I binding probability was used to plot the distribution of the eluted peptides in accordance with the binding score for each breast cancer cell line. We also determined that the tested breast cancer cells presented 89 mutation-containing peptides and peptides derived from aberrantly translated genes, 7 of which were shared between four or two different cell lines. Overall, the high throughput identification of MHC class I-loaded peptides is an effective strategy for systematic characterization of cancer peptides, and could be employed for design of multi-peptide anticancer vaccines. SIGNIFICANCE: By employing proteomic analyses of eluted peptides from breast cancer cells, the current study has built an initial HLA-I-typed antigen collection for breast cancer research. It was also determined that immunogenic epitopes can be identified using established cell lines and that shared immunogenic peptides can be found in different cancer types such as breast cancer and leukemia. Importantly, out of 3196 eluted peptides that included duplicate peptides in different cells 89 peptides either contained mutation in their sequence or were derived from aberrant translation suggesting that mutation-containing epitopes are on the order of 2-3% in breast cancer cells. Finally, our results suggest that interfering with MHC class I function is one of the mechanisms of how tumor cells escape immune system attack.
PXD007878	29332387	Proteome-Wide Characterization of Phosphorylation-Induced Conformational Changes in Breast Cancer. 	Large-Scale Characterization of Phosphorylation-Induced Conformational and Stability Changes in Breast Cancer	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Human breast cancer, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), phosphorylation, protein con, protein stability	Because of the close link between protein function and protein folding stability, knowledge about phosphorylation-induced protein folding stability changes can lead to a better understanding of the functional effects of protein phosphorylation. Here, the stability of proteins from rates of oxidation (SPROX) and limited proteolysis (LiP) techniques are used to compare the conformational properties of proteins in two MCF-7 cell lysates including one that was and one that was not dephosphorylated with alkaline phosphatase. A total of 168 and 251 protein hits were identified with dephosphorylation-induced stability changes using the SPROX and LiP techniques, respectively. Many protein hits are previously known to be differentially phosphorylated or differentially stabilized in different human breast cancer subtypes, suggesting that the phosphorylation-induced stability changes detected in this work are disease related. The SPROX hits were enriched in proteins with aminoacyl-tRNA ligase activity. These enriched protein hits included many aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (aaRSs), which are known from previous studies to have their catalytic activity modulated by phosphorylation. The SPROX results revealed that the magnitudes of the destabilizing effects of dephoshporylation on the different aaRSs were directly correlated with their previously reported aminoacylation activity change upon dephosphorylation. This substantiates the close link between protein folding and function.
PXD008528	29334195	Exoproteome Profiling Reveals the Involvement of the Foldase PrsA in the Cell Surface Properties and Pathogenesis of Staphylococcus aureus. 	Exoproteome profiling reveals the involvement of the foldase PrsA in the cell surface properties and pathogenesis of S. aureus	PrsA, S. ureus, iTRAQ	Staphylococcus aureus is a bacterial pathogen that produces and exports many virulence factors that cause diseases in humans. PrsA, a membrane-bound foldase, is expressed ubiquitously in Gram-positive bacteria and required for the folding of exported proteins into a stable and active structure. To understand the involvement of PrsA in posttranslocational protein folding in S. aureus, a PrsA-deficient mutant of S. aureus HG001 was constructed. Using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ)-based mass spectrometry analyses, the exoproteomes of PrsA mutant and wild type S. aureus were comparatively profiled, and 163 cell wall-associated proteins and 67 exoproteins with altered levels have been identified in the PrsA-deficient mutant. Bioinformatics analyses further reveal that prsA deletion altered the amounts of proteins that are potentially involved in the regulation of cell surface properties and bacterial pathogenesis. To determine the relevancy of our findings, we investigated the functional consequence of prsA deletion in S. aureus. PrsA deficiency can enhance bacterial autoaggregation and increase the adhesion ability of S. aureus to human lung epithelial cells. Moreover, mice infected with PrsA-deficient S. aureus had a better survival rate compared with those infected with the wild-type S. aureus. Collectively, our findings reveal that PrsA is required for the posttranslocational folding of numerous exported proteins and critically affects the cell surface properties and pathogenesis of S. aureus.
PXD007226	29335550	The PEG-responding desiccome of the alder microsymbiont Frankia alni. 	The PEG-responding dessicome of Frankia alni	CRISPR, desiccation tolerance, nitrogen fixation, soil bacteria, stress response	Actinorhizal plants are ecologically and economically important. Symbiosis with nitrogen-fixing bacteria allows these woody dicotyledonous plants to colonise soils under nitrogen deficiency, water-stress or other extreme conditions. However, proteins involved in xerotolerance of symbiotic microorganisms have yet to be identified. Here we characterise the polyethylene glycol (PEG)-responding desiccome from the most geographically widespread Gram-positive nitrogen-fixing plant symbiont, Frankia alni, by next-generation proteomics, taking advantage of a Q-Exactive HF tandem mass spectrometer equipped with an ultra-high-field Orbitrap analyser. A total of 2,052 proteins were detected and quantified. Under osmotic stress, PEG-grown F. alni cells increased the abundance of envelope-associated proteins like ABC transporters, mechano-sensitive ion channels and Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats CRISPR-associated (cas) components. Conjointly, dispensable pathways, like nitrogen fixation, aerobic respiration and homologous recombination, were markedly down-regulated. Molecular modelling and docking simulations suggested that the PEG is acting on Frankia partly by filling the inner part of an up-regulated osmotic-stress large conductance mechanosensitive channel.
PXD008182	29338241	Characterization of Macrophage Endogenous S-Nitrosoproteome Using a Cysteine-Specific Phosphonate Adaptable Tag in Combination with TiO2 Chromatography. 	Adaptation of CysPAT technique to characterize endogenous S-nitrosylation in RAW264.7 cells	S-nitrosylation, immune system, macrophages, post-translational modifications (PTMs)	Protein S-nitrosylation is a cysteine post-translational modification mediated by nitric oxide. An increasing number of studies highlight S-nitrosylation as an important regulator of signaling involved in numerous cellular processes. Despite the significant progress in the development of redox proteomic methods, identification and quantification of endogeneous S-nitrosylation using high-throughput mass-spectrometry-based methods is a technical challenge because this modification is highly labile. To overcome this drawback, most methods induce S-nitrosylation chemically in proteins using nitrosylating compounds before analysis, with the risk of introducing nonphysiological S-nitrosylation. Here we present a novel method to efficiently identify endogenous S-nitrosopeptides in the macrophage total proteome. Our approach is based on the labeling of S-nitrosopeptides reduced by ascorbate with a cysteine specific phosphonate adaptable tag (CysPAT), followed by titanium dioxide (TiO2) chromatography enrichment prior to nLC-MS/MS analysis. To test our procedure, we performed a large-scale analysis of this low-abundant modification in a murine macrophage cell line. We identified 569 endogeneous S-nitrosylated proteins compared with 795 following exogenous chemically induced S-nitrosylation. Importantly, we discovered 579 novel S-nitrosylation sites. The large number of identified endogenous S-nitrosylated peptides allowed the definition of two S-nitrosylation consensus sites, highlighting protein translation and redox processes as key S-nitrosylation targets in macrophages.
PXD005322	29338716	Donor age affects proteome composition of tenocyte-derived engineered tendon. 	Proteomic comparison of tissue engineered tendon constructs derived young and old cells	tendon, tissue engineered constructs, young and old	BACKGROUND: The concept of tissue engineering is to deliver to the injury site biological scaffolds carrying functional cells that will enhance healing response. The preferred cell source is autologous in order to reduce immune response in the treated individual. However, in elderly patients age-related changes in synthetic activity of the implanted cells and subsequent alterations in tissue protein content may affect therapeutic outcomes. In this study we investigated the effect of donor age on proteome composition of tenocyte-derived tendon tissue-engineered constructs. RESULTS: Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry was used to assess the proteome of tissue-engineered constructs derived from young and old equine tenocytes. Ageing was associated with altered extracellular matrix composition, especially accumulation of collagens (type I, III and XIV), and lower cytoskeletal turnover. Proteins involved in cell responsiveness to mechanical stimuli and cell-extracellular matrix interaction (calponin 1, palladin, caldesmon 1, cortactin) were affected. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated significant changes in proteome of engineered tendon derived from young and old tenocytes, indicating the impact of donor age on composition of autologous constructs.
PXD006241	29338754	Molecular and functional signatures in a novel Alzheimer's disease mouse model assessed by quantitative proteomics. 	Dietary effect on the proteome of the common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) paralarvae, LC-MS/MS data	Octopus vulgaris, novel biomarkers, nutritional stress, paralarvae, welfare	BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by the deposition of extracellular amyloid plaques and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles. To understand the pathological mechanisms underlying AD, developing animal models that completely encompass the main features of AD pathologies is indispensable. Although mouse models that display pathological hallmarks of AD (amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, or both) have been developed and investigated, a systematic approach for understanding the molecular characteristics of AD mouse models is lacking. METHODS: To elucidate the mechanisms underlying the contribution of amyloid beta (Abeta) and tau in AD pathogenesis, we herein generated a novel animal model of AD, namely the AD-like pathology with amyloid and neurofibrillary tangles (ADLP(APT)) mice. The ADLP(APT) mice carry three human transgenes, including amyloid precursor protein, presenilin-1, and tau, with six mutations. To characterize the molecular and functional signatures of AD in ADLP(APT) mice, we analyzed the hippocampal proteome and performed comparisons with individual-pathology transgenic mice (i.e., amyloid or neurofibrillary tangles) and wild-type mice using quantitative proteomics with 10-plex tandem mass tag. RESULTS: The ADLP(APT) mice exhibited accelerated neurofibrillary tangle formation in addition to amyloid plaques, neuronal loss in the CA1 area, and memory deficit at an early age. In addition, our proteomic analysis identified nearly 10,000 protein groups, which enabled the identification of hundreds of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in ADLP(APT) mice. Bioinformatics analysis of DEPs revealed that ADLP(APT) mice experienced age-dependent active immune responses and synaptic dysfunctions. CONCLUSIONS: Our study is the first to compare and describe the proteomic characteristics in amyloid and neurofibrillary tangle pathologies using isobaric label-based quantitative proteomics. Furthermore, we analyzed the hippocampal proteome of the newly developed ADLP(APT) model mice to investigate how both Abeta and tau pathologies regulate the hippocampal proteome. Because the ADLP(APT) mouse model recapitulates the main features of AD pathogenesis, the proteomic data derived from its hippocampus has significant utility as a novel resource for the research on the Abeta-tau axis and pathophysiological changes in vivo.
PXD005859	29339411	Flagellin Glycoproteomics of the Periodontitis Associated Pathogen Selenomonas sputigena Reveals Previously Not Described O-glycans and Rhamnose Fragment Rearrangement Occurring on the Glycopeptides. 	Glycoproteomics of Flagellin C9LY14 from Selenomonas sputigena	Selenomonas sputigena, flagellin glycosylation, glycomics, glycoproteomics, periodontitis	Flagellated, Gram-negative, anaerobic, crescent-shaped Selenomonas species are colonizers of the digestive system, where they act at the interface between health and disease. Selenomonas sputigena is also considered a potential human periodontal pathogen, but information on its virulence factors and underlying pathogenicity mechanisms is scarce. Here we provide the first report of a Selenomonas glycoprotein, showing that S. sputigena produces a diversely and heavily O-glycosylated flagellin C9LY14 as a major cellular protein, which carries various hitherto undescribed rhamnose- and N-acetylglucosamine linked O-glycans in the range from mono- to hexasaccharides. A comprehensive glycomic and glycoproteomic assessment revealed extensive glycan macro- and microheterogeneity identified from 22 unique glycopeptide species. From the multiple sites of glycosylation, five were unambiguously identified on the 437-amino acid C9LY14 protein (Thr149, Ser182, Thr199, Thr259, and Ser334), the only flagellin protein identified. The O-glycans additionally showed modifications by methylation and putative acetylation. Some O-glycans carried hitherto undescribed residues/modifications as determined by their respective m/z values, reflecting the high diversity of native S. sputigena flagellin. We also found that monosaccharide rearrangement occurred during collision-induced dissociation (CID) of protonated glycopeptide ions. This effect resulted in pseudo Y1-glycopeptide fragment ions that indicated the presence of additional glycosylation sites on a single glycopeptide. CID oxonium ions and electron transfer dissociation, however, confirmed that just a single site was glycosylated, showing that glycan-to-peptide rearrangement can occur on glycopeptides and that this effect is influenced by the molecular nature of the glycan moiety. This effect was most pronounced with disaccharides. This study is the first report on O-linked flagellin glycosylation in a Selenomonas species, revealing that C9LY14 is one of the most heavily glycosylated flagellins described to date. This study contributes to our understanding of the largely under-investigated surface properties of oral bacteria. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005859.
PXD005782	29339412	The Sequence-specific Peptide-binding Activity of the Protein Sulfide Isomerase AGR2 Directs Its Stable Binding to the Oncogenic Receptor EpCAM. 	The sequence-specific peptide-binding activity of the protein sulfide isomerase AGR2 directs its' stable binding to the oncogenic receptor EpCAM	AGR2, EpCAM, HDX, protein-protein interaction	AGR2 is an oncogenic endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident protein disulfide isomerase. AGR2 protein has a relatively unique property for a chaperone in that it can bind sequence-specifically to a specific peptide motif (TTIYY). A synthetic TTIYY-containing peptide column was used to affinity-purify AGR2 from crude lysates highlighting peptide selectivity in complex mixtures. Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry localized the dominant region in AGR2 that interacts with the TTIYY peptide to within a structural loop from amino acids 131-135 (VDPSL). A peptide binding site consensus of Tx[IL][YF][YF] was developed for AGR2 by measuring its activity against a mutant peptide library. Screening the human proteome for proteins harboring this motif revealed an enrichment in transmembrane proteins and we focused on validating EpCAM as a potential AGR2-interacting protein. AGR2 and EpCAM proteins formed a dose-dependent protein-protein interaction in vitro Proximity ligation assays demonstrated that endogenous AGR2 and EpCAM protein associate in cells. Introducing a single alanine mutation in EpCAM at Tyr251 attenuated its binding to AGR2 in vitro and in cells. Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry was used to identify a stable binding site for AGR2 on EpCAM, adjacent to the TLIYY motif and surrounding EpCAM's detergent binding site. These data define a dominant site on AGR2 that mediates its specific peptide-binding function. EpCAM forms a model client protein for AGR2 to study how an ER-resident chaperone can dock specifically to a peptide motif and regulate the trafficking a protein destined for the secretory pathway.
PXD005178	29339428	Mucosal Infections and Invasive Potential of Nonencapsulated Streptococcus pneumoniae Are Enhanced by Oligopeptide Binding Proteins AliC and AliD. 	Oligopeptide Importers AliC and AliD of Nonencapsulated Streptococcus pneumoniae Facilitate Mucosal Infections and Mediate Persistence during Invasive Disease	Streptocuccus pneumoniae pneumococcus MHZ41 LTQ Velos Linear Trap	Nonencapsulated Streptococcus pneumoniae (NESp) is an emerging human pathogen that colonizes the nasopharynx and is associated with noninvasive diseases such as otitis media (OM), conjunctivitis, and nonbacteremic pneumonia. Since capsule expression was previously thought to be necessary for establishment of invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD), serotype-specific polysaccharide capsules are targeted by currently licensed pneumococcal vaccines. Yet, NESp expressing oligopeptide binding proteins AliC and AliD have been isolated during IPD. Thus, we hypothesize AliC and AliD are major NESp virulence determinants that facilitate persistence and development of IPD. Our study reveals that NESp expressing AliC and AliD have intensified virulence compared to isogenic mutants. Specifically, we demonstrate AliC and AliD enhance murine nasopharyngeal colonization and pulmonary infection and are required for OM in a chinchilla model. Furthermore, AliC and AliD increase pneumococcal survival in chinchilla whole blood and aid in resistance to killing by human leukocytes. Comparative proteome analysis revealed significant alterations in protein levels when AliC and AliD were absent. Virulence-associated proteins, including a pneumococcal surface protein C variant (CbpAC), were significantly downregulated, while starvation response indicators were upregulated in the double mutant relative to wild-type levels. We also reveal that differentially expressed CbpAC was essential for NESp adherence to epithelial cells, virulence during OM, reduction of C3b deposition on the NESp surface, and binding to nonspecific IgA. Altogether, the rise in NESp prevalence urges the need to understand how NESp establishes disease and persists in a host. This study highlights the roles of AliC, AliD, and CbpAC in the pathogenesis of NESp.IMPORTANCE Despite the effective, widespread use of licensed pneumococcal vaccines over many decades, pneumococcal infections remain a worldwide burden resulting in high morbidity and mortality. NESp subpopulations are rapidly rising in the wake of capsule-targeted vaccine strategies, yet there is very little knowledge on NESp pathogenic potential and virulence mechanisms. Although NESp lacks a protective capsule, NESp lineages expressing AliC and AliD have been associated with systemic infections. Furthermore, higher antibiotic resistance rates and transformation efficiencies associated with emerging NESp threaten treatment strategies needed to control pneumococcal infections and transmission. Elucidating how NESp survives within a host and establishes disease is necessary for development of broadened pneumococcal prevention methods. Our study identifies virulence determinants and host survival mechanisms employed by NESp with a high pathogenic potential. Moreover, our study also identifies virulence determinants shared by NESp and encapsulated strains that may serve as broad prevention and therapeutic targets.
PXD006899	29339722	The deep-subsurface sulfate reducer Desulfotomaculum kuznetsovii employs two methanol-degrading pathways. 	Comparative proteomics of Desulfotomaculum kuznetsovii grown on methanol and ethanol	ethanol, lactate, metabolism, methanol, sulfate reducing bacteria	Methanol is generally metabolized through a pathway initiated by a cobalamine-containing methanol methyltransferase by anaerobic methylotrophs (such as methanogens and acetogens), or through oxidation to formaldehyde using a methanol dehydrogenase by aerobes. Methanol is an important substrate in deep-subsurface environments, where thermophilic sulfate-reducing bacteria of the genus Desulfotomaculum have key roles. Here, we study the methanol metabolism of Desulfotomaculum kuznetsovii strain 17(T), isolated from a 3000-m deep geothermal water reservoir. We use proteomics to analyze cells grown with methanol and sulfate in the presence and absence of cobalt and vitamin B12. The results indicate the presence of two methanol-degrading pathways in D. kuznetsovii, a cobalt-dependent methanol methyltransferase and a cobalt-independent methanol dehydrogenase, which is further confirmed by stable isotope fractionation. This is the first report of a microorganism utilizing two distinct methanol conversion pathways. We hypothesize that this gives D. kuznetsovii a competitive advantage in its natural environment.
PXD007118	29341593	Analysis of Cellular Tyrosine Phosphorylation via Chemical Rescue of Conditionally Active Abl Kinase. 	Abl subtrates using tyrosine phosphoproteomics	SILAC, pTyr	Identifying direct substrates targeted by protein kinases is important in understanding cellular physiology and intracellular signal transduction. Mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics provides a powerful tool for comprehensively characterizing the downstream substrates of protein kinases. This approach is efficiently applied to receptor kinases that can be precisely, directly, and rapidly activated by some agent, such as a growth factor. However, nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Abl lacks the experimental advantage of extracellular growth factors as immediate and direct stimuli. To circumvent this limitation, we combine a chemical rescue approach with quantitative phosphoproteomics to identify targets of Abl and their phosphorylation sites with enhanced temporal resolution. Both known and novel putative substrates are identified, presenting opportunities for studying unanticipated functions of Abl under physiological and pathological conditions.
PXD008375	29343704	Phosphorylation induced cochaperone unfolding promotes kinase recruitment and client class-specific Hsp90 phosphorylation. 	Cdc37 and Hsp90 tyrosine phosphorylation modulate the kinase chaperone cycle	Phosphorylation	During the Hsp90-mediated chaperoning of protein kinases, the core components of the machinery, Hsp90 and the cochaperone Cdc37, recycle between different phosphorylation states that regulate progression of the chaperone cycle. We show that Cdc37 phosphorylation at Y298 results in partial unfolding of the C-terminal domain and the population of folding intermediates. Unfolding facilitates Hsp90 phosphorylation at Y197 by unmasking a phosphopeptide sequence, which serves as a docking site to recruit non-receptor tyrosine kinases to the chaperone complex via their SH2 domains. In turn, Hsp90 phosphorylation at Y197 specifically regulates its interaction with Cdc37 and thus affects the chaperoning of only protein kinase clients. In summary, we find that by providing client class specificity, Hsp90 cochaperones such as Cdc37 do not merely assist in client recruitment but also shape the post-translational modification landscape of Hsp90 in a client class-specific manner.
PXD008310	29348145	FBXL13 directs the proteolysis of CEP192 to regulate centrosome homeostasis and cell migration. 	FBXL13 regulates centrosome homeostasis and migration through ubiquitin- mediated proteolysis	Ubiquitin FBXl13	Aberrant centrosome organisation with ensuing alterations of microtubule nucleation capacity enables tumour cells to proliferate and invade despite increased genomic instability. CEP192 is a key factor in the initiation process of centrosome duplication and in the control of centrosome microtubule nucleation. However, regulatory means of CEP192 have remained unknown. Here, we report that FBXL13, a binding determinant of SCF (SKP1-CUL1-F-box)-family E3 ubiquitin ligases, is enriched at centrosomes and interacts with the centrosomal proteins Centrin-2, Centrin-3, CEP152 and CEP192. Among these, CEP192 is specifically targeted for proteasomal degradation by FBXL13. Accordingly, induced FBXL13 expression downregulates centrosomal gamma-tubulin and disrupts centrosomal microtubule arrays. In addition, depletion of FBXL13 induces high levels of CEP192 and gamma-tubulin at the centrosomes with the consequence of defects in cell motility. Together, we characterise FBXL13 as a novel regulator of microtubule nucleation activity and highlight a role in promoting cell motility with potential tumour-promoting implications.
PXD008605	29348366	Structures of human PRC2 with its cofactors AEBP2 and JARID2. 	Cryo-EM structure of the full human PRC2 and regulation by AEBP2 and JARID2	Chemical cross-linking, DSS, PRC2, XL-MS, chromatin, cryo-EM, integrative stuctural biology, structural proteomics	Transcriptionally repressive histone H3 lysine 27 methylation by Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) is essential for cellular differentiation and development. Here we report cryo-electron microscopy structures of human PRC2 in a basal state and two distinct active states while in complex with its cofactors JARID2 and AEBP2. Both cofactors mimic the binding of histone H3 tails. JARID2, methylated by PRC2, mimics a methylated H3 tail to stimulate PRC2 activity, whereas AEBP2 interacts with the RBAP48 subunit, mimicking an unmodified H3 tail. SUZ12 interacts with all other subunits within the assembly and thus contributes to the stability of the complex. Our analysis defines the complete architecture of a functionally relevant PRC2 and provides a structural framework to understand its regulation by cofactors, histone tails, and RNA.
PXD006644	29348603	Comprehensive list of SUMO targets in Caenorhabditis elegans and its implication for evolutionary conservation of SUMO signaling. 	SUMO proteomics in Caenorhabditis elegans	C. elegans, SUMO	Post-translational modification by small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) is a key regulator of cell physiology, modulating protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions. Recently, SUMO modifications were postulated to be involved in response to various stress stimuli. We aimed to identify the near complete set of proteins modified by SUMO and the dynamics of the modification in stress conditions in the higher eukaryote, Caenorhabditis elegans. We identified 874 proteins modified by SUMO in the worm. We have analyzed the SUMO modification in stress conditions including heat shock, DNA damage, arsenite induced cellular stress, ER and osmotic stress. In all these conditions the global levels of SUMOylation was significantly increased. These results show the evolutionary conservation of SUMO modifications in reaction to stress. Our analysis showed that SUMO targets are highly conserved throughout species. By comparing the SUMO targets among species, we approximated the total number of proteins modified in a given proteome to be at least 15-20%. We developed a web server designed for convenient prediction of potential SUMO modification based on experimental evidences in other species.
PXD006448	29348610	The histone methyltransferase DOT1L inhibits osteoclastogenesis and protects against osteoporosis. 	Inhibition of DOT1L increases osteoclast fusion and resorption and aggravates bone loss	DOT1L, osteoclast, osteoporosis	Osteoclasts are absorptive cells that play a critical role in homeostatic bone remodeling and pathological bone resorption. Emerging evidence suggests an important role of epigenetic regulation in osteoclastogenesis. In this study, we investigated the role of DOT1L, which regulates gene expression epigenetically by histone H3K79 methylation (H3K79me), during osteoclast formation. Using RANKL-induced RAW264.7 macrophage cells as an osteoclast differentiation model, we found that DOT1L and H3K79me2 levels were upregulated during osteoclast differentiation. Small molecule inhibitor- (EPZ5676 or EPZ004777) or short hairpin RNA-mediated reduction in DOT1L expression promoted osteoclast differentiation and resorption. In addition, DOT1L inhibition increased osteoclast surface area and accelerated bone-mass reduction in a mouse ovariectomy (OVX) model of osteoporosis without alter osteoblast differentiation. DOT1L inhibition increase reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and autophagy activity, and cell migration in pre-osteoclasts. Moreover, it strengthened expression of osteoclast fusion and resorption-related protein CD9 and MMP9 in osteoclasts derived from RAW264.7. Our findings support a new mechanism of DOT1L-regulated, H3K79me2-mediated, epigenetic regulation of osteoclast differentiation, implicating DOT1L as a new therapeutic target for osteoclast dysregulation-induced disease.
PXD006750	29350274	T lymphocytes facilitate brain metastasis of breast cancer by inducing Guanylate-Binding Protein 1 expression. 	T cells facilitate brain metastasis of breast cancer.	T cell response, brain metastasis, breast cancer, human.	The discovery of genes and molecular pathways involved in the formation of brain metastasis would direct the development of therapeutic strategies to prevent this deadly complication of cancer. By comparing gene expression profiles of Estrogen Receptor negative (ER-) primary breast tumors between patients who developed metastasis to brain and to organs other than brain, we found that T lymphocytes promote the formation of brain metastases. To functionally test the ability of T cells to promote brain metastasis, we used an in vitro blood-brain barrier (BBB) model. By co-culturing T lymphocytes with breast cancer cells, we confirmed that T cells increase the ability of breast cancer cells to cross the BBB. Proteomics analysis of the tumor cells revealed Guanylate-Binding Protein 1 (GBP1) as a key T lymphocyte-induced protein that enables breast cancer cells to cross the BBB. The GBP1 gene appeared to be up-regulated in breast cancer of patients who developed brain metastasis. Silencing of GBP1 reduced the ability of breast cancer cells to cross the in vitro BBB model. In addition, the findings were confirmed in vivo in an immunocompetent syngeneic mouse model. Co-culturing of ErbB2 tumor cells with activated T cells induced a significant increase in Gbp1 expression by the cancer cells. Intracardial inoculation of the co-cultured tumor cells resulted in preferential seeding to brain. Moreover, intracerebral outgrowth of the tumor cells was demonstrated. The findings point to a role of T cells in the formation of brain metastases in ER- breast cancers, and provide potential targets for intervention to prevent the development of cerebral metastases.
PXD008621	29351189	The Role of Cadaverine Synthesis on Pneumococcal Capsule and Protein Expression. 	The role of cadaverine synthesis on pneumococcal capsule and protein expression.	Streptococcus pneumoniae, cadaverine., capsule, complementation, metabolism, pneumococcal pneumonia, polyamines	Invasive infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae, a commensal in the nasopharynx, pose significant risk to human health. Limited serotype coverage by the available polysaccharide-based conjugate vaccines coupled with increasing incidence of antibiotic resistance complicates therapeutic strategies. Bacterial physiology and metabolism that allows pathogens to adapt to the host are a promising avenue for the discovery of novel therapeutics. Intracellular polyamine concentrations are tightly regulated by biosynthesis, transport and degradation. We previously reported that deletion of cadA, a gene that encodes for lysine decarboxylase, an enzyme that catalyzes cadaverine synthesis results in an attenuated phenotype. Here, we report the impact of cadA deletion on pneumococcal capsule and protein expression. Our data show that genes for polyamine biosynthesis and transport are downregulated in incrementcadA. Immunoblot assays show reduced capsule in incrementcadA. Reduced capsule synthesis could be due to reduced transcription and availability of precursors for synthesis. The capsule is the predominant virulence factor in pneumococci and is critical for evading opsonophagocytosis and its loss in incrementcadA could explain the reported attenuation in vivo. Results from this study show that capsule synthesis in pneumococci is regulated by polyamine metabolism, which can be targeted for developing novel therapies.
PXD008361	29351208	Preservation Method and Phosphate Buffered Saline Washing Affect the Acute Myeloid Leukemia Proteome. 	Preservation methods and PBS washing affect the AML proteome	AML, DMSO, PBS, storage conditions	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) primary cells can be isolated from peripheral blood, suspended with media containing bovine serum and cryoprotectant, and stored in liquid nitrogen before being processed for proteomic analysis by mass spectrometry (MS). The presence of bovine serum and human blood proteins in AML samples can hamper the identifications of proteins, and thereby reduce the proteome coverage of the study. Herein, we have established the effect of phosphate buffered saline (PBS) washing on AML patient samples stored in media. Although PBS washes effectively removed serum and blood contaminants, the saline wash resulted in cell burst and remarkable protein material loss. We also compared different methods to preserve the AML proteome from THP-1 and Molm-13 cell lines before MS analysis: (1) stored in media containing bovine serum and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO); (2) stored as dried cell pellets; and (3) stored as cell lysates in 4% sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). MS analysis of differently preserved AML cell samples shows that preservation with DMSO produce a high number of fragile cells that will burst during freezing and thawing. Our studies encourage the use of alternative preservation methods for future MS analysis of the AML proteome.
PXD008488	29351798	Comparative salivary proteomics analysis of children with and without dental caries using the iTRAQ/MRM approach. 	Comparative salivary proteomics analysis of children with and without dental caries using the iTRAQ/MRM approach	Dental caries, MRM, children, iTRAQ, salivary proteome	BACKGROUND: Dental caries is a major worldwide oral disease afflicting a large proportion of children. As an important host factor of caries susceptibility, saliva plays a significant role in the occurrence and development of caries. The aim of the present study was to characterize the healthy and cariogenic salivary proteome and determine the changes in salivary protein expression of children with varying degrees of active caries, also to establish salivary proteome profiles with a potential therapeutic use against dental caries. METHODS: In this study, unstimulated saliva samples were collected from 30 children (age 10-12 years) with no dental caries (NDC, n = 10), low dental caries (LDC, n = 10), and high dental caries (HDC, n = 10). Salivary proteins were extracted, reduced, alkylated, trypsin digested and labeled with isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation, and then they were analyzed with GO annotation, biological pathway analysis, hierarchical clustering analysis, and protein-protein interaction analysis. Targeted verifications were then performed using multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry. RESULTS: A total of 244 differentially expressed proteins annotated with GO annotation in biological processes, cellular component and molecular function were identified in comparisons among children with varying degrees of active caries. A number of caries-related proteins as well as pathways were identified in this study. As compared with caries-free children, the most significantly enriched pathways involved by the up-regulated proteins in LDC and HDC were the ubiquitin mediated proteolysis pathway and African trypanosomiasis pathway, respectively. Subsequently, we selected 53 target proteins with differential expression in different comparisons, including mucin 7, mucin 5B, histatin 1, cystatin S and cystatin SN, basic salivary proline rich protein 2, for further verification using MRM assays. Protein-protein interaction analysis of these proteins revealed complex protein interaction networks, indicating synergistic action of salivary proteins in caries resistance or cariogenicity. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, our results afford new insight into the salivary proteome of children with dental caries. These findings might have bright prospect in future in developing novel biomimetic peptides with preventive and therapeutic benefits for childhood caries.
PXD008364	29351913	The RIG-I-like receptor LGP2 inhibits Dicer-dependent processing of long double-stranded RNA and blocks RNA interference in mammalian cells. 	The RIG-I like receptor LGP2 inhibits Dicer-dependent processing of long double-stranded RNA and blocks RNA interference in mammalian cells.	immunobiology, viral infection	In vertebrates, the presence of viral RNA in the cytosol is sensed by members of the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) family, which signal to induce production of type I interferons (IFN). These key antiviral cytokines act in a paracrine and autocrine manner to induce hundreds of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), whose protein products restrict viral entry, replication and budding. ISGs include the RLRs themselves: RIG-I, MDA5 and, the least-studied family member, LGP2. In contrast, the IFN system is absent in plants and invertebrates, which defend themselves from viral intruders using RNA interference (RNAi). In RNAi, the endoribonuclease Dicer cleaves virus-derived double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) into small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) that target complementary viral RNA for cleavage. Interestingly, the RNAi machinery is conserved in mammals, and we have recently demonstrated that it is able to participate in mammalian antiviral defence in conditions in which the IFN system is suppressed. In contrast, when the IFN system is active, one or more ISGs act to mask or suppress antiviral RNAi. Here, we demonstrate that LGP2 constitutes one of the ISGs that can inhibit antiviral RNAi in mammals. We show that LGP2 associates with Dicer and inhibits cleavage of dsRNA into siRNAs both in vitro and in cells. Further, we show that in differentiated cells lacking components of the IFN response, ectopic expression of LGP2 interferes with RNAi-dependent suppression of gene expression. Conversely, genetic loss of LGP2 uncovers dsRNA-mediated RNAi albeit less strongly than complete loss of the IFN system. Thus, the inefficiency of RNAi as a mechanism of antiviral defence in mammalian somatic cells can be in part attributed to Dicer inhibition by LGP2 induced by type I IFNs. LGP2-mediated antagonism of dsRNA-mediated RNAi may help ensure that viral dsRNA substrates are preserved in order to serve as targets of antiviral ISG proteins.
PXD004559	29351928	Mapping and Quantification of Over 2000 O-linked Glycopeptides in Activated Human T Cells with Isotope-Targeted Glycoproteomics (Isotag). 	Mapping and quantification of over 2,000 O-linked glycopeptides in activated human T cells with isotope-targeted glycoproteomics	O-GlcNAc, O-linked N-acetylglucosamine, T cells, glycoproteomics	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) on proteins often function to regulate signaling cascades, with the activation of T cells during an adaptive immune response being a classic example. Mounting evidence indicates that the modification of proteins by O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc), the only mammalian glycan found on nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins, helps regulate T cell activation. Yet, a mechanistic understanding of how O-GlcNAc functions in T cell activation remains elusive, partly because of the difficulties in mapping and quantifying O-GlcNAc sites. Thus, to advance insight into the role of O-GlcNAc in T cell activation, we performed glycosite mapping studies via direct glycopeptide measurement on resting and activated primary human T cells with a technique termed Isotope Targeted Glycoproteomics. This approach led to the identification of 2219 intact O-linked glycopeptides across 1045 glycoproteins. A significant proportion (>45%) of the identified O-GlcNAc sites lie near or coincide with a known phosphorylation site, supporting the potential for PTM crosstalk. Consistent with other studies, we find that O-GlcNAc sites in T cells lack a strict consensus sequence. To validate our results, we employed gel shift assays based on conjugating mass tags to O-GlcNAc groups. Notably, we observed that the transcription factors c-JUN and JUNB show higher levels of O-GlcNAc glycosylation and higher levels of expression in activated T cells. Overall, our findings provide a quantitative characterization of O-GlcNAc glycoproteins and their corresponding modification sites in primary human T cells, which will facilitate mechanistic studies into the function of O-GlcNAc in T cell activation.
PXD002169	29356267	Cleavable Crosslinkers as Tissue Fixation Reagents for Proteomic Analysis. 	Fixated rat liver tissue -  Cleavable crosslinkers as tissue fixation reagents for proteomic analysis	Rat liver, cleavable crosslinkers, reversible crosslinking, tissue fixation	Formaldehyde fixation is widely used for long-term maintenance of tissue. However, due to formaldehyde-induced crosslinks, fixed tissue proteins are difficult to extract, which hampers mass spectrometry (MS) proteomic analyses. Recent years have seen the use of different combinations of high temperature and solubilizing agents (usually derived from antigen retrieval techniques) to unravel formaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue proteomes. However, to achieve protein extraction yields similar to those of fresh-frozen tissue, high-temperature heating is necessary. Such harsh extraction conditions can affect sensitive amino acids and post-translational modifications, resulting in the loss of important information, while still not resulting in protein yields comparable to those of fresh-frozen tissue. Herein, the objective is to evaluate cleavable protein crosslinkers as fixatives that allow tissue preservation and efficient protein extraction from fixed tissue for MS proteomics under mild conditions. With this goal in mind, disuccinimidyl tartrate (DST) and dithiobis(succinimidylpropionate) (DSP) are investigated as cleavable fixating reagents. These compounds crosslink proteins by reacting with amino groups, leading to amide bond formation, and can be cleaved with sodium metaperiodate (cis-diols, DST) or reducing agents (disulfide bonds, DSP), respectively. Results show that cleavable protein crosslinking with DST and DSP allows tissue fixation with morphology preservation comparable to that of formaldehyde. In addition, cleavage of DSP improves protein recovery from fixed tissue by a factor of 18 and increases the number of identified proteins by approximately 20 % under mild extraction conditions compared with those of formaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. A major advantage of DSP is the introduction of well-defined protein modifications that can be taken into account during database searching. In contrast to DSP fixation, DST fixation followed by cleavage with sodium metaperiodate, although effective, results in side reactions that prevent effective protein extraction and interfere with protein identification. Protein crosslinkers that can be cleaved under mild conditions and result in defined modifications, such as DSP, are thus viable alternatives to formaldehyde as tissue fixatives to facilitate protein analysis from paraffin-embedded, fixed tissue.
PXD006817	29358085	Compartmentalization of HP1 Proteins in Pluripotency Acquisition and Maintenance. 	Compartmentalization of HP1 proteins in pluripotency acquisition and maintenance	ESC, HP1, iPSC, pluripotency	The heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1) family is involved in various functions with maintenance of chromatin structure. During murine somatic cell reprogramming, we find that early depletion of HP1gamma reduces the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells, while late depletion enhances the process, with a concomitant change from a centromeric to nucleoplasmic localization and elongation-associated histone H3.3 enrichment. Depletion of heterochromatin anchoring protein SENP7 increased reprogramming efficiency to a similar extent as HP1gamma, indicating the importance of HP1gamma release from chromatin for pluripotency acquisition. HP1gamma interacted with OCT4 and DPPA4 in HP1alpha and HP1beta knockouts and in H3K9 methylation depleted H3K9M embryonic stem cell (ESC) lines. HP1alpha and HP1gamma complexes in ESCs differed in association with histones, the histone chaperone CAF1 complex, and specific components of chromatin-modifying complexes such as DPY30, implying distinct functional contributions. Taken together, our results reveal the complex contribution of the HP1 proteins to pluripotency.
PXD006993	29358338	Quantitative Proteomics After Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) in a Regenerative and a Nonregenerative Stage in the Frog Xenopus laevis. 	Quantitative proteomics after spinal cord injury in a regenerative and a non-regenerative stage in Xenopus laevis	Xenopus laevis, quantitative proteomics, regenerative and a non-regenerative stage, spinal cord injury	The capacity to regenerate the spinal cord after an injury is a coveted trait that only a limited group of nonmammalian organisms can achieve. In Xenopus laevis, this capacity is only present during larval or tadpole stages, but is absent during postmetamorphic frog stages. This provides an excellent model for comparative studies between a regenerative and a nonregenerative stage to identify the cellular and molecular mechanisms that explain this difference in regenerative potential. Here, we used iTRAQ chemistry to obtain a quantitative proteome of the spinal cord 1 day after a transection injury in regenerative and nonregenerative stage animals, and used sham operated animals as controls. We quantified a total of 6,384 proteins, with 172 showing significant differential expression in the regenerative stage and 240 in the nonregenerative stage, with an overlap of only 14 proteins. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that although the regenerative stage downregulated synapse/vesicle and mitochondrial proteins, the nonregenerative stage upregulated lipid metabolism proteins, and downregulated ribosomal and translation control proteins. Furthermore, STRING network analysis showed that proteins belonging to these groups are highly interconnected, providing interesting candidates for future functional studies. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006993.
PXD006542	29358339	Quantitative Proteomics of Strong and Weak Biofilm Formers of Enterococcus faecalis Reveals Novel Regulators of Biofilm Formation. 	Enterococcus faecalis biofilm proteome	Enterococcus faecalis, biofilm, iTRAQ	Enterococcus faecalis is a bacterial pathogen associated with both endodontic and systemic infections. The biofilm formation ability of E. faecalis plays a key role in its virulence and drug resistance attributes. The formation of E. faecalis biofilms on implanted medical devices often results in treatment failure. In the present study, we report protein markers associated with the biofilm formation ability of E. faecalis using iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomics approach. In order to elucidate the biofilm-associated protein markers, we investigated the proteome of strong and weak biofilm-forming E. faecalis clinical isolates in comparison with standard American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) control strains. Comparison of E. faecalis strong and weak biofilm-forming clinical isolates with ATCC control strains showed that proteins associated with shikimate kinase pathway and sulfate transport were up-regulated in the strong biofilm former, while proteins associated with secondary metabolites, cofactor biosynthesis, and tetrahydrofolate biosynthesis were down-regulated. In the weak biofilm former, proteins associated with nucleoside and nucleotide biosynthesis were up-regulated, whereas proteins associated with sulfate and sugar transport were down-regulated. Further pathway and gene ontology analyses revealed that the major differences in biofilm formation arise from differences in metabolic activity levels of the strong and weak biofilm formers, with higher levels of metabolic activity observed in the weak biofilm former. The differences in metabolic activity could therefore be a major determinant of the biofilm ability of E. faecalis The new markers identified from this study can be further characterized in order to understand their exact role in E. faecalis biofilm formation ability. This, in turn, can lead to numerous therapeutic benefits in the treatment of this oral and systemic pathogen. The data has been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006542.
PXD006594	29358340	Simple, scalable, and ultrasensitive tip-based identification of protease substrates. 	ChaFRAtip -  Simple, scalable and ultra-sensitive tip-based identification of protease substrates	N-terminomics	Proteases are in the center of many diseases, and consequently, proteases and their substrates are important drug targets as represented by an estimated 5-10% of all drugs under development. Mass spectrometry has been an indispensable tool for the discovery of novel protease substrates, particularly through the proteome-scale enrichment of so-called N-terminal peptides representing endogenous protein N termini. Methods such as combined fractional diagonal chromatography (COFRADIC)(1) and, later, terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates (TAILS) have revealed numerous insights into protease substrates and consensus motifs. We present an alternative and simple protocol for N-terminal peptide enrichment, based on charge-based fractional diagonal chromatography (ChaFRADIC) and requiring only well-established protein chemistry and a pipette tip. Using iTRAQ-8-plex, we quantified on average 2,073 +/- 52 unique N-terminal peptides from only 4.3 mug per sample/channel, allowing the identification of proteolytic targets and consensus motifs. This high sensitivity may even allow working with clinical samples such as needle biopsies in the future. We applied our method to study the dynamics of staurosporine-induced apoptosis. Our data demonstrate an orchestrated regulation of specific pathways after 1.5 h, 3 h, and 6 h of treatment, with many important players of homeostasis targeted already after 1.5 h. We additionally observed an early multilevel modulation of the splicing machinery both by proteolysis and phosphorylation. This may reflect the known role of alternative splicing variants for a variety of apoptotic genes, which seems to be a driving force of staurosporine-induced apoptosis.
PXD007890	29358341	Temporal Effects of Combined Birinapant and Paclitaxel on Pancreatic Cancer Cells Investigated via Large-Scale, Ion-Current-Based Quantitative Proteomics (IonStar). 	Human pancreatic cancer LC-MSMS	pancreatic cancer	Despite decades of effort, pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains an intractable clinical challenge. An insufficient understanding of mechanisms underlying tumor cell responses to chemotherapy contributes significantly to the lack of effective treatment regimens. Here, paclitaxel, a first-line chemotherapeutic agent, was observed to interact synergistically with birinapant, a second mitochondrial-derived activator of caspases mimetic. Therefore, we investigated molecular-level drug interaction mechanisms using comprehensive, reproducible, and well-controlled ion-current-based MS1 quantification (IonStar). By analyzing 40 biological samples in a single batch, we compared temporal proteomic responses of PDAC cells treated with birinapant and paclitaxel, alone and combined. Using stringent criteria (e.g. strict false-discovery-rate (FDR) control, two peptides/protein), we quantified 4069 unique proteins confidently (99.8% without any missing data), and 541 proteins were significantly altered in the three treatment groups, with an FDR of <1%. Interestingly, most of these proteins were altered only by combined birinapant/paclitaxel, and these predominantly represented three biological processes: mitochondrial function, cell growth and apoptosis, and cell cycle arrest. Proteins responsible for activation of oxidative phosphorylation, fatty acid beta-oxidation, and inactivation of aerobic glycolysis were altered largely by combined birinapant/paclitaxel compared with single drugs, suggesting the Warburg effect, which is critical for survival and proliferation of cancer cells, was alleviated by the combination treatment. Metabolic profiling was performed to confirm substantially greater suppression of the Warburg effect by the combined agents compared with either drug alone. Immunoassays confirmed proteomic data revealing changes in apoptosis/survival signaling pathways, such as inhibition of PI3K/AKT, JAK/STAT, and MAPK/ERK signal transduction, as well as induction of G2/M arrest, and showed the drug combination induced much more apoptosis than did single agents. Overall, this in-depth, large-scale proteomics study provided novel insights into molecular mechanisms underlying synergy of combined birinapant/paclitaxel and describes a proteomics/informatics pipeline that can be applied broadly to the development of cancer drug combination regimens.
PXD003584	29358734	Quantitative proteomics identifies redox switches for global translation modulation by mitochondrially produced reactive oxygen species. 	Dimethyl-Labelling of wild-type yeast treated with hydrogen peroxide LC-MS/MS	Dimethyl-Labelling, oxidative stress	The generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is inevitably linked to life. However, the precise role of ROS in signalling and specific targets is largely unknown. We perform a global proteomic analysis to delineate the yeast redoxome to a depth of more than 4,300 unique cysteine residues in over 2,200 proteins. Mapping of redox-active thiols in proteins exposed to exogenous or endogenous mitochondria-derived oxidative stress reveals ROS-sensitive sites in several components of the translation apparatus. Mitochondria are the major source of cellular ROS. We demonstrate that increased levels of intracellular ROS caused by dysfunctional mitochondria serve as a signal to attenuate global protein synthesis. Hence, we propose a universal mechanism that controls protein synthesis by inducing reversible changes in the translation machinery upon modulating the redox status of proteins involved in translation. This crosstalk between mitochondria and protein synthesis may have an important contribution to pathologies caused by dysfunctional mitochondria.
PXD008577	29359918	A Peptidomimetic Antibiotic Interacts with the Periplasmic Domain of LptD from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	A Peptidomimetic Antibiotic Interacts with the Periplasmic Domain of LptD from Pseudomonas aeruginosa	DIA, Gram-negative bacteria, Lpt complex, Thermo Q-Exactive Plus, molecular mode of action, peptidomimetic antibiotic, photo crosslinking, pseudomonas	The outer membrane (OM) in Gram-negative bacteria is an asymmetric bilayer with mostly lipopolysaccharide (LPS) molecules in the outer leaflet. During OM biogenesis, new LPS molecules are transported from their site of assembly on the inner membrane to the OM by seven LPS transport proteins (LptA-G). The complex formed between the integral beta-barrel OM protein LptD and the lipoprotein LptE is responsible for transporting LPS from the periplasmic side of the OM to its final location on the cell surface. Because of its essential function in many Gram-negative bacteria, the LPS transport pathway is an interesting target for the development of new antibiotics. A family of macrocyclic peptidomimetics was discovered recently that target LptD and inhibit LPS transport specifically in Pseudomonas spp. The related molecule Murepavadin is in clinical development for the treatment of life-threatening infections caused by P. aeruginosa. To characterize the interaction of these antibiotics with LptD from P. aeruginosa, we characterized the binding site by cross-linking to a photolabeling probe. We used a hypothesis-free mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach to provide evidence that the antibiotic cross-links to the periplasmic segment of LptD, containing a beta-jellyroll domain and an N-terminal insert domain characteristic of Pseudomonas spp. Binding of the antibiotic to the periplasmic segment is expected to block LPS transport, consistent with the proposed mode of action and observed specificity of these antibiotics. These insights may prove valuable for the discovery of new antibiotics targeting the LPS transport pathway in other Gram-negative bacteria.
PXD007258	29360139	Hepatic stellate cell-derived platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha-enriched extracellular vesicles promote liver fibrosis in mice through SHP2. 	Human hepatic stellate cell-derived extracellular vesicles LC-MSMS	extracellular vesicles, hepatic stellate cells, liver	Liver fibrosis is characterized by the activation and migration of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), followed by matrix deposition. Recently, several studies have shown the importance of extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from liver cells, such as hepatocytes and endothelial cells, in liver pathobiology. While most of the studies describe how liver cells modulate HSC behavior, an important gap exists in the understanding of HSC-derived signals and more specifically HSC-derived EVs in liver fibrosis. Here, we investigated the molecules released through HSC-derived EVs, the mechanism of their release, and the role of these EVs in fibrosis. Mass spectrometric analysis showed that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptor-alpha (PDGFRalpha) was enriched in EVs derived from PDGF-BB-treated HSCs. Moreover, patients with liver fibrosis had increased PDGFRalpha levels in serum EVs compared to healthy individuals. Mechanistically, in vitro tyrosine720-to-phenylalanine mutation on the PDGFRalpha sequence abolished enrichment of PDGFRalpha in EVs and redirected the receptor toward degradation. Congruently, the inhibition of Src homology 2 domain tyrosine phosphatase 2, the regulatory binding partner of phosphorylated tyrosine720, also inhibited PDGFRalpha enrichment in EVs. EVs derived from PDGFRalpha-overexpressing cells promoted in vitro HSC migration and in vivo liver fibrosis. Finally, administration of Src homology 2 domain tyrosine phosphatase 2inhibitor, SHP099, to carbon tetrachloride-administered mice inhibited PDGFRalpha enrichment in serum EVs and reduced liver fibrosis. CONCLUSION: PDGFRalpha is enriched in EVs derived from PDGF-BB-treated HSCs in an Src homology 2 domain tyrosine phosphatase 2-dependent manner and these PDGFRalpha-enriched EVs participate in development of liver fibrosis. (Hepatology 2018;68:333-348).
PXD006330	29360563	Adrenergic receptor stimulation suppresses oxidative metabolism in isolated rat islets and Min6 cells. 	Adrenergic Receptor Stimulation Suppresses Metabolism in the Pancreatic beta Cell	Min6, catecholamines, epinephrine, insulin, norepinephrine, pancreas, beta-cells	Insulin secretion is stimulated by glucose metabolism and inhibited by catecholamines through adrenergic receptor stimulation. We determined whether catecholamines suppress oxidative metabolism in beta-cells through adrenergic receptors. In Min6 cells and isolated rat islets, epinephrine decreased oxygen consumption rates compared to vehicle control or co-administration of epinephrine with alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist yohimbine. Epinephrine also decreased forskolin-stimulated oxygen consumption rates, indicating cAMP dependent and independent actions. Furthermore, glucose oxidation rates were decreased with epinephrine, independent of the exocytosis of insulin, which was blocked with yohimbine. We evaluated metabolic targets through proteomic analysis after 4 h epinephrine exposure that revealed 466 differentially expressed proteins that were significantly enriched for processes including oxidative metabolism, protein turnover, exocytosis, and cell proliferation. These results demonstrate that acute alpha2-adrenergic stimulation suppresses glucose oxidation in beta-cells independent of nutrient availability and insulin exocytosis, while cAMP concentrations are elevated. Proteomics and immunoblots revealed changes in electron transport chain proteins that were correlated with lower metabolic reducing equivalents, intracellular ATP concentrations, and altered mitochondrial membrane potential implicating a new role for adrenergic control of mitochondrial function and ultimately insulin secretion.
PXD002289	29361498	Respiromics - An integrative analysis linking mitochondrial bioenergetics to molecular signatures. 	High Fat Diet Related Changes in Mitochondrial Proteome	FASP, High Fat Diet, Liver, Mitochondria	OBJECTIVE: Energy metabolism is challenged upon nutrient stress, eventually leading to a variety of metabolic diseases that represent a major global health burden. METHODS: Here, we combine quantitative mitochondrial respirometry (Seahorse technology) and proteomics (LC-MS/MS-based total protein approach) to understand how molecular changes translate to changes in mitochondrial energy transduction during diet-induced obesity (DIO) in the liver. RESULTS: The integrative analysis reveals that significantly increased palmitoyl-carnitine respiration is supported by an array of proteins enriching lipid metabolism pathways. Upstream of the respiratory chain, the increased capacity for ATP synthesis during DIO associates strongest to mitochondrial uptake of pyruvate, which is routed towards carboxylation. At the respiratory chain, robust increases of complex I are uncovered by cumulative analysis of single subunit concentrations. Specifically, nuclear-encoded accessory subunits, but not mitochondrial-encoded or core units, appear to be permissive for enhanced lipid oxidation. CONCLUSION: Our integrative analysis, that we dubbed "respiromics", represents an effective tool to link molecular changes to functional mechanisms in liver energy metabolism, and, more generally, can be applied for mitochondrial analysis in a variety of metabolic and mitochondrial disease models.
PXD007052	29363612	Spatial Tissue Proteomics Quantifies Inter- and Intratumor Heterogeneity in Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC). 	Spatial tissue proteomics quantifies inter- and intra-tumor heterogeneity in hepatocellular carcinoma	Hepatocellular carcinoma, intra-tumoral heterogeneity, liver	The interpatient variability of tumor proteomes has been investigated on a large scale but many tumors display also intratumoral heterogeneity regarding morphological and genetic features. It remains largely unknown to what extent the local proteome of tumors intrinsically differs. Here, we used hepatocellular carcinoma as a model system to quantify both inter- and intratumor heterogeneity across human patient specimens with spatial resolution. We defined proteomic features that distinguish neoplastic from the directly adjacent nonneoplastic tissue, such as decreased abundance of NADH dehydrogenase complex I. We then demonstrated the existence of intratumoral variations in protein abundance that re-occur across different patient samples, and affect clinically relevant proteins, even in the absence of obvious morphological differences or genetic alterations. Our work demonstrates the suitability and the benefits of using mass spectrometry-based proteomics to analyze diagnostic tumor specimens with spatial resolution. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007052.
PXD006334	29363786	Comparative evaluation of five protocols for protein extraction from stony corals (Scleractinia) for proteomics. 	Comparative Evaluation of Five Protocols for Protein Extraction from Stony Corals (Scleractinia) for Proteomics	Corals, MALDI-TOF-MS, Protein extraction, Two dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE)	Corals especially the reef-building species are very important to marine ecosystems. Proteomics has been used for researches on coral diseases, bleaching and responses to the environment change. A robust and versatile protein extraction protocol is required for coral proteomics. However, a comparative evaluation of different protein extraction protocols is still not available for proteomic analysis of stony corals. In the present study, five protocols were compared for protein extraction from stony corals. The five protocols were TRIzol, phenol-based extraction (PBE), trichloroacetic acid (TCA)-acetone, glass bead-assisted extraction (GBAE) and a commercially available kit. PBE, TRIzol and the commercial kit were more robust for extracting proteins from stony corals. The protein extraction efficiency and repeatability, two dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI TOF MS) were employed to evaluate the protocols. The results indicated that PBE protocol had the better protein extraction efficiency than the others. Protein extraction coverage varied among the procedures. Each protocol favored for certain proteins. Therefore, it is very important for coral proteomic analysis to select a suitable protein protocol upon the experimental design. In general, PBE protocol can be the first choice for extracting proteins from stony corals.
PXD008438	29367433	N-glycome of the Lysosomal Glycocalyx is Altered in Niemann-Pick Type C Disease (NPC) Model Cells. 	lysosome proteomics in Niemann-Pick Type C disease model cells (CHOwt and NPC1-null cells)	CHOwt cells, Glycoproteomics (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, NPC1-null cells, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), lysosome, magnetic nanoparticles lysosome enrichment	Increasing evidence implicates lysosomal dysfunction in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, including the rare inherited lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs) and the most common neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease (AD and PD). Although the triggers of the lysosomal impairment may involve the accumulated macromolecules or dysfunction of the lysosomal enzymes, the role of the lysosomal glycocalyx in the lysosomal (dys)function has not been studied. The goal of this work was to analyze whether there are changes in the lysosomal glycocalyx in a cellular model of a LSD Niemann-Pick type C disease (NPC). Using the ferrofluid nanoparticles we isolated lysosomal organelles from NPC1-null and CHOwt cells. The magnetically isolated lysosomal fractions were enriched with the lysosomal marker protein LAMP1 and showed the key features of NPC disease: 3-fold higher cholesterol content and 4-5 fold enlarged size of the particles compared with the lysosomal fractions of wt cells. These lysosomal fractions were further processed to isolate lysosomal membrane proteins using Triton X-114 and their N-glycome was analyzed by HILIC-UPLC. N-glycans presented in each chromatographic peak were elucidated using MALDI-TOF/TOF-MS. We detected changes in the N-glycosylation pattern of the lysosomal glycocalyx of NPC1-null versus wt cells which involved high-mannose and sialylated N-glycans. To the best of our knowledge this study is the first to report N-glycome profiling of the lysosomal glycocalyx in NPC disease cellular model and the first to report the specific changes in the lysosomal glycocalyx in NPC1-null cells. We speculate that changes in the lysosomal glycocalyx may contribute to lysosomal (dys)function. Further glycome profiling of the lysosomal glycocalyx in other LSDs as well as the most common neurodegenerative diseases, such as AD and PD, is necessary to better understand the role of the lysosomal glycocalyx and to reveal its potential contribution in lysosomal dysfunction leading to neurodegeneration.
PXD002004	29367434	Proteomics Profiling of CLL Versus Healthy B-cells Identifies Putative Therapeutic Targets and a Subtype-independent Signature of Spliceosome Dysregulation. 	Quantitative Proteomic Profiles of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia <TO BE UPDATED>	Bridging Controls, CLL, TMT, cancer, leukaemia, whole cell	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a heterogeneous B-cell cancer exhibiting a wide spectrum of disease courses and treatment responses. Molecular characterization of RNA and DNA from CLL cases has led to the identification of important driver mutations and disease subtypes, but the precise mechanisms of disease progression remain elusive. To further our understanding of CLL biology we performed isobaric labeling and mass spectrometry proteomics on 14 CLL samples, comparing them with B-cells from healthy donors (HDB). Of 8694 identified proteins, ~6000 were relatively quantitated between all samples (q<0.01). A clear CLL signature, independent of subtype, of 544 significantly overexpressed proteins relative to HDB was identified, highlighting established hallmarks of CLL (e.g. CD5, BCL2, ROR1 and CD23 overexpression). Previously unrecognized surface markers demonstrated overexpression (e.g. CKAP4, PIGR, TMCC3 and CD75) and three of these (LAX1, CLEC17A and ATP2B4) were implicated in B-cell receptor signaling, which plays an important role in CLL pathogenesis. Several other proteins (e.g. Wee1, HMOX1/2, HDAC7 and INPP5F) were identified with significant overexpression that also represent potential targets. Western blotting confirmed overexpression of a selection of these proteins in an independent cohort. mRNA processing machinery were broadly upregulated across the CLL samples. Spliceosome components demonstrated consistent overexpression (p = 1.3 x 10(-21)) suggesting dysregulation in CLL, independent of SF3B1 mutations. This study highlights the potential of proteomics in the identification of putative CLL therapeutic targets and reveals a subtype-independent protein expression signature in CLL.
PXD006157	29371290	Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Receptor Type G (PTPRG) Controls Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor (FGFR) 1 Activity and Influences Sensitivity to FGFR Kinase Inhibitors. 	The phosphatase PTPRG controls FGFR1 activity and influences sensitivity to FGFR kinase inhibitors	FGFR1, PTPRG, protein interaction	Recently, FGFR1 was found to be overexpressed in osteosarcoma and represents an important target for precision medicine. However, because targeted cancer therapy based on FGFR inhibitors has so far been less efficient than expected, a detailed understanding of the target is important. We have here applied proximity-dependent biotin labeling combined with label-free quantitative mass spectrometry to identify determinants of FGFR1 activity in an osteosarcoma cell line. Many known FGFR interactors were identified (e.g. FRS2, PLCG1, RSK2, SRC), but the data also suggested novel determinants. A strong hit in our screen was the tyrosine phosphatase PTPRG. We show that PTPRG and FGFR1 interact and colocalize at the plasma membrane where PTPRG directly dephosphorylates activated FGFR1. We further show that osteosarcoma cell lines depleted for PTPRG display increased FGFR activity and are hypersensitive to stimulation by FGF1. In addition, PTPRG depletion elevated cell growth and negatively affected the efficacy of FGFR kinase inhibitors. Thus, PTPRG may have future clinical relevance by being a predictor of outcome after FGFR inhibitor treatment.
PXD007224	29371649	Studies on the Proteome of Human Hair - Identification of Histones and Deamidated Keratins. 	Human hair shaft LC-MS/MS -  Studies on the Proteome of Human Hair - Identification of Histones and Deamidated Keratins	Human scalp hair shaft	Human hair is laminar-fibrous tissue and an evolutionarily old keratinization product of follicle trichocytes. Studies on the hair proteome can give new insights into hair function and lead to the development of novel biomarkers for hair in health and disease. Human hair proteins were extracted by detergent and detergent-free techniques. We adopted a shotgun proteomics approach, which demonstrated a large extractability and variety of hair proteins after detergent extraction. We found an enrichment of keratin, keratin-associated proteins (KAPs), and intermediate filament proteins, which were part of protein networks associated with response to stress, innate immunity, epidermis development, and the hair cycle. Our analysis also revealed a significant deamidation of keratin type I and II, and KAPs. The hair shafts were found to contain several types of histones, which are well known to exert antimicrobial activity. Analysis of the hair proteome, particularly its composition, protein abundances, deamidated hair proteins, and modification sites, may offer a novel approach to explore potential biomarkers of hair health quality, hair diseases, and aging.
PXD007913	29374135	Sulfenylation of Human Liver and Kidney Microsomal Cytochromes P450 and Other Drug-Metabolizing Enzymes as a Response to Redox Alteration. 	Sulfenylation of Human Liver and Kidney Microsomal Cytochromes P450 and Other Drug Metaboing Enzymes as a Response to Redox Alteration	Dimedone, Redox Proteomics, Sulfenic Acid	The lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) provides an oxidizing environment to aid in the formation of disulfide bonds, which is tightly regulated by both antioxidant proteins and small molecules. On the cytoplasmic side of the ER, cytochrome P450 (P450) proteins have been identified as a superfamily of enzymes that are important in the formation of endogenous chemicals as well as in the detoxication of xenobiotics. Our previous report described oxidative inhibition of P450 Family 4 enzymes via oxidation of the heme-thiolate cysteine to a sulfenic acid (-SOH) (Albertolle, M. E. et al. (2017) J. Biol. Chem. 292, 11230-11242). Further proteomic analyses of murine kidney and liver microsomes led to the finding that a number of other drug-metabolizing enzymes located in the ER are also redox-regulated in this manner. We expanded our analysis of sulfenylated enzymes to human liver and kidney microsomes. Evaluation of the sulfenylation, catalytic activity, and spectral properties of P450s 1A2, 2C8, 2D6, and 3A4 led to the identification of two classes of redox sensitivity in P450 enzymes: heme-thiolate-sensitive and thiol-insensitive. These findings provide evidence for a mammalian P450 regulatory mechanism, which may also be relevant to other drug-metabolizing enzymes. (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007913.).
PXD008230	29374258	Identification of a Golgi GPI-N-acetylgalactosamine transferase with tandem transmembrane regions in the catalytic domain. 	Determination of GPI structure of human CD59 in various KO CHO cells	CD59, CHO cells, GPI, PGAP2, PGAP3, PGAP4, PGAP5	Many eukaryotic proteins are anchored to the cell surface via the glycolipid glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI). Mammalian GPIs have a conserved core but exhibit diverse N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) modifications, which are added via a yet unresolved process. Here we identify the Golgi-resident GPI-GalNAc transferase PGAP4 and show by mass spectrometry that PGAP4 knockout cells lose GPI-GalNAc structures. Furthermore, we demonstrate that PGAP4, in contrast to known Golgi glycosyltransferases, is not a single-pass membrane protein but contains three transmembrane domains, including a tandem transmembrane domain insertion into its glycosyltransferase-A fold as indicated by comparative modeling. Mutational analysis reveals a catalytic site, a DXD-like motif for UDP-GalNAc donor binding, and several residues potentially involved in acceptor binding. We suggest that a juxtamembrane region of PGAP4 accommodates various GPI-anchored proteins, presenting their acceptor residue toward the catalytic center. In summary, we present insights into the structure of PGAP4 and elucidate the initial step of GPI-GalNAc biosynthesis.
PXD008055	29376036	The Global Acetylome of the Human Pathogen Vibrio cholerae V52 Reveals Lysine Acetylation of Major Transcriptional Regulators. 	The global acetylome of the human pathogen Vibrio cholerae V52 reveals lysine acetylation of major transcriptional regulators	Acetylome, Bacteria, Lysine acetylation, Pathogen, Vibrio cholerae	Protein lysine acetylation is recognized as an important reversible post translational modification in all domains of life. While its primary roles appear to reside in metabolic processes, lysine acetylation has also been implicated in regulating pathogenesis in bacteria. Several global lysine acetylome analyses have been carried out in various bacteria, but thus far there have been no reports of lysine acetylation taking place in the important human pathogen Vibrio cholerae. In this study, we analyzed the lysine acetylproteome of the human pathogen V. cholerae V52. By applying a combination of immuno-enrichment of acetylated peptides and high resolution mass spectrometry, we identified 3,402 acetylation sites on 1,240 proteins. Of the acetylated proteins, more than half were acetylated on two or more sites. As reported for other bacteria, we observed that many of the acetylated proteins were involved in metabolic and cellular processes and there was an over-representation of acetylated proteins involved in protein synthesis. Of interest, we demonstrated that many global transcription factors such as CRP, H-NS, IHF, Lrp and RpoN as well as transcription factors AphB, TcpP, and PhoB involved in direct regulation of virulence in V. cholerae were acetylated. In conclusion, this is the first global protein lysine acetylome analysis of V. cholerae and should constitute a valuable resource for in-depth studies of the impact of lysine acetylation in pathogenesis and other cellular processes.
PXD007731	29376338	Enhancing Membrane Protein Identification Using a Simplified Centrifugation and Detergent-Based Membrane Extraction Approach. 	Enhancing Membrane Protein Identification Using a Simplified, Centrifugation and Detergent-based Membrane Extraction Approach	Membrane proteins, enrichment, identification, sequence coverage	Membrane proteins may act as transporters, receptors, enzymes, and adhesion-anchors, accounting for nearly 70% of pharmaceutical drug targets. Difficulties in efficient enrichment, extraction, and solubilization still exist because of their relatively low abundance and poor solubility. A simplified membrane protein extraction approach with advantages of user-friendly sample processing procedures, good repeatability and significant effectiveness was developed in the current research for enhancing enrichment and identification of membrane proteins. This approach combining centrifugation and detergent along with LC-MS/MS successfully identified higher proportion of membrane proteins, integral proteins and transmembrane proteins in membrane fraction (76.6%, 48.1%, and 40.6%) than in total cell lysate (41.6%, 16.4%, and 13.5%), respectively. Moreover, our method tended to capture membrane proteins with high degree of hydrophobicity and number of transmembrane domains as 486 out of 2106 (23.0%) had GRAVY > 0 in membrane fraction, 488 out of 2106 (23.1%) had TMs >= 2. It also provided for improved identification of membrane proteins as more than 60.6% of the commonly identified membrane proteins in two cell samples were better identified in membrane fraction with higher sequence coverage. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008456.
PXD008369	29377012	Widespread bacterial protein histidine phosphorylation revealed by mass spectrometry-based proteomics. 	Widespread protein histidine phosphorylation in bacteria	E. coli, histidine phosphorylation, phosphoproteome	For decades, major difficulties in analyzing histidine phosphorylation have limited the study of phosphohistidine signaling. Here we report a method revealing widespread and abundant protein histidine phosphorylation in Escherichia coli. We generated an extensive E. coli phosphoproteome data set, in which a remarkably high percentage (~10%) of phosphorylation sites are phosphohistidine sites. This resource should help enable a better understanding of the biological function of histidine phosphorylation.
PXD008164	29377668	Development of a Photo-Cross-Linkable Diaminoquinazoline Inhibitor for Target Identification in Plasmodium falciparum. 	Use of a Photo-crosslinkable Diaminoquinazoline Inhibitor for Target Identification in Plasmodium Falciparum	Plasmodium falciparum, diaminoquinazoline, photo-crosslinkable	Diaminoquinazolines represent a privileged scaffold for antimalarial discovery, including use as putative Plasmodium histone lysine methyltransferase inhibitors. Despite this, robust evidence for their molecular targets is lacking. Here we report the design and development of a small-molecule photo-cross-linkable probe to investigate the targets of our diaminoquinazoline series. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our designed probe for photoaffinity labeling of Plasmodium lysates and identify similarities between the target profiles of the probe and the representative diaminoquinazoline BIX-01294. Initial pull-down proteomics experiments identified 104 proteins from different classes, many of which are essential, highlighting the suitability of the developed probe as a valuable tool for target identification in Plasmodium falciparum.
PXD004991	29378627	Integrated multi-omic analysis of host-microbiota interactions in acute oak decline. 	Analysis of oak stem lesions in Acute Oak Decline using shotgun proteomics	Acute Oak Decline, Metaproteomics, Oak Stem	BACKGROUND: Britain's native oak species are currently under threat from acute oak decline (AOD), a decline-disease where stem bleeds overlying necrotic lesions in the inner bark and larval galleries of the bark-boring beetle, Agrilus biguttatus, represent the primary symptoms. It is known that complex interactions between the plant host and its microbiome, i.e. the holobiont, significantly influence the health status of the plant. In AOD, necrotic lesions are caused by a microbiome shift to a pathobiome consisting predominantly of Brenneria goodwinii, Gibbsiella quercinecans, Rahnella victoriana and potentially other bacteria. However, the specific mechanistic processes of the microbiota causing tissue necrosis, and the host response, have not been established and represent a barrier to understanding and managing this decline. RESULTS: We profiled the metagenome, metatranscriptome and metaproteome of inner bark tissue from AOD symptomatic and non-symptomatic trees to characterise microbiota-host interactions. Active bacterial virulence factors such as plant cell wall-degrading enzymes, reactive oxygen species defence and flagella in AOD lesions, along with host defence responses including reactive oxygen species, cell wall modification and defence regulators were identified. B. goodwinii dominated the lesion microbiome, with significant expression of virulence factors such as the phytopathogen effector avrE. A smaller proportion of microbiome activity was attributed to G. quercinecans and R. victoriana. In addition, we describe for the first time the potential role of two previously uncharacterised Gram-positive bacteria predicted from metagenomic binning and identified as active in the AOD lesion metatranscriptome and metaproteome, implicating them in lesion formation. CONCLUSIONS: This multi-omic study provides novel functional insights into microbiota-host interactions in AOD, a complex arboreal decline disease where polymicrobial-host interactions result in lesion formation on tree stems. We present the first descriptions of holobiont function in oak health and disease, specifically, the relative lesion activity of B. goodwinii, G. quercinecans, Rahnella victoriana and other bacteria. Thus, the research presented here provides evidence of some of the mechanisms used by members of the lesion microbiome and a template for future multi-omic research into holobiont characterisation, plant polymicrobial diseases and pathogen defence in trees.
PXD006426	29379051	Global ubiquitination analysis reveals extensive modification and proteasomal degradation of cowpox virus proteins, but preservation of viral cores. 	Cowpox virus proteomics reveals massive ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of viral proteins but stable virus cores	Orthopoxvirus, Ubiquitination, viral proteomics	The emergence of Variola virus-like viruses by natural evolution of zoonotic Orthopoxviruses, like Cowpox virus (CPXV), is a global health threat. The proteasome is essential for poxvirus replication, making the viral components interacting with the ubiquitin-proteasome system attractive antiviral targets. We show that proteasome inhibition impairs CPXV replication by prevention of uncoating, suggesting that uncoating is mediated by proteasomal degradation of viral core proteins. Although Orthopoxvirus particles contain considerable amounts of ubiquitin, distinct modification sites are largely unknown. Therefore, for the first time, we analyzed globally ubiquitination sites in CPXV mature virion proteins using LC-MS/MS. Identification of 137 conserved sites in 54 viral proteins among five CPXV strains revealed extensive ubiquitination of structural core proteins. Moreover, since virions contained primarily K48-linked polyubiquitin, we hypothesized that core proteins are modified accordingly. However, quantitative analysis of ubiquitinated CPXV proteins early in infection showed no proteasomal degradation of core proteins. Instead, our data indicate that the recently suggested proteasomal regulation of the uncoating factor E5 is a prerequisite for uncoating. Expanding our understanding of poxvirus uncoating and elucidating a multitude of novel ubiquitination sites in poxvirus proteins, the present study verifies the major biological significance of ubiquitin in poxvirus infection.
PXD008406	29379501	Expression of Siglec-E Alters the Proteome of Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-Activated Macrophages but Does Not Affect LPS-Driven Cytokine Production or Toll-Like Receptor 4 Endocytosis. 	Expression of Siglec-E alters the proteome of LPS-activated macrophages but does not affect LPS-driven cytokine production or TLR4 endocytosis Expression of Siglec-E alters the proteome of LPS-activated macrophages but does not affect LPS-driven cytokine 	mouse BMDM LC-MSMS	Siglec-E is a murine CD33-related siglec that functions as an inhibitory receptor and is expressed mainly on neutrophils and macrophage populations. Recent studies have suggested that siglec-E is an important negative regulator of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling and one report (1) claimed that siglec-E is required for TLR4 endocytosis following uptake of Escherichia coli by macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs). Our attempts to reproduce these observations using cells from wild-type (WT) and siglec-E-deficient mice were unsuccessful. We used a variety of assays to determine if siglec-E expressed by different macrophage populations can regulate TLR4 signaling in response to LPS, but found no consistent differences in cytokine secretion in vitro and in vivo, comparing three different strains of siglec-E-deficient mice with matched WT controls. No evidence was found that the siglec-E deficiency was compensated by expression of siglecs-F and -G, the other murine inhibitory CD33-related siglecs. Quantitative proteomics was used as an unbiased approach and provided additional evidence that siglec-E does not suppress inflammatory TLR4 signaling. Interestingly, proteomics revealed a siglec-E-dependent alteration in macrophage protein composition that could be relevant to functional responses in host defense. In support of this, siglec-E-deficient mice exhibited enhanced growth of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium in the liver following intravenous infection, but macrophages lacking siglec-E did not show altered uptake or killing of bacteria in vitro. Using various cell types including bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs), splenic DCs, and macrophages from WT and siglec-E-deficient mice, we showed that siglec-E is not required for TLR4 endocytosis following E. coli uptake or LPS challenge. We failed to see expression of siglec-E by BMDC even after LPS-induced maturation, but confirmed previous studies that splenic DCs express low levels of siglec-E. Taken together, our findings do not support a major role of siglec-E in regulation of TLR4 signaling functions or TLR4 endocytosis in macrophages or DCs. Instead, they reveal that induction of siglec-E by LPS can modulate the phenotype of macrophages, the functional significance of which is currently unclear.
PXD008173	29382685	Proteomic Profiling Reveals the Transglutaminase-2 Externalization Pathway in Kidneys after Unilateral Ureteric Obstruction. 	Proteomic profiling in mouse kidneys post-UUO	6600, Chronic Kidney Disease, Kidney, SWATH, transglutaminase-2	Increased export of transglutaminase-2 (TG2) by tubular epithelial cells (TECs) into the surrounding interstitium modifies the extracellular homeostatic balance, leading to fibrotic membrane expansion. Although silencing of extracellular TG2 ameliorates progressive kidney scarring in animal models of CKD, the pathway through which TG2 is secreted from TECs and contributes to disease progression has not been elucidated. In this study, we developed a global proteomic approach to identify binding partners of TG2 responsible for TG2 externalization in kidneys subjected to unilateral ureteric obstruction (UUO) using TG2 knockout kidneys as negative controls. We report a robust and unbiased analysis of the membrane interactome of TG2 in fibrotic kidneys relative to the entire proteome after UUO, detected by SWATH mass spectrometry. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008173. Clusters of exosomal proteins in the TG2 interactome supported the hypothesis that TG2 is secreted by extracellular membrane vesicles during fibrosis progression. In established TEC lines, we found TG2 in vesicles of both endosomal (exosomes) and plasma membrane origin (microvesicles/ectosomes), and TGF-beta1 stimulated TG2 secretion. Knockout of syndecan-4 (SDC4) greatly impaired TG2 exosomal secretion. TG2 coprecipitated with SDC4 from exosome lysate but not ectosome lysate. Ex vivo, EGFP-tagged TG2 accumulated in globular elements (blebs) protruding/retracting from the plasma membrane of primary cortical TECs, and SDC4 knockout impaired bleb formation, affecting TG2 release. Through this combined in vivo and in vitro approach, we have dissected the pathway through which TG2 is secreted from TECs in CKD.
PXD006474	29382730	Translation Stress Positively Regulates MscL-Dependent Excretion of Cytoplasmic Proteins. 	Proteome analsyis of Translocation phenomenon	ArfA, MscL, Translocation, translatinla stress	The apparent mislocalization or excretion of cytoplasmic proteins is a commonly observed phenomenon in both bacteria and eukaryotes. However, reports on the mechanistic basis and the cellular function of this so-called "nonclassical protein secretion" are limited. Here we report that protein overexpression in recombinant cells and antibiotic-induced translation stress in wild-type Escherichia coli cells both lead to excretion of cytoplasmic protein (ECP). Condition-specific metabolomic and proteomic analyses, combined with genetic knockouts, indicate a role for both the large mechanosensitive channel (MscL) and the alternative ribosome rescue factor A (ArfA) in ECP. Collectively, the findings indicate that MscL-dependent protein excretion is positively regulated in response to both osmotic stress and arfA-mediated translational stress.IMPORTANCE Protein translocation is an essential feature of cellular organisms. Bacteria, like all single-cell organisms, interact with their environment by translocation of proteins across their cell membranes via dedicated secretion pathways. Proteins destined for secretion are directed toward the secretion pathways by the presence of specific signal peptides. This study demonstrates that under conditions of both osmotic stress and translation stress, E. coli cells undergo an excretion phenomenon whereby signal peptide-less proteins are translocated across both the inner and outer cell membranes into the extracellular environment. Confirming the presence of alternative translocation/excretion pathways and understanding their function and regulation are thus important for fundamental microbiology and biotechnology.
PXD008100	29382783	SILAC identifies LAD1 as a filamin-binding regulator of actin dynamics in response to EGF and a marker of aggressive breast tumors. 	SILAC identifies LAD1 as an oncogenic filamin binder regulating actin dynamics in response to EGF and marking aggressive breast tumors	LAD1 EGF phosphoproteome	Mutations mimicking growth factor-induced proliferation and motility characterize aggressive subtypes of mammary tumors. To unravel currently unknown players in these processes, we performed phosphoproteomic analysis on untransformed mammary epithelial cells (MCF10A) that were stimulated in culture with epidermal growth factor (EGF). We identified ladinin-1 (LAD1), a largely uncharacterized protein to date, as a phosphorylation-regulated mediator of the EGF-to-ERK pathway. Further experiments revealed that LAD1 mediated the proliferation and migration of mammary cells. LAD1 was transcriptionally induced, phosphorylated, and partly colocalized with actin stress fibers in response to EGF. Yeast two-hybrid, proximity ligation, and coimmunoprecipitation assays revealed that LAD1 bound to actin-cross-linking proteins called filamins. Cosedimentation analyses indicated that LAD1 played a role in actin dynamics, probably in collaboration with the scaffold protein 14-3-3sigma (also called SFN). Depletion of LAD1 decreased the expression of transcripts associated with cell survival and inhibited the growth of mammary xenografts in an animal model. Furthermore, LAD1 predicts poor patient prognosis and is highly expressed in aggressive subtypes of breast cancer characterized as integrative clusters 5 and 10, which partly correspond to triple-negative and HER2-positive tumors. Thus, these findings reveal a cytoskeletal component that is critically involved in cell migration and the acquisition of oncogenic attributes in human mammary tumors.
PXD007217	29384592	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomic Screening of Candidate Plasma Biomarkers for the Prognosis of Breast Cancer with Different Lymph Node Statuses. 	Plasma proteomic profiling of small size HER2-positive breast cancer	breast cancer, label-free, lymph node, plasma biomarker, prognosis, shotgun proteomics	PURPOSE: Lymph node status is a crucial predictor for the overall survival of invasive breast cancer. However, lymph node involvement is only detected in about half of HER2-positive patients. Since patients with lymph node involvement has less favorable prognosis and higher risk of recurrence, it is important to develop plasma protein biomarkers for distinguishing lymph node metastasis. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A label-free quantitative proteomic strategy to construct plasma proteomes of ten patients with small size HER2-positive breast cancer (five patients with lymph node metastasis versus five patients without lymph node metastasis) is applied. RESULTS: A total of 388 proteins are identified, of which 33 proteins are differentially expressed. Statistical analyses suggested the present strategy is low cost and highly efficient in initial screening of plasma biomarkers. In silico analyses using various bioinformatics databases show that these altered proteins are highly associated with breast disease, cancer pathway, lymph node morphology, metastasis, complement pathway, and immune regulation. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The present dataset provides a list of candidate biomarkers that could be used for early differentiation diagnosis and prognosis of breast cancer with lymph node metastasis.
PXD004398	29385462	Giardia secretome highlights secreted tenascins as a key component of pathogenesis. 	Giardia Secretome Highlights Secreted Tenascins as a Key Component of Pathogenesis	Giardia, Pathogenesis, Secretome	Background: Giardia is a protozoan parasite of public health relevance that causes gastroenteritis in a wide range of hosts. Two genetically distinct lineages (assemblages A and B) are responsible for the human disease. Although it is clear that differences in virulence occur, the pathogenesis and virulence of Giardia remain poorly understood. Results: The genome of Giardia is believed to contain open reading frames that could encode as many as 6000 proteins. By successfully applying quantitative proteomic analyses to the whole parasite and to the supernatants derived from parasite culture of assemblages A and B, we confirm expression of ~1600 proteins from each assemblage, the vast majority of which are common to both lineages. To look for signature enrichment of secreted proteins, we considered the ratio of proteins in the supernatant compared with the pellet, which defined a small group of enriched proteins, putatively secreted at a steady state by cultured growing trophozoites of both assemblages. This secretome is enriched with proteins annotated to have N-terminal signal peptide. The most abundant secreted proteins include known virulence factors such as cathepsin B cysteine proteases and members of a Giardia superfamily of cysteine-rich proteins that comprise variant surface proteins, high-cysteine membrane proteins, and a new class of virulence factors, the Giardia tenascins. We demonstrate that physiological function of human enteric epithelial cells is disrupted by such soluble factors even in the absence of the trophozoites. Conclusions: We are able to propose a straightforward model of Giardia pathogenesis incorporating key roles for the major Giardia-derived soluble mediators.
PXD007687	29386122	Comprehensive analysis of the lysine acetylome and its potential regulatory roles in the virulence of Streptococcus pneumoniae. 	Acetylome analysis of Streptococcus pneumoniae	PTM, Streptococcus pneumoniae, acetylome, lysine acetylation	Protein lysine acetylation is a well-known modification with vital regulatory roles in various biological processes. Currently, the acetylated proteome in Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae) is not yet clear. Combining immune-affinity enrichment with mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we identified the first lysine acetylome of S. pneumoniae. In total, 653 lysine acetylated sites on 392 proteins were identified, which are involved in diverse important biological pathways, including gene expression and central metabolism. S. pneumoniae has a relatively high acetylation level, implying its prominent and diverse roles in the regulation of biological processes. In the acetylome of S. pneumoniae, the most frequently occurring motifs of acetylation are KacK, KacR, KacxK, KacxxK and KacH. Compared with the reported acetylation motifs in various bacterial species, the motif unique to S. pneumoniae is KacT, indicating that species-specific characteristics, regulations and molecular mechanisms of acetylation may exist in this bacterium. Notably, many proteins directly or indirectly contributing to virulence are prevalently acetylated, suggesting that acetylation may coordinate bacterial virulence. This work presented here provides the first system-wide analysis of lysine acetylation in Streptococcus species, which may facilitate a deeper understanding on the regulatory roles of acetylation in the bacteria. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: S. pneumoniae causes a series of serious human diseases. Protein acetylation regulates many important biological pathways in bacteria. In this study, the first lysine acetylome of S. pneumoniae was identified and comprehensively analyzed with bioinformatics methods. One unique acetylated motif (KacT) was identified, suggesting that specific characteristics of lysine acetylation reaction may exist in S. pneumoniae. Besides, our data suggest that lysine acetylation closely regulates bacterial virulence. Further study focusing on the biological functions of these acetylproteins may provide important clues for the therapy of S. pneumoniae infection.
PXD005333	29386132	Delta-like Ligand-4-Notch Signaling Inhibition Regulates Pancreatic Islet Function and Insulin Secretion. 	Delta-like ligand 4-Notch signaling inhibition regulates pancreatic islet function and insulin secretion	Dll4, GSIs, diabetes	Although Notch signaling has been proposed as a therapeutic target for type-2 diabetes, liver steatosis, and atherosclerosis, its direct effect on pancreatic islets remains unknown. Here, we demonstrated a function of Dll4-Notch signaling inhibition on the biology of insulin-producing cells. We confirmed enhanced expression of key Notch signaling genes in purified pancreatic islets from diabetic NOD mice and showed that treatment with anti-Dll4 antibody specifically abolished Notch signaling pathway activation. Furthermore, we showed that Notch inhibition could drive proliferation of beta-islet cells and confer protection from the development of STZ-induced diabetes. Importantly, inhibition of the Dll4 pathway in WT mice increased insulin secretion by inducing the differentiation of pancreatic beta-islet cell progenitors, as well as the proliferation of insulin-secreting cells. These findings reveal a direct effect of Dll4-blockade on pancreatic islets that, in conjunction with its immunomodulatory effects, could be used for unmet medical needs hallmarked by inefficient insulin action.
PXD007909	29386236	The Ewing Sarcoma Secretome and Its Response to Activation of Wnt/beta-catenin Signaling. 	The Ewing sarcoma secretome and its response to activation of Wnt/beta- catenin signaling	Ewing sarcoma, Extracellular matrix, Label-free mass spectrometry, Wnt/beta-catenin, secretome, tumor microenvironment	Tumor: tumor microenvironment (TME) interactions are critical for tumor progression and the composition and structure of the local extracellular matrix (ECM) are key determinants of tumor metastasis. We recently reported that activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in Ewing sarcoma cells induces widespread transcriptional changes that are associated with acquisition of a metastatic tumor phenotype. Significantly, ECM protein-encoding genes were found to be enriched among Wnt/beta-catenin induced transcripts, leading us to hypothesize that activation of canonical Wnt signaling might induce changes in the Ewing sarcoma secretome. To address this hypothesis, conditioned media from Ewing sarcoma cell lines cultured in the presence or absence of Wnt3a was collected for proteomic analysis. Label-free mass spectrometry was used to identify and quantify differentially secreted proteins. We then used in silico databases to identify only proteins annotated as secreted. Comparison of the secretomes of two Ewing sarcoma cell lines revealed numerous shared proteins, as well as a degree of heterogeneity, in both basal and Wnt-stimulated conditions. Gene set enrichment analysis of secreted proteins revealed that Wnt stimulation reproducibly resulted in increased secretion of proteins involved in ECM organization, ECM receptor interactions, and collagen formation. In particular, Wnt-stimulated Ewing sarcoma cells up-regulated secretion of structural collagens, as well as matricellular proteins, such as the metastasis-associated protein, tenascin C (TNC). Interrogation of published databases confirmed reproducible correlations between Wnt/beta-catenin activation and TNC and COL1A1 expression in patient tumors. In summary, this first study of the Ewing sarcoma secretome reveals that Wnt/beta-catenin activated tumor cells upregulate secretion of ECM proteins. Such Wnt/beta-catenin mediated changes are likely to impact on tumor: TME interactions that contribute to metastatic progression.
PXD007655	29389253	Bovine Milk Comparative Proteome Analysis from Early, Mid, and Late Lactation in the Cattle Breed, Malnad Gidda (Bos indicus). 	A Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Whey Protein from Early, Mid and Late Lactation Stages of Indian Indigenous Breed, MalnadGidda (Bosindicus)	TMT labeling, bRPLC, biomarker, isoelectric precipitation, ultracentrifugation	Bovine milk is important for both veterinary medicine and human nutrition. Understanding the bovine milk proteome at different stages of lactation has therefore broad significance for integrative biology and clinical medicine as well. Indeed, different lactation stages have marked influence on the milk yield, milk constituents, and nourishment of the neonates. We performed a comparative proteome analysis of the bovine milk obtained at different stages of lactation from the Indian indigenous cattle Malnad Gidda (Bos indicus), a widely available breed. The milk differential proteome during the lactation stages in B. indicus has not been investigated to date. Using high-resolution mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics of the bovine whey proteins at early, mid, and late lactation stages, we identified a total of 564 proteins, out of which 403 proteins were found to be differentially abundant at different lactation stages. As is expected of any body fluid proteome, 51% of the proteins identified in the milk were found to have signal peptides. Gene ontology analyses were carried out to categorize proteins altered across different lactation stages based on biological process and molecular function, which enabled us to correlate their significance in each lactation stage. We also investigated the potential pathways enriched in different lactation stages using bioinformatics pathway analysis tools. To the best of our knowledge, this study represents the first and largest inventory of milk proteins identified to date for an Indian cattle breed. We believe that the current study broadly informs both veterinary omics research and the emerging field of nutriproteomics during lactation stages.
PXD005931	29391424	Large-scale intact glycopeptide identification by Mascot database search. 	Large scale intact glycopeptide identification by Mascot database search	Glycoproteomics, Mascot, higher-energy collisional induced dissociation (HCD), prostate cancer, serum	Workflows capable of determining glycopeptides in large-scale are missing in the field of glycoproteomics. We present an approach for automated annotation of intact glycopeptide mass spectra. The steps in adopting the Mascot search engine for intact glycopeptide analysis included: (i) assigning one letter codes for monosaccharides, (ii) linearizing glycan sequences and (iii) preparing custom glycoprotein databases. Automated annotation of both N- and O-linked glycopeptides was proven using standard glycoproteins. In a large-scale study, a total of 257 glycoproteins containing 970 unique glycosylation sites and 3447 non-redundant N-linked glycopeptide variants were identified in 24 serum samples. Thus, a single tool was developed that collectively allows the (i) elucidation of N- and O-linked glycopeptide spectra, (ii) matching glycopeptides to known protein sequences, and (iii) high-throughput, batch-wise analysis of large-scale glycoproteomics data sets.
PXD007756	29393594	The Peptide Repertoire of HLA-B27 may include Ligands with Lysine at P2 Anchor Position. 	The peptide repertoire of HLA-B27 includes ligands with lysine at P2 anchor position	Ankylosing Spondylitis, HLA-B*27, Human Leukocytes Antigen, Immunopeptidome, Peptidome, Transgenic rats	The HLA-B*27 peptidome has drawn significant attention due to the genetic association between some of the HLA-B*27 alleles and the inflammatory rheumatic disease ankylosing spondylitis (AS), for which a comprehensive biological explanation is still lacking. This study aims to expand the known limits of the HLA-B*27 peptidome to facilitate selection and testing of new peptides, possibly involved in the disease. The HLA peptidomes of HeLa and C1R cell lines stably transfected with the AS-associated HLA-B*27:05 allele, the nonassociated HLA-B*27:09 allele, or their cysteine 67 to serine mutants (C67S), are analyzed on a very large scale. In addition, the peptidomes of HLA-B*27:05 and HLA-B*27:05-C67S are analyzed from the spleens of rats transgenic for these alleles. The results indicate that C67S mutation increases the percentage of peptides with glutamine or lysine at their P2 position (P2-Lys), in both HLA-B*27:05 and HLA-B*27:09. Furthermore, a small fraction of HLA-B*27 peptides contains lysine at their second position (P2), in addition to the more commonly found peptides with arginine (P2-Arg) or the less common glutamine (P2-Gln) located at this anchor position. Overall these data indicate that peptides with P2-Lys should be considered as real ligands of HLA-B*27 molecules and taken into account while looking for putative peptides implicated in the AS.
PXD007713	29394072	Molecular Profile of Priapism Associated with Low Nitric Oxide Bioavailability. 	Molecular Profile of Priapism Associated with Low Nitric Oxide Bioavailability	GPCR, PKA, Priapism, erectile, nitric oxide, penis	Priapism is a disorder in which prolonged penile erection persists uncontrollably, potentially leading to tissue damage. Priapism commonly afflicts patient populations with severely low nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. Because NO is a primary mediator of erection, the molecular mechanisms involved in priapism pathophysiology associated with low NO bioavailability are not well-understood. The objective of this study was to identify dysregulated molecular targets and signaling pathways in penile tissue of a mouse model of low NO bioavailability that have potential relevance to priapism. Neuronal plus endothelial NO synthase double knockout mice (NOS1/3(-/-)) were used as a model of low NO bioavailability. Priapic-like activity was demonstrated in the NOS1/3(-/-) mice relative to wild-type (WT) mice by the measurement of prolonged erections following cessation of electrical stimulation of the cavernous nerve. Penile tissue was processed and analyzed by reverse-phase liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. As a result, 1279 total proteins were identified and quantified by spectral counting, 46 of which were down-regulated and 110 of which were up-regulated in NOS1/3(-/-) versus WT (P < 0.05). Ingenuity Pathway Analysis of differentially expressed proteins revealed increased protein kinase A and G-protein coupled receptor signaling in NOS1/3(-/-) penises, which represent potential mechanisms contributing to priapism for secondary to low NO bioavailability.
PXD004440	29396292	Dynarrestin, a Novel Inhibitor of Cytoplasmic Dynein. 	Dynarrestin, a novel inhibitor of cytoplasmic dyneins 1 and 2	Dynein, dynarrestin, hedgehog signalling, small molecule inhibitor	Aberrant hedgehog (Hh) signaling contributes to the pathogenesis of multiple cancers. Available inhibitors target Smoothened (Smo), which can acquire mutations causing drug resistance. Thus, compounds that inhibit Hh signaling downstream of Smo are urgently needed. We identified dynarrestin, a novel inhibitor of cytoplasmic dyneins 1 and 2. Dynarrestin acts reversibly to inhibit cytoplasmic dynein 1-dependent microtubule binding and motility in vitro without affecting ATP hydrolysis. It rapidly and reversibly inhibits endosome movement in living cells and perturbs mitosis by inducing spindle misorientation and pseudoprometaphase delay. Dynarrestin reversibly inhibits cytoplasmic dynein 2-dependent intraflagellar transport (IFT) of the cargo IFT88 and flux of Smo within cilia without interfering with ciliogenesis and suppresses Hh-dependent proliferation of neuronal precursors and tumor cells. As such, dynarrestin is a valuable tool for probing cytoplasmic dynein-dependent cellular processes and a promising compound for medicinal chemistry programs aimed at development of anti-cancer drugs.
PXD008451	29396449	Comparative phosphoproteomic analysis reveals signaling networks regulating monopolar and bipolar cytokinesis. 	Comparative phosphoproteomic analysis reveals signaling networks regulating monopolar and bipolar cytokinesis 	Phosphoproteome, cell cycle, cytokinesis, monopolar cytokinesis	The successful completion of cytokinesis requires the coordinated activities of diverse cellular components including membranes, cytoskeletal elements and chromosomes that together form partly redundant pathways, depending on the cell type. The biochemical analysis of this process is challenging due to its dynamic and rapid nature. Here, we systematically compared monopolar and bipolar cytokinesis and demonstrated that monopolar cytokinesis is a good surrogate for cytokinesis and it is a well-suited system for global biochemical analysis in mammalian cells. Based on this, we established a phosphoproteomic signature of cytokinesis. More than 10,000 phosphorylation sites were systematically monitored; around 800 of those were up-regulated during cytokinesis. Reconstructing the kinase-substrate interaction network revealed 31 potentially active kinases during cytokinesis. The kinase-substrate network connects proteins between cytoskeleton, membrane and cell cycle machinery. We also found consensus motifs of phosphorylation sites that can serve as biochemical markers specific to cytokinesis. Beyond the kinase-substrate network, our reconstructed signaling network suggests that combination of sumoylation and phosphorylation may regulate monopolar cytokinesis specific signaling pathways. Our analysis provides a systematic approach to the comparison of different cytokinesis types to reveal alternative ways and a global overview, in which conserved genes work together and organize chromatin and cytoplasm during cytokinesis.
PXD005889	29396465	The rolB plant oncogene affects multiple signaling protein modules related to hormone signaling and plant defense. 	Function of plant oncogenes(1)	MALDI, rolB	The rolB plant oncogene of Agrobacterium rhizogenes perturbs many biochemical processes in transformed plant cells, thereby causing their neoplastic reprogramming. The oncogene renders the cells more tolerant to environmental stresses and herbicides and inhibits ROS elevation and programmed cell death. In the present work, we performed a proteomic analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana rolB-expressing callus line AtB-2, which represents a line with moderate expression of the oncogene. Our results show that under these conditions rolB greatly perturbs the expression of some chaperone-type proteins such as heat-shock proteins and cyclophilins. Heat-shock proteins of the DnaK subfamily were overexpressed in rolB-transformed calli, whereas the abundance of cyclophilins, members of the closely related single-domain cyclophilin family was decreased. Real-time PCR analysis of corresponding genes confirmed the reliability of proteomics data because gene expression correlated well with the expression of proteins. Bioinformatics analysis indicates that rolB can potentially affect several levels of signaling protein modules, including effector-triggered immunity (via the RPM1-RPS2 signaling module), the miRNA processing machinery, auxin and cytokinin signaling, the calcium signaling system and secondary metabolism.
PXD007857	29404413	BioID Reveals Novel Proteins of the Plasmodium Parasitophorous Vacuole Membrane. 	BioID reveals novel proteins of the Plasmodium parasitophorous vacuole membrane	BioID, malaria, plasma membrane, plasmodium berghei	During their development within the vertebrate host, Plasmodium parasites infect hepatocytes and red blood cells. Within these cells, parasites are surrounded by a parasitophorous vacuole membrane (PVM). The PVM plays an essential role for the interaction of parasites with their host cells; however, only a limited number of proteins of this membrane have been identified so far. This is partially because systematic proteomic analysis of the protein content of the PVM has been difficult in the past, due to difficulties encountered in attempts to separate the PVM from other membranes such as the parasite plasma membrane. In this study, we adapted the BioID technique to in vitro-cultivated Plasmodium berghei blood stage parasites and utilized the promiscuous biotin ligase BirA* fused to PVM-resident exported protein 1 to biotinylate proteins of the PVM. These we further processed by affinity purification, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), and label-free quantitation, leading to a list of 61 known and candidate PVM proteins. Seven proteins were analyzed further during blood and liver stage development. This resulted in the identification of three novel PVM proteins, which were the serine/threonine protein phosphatase UIS2 (PlasmoDB accession no. PBANKA_1328000) and two conserved Plasmodium proteins with unknown functions (PBANKA_0519300 and PBANKA_0509000). In conclusion, our report expands the number of known PVM proteins and experimentally validates BioID as a powerful method to screen for novel constituents of specific cellular compartments in P. berghei. IMPORTANCE Intracellular pathogens are often surrounded by a host-cell derived membrane. This membrane is modified by the pathogens to their own needs and is crucial for their intracellular lifestyle. In Plasmodium parasites, this membrane is referred to as the PVM and only a limited number of its proteins are known so far. Here, we applied in rodent P. berghei parasites a method called BioID, which is based on biotinylation of proximal and interacting proteins by the promiscuous biotin ligase BirA*, and demonstrated its usefulness in identification of novel PVM proteins.
PXD006931	29404970	Fungal Secretome Analysis via PepSAVI-MS: Identification of the Bioactive Peptide KP4 from Ustilago maydis. 	Bioactive natural product peptide discovery in fungal secretoms using PepSAVI-MS	Bioactive peptides, fungal secretome analysis, peptidomics	Fungal secondary metabolites represent a rich and largely untapped source for bioactive molecules, including peptides with substantial structural diversity and pharmacological potential. As methods proceed to take a deep dive into fungal genomes, complimentary methods to identify bioactive components are required to keep pace with the expanding fungal repertoire. We developed PepSAVI-MS to expedite the search for natural product bioactive peptides and herein demonstrate proof-of-principle applicability of the pipeline for the discovery of bioactive peptides from fungal secretomes via identification of the antifungal killer toxin KP4 from Ustilago maydis P4. This work opens the door to investigating microbial secretomes with a new lens, and could have broad applications across human health, agriculture, and food safety. Graphical Abstract.
PXD008082	29406695	Neutralizing the Detrimental Effect of an N-Hydroxysuccinimide Quenching Reagent on Phosphopeptide in Quantitative Proteomics. 	Optimized NHS-amine labeling for multiplexed phosphoproteome study.	N-hydroxysuccinamide-esters, hydroxylamine, isobaric tag, phosphoproteome, phosphorylation, tandem mass tag, beta-elimination	One of the most common chemistries used to label primary amines utilizes N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS), which is also structurally incorporated in various quantitative proteomic reagents such as isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) and tandem mass tags (TMT). In this paper we report detrimental effect of hydroxylamine, a widely used quenching reagent for excess NHS, on phosphopeptides. We found an impairment in the degree of phosphopeptide identification when hydroxylamine-quenched TMT-labeled samples were vacuum-dried and desalted compared to the nondried (just diluted) and desalted ones prior to phosphoenrichment. We have also demonstrated that vacuum-drying in the presence of hydroxylamine promotes beta-elimination of phosphate groups from phosphoserine and phosphothreonine while having a minimalistic effect on phosphotyrosine. Additionally, we herein report that this negative impact of hydroxylamine could be minimized by direct desalting after appropriate dilution of quenched samples. We also found a 1.6-fold increase in the number of phosphopeptide identifications after employing our optimized method. The above method was also successfully applied to human tumor tissues to quantify over 15000 phosphopeptides from 3 mg TMT 6-plex labeled-peptides.
PXD005951	29408197	Long noncoding RNA LISPR1 is required for S1P signaling and endothelial cell function. 	Screening for micropeptides in HUVEC without tryptic digestion, part 1	LncRNA, micropeptides	Sphingosine-1-Phosphate (S1P) is a potent signaling lipid. The effects of S1P are mediated by the five S1P receptors (S1PR). In the endothelium S1PR1 is the predominant receptor and thus S1PR1 abundance limits S1P signaling. Recently, lncRNAs were identified as a novel class of molecules regulating gene expression. Interestingly, the lncRNA NONHSAT004848 (LISPR1, Long intergenic noncoding RNA antisense to S1PR1), is closely positioned to the S1P1 receptors gene and in part shares its promoter region. We hypothesize that LISPR1 controls endothelial S1PR1 expression and thus S1P-induced signaling in endothelial cells. In vitro transcription and translation as well as coding potential assessment showed that LISPR1 is indeed noncoding. LISPR1 was localized in both cytoplasm and nucleus and harbored a PolyA tail at the 3'end. In human umbilical vein endothelial cells, as well as human lung tissue, qRT-PCR and RNA-Seq revealed high expression of LISPR1. S1PR1 and LISPR1 were downregulated in human pulmonary diseases such as COPD. LISPR1 but also S1PR1 were induced by inflammation, shear stress and statins. Knockdown of LISPR1 attenuated endothelial S1P-induced migration and spheroid outgrowth of endothelial cells. LISPR1 knockdown decreased S1PR1 expression, which was paralleled by an increase of the binding of the transcriptional repressor ZNF354C to the S1PR1 promoter and a reduction of the recruitment of RNA Polymerase II to the S1PR1 5'end. This resulted in attenuated S1PR1 expression and attenuated S1P downstream signaling. Collectively, the disease relevant lncRNA LISPR1 acts as a novel regulatory unit important for S1PR1 expression and endothelial cell function.
PXD006344	29410780	Characterization of Trichuris muris secreted proteins and extracellular vesicles provides new insights into host-parasite communication. 	Trichuris secretome - proteome data analysis 	Trichuris muris, exosomes, secretome	Whipworms are parasitic nematodes that live in the gut of more than 500 million people worldwide. Owing to the difficulty in obtaining parasite material, the mouse whipworm Trichuris muris has been extensively used as a model to study human whipworm infections. These nematodes secrete a multitude of compounds that interact with host tissues where they orchestrate a parasitic existence. Herein we provide the first comprehensive characterization of the excretory/secretory products of T. muris. We identify 148 proteins secreted by T. muris and show for the first time that the mouse whipworm secretes exosome-like extracellular vesicles (EVs) that can interact with host cells. We use an Optiprep(R) gradient to purify the EVs, highlighting the suitability of this method for purifying EVs secreted by a parasitic nematode. We also characterize the proteomic and genomic content of the EVs, identifying >350 proteins, 56 miRNAs (22 novel) and 475 full-length mRNA transcripts mapping to T. muris gene models. Many of the miRNAs putatively mapped to mouse genes are involved in regulation of inflammation, implying a role in parasite-driven immunomodulation. In addition, for the first time to our knowledge, colonic organoids have been used to demonstrate the internalization of parasite EVs by host cells. Understanding how parasites interact with their host is crucial to develop new control measures. This first characterization of the proteins and EVs secreted by T. muris provides important information on whipworm-host communication and forms the basis for future studies.
PXD006395	29414761	Global Analyses of Selective Insulin Resistance in Hepatocytes Caused by Palmitate Lipotoxicity. 	Global Analyses of Selective Insulin Resitance in Hepatocytes due to Palmitate Lipotoxicity	hepatic steatosis, insulin resistance, lipotoxicity, phosphoproteomics	Obesity is tightly linked to hepatic steatosis and insulin resistance. One feature of this association is the paradox of selective insulin resistance: insulin fails to suppress hepatic gluconeogenesis but activates lipid synthesis in the liver. How lipid accumulation interferes selectively with some branches of hepatic insulin signaling is not well understood. Here we provide a resource, based on unbiased approaches and established in a simple cell culture system, to enable investigations of the phenomenon of selective insulin resistance. We analyzed the phosphoproteome of insulin-treated human hepatoma cells and identified sites in which palmitate selectively impairs insulin signaling. As an example, we show that palmitate interferes with insulin signaling to FoxO1, a key transcription factor regulating gluconeogenesis, and identify altered FoxO1 cellular compartmentalization as a contributing mechanism for selective insulin resistance. This model system, together with our comprehensive characterization of the proteome, phosphoproteome, and lipidome changes in response to palmitate treatment, provides a novel and useful resource for unraveling the mechanisms underlying selective insulin resistance.
PXD008579	29414762	Peptide Level Turnover Measurements Enable the Study of Proteoform Dynamics. 	Protein and peptide turnover measurements using pulsed SILAC-TMT approach	TMT, degradation rates, posttranslational cleavage, posttranslational modification, protein turnover, proteoforms, pulsed SILAC, splice variants, synthesis rates	The coordination of protein synthesis and degradation regulating protein abundance is a fundamental process in cellular homeostasis. Today, mass spectrometry-based technologies allow determination of endogenous protein turnover on a proteome-wide scale. However, standard dynamic SILAC (Stable Isotope Labeling in Cell Culture) approaches can suffer from missing data across pulse time-points limiting the accuracy of such analysis. This issue is of particular relevance when studying protein stability at the level of proteoforms because often only single peptides distinguish between different protein products of the same gene. To address this shortcoming, we evaluated the merits of combining dynamic SILAC and tandem mass tag (TMT)-labeling of ten pulse time-points in a single experiment. Although the comparison to the standard dynamic SILAC method showed a high concordance of protein turnover rates, the pulsed SILAC-TMT approach yielded more comprehensive data (6000 proteins on average) without missing values. Replicate analysis further established that the same reproducibility of turnover rate determination can be obtained for peptides and proteins facilitating proteoform resolved investigation of protein stability. We provide several examples of differentially turned over splice variants and show that post-translational modifications can affect cellular protein half-lives. For example, N-terminally processed peptides exhibited both faster and slower turnover behavior compared with other peptides of the same protein. In addition, the suspected proteolytic processing of the fusion protein FAU was substantiated by measuring vastly different stabilities of the cleavage products. Furthermore, differential peptide turnover suggested a previously unknown mechanism of activity regulation by post-translational destabilization of cathepsin D as well as the DNA helicase BLM. Finally, our comprehensive data set facilitated a detailed evaluation of the impact of protein properties and functions on protein stability in steady-state cells and uncovered that the high turnover of respiratory chain complex I proteins might be explained by oxidative stress.
PXD007666	29414888	Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomic Profiling of Thrombotic Material Obtained by Endovascular Thrombectomy in Patients with Ischemic Stroke. 	Mass spectrometry-based clinical proteomic profiling of thrombotic material obtained by endovascular thrombectomy in patients with ischemic stroke	Thrombus, biomarkers	Thrombotic material retrieved from acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients represents a valuable source of biological information. In this study, we have developed a clinical proteomics workflow to characterize the protein cargo of thrombi derived from AIS patients. To analyze the thrombus proteome in a large-scale format, we developed a workflow that combines the isolation of thrombus by endovascular thrombectomy and peptide chromatographic fractionation coupled to mass-spectrometry. Using this workflow, we have characterized a specific proteomic expression profile derived from four AIS patients included in this study. Around 1600 protein species were unambiguously identified in the analyzed material. Functional bioinformatics analyses were performed, emphasizing a clustering of proteins with immunological functions as well as cardiopathy-related proteins with blood-cell dependent functions and peripheral vascular processes. In addition, we established a reference proteomic fingerprint of 341 proteins commonly detected in all patients. Protein interactome network of this subproteome revealed protein clusters involved in the interaction of fibronectin with 14-3-3 proteins, TGFbeta signaling, and TCP complex network. Taken together, our data contributes to the repertoire of the human thrombus proteome, serving as a reference library to increase our knowledge about the molecular basis of thrombus derived from AIS patients, paving the way toward the establishment of a quantitative approach necessary to detect and characterize potential novel biomarkers in the stroke field.
PXD008683	29415455	Proteome Profiling of Diabetic Mellitus Patient Urine for Discovery of Biomarkers by Comprehensive MS-Based Proteomics. 	DM	DM, urine	Diabetic mellitus (DM) is a disease that affects glucose homeostasis and causes complications, such as diabetic nephropathy (DN). For early diagnosis of DN, microalbuminuria is currently one of the most frequently used biomarkers. However, more early diagnostic biomarkers are desired in addition to microalbuminuria. In this study, we performed comprehensive proteomics analysis of urine proteomes of diabetic mellitus patients without microalbuminuria and healthy volunteers to compare the protein profiles by mass spectrometry. With high confidence criteria, 942 proteins in healthy volunteer urine and 645 proteins in the DM patient urine were identified with label-free semi-quantitation, respectively. Gene ontology and pathway analysis were performed with the proteins, which were up- or down-regulated in the DM patient urine to elucidate significant changes in pathways. The discovery of a useful biomarker for early DN discovery is expected.
PXD008460	29420021	Selective Photoaffinity Probe That Enables Assessment of Cannabinoid CB2 Receptor Expression and Ligand Engagement in Human Cells. 	A selective photoaffinity probe enables assessment of cannabinoid CB2 receptor expression and ligand engagement in human cells	CB2 receptor, GPCRs, bio-orthogonal chemistry, photo-affinity labeling, target engagement	Chemical tools and methods that report on G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) expression levels and receptor occupancy by small molecules are highly desirable. We report the development of LEI121 as a photoreactive probe to study the type 2 cannabinoid receptor (CB2R), a promising GPCR to treat tissue injury and inflammatory diseases. LEI121 is the first CB2R-selective bifunctional probe that covalently captures CB2R upon photoactivation. An incorporated alkyne serves as ligation handle for the introduction of reporter groups. LEI121 enables target engagement studies and visualization of endogenously expressed CB2R in HL-60 as well as primary human immune cells using flow cytometry. Our findings show that strategically functionalized probes allow monitoring of endogenous GPCR expression and engagement in human cells using tandem photoclick chemistry and hold promise as biomarkers in translational drug discovery.
PXD007930	29420286	A primordial and reversible TCA cycle in a facultatively chemolithoautotrophic thermophile. 	Whole-cell proteome of Thermosulfidibacter takaii strain ABI70S6	bacteria, whole-cell proteome	Inorganic carbon fixation is essential to sustain life on Earth, and the reductive tricarboxylic acid (rTCA) cycle is one of the most ancient carbon fixation metabolisms. A combination of genomic, enzymatic, and metabolomic analyses of a deeply branching chemolithotrophic Thermosulfidibacter takaii ABI70S6(T) revealed a previously unknown reversible TCA cycle whose direction was controlled by the available carbon source(s). Under a chemolithoautotrophic condition, a rTCA cycle occurred with the reverse reaction of citrate synthase (CS) and not with the adenosine 5'-triphosphate-dependent citrate cleavage reactions that had been regarded as essential for the conventional rTCA cycle. Phylometabolic evaluation suggests that the TCA cycle with reversible CS may represent an ancestral mode of the rTCA cycle and raises the possibility of a facultatively chemolithomixotrophic origin of life.
PXD008250	29422648	Unravelling the immune signature of Plasmodium falciparum transmission-reducing immunity. 	Plasmodium falciparum schizont proteome	Plasmodium falciparum, human malaria, schizont	Infection with Plasmodium can elicit antibodies that inhibit parasite survival in the mosquito, when they are ingested in an infectious blood meal. Here, we determine the transmission-reducing activity (TRA) of naturally acquired antibodies from 648 malaria-exposed individuals using lab-based mosquito-feeding assays. Transmission inhibition is significantly associated with antibody responses to Pfs48/45, Pfs230, and to 43 novel gametocyte proteins assessed by protein microarray. In field-based mosquito-feeding assays the likelihood and rate of mosquito infection are significantly lower for individuals reactive to Pfs48/45, Pfs230 or to combinations of the novel TRA-associated proteins. We also show that naturally acquired purified antibodies against key transmission-blocking epitopes of Pfs48/45 and Pfs230 are mechanistically involved in TRA, whereas sera depleted of these antibodies retain high-level, complement-independent TRA. Our analysis demonstrates that host antibody responses to gametocyte proteins are associated with reduced malaria transmission efficiency from humans to mosquitoes.
PXD008609	29422671	Site-specific phosphorylation of TRANSPARENT TESTA GLABRA1 mediates carbon partitioning in Arabidopsis seeds. 	TTG1 interacting profile -  Site-specific phosphorylation of TRANSPARENT TESTA GLABRA1 mediates carbon partitioning in Arabidopsis seeds	TTG1, silique	Seed development is dependent on nutrients, such as a source of carbon, supplied by the parent plant. It remains largely unknown how these nutrients are distributed to zygotic and maternal tissues to coordinate storage of reserve compounds and development of protective tissues like seed coat. Here we show that phosphorylation of TRANSPARENT TESTA GLABRA1 (TTG1) is regulated by SHAGGY-like kinases 11/12 (SK11/12) and that this mediates carbon flow to fatty acid synthesis and seed coat traits in Arabidopsis seeds. SK11/12 phosphorylate TTG1 at serine 215, thus preventing TTG1 interaction with TRANSPARENT TESTA2. This compromises recruitment of TTG1 to the GLABRA2 locus and downregulates GLABRA2 expression, which enhances biosynthesis of fatty acids in the embryo, but reduces production of mucilage and flavonoid pigments in the seed coat. Therefore, site-specific phosphorylation of TTG1 by SK11/SK12 regulates carbon partitioning between zygotic and maternal sinks in seeds.
PXD008218	29424690	Dynamics of venom composition across a complex life cycle. 	Dynamics of venom composition across a complex life cycle	Nematostella vectensis	Little is known about venom in young developmental stages of animals. The appearance of toxins and stinging cells during early embryonic stages in the sea anemone Nematostella vectensis suggests that venom is already expressed in eggs and larvae of this species. Here, we harness transcriptomic, biochemical and transgenic tools to study venom production dynamics in Nematostella. We find that venom composition and arsenal of toxin-producing cells change dramatically between developmental stages of this species. These findings can be explained by the vastly different interspecific interactions of each life stage, as individuals develop from a miniature non-feeding mobile planula to a larger sessile polyp that predates on other animals and interact differently with predators. Indeed, behavioral assays involving prey, predators and Nematostella are consistent with this hypothesis. Further, the results of this work suggest a much wider and dynamic venom landscape than initially appreciated in animals with a complex life cycle.
PXD006575	29425513	Specific Labeling of Stem Cell Activity in Human Colorectal Organoids Using an ASCL2-Responsive Minigene. 	Specific labeling of stem cell activity in human colorectal organoids using an ASCL2-responsive minigene	ASCL2, LGR5, Organoids, colorectal cancer, intestine, stem cells	Organoid technology provides the possibility of culturing patient-derived colon tissue and colorectal cancers (CRCs) while maintaining all functional and phenotypic characteristics. Labeling stem cells, especially in normal and benign tumor organoids of human colon, is challenging and therefore limits maximal exploitation of organoid libraries for human stem cell research. Here, we developed STAR (stem cell Ascl2 reporter), a minimal enhancer/promoter element that reports transcriptional activity of ASCL2, a master regulator of LGR5(+) intestinal stem cells. Using lentiviral infection, STAR drives specific expression in stem cells of normal organoids and in multiple engineered and patient-derived CRC organoids of different genetic makeup. STAR reveals that differentiation hierarchies and the potential for cell fate plasticity are present at all stages of human CRC development. Organoid technology, in combination with the user-friendly nature of STAR, will facilitate basic research into human adult stem cell biology.
PXD007962	29426060	Discovery and Validation of Novel Protein Biomarkers in Ovarian Cancer Patient Urine. 	Discovery and validation of novel protein biomarkers in ovarian cancer patient urine	HE4, LFQ, PRM, label free quantitation, ovarian cancer, parallel reaction monitoring, urine	PURPOSE: For the vast majority of ovarian cancer patients, optimal surgical debulking remains a key prognostic factor associated with improved survival. A standardized, biomarker-based test, to preoperatively discriminate benign from malignant disease and inform appropriate patient triage, is highly desirable. However, no fit-for-purpose biomarkers have yet been identified. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We conducted a pilot study consisting of 40 patient urine samples (20 from each group), using label-free quantitative (LFQ) mass spectrometry, to identify potential biomarker candidates in urine from individual ovarian cancer patients. To validate these changes, we used parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) to investigate their abundance in an independent validation cohort (n = 20) of patient urine samples. RESULTS: LFQ analyses identified 4394 proteins (17 027 peptides) in a discovery set of 20 urine samples. Twenty-three proteins were significantly elevated in the malignant patient group compared to patients with benign disease. Several proteins, including LYPD1, LYVE1, PTMA, and SCGB1A1 were confirmed to be enriched in the urine of ovarian cancer patients using PRM. We also identified the established ovarian cancer biomarkers WFDC2 (HE4) and mesothelin (MSLN), validating our approach. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This is the first application of a LFQ-PRM workflow to identify and validate ovarian cancer-specific biomarkers in patient urine samples.
PXD007206	29427328	Depletion of keratin 8/18 modulates oncogenic potential by governing multiple signaling pathways. 	Depletion of Keratin8 affects tumorigenic potential of A431 cells via altering multiple signaling pathways	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Keratin 8, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), Quantitative Proteomics, Skin-SCC, TMT	Keratin 8/18, the predominant keratin pair of simple epithelia, is often aberrantly expressed in various squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) including skin SCC. Its aberrant expression is correlated with increased invasiveness and poor prognosis of the same, although the underlying mechanism is still unclear. A previous report from our laboratory has shown K8-mediated regulation of alpha6beta4 integrin signaling and thereby tumorigenic potential of oral SCC-derived cells. Another study on transgenic mouse model has shown that during skin carcinogenesis, K8 favors conversion of papillomas toward malignancy. In order to understand the role of K8 and allied mechanism in skin SCC, K8 was stably knocked down in a skin epidermoid carcinoma-derived A431 cells. K8 downregulation significantly reduced the tumorigenic potential of these cells. In agreement with our phenotypic data, differential quantitative proteomics followed by IPA analysis showed altered expression of many proteins associated with biological functions including 'Cancer', 'Cellular movement', 'Cell death and survival', and 'Cellular morphology'. Some of these proteins were TMS1, MARCKSL1, RanBP1, 14-3-3gamma, Rho-GDI2, etc. Furthermore, to our surprise, there was a significant reduction in K17 protein stability upon loss of K8, probably due to its caspase-mediated degradation. This was supported by altered TMS1-NF-kappaB signaling, leading to increased apoptotic sensitivity of A431 cells which in turn affected 'Cell death and survival'. Moreover, MARCKSL1-Paxillin1-Rac axis was found to be deregulated bestowing a possible mechanism behind altered 'Cellular movement' pathway. Altogether our study unravels a much broader regulatory role of K8, governing multiple signaling pathways and consequently regulating oncogenic potential of skin SCC-derived cells. DATABASE: Proteome Xchange Consortium via PRIDE database (dataset identifier PXD007206).
PXD008297	29427454	Proteomics in biomanufacturing control: Protein dynamics of CHO-K1 cells and conditioned media during apoptosis and necrosis. 	Proteomics in biomanufacturing control: Protein dynamics of CHO-K1 cells and conditioned media during apoptosis and necrosis	2D-LC-MSE, CHO, Keywords: biomanufacturing, apoptosis, necrosis	Cell viability has a critical impact on product quantity and quality during the biomanufacturing of therapeutic proteins. An advanced understanding of changes in the cellular and conditioned media proteomes upon cell stress and death is therefore needed for improved bioprocess control. Here, a high pH/low pH reversed phase data independent 2D-LC-MS(E) discovery proteomics platform was applied to study the cellular and conditioned media proteomes of CHO-K1 apoptosis and necrosis models where cell death was induced by staurosporine exposure or aeration shear in a benchtop bioreactor, respectively. Functional classification of gene ontology terms related to molecular functions, biological processes, and cellular components revealed both cell death independent and specific features. In addition, label free quantitation using the Hi3 approach resulted in a comprehensive shortlist of 23 potential cell viability marker proteins with highest abundance and a significant increase in the conditioned media upon induction of cell death, including proteins related to cellular stress response, signal mediation, cytoskeletal organization, cell differentiation, cell interaction as well as metabolic and proteolytic enzymes which are interesting candidates for translating into targeted analysis platforms for monitoring bioprocessing response and increasing process control.
PXD003092	29435015	Phosphoproteomic analysis of the antitumor effects of ginsenoside Rg3 in human breast cancer cells. 	Phosphoproteomics analysis of anti-cancer effects of ginsenoside Rg3 in human breast cancer cells	6-plex TMT, CPSF7, EEF2, Ginsenoside Rg3, HIRIP3, MAGED2, MDA-MB-231, MPRIP, MYCBP2, PAWR, PPP1R12A, RANBP2, SEPT9, TMPO, Triple negative breast cancer, UFL1, phosphorylation	The incidence of breast cancer has been increasing in China and the age of breast cancer onset is earlier compared with Western countries. Compounds commonly used in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) are an important source of anticancer drugs. Ginseng is one of the most common medicines used in TCM. Ginsenosides, which are saponins found in the ginseng plant, are the major active components responsible for the chemopreventive effects of ginseng in cancer. However, the mechanisms by which ginsenosides exert their anticancer effects remain elusive. The current study combined tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantification with titanium dioxide-based phosphopeptide enrichment to quantitatively analyze the changes in phosphoproteomes in breast cancer MDA-MB-231 cells that occur following treatment with the ginsenoside Rg3. A total of 5,140 phosphorylation sites on 2,041 phosphoproteins were quantified and it was demonstrated that the phosphorylation status of 13 sites were altered in MDA-MB-231 cells following treatment with Rg3. The perturbed phosphoproteins were: Cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor subunit 7, elongation factor 2 (EEF2), HIRA-interacting protein 3, melanoma-associated antigen D2, myosin phosphatase Rho-interacting protein, probable E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase MYCBP2, PRKC apoptosis WT1 regulator protein, protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 12A, E3 SUMO-protein ligase RanBP2, Septin-9, thymopoietin, and E3 UFM1-protein ligase 1. Western blotting confirmed that Rg3 increased the phosphorylation of EEF2 on Thr57 but did not alter the protein expression of EEF2 in MDA-MB-231 and HCC1143 cells. These ginsenoside Rg3-regulated proteins are involved in various biological processes, including protein synthesis, cell division and the inhibition of nuclear factor-kappaB signaling. The results of the present study revealed that Rg3 exerts its anticancer effects via a combination of different signaling pathways.
PXD008389	29436780	Autosomal Tubulointerstitial Kidney Disease-MUC1 Type: Differential Proteomics Suggests that Mutated MUC1 (insC) Affects Vesicular Transport in Renal Epithelial Cells. 	MUC1(insC) affects vesicular transport in renal epithelial cells	ADTKD-MUC1 / MDCK1 / vesicular transport / multivesicular bodies, exosomes	Autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial kidney disease associated to the MUC1 gene (ADTKD-MUC1; formerly MCKD1) belongs to a heterogeneous group of rare hereditary kidney diseases that is prototypically caused by frameshift mutations in the MUC1 repeat domain. The mutant MUC1 (insC) lacks the transmembrane domaine, exhibits aberant cellular topology, and hence might gain a function during the pathological process. To get insight into potential pathomechanisms we perform differential proteomics of extracellular vesicles shed by renal epithelia into the urine of patients. The study is based on three ADTKD patients and individual controls applying iTRAQ/LC-MS/MS. A total of 796 proteins were identified across all biological and technical replicates, and 298 proteins were quantified. A proportion of 47 proteins were fold-changed species. GO Term Enrichment analysis revealed proteins with significantly changed expression in ADTKD-associated extracellular vesicles as vesicular transport-associated proteins. Among these VTA1 is involved in the endosomal multivesicular body pathway associated with transport to lysosomes or export via exosomes. VTA1 is also claimed to play roles as a cofactor of the AAA ATPases VPS4A and VPS4B in the disassembly of ESCRT III. Protein interaction databases list VPS4B, CHMP2A, and IST1 as VTA1 binding partners. (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008389.).
PXD004471	29437277	Identification of Native and Posttranslationally Modified HLA-B*57:01-Restricted HIV Envelope Derived Epitopes Using Immunoproteomics. 	Identification of HLA-B*57:01-restricted endogenous and HIV epitopes	HIV envelope, HLA-B*57:01, immunopeptidomics, kynurenine	The recognition of pathogen-derived peptides by T lymphocytes is the cornerstone of adaptive immunity, whereby intracellular antigens are degraded in the cytosol and short peptides assemble with class I human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules in the ER. These peptide-HLA complexes egress to the cell surface and are scrutinized by cytotoxic CD8+ T-cells leading to the eradication of the infected cell. Here, naturally presented HLA-B*57:01 bound peptides derived from the envelope protein of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIVenv) are identified. HIVenv peptides are present at a very small percentage of the overall HLA-B*57:01 peptidome (<0.1%) and both native and posttranslationally modified forms of two distinct HIV peptides are identified. Notably, a peptide bearing a natively encoded C-terminal tryptophan residue is also present in a modified form containing a kynurenine residue. Kynurenine is a major product of tryptophan catabolism and is abundant during inflammation and infection. Binding of these peptides at a molecular level and their immunogenicity in preliminary functional studies are examined. Modest immune responses are observed to the modified HIVenv peptide, highlighting a potential role for kynurenine-modified peptides in the immune response to HIV and other viral infections.
PXD007099	29437775	ZBTB2 reads unmethylated CpG island promoters and regulates embryonic stem cell differentiation. 	ZBTB2 as a novel reader for unmethylated DNA	ESC, NPC, ZBTB2	Proteins that bind to DNA depending on its methylation status play an important role in methylation-mediated regulation of gene expression. Using a variety of genomics and proteomics approaches, we identify zinc finger and BTB domain-containing protein 2 (ZBTB2) as a reader of unmethylated DNA in mouse embryonic stem cells. ZBTB2 preferentially binds to CpG island promoters, where it acts as a transcriptional activator. The binding of ZBTB2 to its targets is direct and independent of two other zinc finger proteins, ZBTB25 and ZNF639, which we show to interact with ZBTB2. Our data suggest an anticorrelation between ZBTB2 DNA binding and DNA methylation, indicating that ZBTB2-binding dynamics in vivo are sensitive to differential DNA methylation. ZBTB2 is intricately interwoven with DNA methylation, as we find not only that its binding to DNA is methylation sensitive, but also that ZBTB2 regulates the turnover of methylated DNA In ZBTB2 knockout cells, several pluripotency factors are upregulated, inducing a delay in differentiation. We propose that ZBTB2 is a novel DNA methylation-sensitive transcription factor that regulates cellular differentiation.
PXD008718	29437971	N-Terminomics TAILS Identifies Host Cell Substrates of Poliovirus and Coxsackievirus B3 3C Proteinases That Modulate Virus Infection. 	TAILS analysis of viral protease 3C substrates	3C, Protease, TAILS, polio, virus	Enteroviruses encode proteinases that are essential for processing of the translated viral polyprotein. In addition, viral proteinases also target host proteins to manipulate cellular processes and evade innate antiviral responses to promote replication and infection. Although some host protein substrates of enterovirus proteinases have been identified, the full repertoire of targets remains unknown. We used a novel quantitative in vitro proteomics-based approach, termed terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates (TAILS), to identify with high confidence 72 and 34 new host protein targets of poliovirus and coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) 3C proteinases (3C(pro)s) in HeLa cell and cardiomyocyte HL-1 cell lysates, respectively. We validated a subset of candidate substrates that are targets of poliovirus 3C(pro)in vitro including three common protein targets, phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthetase (PFAS), hnRNP K, and hnRNP M, of both proteinases. 3C(pro)-targeted substrates were also cleaved in virus-infected cells but not noncleavable mutant proteins designed from the TAILS-identified cleavage sites. Knockdown of TAILS-identified target proteins modulated infection both negatively and positively, suggesting that cleavage by 3C(pro) promotes infection. Indeed, expression of a cleavage-resistant mutant form of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi vesicle-tethering protein p115 decreased viral replication and yield. As the first comprehensive study to identify and validate functional enterovirus 3C(pro) substrates in vivo, we conclude that N-terminomics by TAILS is an effective strategy to identify host targets of viral proteinases in a nonbiased manner.IMPORTANCE Enteroviruses are positive-strand RNA viruses that encode proteases that cleave the viral polyprotein into the individual mature viral proteins. In addition, viral proteases target host proteins in order to modulate cellular pathways and block antiviral responses in order to facilitate virus infection. Although several host protein targets have been identified, the entire list of proteins that are targeted is not known. In this study, we used a novel unbiased proteomics approach to identify ~100 novel host targets of the enterovirus 3C protease, thus providing further insights into the network of cellular pathways that are modulated to promote virus infection.
PXD010345	29438379	Advancing the immunoaffinity platform AFFIRM to targeted measurements of proteins in serum in the pg/ml range. 	AFFIRM_in-solution (Sall et al. 2018)	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	There is a great need for targeted protein assays with the capacity of sensitive measurements in complex samples such as plasma or serum, not the least for clinical purposes. Proteomics keeps generating hundreds of biomarker candidates that need to be transferred towards true clinical application through targeted verification studies and towards clinically applicable analysis formats. The immunoaffinity assay AFFIRM (AFFInity sRM) combines the sensitivity of recombinant single chain antibodies (scFv) for targeted protein enrichment with a specific mass spectrometry readout through selected reaction monitoring (SRM) in an automated workflow. Here we demonstrate a 100 times improved detection capacity of the assay down to pg/ml range through the use of oriented antibody immobilization to magnetic beads. This was achieved using biotin-tagged scFv coupled to streptavidin coated magnetic beads, or utilizing the FLAG tag for coupling to anti-FLAG antibody coated magnetic beads. An improved multiplexing capacity with an 11-plex setup was also demonstrated compared to a previous 3-plex setup, which is of great importance for the analysis of panels of biomarker targets.
PXD008582	29438985	Inhibition of DDR1-BCR signalling by nilotinib as a new therapeutic strategy for metastatic colorectal cancer. 	In vitro DDR1 signalling -  Inhibition of DDR1-BCR signalling by nilotinib asanew therapeutic strategy for metastatic colorectal cancer	DDR1 tyrosine kinase, metastatic colorectal cancer, signalling	The clinical management of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) faces major challenges. Here, we show that nilotinib, a clinically approved drug for chronic myeloid leukaemia, strongly inhibits human CRC cell invasion in vitro and reduces their metastatic potential in intrasplenic tumour mouse models. Nilotinib acts by inhibiting the kinase activity of DDR1, a receptor tyrosine kinase for collagens, which we identified as a RAS-independent inducer of CRC metastasis. Using quantitative phosphoproteomics, we identified BCR as a new DDR1 substrate and demonstrated that nilotinib prevents DDR1-mediated BCR phosphorylation on Tyr177, which is important for maintaining beta-catenin transcriptional activity necessary for tumour cell invasion. DDR1 kinase inhibition also reduced the invasion of patient-derived metastatic and circulating CRC cell lines. Collectively, our results indicate that the targeting DDR1 kinase activity with nilotinib may be beneficial for patients with mCRC.
PXD004445	29438997	Doxorubicin-induced DNA Damage Causes Extensive Ubiquitination of Ribosomal Proteins Associated with a Decrease in Protein Translation. 	Large scale ubiquitination in doxorubicin treated cells	DNA damage, ubiquitin	Protein posttranslational modifications (PTMs) play a central role in the DNA damage response. In particular, protein phosphorylation and ubiquitination have been shown to be essential in the signaling cascade that coordinates break repair with cell cycle progression. Here, we performed whole-cell quantitative proteomics to identify global changes in protein ubiquitination that are induced by DNA double-strand breaks. In total, we quantified more than 9,400 ubiquitin sites and found that the relative abundance of ~10% of these sites was altered in response to DNA double-strand breaks. Interestingly, a large proportion of ribosomal proteins, including those from the 40S as well as the 60S subunit, were ubiquitinated in response to DNA damage. In parallel, we discovered that DNA damage leads to the inhibition of ribosome function. Taken together, these data uncover the ribosome as a major target of the DNA damage response.
PXD008378	29439554	Pilot Study on Mass Spectrometry-Based Analysis of the Proteome of CD34+CD123+ Progenitor Cells for the Identification of Potential Targets for Immunotherapy in Acute Myeloid Leukemia. 	Proteomic characterization of CD34+ CD123+ stem cells from patients with acute myeloid leukemia	AML, LC-MS, acute myeloid leukemia	Targeting of leukemic stem cells with specific immunotherapy would be an ideal approach for the treatment of myeloid malignancies, but suitable epitopes are unknown. The comparative proteome-level characterization of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells from healthy stem cell donors and patients with acute myeloid leukemia has the potential to reveal differentially expressed proteins which can be used as surface-markers or as proxies for affected molecular pathways. We employed mass spectrometry methods to analyze the proteome of the cytosolic and the membrane fraction of CD34 and CD123 co-expressing FACS-sorted leukemic progenitors from five patients with acute myeloid leukemia. As a reference, CD34+CD123+ normal hematopoietic progenitor cells from five healthy, granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) mobilized stem cell donors were analyzed. In this Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) 10-plex labelling-based approach, 2070 proteins were identified with 171 proteins differentially abundant in one or both cellular compartments. This proof-of-principle-study demonstrates the potential of mass spectrometry to detect differentially expressed proteins in two compartment fractions of the entire proteome of leukemic stem cells, compared to their non-malignant counterparts. This may contribute to future immunotherapeutic target discoveries and individualized AML patient characterization.
PXD007735	29440262	A meiotic XPF-ERCC1-like complex recognizes joint molecule recombination intermediates to promote crossover formation. 	Identification of a new XPF-ERCC1-like complex important for meiotic crossovers production	Budding yeast, interactomics, meiotic recombination	Meiotic crossover formation requires the stabilization of early recombination intermediates by a set of proteins and occurs within the environment of the chromosome axis, a structure important for the regulation of meiotic recombination events. The molecular mechanisms underlying and connecting crossover recombination and axis localization are elusive. Here, we identified the ZZS (Zip2-Zip4-Spo16) complex, required for crossover formation, which carries two distinct activities: one provided by Zip4, which acts as hub through physical interactions with components of the chromosome axis and the crossover machinery, and the other carried by Zip2 and Spo16, which preferentially bind branched DNA molecules in vitro. We found that Zip2 and Spo16 share structural similarities to the structure-specific XPF-ERCC1 nuclease, although it lacks endonuclease activity. The XPF domain of Zip2 is required for crossover formation, suggesting that, together with Spo16, it has a noncatalytic DNA recognition function. Our results suggest that the ZZS complex shepherds recombination intermediates toward crossovers as a dynamic structural module that connects recombination events to the chromosome axis. The identification of the ZZS complex improves our understanding of the various activities required for crossover implementation and is likely applicable to other organisms, including mammals.
PXD006177	29440448	Establishment of Dimethyl Labeling-based Quantitative Acetylproteomics in Arabidopsis. 	Establishment of dimethyl labeling-based quantitative acetylproteomics in Arabidopsis	4C proteomic workflow, Acetylproteomics, CsCl density gradient (CDG) centrifugation, Quantitative PTM proteomics, SQUA-D, Stable isotope dimethyl labelling	Protein acetylation, one of many types of post-translational modifications (PTMs), is involved in a variety of biological and cellular processes. In the present study, we applied both CsCl density gradient (CDG) centrifugation-based protein fractionation and a dimethyl-labeling-based 4C quantitative PTM proteomics workflow in the study of dynamic acetylproteomic changes in Arabidopsis. This workflow integrates the dimethyl chemical labeling with chromatography-based acetylpeptide separation and enrichment followed by mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, the extracted ion chromatogram (XIC) quantitation-based computational analysis of mass spectrometry data to measure dynamic changes of acetylpeptide level using an in-house software program, named Stable isotope-based Quantitation-Dimethyl labeling (SQUA-D), and finally the confirmation of ethylene hormone-regulated acetylation using immunoblot analysis. Eventually, using this proteomic approach, 7456 unambiguous acetylation sites were found from 2638 different acetylproteins, and 5250 acetylation sites, including 5233 sites on lysine side chain and 17 sites on protein N termini, were identified repetitively. Out of these repetitively discovered acetylation sites, 4228 sites on lysine side chain (i.e. 80.5%) are novel. These acetylproteins are exemplified by the histone superfamily, ribosomal and heat shock proteins, and proteins related to stress/stimulus responses and energy metabolism. The novel acetylproteins enriched by the CDG centrifugation fractionation contain many cellular trafficking proteins, membrane-bound receptors, and receptor-like kinases, which are mostly involved in brassinosteroid, light, gravity, and development signaling. In addition, we identified 12 highly conserved acetylation site motifs within histones, P-glycoproteins, actin depolymerizing factors, ATPases, transcription factors, and receptor-like kinases. Using SQUA-D software, we have quantified 33 ethylene hormone-enhanced and 31 hormone-suppressed acetylpeptide groups or called unique PTM peptide arrays (UPAs) that share the identical unique PTM site pattern (UPSP). This CDG centrifugation protein fractionation in combination with dimethyl labeling-based quantitative PTM proteomics, and SQUA-D may be applied in the quantitation of any PTM proteins in any model eukaryotes and agricultural crops as well as tissue samples of animals and human beings.
PXD007719	29440476	Determination of the small RNA GcvB regulon in the Gram-negative bacterial pathogen Pasteurella multocida and identification of the GcvB seed binding region. 	The role of the sRNA GcvB in Pasteurella multocida protein production	GcvB, Pasteurella multocida	Pasteurella multocida is a Gram-negative bacterium responsible for many important animal diseases. While a number of P. multocida virulence factors have been identified, very little is known about how gene expression and protein production is regulated in this organism. Small RNA (sRNA) molecules are critical regulators that act by binding to specific mRNA targets, often in association with the RNA chaperone protein Hfq. In this study, transcriptomic analysis of the P. multocida strain VP161 revealed a putative sRNA with high identity to GcvB from Escherichia coli and Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. High-throughput quantitative liquid proteomics was used to compare the proteomes of the P. multocida VP161 wild-type strain, a gcvB mutant, and a GcvB overexpression strain. These analyses identified 46 proteins that displayed significant differential production after inactivation of gcvB, 36 of which showed increased production. Of the 36 proteins that were repressed by GcvB, 27 were predicted to be involved in amino acid biosynthesis or transport. Bioinformatic analyses of putative P. multocida GcvB target mRNAs identified a strongly conserved 10 nucleotide consensus sequence, 5'-AACACAACAT-3', with the central eight nucleotides identical to the seed binding region present within GcvB mRNA targets in E. coli and S. Typhimurium. Using a defined set of seed region mutants, together with a two-plasmid reporter system that allowed for quantification of sRNA-mRNA interactions, this sequence was confirmed to be critical for the binding of the P. multocida GcvB to the target mRNA, gltA.
PXD006283	29440596	Multi-Omics Driven Assembly and Annotation of the Sandalwood (Santalum album) Genome. 	An Integrated OMICs Approach of Assembly and Annotation of Indian Sandalwood (Santalum album L.) plant genome provides insights into an array of genes involved in Santalol biosynthesis	Santalum album	Indian sandalwood (Santalum album) is an important tropical evergreen tree known for its fragrant heartwood-derived essential oil and its valuable carving wood. Here, we applied an integrated genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic approach to assemble and annotate the Indian sandalwood genome. Our genome sequencing resulted in the establishment of a draft map of the smallest genome for any woody tree species to date (221 Mb). The genome annotation predicted 38,119 protein-coding genes and 27.42% repetitive DNA elements. In-depth proteome analysis revealed the identities of 72,325 unique peptides, which confirmed 10,076 of the predicted genes. The addition of transcriptomic and proteogenomic approaches resulted in the identification of 53 novel proteins and 34 gene-correction events that were missed by genomic approaches. Proteogenomic analysis also helped in reassigning 1,348 potential noncoding RNAs as bona fide protein-coding messenger RNAs. Gene expression patterns at the RNA and protein levels indicated that peptide sequencing was useful in capturing proteins encoded by nuclear and organellar genomes alike. Mass spectrometry-based proteomic evidence provided an unbiased approach toward the identification of proteins encoded by organellar genomes. Such proteins are often missed in transcriptome data sets due to the enrichment of only messenger RNAs that contain poly(A) tails. Overall, the use of integrated omic approaches enhanced the quality of the assembly and annotation of this nonmodel plant genome. The availability of genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic data will enhance genomics-assisted breeding, germplasm characterization, and conservation of sandalwood trees.
PXD007590	29444071	The PHD finger protein Spp1 has distinct functions in the Set1 and the meiotic DSB formation complexes. 	Characterization of Spp1-TAP and Mer2-TAP interactomes	Mer2, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Spp1, interactomics, meiosis	Histone H3K4 methylation is a feature of meiotic recombination hotspots shared by many organisms including plants and mammals. Meiotic recombination is initiated by programmed double-strand break (DSB) formation that in budding yeast takes place in gene promoters and is promoted by histone H3K4 di/trimethylation. This histone modification is recognized by Spp1, a PHD finger containing protein that belongs to the conserved histone H3K4 methyltransferase Set1 complex. During meiosis, Spp1 binds H3K4me3 and interacts with a DSB protein, Mer2, to promote DSB formation close to gene promoters. How Set1 complex- and Mer2- related functions of Spp1 are connected is not clear. Here, combining genome-wide localization analyses, biochemical approaches and the use of separation of function mutants, we show that Spp1 is present within two distinct complexes in meiotic cells, the Set1 and the Mer2 complexes. Disrupting the Spp1-Set1 interaction mildly decreases H3K4me3 levels and does not affect meiotic recombination initiation. Conversely, the Spp1-Mer2 interaction is required for normal meiotic recombination initiation, but dispensable for Set1 complex-mediated histone H3K4 methylation. Finally, we provide evidence that Spp1 preserves normal H3K4me3 levels independently of the Set1 complex. We propose a model where Spp1 works in three ways to promote recombination initiation: first by depositing histone H3K4 methylation (Set1 complex), next by "reading" and protecting histone H3K4 methylation, and finally by making the link with the chromosome axis (Mer2-Spp1 complex). This work deciphers the precise roles of Spp1 in meiotic recombination and opens perspectives to study its functions in other organisms where H3K4me3 is also present at recombination hotspots.
PXD006152	29444441	Initiating Events in Direct Cardiomyocyte Reprogramming. 	TMT analysis of early proteome events in direct cardiomyocyte reprogramming	Fibroblast, GMT, HCD, MEF, Orbitrap Velos	Direct reprogramming of fibroblasts into cardiomyocyte-like cells (iCM) holds great potential for heart regeneration and disease modeling and may lead to future therapeutic applications. Currently, application of this technology is limited by our lack of understanding of the molecular mechanisms that drive direct iCM reprogramming. Using a quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach, we identified the temporal global changes in protein abundance that occur during initial phases of iCM reprogramming. Collectively, our results show systematic and temporally distinct alterations in levels of specific functional classes of proteins during the initiating steps of reprogramming including extracellular matrix proteins, translation factors, and chromatin-binding proteins. We have constructed protein relational networks associated with the initial transition of a fibroblast into an iCM. These findings demonstrate the presence of an orchestrated series of temporal steps associated with dynamic changes in protein abundance in a defined group of protein pathways during the initiating events of direct reprogramming.
PXD008046	29444982	The Unique Features of Proteins Depicting the Chicken Amniotic Fluid. 	Qualitative proteomics analysis of the chicken amniotic fluid	Amniotic fluid, Chicken	In many amniotes, the amniotic fluid is depicted as a dynamic milieu that participates in the protection of the embryo (cushioning, hydration, and immunity). However, in birds, the protein profile of the amniotic fluid remains unexplored, even though its proteomic signature is predicted to differ compared with that of humans. In fact, unlike humans, chicken amniotic fluid does not collect excretory products and its protein composition strikingly changes at mid-development because of the massive inflow of egg white proteins, which are thereafter swallowed by the embryo to support its growth. Using GeLC-MS/MS and shotgun strategies, we identified 91 nonredundant proteins delineating the chicken amniotic fluid proteome at day 11 of development, before egg white transfer. These proteins were essentially associated with the metabolism of nutrients, immune response and developmental processes. Forty-eight proteins were common to both chicken and human amniotic fluids, including serum albumin, apolipoprotein A1 and alpha-fetoprotein. We further investigated the effective role of chicken amniotic fluid in innate defense and revealed that it exhibits significant antibacterial activity at day 11 of development. This antibacterial potential is drastically enhanced after egg white transfer, presumably due to lysozyme, avian beta-defensin 11, vitelline membrane outer layer protein 1, and beta-microseminoprotein-like as the most likely antibacterial candidates. Interestingly, several proteins recovered in the chicken amniotic fluid prior and after egg white transfer are uniquely found in birds (ovalbumin and related proteins X and Y, avian beta-defensin 11) or oviparous species (vitellogenins 1 and 2, riboflavin-binding protein). This study provides an integrative overview of the chicken amniotic fluid proteome and opens stimulating perspectives in deciphering the role of avian egg-specific proteins in embryonic development, including innate immunity. These proteins may constitute valuable biomarkers for poultry production to detect hazardous situations (stress, infection, etc.), that may negatively affect the development of the chicken embryo.
PXD008272	29445034	The SKP1-Cullin-F-box E3 ligase betaTrCP and CDK2 cooperate to control STIL abundance and centriole number. 	Analysis of centrosomal protein	STIL, centrosome, phosphorylation	Deregulation of centriole duplication has been implicated in cancer and primary microcephaly. Accordingly, it is important to understand how key centriole duplication factors are regulated. E3 ubiquitin ligases have been implicated in controlling the levels of several duplication factors, including PLK4, STIL and SAS-6, but the precise mechanisms ensuring centriole homeostasis remain to be fully understood. Here, we have combined proteomics approaches with the use of MLN4924, a generic inhibitor of SCF E3 ubiquitin ligases, to monitor changes in the cellular abundance of centriole duplication factors. We identified human STIL as a novel substrate of SCF-betaTrCP. The binding of betaTrCP depends on a DSG motif within STIL, and serine 395 within this motif is phosphorylated in vivo SCF-betaTrCP-mediated degradation of STIL occurs throughout interphase and mutations in the DSG motif causes massive centrosome amplification, attesting to the physiological importance of the pathway. We also uncover a connection between this new pathway and CDK2, whose role in centriole biogenesis remains poorly understood. We show that CDK2 activity protects STIL against SCF-betaTrCP-mediated degradation, indicating that CDK2 and SCF-betaTrCP cooperate via STIL to control centriole biogenesis.
PXD008271	29447110	Time- and polarity-dependent proteomic changes associated with homeostatic scaling at central synapses. 	Time- and Polarity-dependent Proteomic Changes associated with Homeostatic Scaling at Central Synapses	BONCAT, Homeostatic scaling	In homeostatic scaling at central synapses, the depth and breadth of cellular mechanisms that detect the offset from the set-point, detect the duration of the offset and implement a cellular response are not well understood. To understand the time-dependent scaling dynamics we treated cultured rat hippocampal cells with either TTX or bicucculline for 2 hr to induce the process of up- or down-scaling, respectively. During the activity manipulation we metabolically labeled newly synthesized proteins using BONCAT. We identified 168 newly synthesized proteins that exhibited significant changes in expression. To obtain a temporal trajectory of the response, we compared the proteins synthesized within 2 hr or 24 hr of the activity manipulation. Surprisingly, there was little overlap in the significantly regulated newly synthesized proteins identified in the early- and integrated late response datasets. There was, however, overlap in the functional categories that are modulated early and late. These data indicate that within protein function groups, different proteomic choices can be made to effect early and late homeostatic responses that detect the duration and polarity of the activity manipulation.
PXD006528	29448055	Proteomic characterization of Withaferin A-targeted protein networks for the treatment of monoclonal myeloma gammopathies. 	Proteomic characterization of Withaferin A-targeted protein networks for the treatment of monoclonal myeloma gammopathies	Quantitative differential expression analysis, Withaferin A, multiple myeloma, quantitative chemoproteomics	Withaferin A (WA), a natural steroid lactone from the plant Withania somnifera, is often studied because of its antitumor properties. Although many in vitro and in vivo studies have been performed, the identification of Withaferin A protein targets and its mechanism of antitumor action remain incomplete. We used quantitative chemoproteomics and differential protein expression analysis to characterize the WA antitumor effects on a multiple myeloma cell model. Identified relevant targets were further validated by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis and Western blot and indicate that WA targets protein networks that are specific for monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) and other closely related disorders, such as multiple myeloma (MM) and Waldenstroem macroglobulinemia (WM). By blocking the PSMB10 proteasome subunit, downregulation of ANXA4, potential association with HDAC6 and upregulation of HMOX1, WA puts a massive blockage on both proteotoxic and oxidative stress responses pathways, leaving cancer cells defenseless against WA induced stresses. These results indicate that WA mediated apoptosis is preceded by simultaneous targeting of cellular stress response pathways like proteasome degradation, autophagy and unfolded protein stress response and thus suggests that WA can be used as an effective treatment for MGUS and other closely related disorders. SIGNIFICANCE: Multifunctional antitumor compounds are of great potential since they reduce the risk of multidrug resistance in chemotherapy. Unfortunately, characterization of all protein targets of a multifunctional compound is lacking. Therefore, we optimized an SILAC quantitative chemoproteomics workflow to identify the potential protein targets of Withaferin A (WA), a natural multifunctional compound with promising antitumor properties. To further understand the antitumor mechanisms of WA, we performed a differential protein expression analysis and combined the altered expression data with chemoproteome WA target data in the highly curated Ingenuity Pathway database. We provide a first global overview on how WA kills multiple myeloma cancer cells and serve as a starting point for further in depth experiments. Furthermore, the combined approach can be used for other types of cancer and/or other promising multifunctional compounds, thereby increasing the potential development of new antitumor therapies.
PXD008289	29449344	Defeating Major Contaminants in Fe(3+)- Immobilized Metal Ion Affinity Chromatography (IMAC) Phosphopeptide Enrichment. 	Defeating major contaminants in Fe3+-IMAC phosphopeptide enrichment	E.coli	Here we demonstrate that biomolecular contaminants, such as nucleic acid molecules, can seriously interfere with immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography (IMAC)-based phosphopeptide enrichments. We address and largely solve this issue, developing a robust protocol implementing methanol/chloroform protein precipitation and enzymatic digestion using benzonase, which degrades all forms of DNA and RNA, before IMAC-column loading. This simple procedure resulted in a drastic increase of enrichment sensitivity, enabling the identification of around 17,000 unique phosphopeptides and 12,500 unambiguously localized phosphosites in human cell-lines from a single LC-MS/MS run, constituting a 50% increase when compared with the standard protocol. The improved protocol was also applied to bacterial samples, increasing the number of identified bacterial phosphopeptides even more strikingly, by a factor 10, when compared with the standard protocol. For E. coli we detected around 1300 unambiguously localized phosphosites per LC-MS/MS run. The preparation of these ultra-pure phosphopeptide samples only requires marginal extra costs and sample preparation time and should thus be adoptable by every laboratory active in the field of phosphoproteomics.
PXD006988	29451312	YODA MAP3K kinase regulates plant immune responses conferring broad-spectrum disease resistance. 	The Arabidopsis kinase YODA regulates non-canonical immune responses conferring broad-spectrum disease resistance	leaf, phosphorylation, resistance	Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) cascades play essential roles in plants by transducing developmental cues and environmental signals into cellular responses. Among the latter are microbe-associated molecular patterns perceived by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), which trigger immunity. We found that YODA (YDA) - a MAPK kinase kinase regulating several Arabidopsis developmental processes, like stomatal patterning - also modulates immune responses. Resistance to pathogens is compromised in yda alleles, whereas plants expressing the constitutively active YDA (CA-YDA) protein show broad-spectrum resistance to fungi, bacteria, and oomycetes with different colonization modes. YDA functions in the same pathway as ERECTA (ER) Receptor-Like Kinase, regulating both immunity and stomatal patterning. ER-YDA-mediated immune responses act in parallel to canonical disease resistance pathways regulated by phytohormones and PRRs. CA-YDA plants exhibit altered cell-wall integrity and constitutively express defense-associated genes, including some encoding putative small secreted peptides and PRRs whose impairment resulted in enhanced susceptibility phenotypes. CA-YDA plants show strong reprogramming of their phosphoproteome, which contains protein targets distinct from described MAPKs substrates. Our results suggest that, in addition to stomata development, the ER-YDA pathway regulates an immune surveillance system conferring broad-spectrum disease resistance that is distinct from the canonical pathways mediated by described PRRs and defense hormones.
PXD008067	29451388	Dual Inhibitor of Staphylococcus aureus Virulence and Biofilm Attenuates Expression of Major Toxins and Adhesins. 	A dual inhibitor of Staphylococcus aureus virulence and biofilm attenuates expression of major toxins and adhesins	biofilm, phenotype, target identification, virulence	Staphylococcus aureus is a major bacterial pathogen that invades and damages host tissue by the expression of devastating toxins. We here performed a phenotypic screen of 35 molecules that were structurally inspired by previous hydroxyamide-based S. aureus virulence inhibitors compiled from commercial sources or designed and synthesized de novo. One of the most potent compounds, AV73, not only reduced hemolytic alpha-hemolysin production in S. aureus but also impeded in vitro biofilm formation. The effect of AV73 on bacterial proteomes and extracellular protein levels was analyzed by quantitative proteomics and revealed a significant down-regulation of major virulence and biofilm promoting proteins. To elucidate the mode of action of AV73, target identification was performed using affinity-based protein profiling (AfBPP), where among others YidC was identified as a target.
PXD007846	29451788	Systematic Evaluation of the Use of Human Plasma and Serum for Mass-Spectrometry-Based Shotgun Proteomics. 	A systematic evaluation of the use of human plasma and serum for mass spectrometry-based shotgun proteomics - commercial pooled samples	EDTA, Li-heparin, MS/MS, Plasma, Serum, Tandem Mass Tag	Over the last two decades, EDTA-plasma has been used as the preferred sample matrix for human blood proteomic profiling. Serum has also been employed widely. Only a few studies have assessed the difference and relevance of the proteome profiles obtained from plasma samples, such as EDTA-plasma or lithium-heparin-plasma, and serum. A more complete evaluation of the use of EDTA-plasma, heparin-plasma, and serum would greatly expand the comprehensiveness of shotgun proteomics of blood samples. In this study, we evaluated the use of heparin-plasma with respect to EDTA-plasma and serum to profile blood proteomes using a scalable automated proteomic pipeline (ASAP(2)). The use of plasma and serum for mass-spectrometry-based shotgun proteomics was first tested with commercial pooled samples. The proteome coverage consistency and the quantitative performance were compared. Furthermore, protein measurements in EDTA-plasma and heparin-plasma samples were comparatively studied using matched sample pairs from 20 individuals from the Australian Imaging, Biomarkers and Lifestyle (AIBL) Study. We identified 442 proteins in common between EDTA-plasma and heparin-plasma samples. Overall agreement of the relative protein quantification between the sample pairs demonstrated that shotgun proteomics using workflows such as the ASAP(2) is suitable in analyzing heparin-plasma and that such sample type may be considered in large-scale clinical research studies. Moreover, the partial proteome coverage overlaps (e.g., ~70%) showed that measures from heparin-plasma could be complementary to those obtained from EDTA-plasma.
PXD044124	29452226	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Reveals Synaptic Dysfunction in the Amygdala of Rats Susceptible to Chronic Mild Stress. 	Animal proteomics of depression	depression	The amygdala plays a key role in the pathophysiology of depression, but the molecular mechanisms underlying amygdalar hyperactivity in depression remain unclear. In this study, we used a chronic mild stress (CMS) protocol to separate susceptible and insusceptible rat subgroups. Proteomes in the amygdalae were analyzed differentially across subgroups based on labeling with isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) combined with mass spectrometry. Of 2562 quantified proteins, 102 were differentially expressed. Several proteins that might be associated with the stress insusceptibility/susceptibility difference, including synapse-related proteins, were identified in the amygdala. Immunoblot analysis identified changes in VGluT1, NMDA GluN2A and GluN2B and AMPA GluA1 receptors, and PSD-95, suggesting that CMS perturbs glutamatergic transmission in the amygdala. Changes in these regulatory and structural proteins provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the abnormal synaptic morphological and functional plasticity in the amygdalae of stress-susceptible rats. Interestingly, the expression level of CaMKIIbeta, potentially involved in regulation of glutamatergic transmission, was significantly increased in the susceptible group. Subsequent in vitro experimentation showed that overexpression of CaMKIIbeta increased the expression of PSD-95 and GluA1 in cultured hippocampal neurons. This result suggested that CaMKIIbeta functions upstream from PSD-95 and GluA1 to affect LTP-based postsynaptic functional plasticity in the amygdalae of susceptible rats. Therefore, amygdalar CaMKIIbeta is a potential antidepressant target. Collectively, our findings contribute to a better understanding of amygdalar synaptic plasticity in depression.
PXD006850	29453228	Targeted Profiling of Arabidopsis thaliana Subproteomes Illuminates Co- and Posttranslationally N-Terminal Myristoylated Proteins. 	Arabidopsis Myristoylom -  Targeted Profiling of Arabidopsis thaliana Subproteomes Illuminates Co- and Posttranslationally N-Terminal Myristoylated Proteins	myristoylome	N-terminal myristoylation, a major eukaryotic protein lipid modification, is difficult to detect in vivo and challenging to predict in silico. We developed a proteomics strategy involving subfractionation of cellular membranes, combined with separation of hydrophobic peptides by mass spectrometry-coupled liquid chromatography to identify the Arabidopsis thaliana myristoylated proteome. This approach identified a starting pool of 8837 proteins in all analyzed cellular fractions, comprising 32% of the Arabidopsis proteome. Of these, 906 proteins contain an N-terminal Gly at position 2, a prerequisite for myristoylation, and 214 belong to the predicted myristoylome (comprising 51% of the predicted myristoylome of 421 proteins). We further show direct evidence of myristoylation in 72 proteins; 18 of these myristoylated proteins were not previously predicted. We found one myristoylation site downstream of a predicted initiation codon, indicating that posttranslational myristoylation occurs in plants. Over half of the identified proteins could be quantified and assigned to a subcellular compartment. Hierarchical clustering of protein accumulation combined with myristoylation and S-acylation data revealed that N-terminal double acylation influences redirection to the plasma membrane. In a few cases, MYR function extended beyond simple membrane association. This study identified hundreds of N-acylated proteins for which lipid modifications could control protein localization and expand protein function.
PXD008529	29453283	Chemical stresses fail to mimic the unfolded protein response resulting from luminal load with unfolded polypeptides. 	Chemical stresses fail to mimic the unfolded protein response resulting from luminal load with unfolded polypeptides	endoplasmic reticulum (ER), endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER stress), proteostasis, transcriptomics, unfolded protein response (UPR)	The stress sensors ATF6, IRE1, and PERK monitor deviations from homeostatic conditions in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a protein biogenesis compartment of eukaryotic cells. Their activation elicits unfolded protein responses (UPR) to re-establish proteostasis. UPR have been extensively investigated in cells exposed to chemicals that activate ER stress sensors by perturbing calcium, N-glycans, or redox homeostasis. Cell responses to variations in luminal load with unfolded proteins are, in contrast, poorly characterized. Here, we compared gene and protein expression profiles in HEK293 cells challenged with ER stress-inducing drugs or expressing model polypeptides. Drug titration to limit up-regulation of the endogenous ER stress reporters heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5 (BiP/HSPA5) and homocysteine-inducible ER protein with ubiquitin-like domain 1 (HERP/HERPUD1) to levels comparable with luminal accumulation of unfolded proteins substantially reduced the amplitude of both transcriptional and translational responses. However, these drug-induced changes remained pleiotropic and failed to recapitulate responses to ER load with unfolded proteins. These required unfolded protein association with BiP and induced a much smaller subset of genes participating in a chaperone complex that binds unfolded peptide chains. In conclusion, UPR resulting from ER load with unfolded proteins proceed via a well-defined and fine-tuned pathway, whereas even mild chemical stresses caused by compounds often used to stimulate UPR induce cellular responses largely unrelated to the UPR or ER-mediated protein secretion.
PXD007095	29454112	Comparative proteomic analysis of the maize responses to early leaf senescence induced by preventing pollination. 	maize leaf LC-MSMS            .	maize leaf LC-MSMS	The aim of this study was to explore the molecular mechanisms of induced leaf senescence by preventing pollination in maize using a proteomic method combined with other physiological methods. An elite maize inbred line Yu816 was selected for evaluation of its senescence mechanism. Phenotypic and chlorophyll content analysis revealed that the onset of leaf senescence occurred earlier in non-pollinated (NONPOL) leaves than pollinated (POL) leaves. Leaf protein species of NONPOL and POL leaves were separately extracted and their proteomes were assessed using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) analysis. A total of 4371 protein species were identified, of which 809 exhibited differentially altered abundance (P < 0.05). The identified protein species were related to diverse functions including photosystems, plant hormones, cell death, oxidative degradation, and protein metabolism, suggesting a potential signaling cascade for ear leaf senescence induced by pollination prevention. In addition, leaf total soluble sugar and leaf starch contents were remarkably higher in NONPOL plants than in POL plants. These findings suggest that induced leaf senescence might be associated with nutrient remobilization. Our results reveal a network of molecular mechanisms at the protein level and provide some insights into the early senescence mechanism in higher plants. Biological significance: The coordination between growth and timing for senescence is critical for maize production. However, the molecular mechanism of induced leaf senescence by preventing pollination in maize remains to be further elucidated at the proteomic level. Herein, we revealed some new protein species that are involved in hormone signaling, glycometabolism, oxidation-reduction, protein degradation and photosystem breakdown, and other biological processes that were not previously known to be associated with leaf senescence. This is the first large-scale proteomics study to examine induced leaf senescence in maize by preventing pollination.
PXD007223	29457907	Deletion of Adipose Triglyceride Lipase Links Triacylglycerol Accumulation to a More-Aggressive Phenotype in A549 Lung Carcinoma Cells. 	Proteome of ATGL knock-out A549 cells compared to A549 wild type cells	A549, ATGL	Adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) catalyzes the rate limiting step in triacylglycerol breakdown in adipocytes but is expressed in most tissues. The enzyme was shown to be lost in many human tumors, and its loss may play a role in early stages of cancer development. Here, we report that loss of ATGL supports a more-aggressive cancer phenotype in a model system in which ATGL was deleted in A549 lung cancer cells by CRISPR/Cas9. We observed that loss of ATGL led to triacylglycerol accumulation in lipid droplets and higher levels of cellular phospholipid and bioactive lipid species (lyso- and ether-phospholipids). Label-free quantitative proteomics revealed elevated expression of the pro-oncogene SRC kinase in ATGL depleted cells, which was also found on mRNA level and confirmed on protein level by Western blot. Consistently, higher expression of phosphorylated (active) SRC (Y416 phospho-SRC) was observed in ATGL-KO cells. Cells depleted of ATGL migrated faster, which was dependent on SRC kinase activity. We propose that loss of ATGL may thus increase cancer aggressiveness by activation of pro-oncogenic signaling via SRC kinase and increased levels of bioactive lipids.
PXD007866	29458525	Major histocompatibility complex I of swine respiratory cells presents conserved regions of influenza proteins. 	Major Histocompatibility Complex I of swine respiratory cells present conserved regions of influenza proteins	MHC, flu, influenza, peptides, pigs, swine	Influenza A virus in swine (IAV-S) is a prevalent respiratory pathogen in pigs that has deleterious consequences to animal and human health. Pigs represent an important reservoir for influenza and potential mixing vessel for novel gene reassortments. Despite the central role of pigs in recent influenza outbreaks, much remains unknown about the impact of swine immunity on IAV-S transmission, pathogenesis, and evolution. An incomplete understanding of interactions between the porcine immune system and IAV-S has hindered development of new diagnostic tools and vaccines. In order to address this gap in knowledge, we identified swine leukocyte antigen (SLA) restricted IAV-S peptides presented by porcine airway epithelial cells using an immunoproteomics approach. The majority of MHC-associated peptides belonged to matrix 1, nucleoprotein and nonstructural 1 proteins. Future investigation of the potential cross-reactive nature of these peptides is needed to confirm antigen recognition by cytotoxic T lymphocytes and their utility as vaccine candidates.
PXD005865	29460479	Label-Free Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Reveals Regulation of Vasodilator-Stimulated Phosphoprotein upon Stathmin-1 Silencing in a Pair of Isogenic Colorectal Cancer Cell Lines. 	Phosphoproteomics of STMN1 knockdown cells	phosphoproteomics, stathmin-1	In this communication, we present the phosphoproteome changes in an isogenic pair of colorectal cancer cell lines, viz., the poorly metastatic HCT-116 and the highly metastatic derivative E1, upon stathmin-1 (STMN1) knockdown. The aim was to better understand how the alterations of the phosphoproteins in these cells are involved in cancer metastasis. After the phosphopeptides were enriched using the TiO2 HAMMOC approach, comparative proteomics analysis was carried out using sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra-MS. Following bioinformatics analysis using MarkerView and OneOmics platforms, we identified a list of regulated phosphoproteins that may play a potential role in signaling, maintenance of cytoskeletal structure, and focal adhesion. Among these phosphoproteins, was the actin cytoskeleton regulator protein, vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP), where its change in phosphorylation status was found to be concomitant with STMN1-associated roles in metastasis. We further showed that silencing of stathmin-1 altered the expression, subcellular localization and phosphorylation status of VASP, which suggested that it might be associated with remodeling of the cell cytoskeleton in colorectal cancer metastasis.
PXD007178	29462312	MYO9A deficiency in motor neurons is associated with reduced neuromuscular agrin secretion. 	Unravelling MYO9A pathophysiology in CMS allows the identification of a therapeutic intervention concept	Myo9A, NSC34	Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are a group of rare, inherited disorders characterized by compromised function of the neuromuscular junction, manifesting with fatigable muscle weakness. Mutations in MYO9A were previously identified as causative for CMS but the precise pathomechanism remained to be characterized. On the basis of the role of MYO9A as an actin-based molecular motor and as a negative regulator of RhoA, we hypothesized that loss of MYO9A may affect the neuronal cytoskeleton, leading to impaired intracellular transport. To investigate this, we used MYO9A-depleted NSC-34 cells (mouse motor neuron-derived cells), revealing altered expression of a number of cytoskeletal proteins important for neuron structure and intracellular transport. On the basis of these findings, the effect on protein transport was determined using a vesicular recycling assay which revealed impaired recycling of a neuronal growth factor receptor. In addition, an unbiased approach utilizing proteomic profiling of the secretome revealed a key role for defective intracellular transport affecting proper protein secretion in the pathophysiology of MYO9A-related CMS. This also led to the identification of agrin as being affected by the defective transport. Zebrafish with reduced MYO9A orthologue expression were treated with an artificial agrin compound, ameliorating defects in neurite extension and improving motility. In summary, loss of MYO9A affects the neuronal cytoskeleton and leads to impaired transport of proteins, including agrin, which may provide a new and unexpected treatment option.
PXD008522	29462756	BAG3 Overexpression and Cytoprotective Autophagy Mediate Apoptosis Resistance in Chemoresistant Breast Cancer Cells. 	Proteomic analysis of triple negative breast cancer cell lines	chemotherapy resistance, triple negative breast cancer	Target-specific treatment modalities are currently not available for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), and acquired chemotherapy resistance is a primary obstacle for the treatment of these tumors. Here we employed derivatives of BT-549 and MDA-MB-468 TNBC cell lines that were adapted to grow in the presence of either 5-Fluorouracil, Doxorubicin or Docetaxel in an aim to identify molecular pathways involved in the adaptation to drug-induced cell killing. All six drug-adapted BT-549 and MDA-MB-468 cell lines displayed cross resistance to chemotherapy and decreased apoptosis sensitivity. Expression of the anti-apoptotic co-chaperone BAG3 was notably enhanced in two thirds (4/6) of the six resistant lines simultaneously with higher expression of HSP70 in comparison to parental controls. Doxorubicin-resistant BT-549 (BT-549(r)DOX(20)) and 5-Fluorouracil-resistant MDA-MB-468 (MDA-MB-468(r)5-FU(2000)) cells were chosen for further analysis with the autophagy inhibitor Bafilomycin A1 and lentiviral depletion of ATG5, indicating that enhanced cytoprotective autophagy partially contributes to increased drug resistance and cell survival. Stable lentiviral BAG3 depletion was associated with a robust down-regulation of Mcl-1, Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL, restoration of drug-induced apoptosis and reduced cell adhesion in these cells, and these death-sensitizing effects could be mimicked with the BAG3/Hsp70 interaction inhibitor YM-1 and by KRIBB11, a selective transcriptional inhibitor of HSF-1. Furthermore, BAG3 depletion was able to revert the EMT-like transcriptional changes observed in BT-549(r)DOX(20) and MDA-MB-468(r)5-FU(2000) cells. In summary, genetic and pharmacological interference with BAG3 is capable to resensitize TNBC cells to treatment, underscoring its relevance for cell death resistance and as a target to overcome therapy resistance of breast cancer.
PXD008132	29463595	Proteotranscriptomic Measurements of E6-Associated Protein (E6AP) Targets in DU145 Prostate Cancer Cells. 	Proteotranscriptomic profiling of potential E6AP targets	E6AP, SILAC, clusterin, prostate cancer, transcriptomics	Prostate cancer is a common cause of cancer-related death in men. E6AP (E6-Associated Protein), an E3 ubiquitin ligase and a transcription cofactor, is elevated in a subset of prostate cancer patients. Genetic manipulations of E6AP in prostate cancer cells expose a role of E6AP in promoting growth and survival of prostate cancer cells in vitro and in vivo However, the effect of E6AP on prostate cancer cells is broad and it cannot be explained fully by previously identified tumor suppressor targets of E6AP, promyelocytic leukemia protein and p27. To explore additional players that are regulated downstream of E6AP, we combined a transcriptomic and proteomic approach. We identified and quantified 16,130 transcripts and 7,209 proteins in castration resistant prostate cancer cell line, DU145. A total of 2,763 transcripts and 308 proteins were significantly altered on knockdown of E6AP. Pathway analyses supported the known phenotypic effects of E6AP knockdown in prostate cancer cells and in parallel exposed novel potential links of E6AP with cancer metabolism, DNA damage repair and immune response. Changes in expression of the top candidates were confirmed using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Of these, clusterin, a stress-induced chaperone protein, commonly deregulated in prostate cancer, was pursued further. Knockdown of E6AP resulted in increased clusterin transcript and protein levels in vitro and in vivo Concomitant knockdown of E6AP and clusterin supported the contribution of clusterin to the phenotype induced by E6AP. Overall, results from this study provide insight into the potential biological pathways controlled by E6AP in prostate cancer cells and identifies clusterin as a novel target of E6AP.
PXD008924	29463605	Phenazines Regulate Nap-Dependent Denitrification in Pseudomonas aeruginosa Biofilms. 	Time series and steady state proteomics of Pseudomonas aeruginosa phenazine mutants	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, biofilm, denitrification, phenazines	Microbes in biofilms face the challenge of substrate limitation. In particular, oxygen often becomes limited for cells in Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms growing in the laboratory or during host colonization. Previously we found that phenazines, antibiotics produced by P. aeruginosa, balance the intracellular redox state of cells in biofilms. Here, we show that genes involved in denitrification are induced in phenazine-null (Deltaphz) mutant biofilms grown under an aerobic atmosphere, even in the absence of nitrate. This finding suggests that resident cells employ a bet-hedging strategy to anticipate the potential availability of nitrate and counterbalance their highly reduced redox state. Consistent with our previous characterization of aerobically grown colonies supplemented with nitrate, we found that the pathway that is induced in Deltaphz mutant colonies combines the nitrate reductase activity of the periplasmic enzyme Nap with the downstream reduction of nitrite to nitrogen gas catalyzed by the enzymes Nir, Nor, and Nos. This regulatory relationship differs from the denitrification pathway that functions under anaerobic growth, with nitrate as the terminal electron acceptor, which depends on the membrane-associated nitrate reductase Nar. We identified the sequences in the promoter regions of the nap and nir operons that are required for the effects of phenazines on expression. We also show that specific phenazines have differential effects on nap gene expression. Finally, we provide evidence that individual steps of the denitrification pathway are catalyzed at different depths within aerobically grown biofilms, suggesting metabolic cross-feeding between community subpopulations.IMPORTANCE An understanding of the unique physiology of cells in biofilms is critical to our ability to treat fungal and bacterial infections. Colony biofilms of the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa grown under an aerobic atmosphere but without nitrate express a denitrification pathway that differs from that used for anaerobic growth. We report that the components of this pathway are induced by electron acceptor limitation and that they are differentially expressed over the biofilm depth. These observations suggest that (i) P. aeruginosa exhibits "bet hedging," in that it expends energy and resources to prepare for nitrate availability when other electron acceptors are absent, and (ii) cells in distinct biofilm microniches may be able to exchange substrates to catalyze full denitrification.
PXD006820	29466620	Secretome Analysis of Hypoxia-Induced 3T3-L1 Adipocytes Uncovers Novel Proteins Potentially Involved in Obesity. 	Secretome analysis of hypoxia-induced 3T3-L1 adipocytes uncovers novel proteins potentially involved in obesity	Adipocytes, Hypoxia, Obesity, Secretome	In the obese state, as adipose tissue expands, adipocytes become hypoxic and dysfunctional, leading to changes in the pattern of adipocyte-secreted proteins. To better understand the role of hypoxia in the mechanisms linked to obesity, we comparatively analyzed the secretome of murine differentiated 3T3-L1 adipocytes exposed to normoxia or hypoxia for 24 h. Proteins secreted into the culture media were precipitated by trichloroacetic acid and then digested with trypsin. The peptides were labeled with dimethyl labeling and analyzed by reversed phase nanoscale liquid chromatography coupled to a quadrupole Orbitrap mass spectrometer. From a total of 1508 identified proteins, 109 were differentially regulated, of which 108 were genuinely secreted. Factors significantly downregulated in hypoxic conditions included adiponectin, a known adipokine implicated in metabolic processes, as well as thrombospondin-1 and -2, and matrix metalloproteinase-11, all multifunctional proteins involved in extracellular matrix (ECM) homeostasis. Findings were validated by Western blot analysis. Expression studies of the relative genes were performed in parallel experiments in vitro, in differentiated 3T3-L1 adipocytes, and in vivo, in fat tissues from obese versus lean mice. Our observations are compatible with the concept that hypoxia may be an early trigger for both adipose cell dysfunction and ECM remodeling.
PXD008686	29467281	The MYO6 interactome reveals adaptor complexes coordinating early endosome and cytoskeletal dynamics. 	The MYO6 interactome using BioID	BioID, MYO6	The intracellular functions of myosin motors requires a number of adaptor molecules, which control cargo attachment, but also fine-tune motor activity in time and space. These motor-adaptor-cargo interactions are often weak, transient or highly regulated. To overcome these problems, we use a proximity labelling-based proteomics strategy to map the interactome of the unique minus end-directed actin motor MYO6. Detailed biochemical and functional analysis identified several distinct MYO6-adaptor modules including two complexes containing RhoGEFs: the LIFT (LARG-Induced F-actin for Tethering) complex that controls endosome positioning and motility through RHO-driven actin polymerisation; and the DISP (DOCK7-Induced Septin disPlacement) complex, a novel regulator of the septin cytoskeleton. These complexes emphasise the role of MYO6 in coordinating endosome dynamics and cytoskeletal architecture. This study provides the first in vivo interactome of a myosin motor protein and highlights the power of this approach in uncovering dynamic and functionally diverse myosin motor complexes.
PXD003936	29467282	Proteomic profiling of VCP substrates links VCP to K6-linked ubiquitylation and c-Myc function. 	Proteomic profiling of VCP substrates links VCP to K6-linked ubiquitylation and c-Myc function	Protein homeostasis, VCP, quantitative mass spectrometry, ubiquitin remnant profiling, ubiquitin-proteasome system	Valosin-containing protein (VCP) is an evolutionarily conserved ubiquitin-dependent ATPase that mediates the degradation of proteins through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Despite the central role of VCP in the regulation of protein homeostasis, identity and nature of its cellular substrates remain poorly defined. Here, we combined chemical inhibition of VCP and quantitative ubiquitin remnant profiling to assess the effect of VCP inhibition on the ubiquitin-modified proteome and to probe the substrate spectrum of VCP in human cells. We demonstrate that inhibition of VCP perturbs cellular ubiquitylation and increases ubiquitylation of a different subset of proteins compared to proteasome inhibition. VCP inhibition globally upregulates K6-linked ubiquitylation that is dependent on the HECT-type ubiquitin E3 ligase HUWE1. We report ~450 putative VCP substrates, many of which function in nuclear processes, including gene expression, DNA repair and cell cycle. Moreover, we identify that VCP regulates the level and activity of the transcription factor c-Myc.
PXD008581	29467285	Angiogenic patterning by STEEL, an endothelial-enriched long noncoding RNA. 	Angiogenic patterning by STEEL, an endothelial-enriched long noncoding RNAAngiogenic patterning by STEEL, an endothelial-enriched long noncoding RNA	Endothelium, Gene Regulations, Long noncoding RNA	Endothelial cell (EC)-enriched protein coding genes, such as endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), define quintessential EC-specific physiologic functions. It is not clear whether long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) also define cardiovascular cell type-specific phenotypes, especially in the vascular endothelium. Here, we report the existence of a set of EC-enriched lncRNAs and define a role for spliced-transcript endothelial-enriched lncRNA (STEEL) in angiogenic potential, macrovascular/microvascular identity, and shear stress responsiveness. STEEL is expressed from the terminus of the HOXD locus and is transcribed antisense to HOXD transcription factors. STEEL RNA increases the number and integrity of de novo perfused microvessels in an in vivo model and augments angiogenesis in vitro. The STEEL RNA is polyadenylated, nuclear enriched, and has microvascular predominance. Functionally, STEEL regulates a number of genes in diverse ECs. Of interest, STEEL up-regulates both eNOS and the transcription factor Kruppel-like factor 2 (KLF2), and is subject to feedback inhibition by both eNOS and shear-augmented KLF2. Mechanistically, STEEL up-regulation of eNOS and KLF2 is transcriptionally mediated, in part, via interaction of chromatin-associated STEEL with the poly-ADP ribosylase, PARP1. For instance, STEEL recruits PARP1 to the KLF2 promoter. This work identifies a role for EC-enriched lncRNAs in the phenotypic adaptation of ECs to both body position and hemodynamic forces and establishes a newer role for lncRNAs in the transcriptional regulation of EC identity.
PXD008123	29467617	Quantitative Proteomics of Synaptosomal Fractions in a Rat Overexpressing Human DISC1 Gene Indicates Profound Synaptic Dysregulation in the Dorsal Striatum. 	Proteomics of rat overexpressing human DISC1 in the dorsal striatum	DISC1, synapse, synaptosome	Disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is a key protein involved in behavioral processes and various mental disorders, including schizophrenia and major depression. A transgenic rat overexpressing non-mutant human DISC1, modeling aberrant proteostasis of the DISC1 protein, displays behavioral, biochemical and anatomical deficits consistent with aspects of mental disorders, including changes in the dorsal striatum, an anatomical region critical in the development of behavioral disorders. Herein, dorsal striatum of 10 transgenic DISC1 (tgDISC1) and 10 wild type (WT) littermate control rats was used for synaptosomal preparations and for performing liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS)-based quantitative proteomics, using isobaric labeling (TMT10plex). Functional enrichment analysis was generated from proteins with level changes. The increase in DISC1 expression leads to changes in proteins and synaptic-associated processes including membrane trafficking, ion transport, synaptic organization and neurodevelopment. Canonical pathway analysis assigned proteins with level changes to actin cytoskeleton, Galphaq, Rho family GTPase and Rho GDI, axonal guidance, ephrin receptor and dopamine-DARPP32 feedback in cAMP signaling. DISC1-regulated proteins proposed in the current study are also highly associated with neurodevelopmental and mental disorders. Bioinformatics analyses from the current study predicted that the following biological processes may be activated by overexpression of DISC1, i.e., regulation of cell quantities, neuronal and axonal extension and long term potentiation. Our findings demonstrate that the effects of overexpression of non-mutant DISC1 or its misassembly has profound consequences on protein networks essential for behavioral control. These results are also relevant for the interpretation of previous as well as for the design of future studies on DISC1.
PXD008657	29472725	An ancient family of lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases with roles in arthropod development and biomass digestion. 	Proteomic analysis of digestive fluids of Thermobia domestica	Enzymes, Lignocellulose, Polysaccharides, Silverfish, Thermobia domestica	Thermobia domestica belongs to an ancient group of insects and has a remarkable ability to digest crystalline cellulose without microbial assistance. By investigating the digestive proteome of Thermobia, we have identified over 20 members of an uncharacterized family of lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases (LPMOs). We show that this LPMO family spans across several clades of the Tree of Life, is of ancient origin, and was recruited by early arthropods with possible roles in remodeling endogenous chitin scaffolds during development and metamorphosis. Based on our in-depth characterization of Thermobia's LPMOs, we propose that diversification of these enzymes toward cellulose digestion might have endowed ancestral insects with an effective biochemical apparatus for biomass degradation, allowing the early colonization of land during the Paleozoic Era. The vital role of LPMOs in modern agricultural pests and disease vectors offers new opportunities to help tackle global challenges in food security and the control of infectious diseases.
PXD004697	29474905	A Non-catalytic Function of SETD1A Regulates Cyclin K and the DNA Damage Response. 	Identification SETD1A-binding proteins by Co-IP MS	SETD1A, gelLC MS, immunoprecipitation	MLL/SET methyltransferases catalyze methylation of histone 3 lysine 4 and play critical roles in development and cancer. We assessed MLL/SET proteins and found that SETD1A is required for survival of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells. Mutagenesis studies and CRISPR-Cas9 domain screening show the enzymatic SET domain is not necessary for AML cell survival but that a newly identified region termed the "FLOS" (functional location on SETD1A) domain is indispensable. FLOS disruption suppresses DNA damage response genes and induces p53-dependent apoptosis. The FLOS domain acts as a cyclin-K-binding site that is required for chromosomal recruitment of cyclin K and for DNA-repair-associated gene expression in S phase. These data identify a connection between the chromatin regulator SETD1A and the DNA damage response that is independent of histone methylation and suggests that targeting SETD1A and cyclin K complexes may represent a therapeutic opportunity for AML and, potentially, for other cancers.
PXD006397	29474907	Cell-Intrinsic Control of Interneuron Migration Drives Cortical Morphogenesis. 	Cell-intrinsic regulation of interneuron migration controls cortical neurogenesis	CCP1, deglutamylation, interneuron, migration	Interneurons navigate along multiple tangential paths to settle into appropriate cortical layers. They undergo a saltatory migration paced by intermittent nuclear jumps whose regulation relies on interplay between extracellular cues and genetic-encoded information. It remains unclear how cycles of pause and movement are coordinated at the molecular level. Post-translational modification of proteins contributes to cell migration regulation. The present study uncovers that carboxypeptidase 1, which promotes post-translational protein deglutamylation, controls the pausing of migrating cortical interneurons. Moreover, we demonstrate that pausing during migration attenuates movement simultaneity at the population level, thereby controlling the flow of interneurons invading the cortex. Interfering with the regulation of pausing not only affects the size of the cortical interneuron cohort but also impairs the generation of age-matched projection neurons of the upper layers.
PXD008731	29476094	A family of unconventional deubiquitinases with modular chain specificity determinants. 	A family of unconventional deubiquitinases with modular chain specificity determinants	HEK-293T cells, ZUFSP	Deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) regulate ubiquitin signaling by trimming ubiquitin chains or removing ubiquitin from modified substrates. Similar activities exist for ubiquitin-related modifiers, although the enzymes involved are usually not related. Here, we report human ZUFSP (also known as ZUP1 and C6orf113) and fission yeast Mug105 as founding members of a DUB family different from the six known DUB classes. The crystal structure of human ZUFSP in covalent complex with propargylated ubiquitin shows that the DUB family shares a fold with UFM1- and Atg8-specific proteases, but uses a different active site more similar to canonical DUB enzymes. ZUFSP family members differ widely in linkage specificity through differential use of modular ubiquitin-binding domains (UBDs). While the minimalistic Mug105 prefers K48 chains, ZUFSP uses multiple UBDs for its K63-specific endo-DUB activity. K63 specificity, localization, and protein interaction network suggest a role for ZUFSP in DNA damage response.
PXD005303	29476606	Integrated Multi-Omic Analyses Support Distinguishing Secretory Carcinoma of the Breast from Basal-Like Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. 	In-depth proteome analysis of FFPE mammary secretory carcinoma specimens	FFPE, ProteomeXchange project tag: Breast Cancer, TMT, quantitative proteomics, secretory carcinoma	PURPOSE: Secretory carcinoma (SC) of the breast is defined as an indolent tumor but is still categorized into a basal-like triple-negative breast cancer (BL-TNBC) subgroup that generally shows aggressive behavior according to the current classification. Despite the unique clinical behavior of SC, molecular characteristics that reflect biological behaviors of SC remain largely unknown. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A combinatorial approach of whole-exome sequencing and mass spectrometry-based in-depth quantitative proteomics to determine the entire molecular landscape of SC using three SC formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues is employed. RESULTS: Exome sequencing and proteomic analysis of SC identified 419 unique somatic mutations and 721 differentially expressed proteins as compared with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), respectively. Several pathways related to cancer metabolism were significantly upregulated in the SC group. Comparative analyses with multiple datasets revealed that SC shares genomic mutations and biological pathways more closely related to hormone receptor-positive breast cancer than BL-TNBC. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These multi-omic analyses provide evidence that SC harbors substantially different molecular genomic and proteomic landscapes compared with BL-TNBC. These results provide an entire spectrum of in-depth molecular landscapes to support the hypothesis that SC is distinct from BL-TNBC.
PXD007637	29480433	Role of protein kinase N2 (PKN2) in cigarette smoke-mediated oncogenic transformation of oral cells. 	Molecular alterations elicited by chronic exposure to cigarette smoke in oral keratinocytes	Orbitrap Fusion, carcinogenesis, chronic exposure, high-throughput, smoking	Smoking is the leading cause of preventable death worldwide. Though cigarette smoke is an established cause of head and neck cancer (including oral cancer), molecular alterations associated with chronic cigarette smoke exposure are poorly studied. To understand the signaling alterations induced by chronic exposure to cigarette smoke, we developed a cell line model by exposing normal oral keratinocytes to cigarette smoke for a period of 12 months. Chronic exposure to cigarette smoke resulted in increased cellular proliferation and invasive ability of oral keratinocytes. Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses showed dysregulation of several proteins involved in cellular movement and cytoskeletal reorganization in smoke exposed cells. We observed overexpression and hyperphosphorylation of protein kinase N2 (PKN2) in smoke exposed cells as well as in a panel of head and neck cancer cell lines established from smokers. Silencing of PKN2 resulted in decreased colony formation, invasion and migration in both smoke exposed cells and head and neck cancer cell lines. Our results indicate that PKN2 plays an important role in oncogenic transformation of oral keratinocytes in response to cigarette smoke. The current study provides evidence that PKN2 can act as a potential therapeutic target in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, especially in patients with a history of smoking.
PXD004509	29481573	Pyrenoid functions revealed by proteomics in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. 	Characterization of the pyrenoid proteome in the green microalga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Pyrenoid, carbon fixation	Organelles are intracellular compartments which are themselves compartmentalized. Biogenic and metabolic processes are localized to specialized domains or microcompartments to enhance their efficiency and suppress deleterious side reactions. An example of intra-organellar compartmentalization is the pyrenoid in the chloroplasts of algae and hornworts. This microcompartment enhances the photosynthetic CO2-fixing activity of the Calvin-Benson cycle enzyme Rubisco, suppresses an energetically wasteful oxygenase activity of Rubisco, and mitigates limiting CO2 availability in aquatic environments. Hence, the pyrenoid is functionally analogous to the carboxysomes in cyanobacteria. However, a comprehensive analysis of pyrenoid functions based on its protein composition is lacking. Here we report a proteomic characterization of the pyrenoid in the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Pyrenoid-enriched fractions were analyzed by quantitative mass spectrometry. Contaminant proteins were identified by parallel analyses of pyrenoid-deficient mutants. This pyrenoid proteome contains 190 proteins, many of which function in processes that are known or proposed to occur in pyrenoids: e.g. the carbon concentrating mechanism, starch metabolism or RNA metabolism and translation. Using radioisotope pulse labeling experiments, we show that pyrenoid-associated ribosomes could be engaged in the localized synthesis of the large subunit of Rubisco. New pyrenoid functions are supported by proteins in tetrapyrrole and chlorophyll synthesis, carotenoid metabolism or amino acid metabolism. Hence, our results support the long-standing hypothesis that the pyrenoid is a hub for metabolism. The 81 proteins of unknown function reveal candidates for new participants in these processes. Our results provide biochemical evidence of pyrenoid functions and a resource for future research on pyrenoids and their use to enhance agricultural plant productivity. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD004509.
PXD006751	29483684	An apoplastic peptide activates salicylic acid signalling in maize. 	An apoplastic peptide activates salicylic acid signaling in Zea mays	Apoplastic Fluid, Zea mays, salicylic acid	Localized control of cell death is crucial for the resistance of plants to pathogens. Papain-like cysteine proteases (PLCPs) regulate plant defence to drive cell death and protection against biotrophic pathogens. In maize (Zea mays), PLCPs are crucial in the orchestration of salicylic acid (SA)-dependent defence signalling. Despite this central role in immunity, it remains unknown how PLCPs are activated, and which downstream signals they induce to trigger plant immunity. Here, we discover an immune signalling peptide, Z. mays immune signalling peptide 1 (Zip1), which is produced after salicylic acid (SA) treatment. In vitro studies demonstrate that PLCPs are required to release bioactive Zip1 from its propeptide precursor. Conversely, Zip1 treatment strongly elicits SA accumulation in leaves. Moreover, transcriptome analyses revealed that Zip1 and SA induce highly overlapping transcriptional changes. Consequently, Zip1 promotes the infection of the necrotrophic fungus Botrytis cinerea, while it reduces virulence of the biotrophic fungus Ustilago maydis. Thus, Zip1 represents the previously missing signal that is released by PLCPs to activate SA defence signalling.
PXD008341	29483934	Two predominant MUPs, OBP3 and MUP13, are male pheromones in rats. 	rat, urine, LC-MS/MS -  Two predominant MUPs, OBP3 and MUP13, are male pheromones in rats	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), NUPs, ProteomeXchange project tag: Kidney Urine (B/D-HPP), rat, urine	BACKGROUND: In rats, urine-borne male pheromones comprise organic volatile compounds and major urinary proteins (MUPs). A number of volatile pheromones have been reported, but no MUP pheromones have been identified in rat urine. RESULTS: We used sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), isoelectric focusing electrophoresis (IEF), nano-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (nLC-MS/MS) after in gel digestion of the proteins and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and showed that the levels of two MUPs, odorant-binding protein 3 (OBP3) (i.e. PGCL4) and MUP13 (i.e. PGCL1), in urine and their mRNAs in liver were higher in males than in females and were suppressed by orchidectomy and restored by testosterone treatment (T treatment). We then generated recombinant MUPs (rMUPs) and found that the sexual attractiveness of urine from castrated males to females significantly increased after the addition of either recombinant OBP3 (rOBP3) or recombinant MUP13 (rMUP13). Using c-Fos immunohistochemistry, we further examined neuronal activation in the brains of female rats after they sniffed rOBP3 or rMUP13. Both rOBP3 and rMUP13 activated the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB), medial preoptic area (MPA), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST), medial amygdala (MeA), posteromedial cortical amygdala (PMCo) and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH), which participate in the neural circuits responsible for pheromone-induced sexual behaviours. In particular, more c-Fos-immunopositive (c-Fos-ir) cells were observed in the posterior AOB than in the anterior AOB. CONCLUSIONS: The expression of OBP3 and MUP13 was male-biased and androgen-dependent. They attracted females and activated brain areas related to sexual behaviours in female rats, suggesting that both OBP3 and MUP13 are male pheromones in rats. Particularly, an OBP excreted into urine was exemplified to be a chemical signal.
PXD008242	29484825	"One-Pot" Sample Processing Method for Proteome-Wide Analysis of Microbial Cells and Spores. 	One-pot' sample processing method for proteome-wide analysis of microbial cells and spores	One-pot method, Spores, ZIC-HILIC	PURPOSE: Bacterial endospores, the transmissible forms of pathogenic bacilli and clostridia, are heterogeneous multilayered structures composed of proteins. These proteins protect the spores against a variety of stresses, thus helping spore survival, and assist in germination, by interacting with the environment to form vegetative cells. Owing to the complexity, insolubility, and dynamic nature of spore proteins, it has been difficult to obtain their comprehensive protein profiles. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The intact spores of Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus cereus, and Peptoclostridium difficile and their vegetative counterparts were disrupted by bead beating in 6 m urea under reductive conditions. The heterogeneous mixture was then double digested with LysC and trypsin. Next, the peptide mixture was pre-fractionated with zwitterionic hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (ZIC-HILIC) followed by reverse-phase LC-FT-MS analysis of the fractions. RESULTS: "One-pot" method is a simple, robust method that yields identification of >1000 proteins with high confidence, across all spore layers from B. subtilis, B. cereus, and P. difficile. CONCLUSIONS AND MEDICAL RELEVANCE: This method can be employed for proteome-wide analysis of non-spore-forming as well as spore-forming pathogens. Analysis of spore protein profile will help to understand the sporulation and germination processes and to distinguish immunogenic protein markers.
PXD008160	29486204	Multi-laboratory analysis of the variability of shipped samples for proteomics following non-cooled international transport. 	Multi-laboratory analysis of sample stability for proteomics following non-cooled international transport	LC-MS, Multi-laboratory, peptides, stability	Transporting biological samples such as cells or tissues is complicated by the need to maintain integrity and minimise modification and degradation, but this is economically costly as the samples must be shipped in a frozen state. This multi-laboratory study investigated sample variability introduced by non-cooled transport of dried peptide samples for proteomic analysis using mass spectrometry. Human cancer cell tryptic lysates were proteolysed and dried in Australia and shipped by air to Europe and China. Samples were measured using label free mass spectrometry on similar LC-MS systems at all three sites. Preparation and analysis of the specimens in this manner resulted in only minor differences in protein identification and showed high quantitative reproducibility amongst the participating laboratories. We examined any impact on peptide chemical modification and report no discrepancies compared to the starting, non-shipped sample. We conclude that transport of non-cooled, dried peptides has negligible effect on sample integrity for downstream LC-MS analysis and therefore represents a cost-effective option to facilitate international proteomic collaborations. Data is available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008160.
PXD008942	29487130	Mass spectrometric evidence for neuropeptide-amidating enzymes in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	Mass spectrometric evidence for neuropeptide-amidating enzymes in C. elegans	Caenorhabditis elegans, LC-orbitrap MS, PAL, PAM, PHM, Peptidomics, amidation, copper monooxygenase, neuropeptide	Neuropeptides constitute a vast and functionally diverse family of neurochemical signaling molecules and are widely involved in the regulation of various physiological processes. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is well-suited for the study of neuropeptide biochemistry and function, as neuropeptide biosynthesis enzymes are not essential for C. elegans viability. This permits the study of neuropeptide biosynthesis in mutants lacking certain neuropeptide-processing enzymes. Mass spectrometry has been used to study the effects of proprotein convertase and carboxypeptidase mutations on proteolytic processing of neuropeptide precursors and on the peptidome in C. elegans However, the enzymes required for the last step in the production of many bioactive peptides, the carboxyl-terminal amidation reaction, have not been characterized in this manner. Here, we describe three genes that encode homologs of neuropeptide amidation enzymes in C. elegans and used tandem LC-MS to compare neuropeptides in WT animals with those in newly generated mutants for these putative amidation enzymes. We report that mutants lacking both a functional peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase and a peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase had a severely altered neuropeptide profile and also a decreased number of offspring. Interestingly, single mutants of the amidation enzymes still expressed some fully processed amidated neuropeptides, indicating the existence of a redundant amidation mechanism in C. elegans All MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD008942. In summary, the key steps in neuropeptide processing in C. elegans seem to be executed by redundant enzymes, and loss of these enzymes severely affects brood size, supporting the need of amidated peptides for C. elegans reproduction.
PXD007978	29487181	Puf3 participates in ribosomal biogenesis in malaria parasites. 	Isolation of PfPuf3 protein complex and mass spectrometry (MS) analysis	Plasmodium falciparum	In this study, we characterized the Puf family gene member Puf3 in the malaria parasites Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium yoelii Secondary structure prediction suggested that the RNA-binding domains of the Puf3 proteins consisted of 11 pumilio repeats that were similar to those in the human Puf-A (also known as PUM3) and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Puf6 proteins, which are involved in ribosome biogenesis. Neither P. falciparum (Pf)Puf3 nor P. yoelii (Py)Puf3 could be genetically disrupted, suggesting they may be essential for the intraerythrocytic developmental cycle. Cellular fractionation of PfPuf3 in the asexual stages revealed preferential partitioning to the nuclear fraction, consistent with nuclear localization of PfPuf3::GFP and PyPuf3::GFP as detected by immunofluorescence. Furthermore, PfPuf3 colocalized with the nucleolar marker PfNop1, demonstrating that PfPuf3 is a nucleolar protein in the asexual stages. We found, however, that PyPuf3 changed its localization from being nucleolar to being present in cytosolic puncta in the mosquito and liver stages, which may reflect alternative functions in these stages. Affinity purification of molecules that associated with a PTP-tagged variant of PfPuf3 revealed 31 proteins associated with the 60S ribosome, and an enrichment of 28S rRNA and internal transcribed spacer 2 sequences. Taken together, these results suggest an essential function for PfPuf3 in ribosomal biogenesis.
PXD007583	29487281	Tailed giant Tupanvirus possesses the most complete translational apparatus of the known virosphere. 	Tupavirus global proteome -  Tailed giant Tupanvirus possesses the most complete translational apparatus of the known virosphere	Rhabdoviridae, Tupanvirus, Tupavirus, ion mobility, nano2DLC-MS/MS	Here we report the discovery of two Tupanvirus strains, the longest tailed Mimiviridae members isolated in amoebae. Their genomes are 1.44-1.51 Mb linear double-strand DNA coding for 1276-1425 predicted proteins. Tupanviruses share the same ancestors with mimivirus lineages and these giant viruses present the largest translational apparatus within the known virosphere, with up to 70 tRNA, 20 aaRS, 11 factors for all translation steps, and factors related to tRNA/mRNA maturation and ribosome protein modification. Moreover, two sequences with significant similarity to intronic regions of 18 S rRNA genes are encoded by the tupanviruses and highly expressed. In this translation-associated gene set, only the ribosome is lacking. At high multiplicity of infections, tupanvirus is also cytotoxic and causes a severe shutdown of ribosomal RNA and a progressive degradation of the nucleus in host and non-host cells. The analysis of tupanviruses constitutes a new step toward understanding the evolution of giant viruses.
PXD005285	29489750	The SMAD2/3 interactome reveals that TGFbeta controls m(6)A mRNA methylation in pluripotency. 	SMAD2/3 interactome in human pluripotent stem cells	SMAD2/3, human pluripotent stem cells	The TGFbeta pathway has essential roles in embryonic development, organ homeostasis, tissue repair and disease. These diverse effects are mediated through the intracellular effectors SMAD2 and SMAD3 (hereafter SMAD2/3), whose canonical function is to control the activity of target genes by interacting with transcriptional regulators. Therefore, a complete description of the factors that interact with SMAD2/3 in a given cell type would have broad implications for many areas of cell biology. Here we describe the interactome of SMAD2/3 in human pluripotent stem cells. This analysis reveals that SMAD2/3 is involved in multiple molecular processes in addition to its role in transcription. In particular, we identify a functional interaction with the METTL3-METTL14-WTAP complex, which mediates the conversion of adenosine to N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) on RNA. We show that SMAD2/3 promotes binding of the m(6)A methyltransferase complex to a subset of transcripts involved in early cell fate decisions. This mechanism destabilizes specific SMAD2/3 transcriptional targets, including the pluripotency factor gene NANOG, priming them for rapid downregulation upon differentiation to enable timely exit from pluripotency. Collectively, these findings reveal the mechanism by which extracellular signalling can induce rapid cellular responses through regulation of the epitranscriptome. These aspects of TGFbeta signalling could have far-reaching implications in many other cell types and in diseases such as cancer.
PXD008859	29490281	PHLDA1 Mediates Drug Resistance in Receptor Tyrosine Kinase-Driven Cancer. 	PHLDA1 mediates drug resistance in receptor tyrosine kinase driven cancer	Akt, Cancer, FGF, Targeted therapy, Tyrosine kinase inhibitor, drug resistance	Development of resistance causes failure of drugs targeting receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) networks and represents a critical challenge for precision medicine. Here, we show that PHLDA1 downregulation is critical to acquisition and maintenance of drug resistance in RTK-driven cancer. Using fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) inhibition in endometrial cancer cells, we identify an Akt-driven compensatory mechanism underpinned by downregulation of PHLDA1. We demonstrate broad clinical relevance of our findings, showing that PHLDA1 downregulation also occurs in response to RTK-targeted therapy in breast and renal cancer patients, as well as following trastuzumab treatment in HER2(+) breast cancer cells. Crucially, knockdown of PHLDA1 alone was sufficient to confer de novo resistance to RTK inhibitors and induction of PHLDA1 expression re-sensitized drug-resistant cancer cells to targeted therapies, identifying PHLDA1 as a biomarker for drug response and highlighting the potential of PHLDA1 reactivation as a means of circumventing drug resistance.
PXD008937	29490700	CD74 regulates complexity of tumor cell HLA class II peptidome in brain metastasis and is a positive prognostic marker for patient survival. 	Impact of CD74 knockdown on the HLA peptidome of the H1 melanoma cell line	CD74, HLA peptidome, melanoma	Despite multidisciplinary local and systemic therapeutic approaches, the prognosis for most patients with brain metastases is still dismal. The role of adaptive and innate anti-tumor response including the Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) machinery of antigen presentation is still unclear. We present data on the HLA class II-chaperone molecule CD74 in brain metastases and its impact on the HLA peptidome complexity.We analyzed CD74 and HLA class II expression on tumor cells in a subset of 236 human brain metastases, primary tumors and peripheral metastases of different entities in association with clinical data including overall survival. Additionally, we assessed whole DNA methylome profiles including CD74 promoter methylation and differential methylation in 21 brain metastases. We analyzed the effects of a siRNA mediated CD74 knockdown on HLA-expression and HLA peptidome composition in a brain metastatic melanoma cell line.We observed that CD74 expression on tumor cells is a strong positive prognostic marker in brain metastasis patients and positively associated with tumor-infiltrating T-lymphocytes (TILs). Whole DNA methylome analysis suggested that CD74 tumor cell expression might be regulated epigenetically via CD74 promoter methylation. CD74(high) and TIL(high) tumors displayed a differential DNA methylation pattern with highest enrichment scores for antigen processing and presentation. Furthermore, CD74 knockdown in vitro lead to a reduction of HLA class II peptidome complexity, while HLA class I peptidome remained unaffected.In summary, our results demonstrate that a functional HLA class II processing machinery in brain metastatic tumor cells, reflected by a high expression of CD74 and a complex tumor cell HLA peptidome, seems to be crucial for better patient prognosis.
PXD008701	29491361	Aggregating sequences that occur in many proteins constitute weak spots of bacterial proteostasis. 	Aggregating sequences that occur in many proteins constitute weak spots of bacterial proteostasis, part 2	E. coli, Protein aggregation, ProteomeXchange project tag: Protein Misfolding and Aggregation (B/D-HPP), aggregation prone regions, inclusion bodies	Aggregation is a sequence-specific process, nucleated by short aggregation-prone regions (APRs) that can be exploited to induce aggregation of proteins containing the same APR. Here, we find that most APRs are unique within a proteome, but that a small minority of APRs occur in many proteins. When aggregation is nucleated in bacteria by such frequently occurring APRs, it leads to massive and lethal inclusion body formation containing a large number of proteins. Buildup of bacterial resistance against these peptides is slow. In addition, the approach is effective against drug-resistant clinical isolates of Escherichia coli and Acinetobacter baumannii, reducing bacterial load in a murine bladder infection model. Our results indicate that redundant APRs are weak points of bacterial protein homeostasis and that targeting these may be an attractive antibacterial strategy.
PXD020913	29492958	Targeting liver sinusoidal endothelial cells with miR-20a-loaded nanoparticles reduces murine colon cancer metastasis to the liver. 	An Integrative Omics Approach Reveals Involvement of BRCA1 in Hepatic Metastatic Progression of Colorectal Cancer	BRCA1, Colorectal cancer, metastasis, tumor microenvironment	Phenotypic transformation of liver sinusoidal endothelial cells is one of the most important stages of liver metastasis progression. The miRNA effects on liver sinusoidal endothelial cells during liver metastasis have not yet been studied. Herein, whole genome analysis of miRNA expression in these cells during colorectal liver metastasis revealed repressed expression of microRNA-20a. Importantly, downregulation of miR-20a occurs in parallel with upregulation of its known protein targets. To restore normal miR-20a levels in liver sinusoidal endothelial cells, we developed chondroitin sulfate-sorbitan ester nanoparticles conjugated with miR-20a in a delivery system that specifically targets liver sinusoidal endothelial cells. The restoration of normal mir-20a levels in these cells induced downregulation of the expression of its protein targets, and this also resulted in a reduction of in vitro LSEC migration and a reduction of in vivo activation and tumor-infiltrating capacity and ability of the tumor decreased by ~80% in a murine liver metastasis model.
PXD007860	29493099	T-Cell Immunopeptidomes Reveal Cell Subtype Surface Markers Derived From Intracellular Proteins. 	Characterizing T-cell immunopeptidomes	Antigen presentation, MHC, Orbitrap, T cell	Immunopeptidomes promise novel surface markers as ideal immunotherapy targets, but their characterization by mass spectrometry (MS) remains challenging. Until recently, cell numbers exceeding 10(9) were needed to survey thousands of HLA ligands. Such limited analytical sensitivity has historically constrained the types of clinical specimens that can be evaluated to cell cultures or bulk tissues. Measuring immunopeptidomes from purified cell subpopulations would be preferable for many applications, particularly those evaluating rare, primary hematopoietic cell lineages. Here, we test the feasibility of immunopeptidome profiling from limited numbers of primary purified human regulatory T cells (TReg ), conventional T cells (Tconv ), and activated T cells. The combined T cell immunopeptide dataset reported here contains 13 804 unique HLA ligands derived from 5049 proteins. Of these, more than 700 HLA ligands were derived from 82 proteins that we exclusively identified from TReg -enriched cells. This study 1) demonstrates that primary, lineage-enriched T cell subpopulations recovered from single donors are compatible with immunopeptidome analysis; 2) presents new TReg -biased ligand candidates; and 3) supports immunopeptidome surveys' value for revealing T cell biology that may not be apparent from expression data alone. Taken together, these findings open up new avenues for targeting TReg and abrogating their suppressive functions to treat cancer.
PXD007758	29494634	Vitamin C alters the amount of specific endoplasmic reticulum associated proteins involved in lipid metabolism in the liver of mice synthesizing a nonfunctional Werner syndrome (Wrn) mutant protein. 	Vitamin C alters the amount of specific endoplasmic reticulum associated proteins involved in lipid metabolism in the liver of mice synthesizing a nonfunctional WRN mutant protein	LC-MSMS shotgun, Label Free quantification, Vitamin C, Werner syndrome, endoplasmic reticulum, liver proteome, mouse model	Werner syndrome (WS) is a premature aging disorder caused by mutations in a protein containing both a DNA exonuclease and DNA helicase domain. Mice lacking the helicase domain of the Wrn protein orthologue exhibit transcriptomic and metabolic alterations, some of which are reversed by vitamin C. Recent studies on these animals indicated that the mutant protein is associated with enriched endoplasmic reticulum (ER) fractions of tissues resulting in an ER stress response. In this study, we identified proteins that exhibit actual level differences in the ER enriched fraction between the liver of wild type and Wrn mutant mice using quantitative proteomic profiling with label-free Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Multiple Reaction Monitoring (MRM) and immunoblotting were performed to validate findings in a secondary independent cohort of wild type and Wrn mutant mice. DAVID 6.7 (NIH) was used for functional annotation analysis and indicated that the identified proteins exhibiting level changes between untreated wild type, Wrn mutant, and vitamin C treated Wrn mutant mice (ANOVA P-value < 0.05) were involved in fatty acid and steroid metabolism pathways (Bonferroni P-value = 0.0137). Finally, when we compared the transcriptomic and the proteomic data of our mouse cohorts only ~7% of the altered mRNA profiles encoding for ER gene products were consistent with their corresponding protein profiles measured by the label-free quantification methods. These results suggest that a great number of ER gene products are regulated at the post-transcriptional level in the liver of Wrn mutant mice exhibiting an ER stress response.
PXD007278	29496906	Comprehensive Redox Profiling of the Thiol Proteome of Clostridium difficile. 	Comprehensive redox profiling of the thiol proteome of Clostridium difficile	Clostridium difficile, thiol redox proteomics	The strictly anaerobic bacterium C. difficile has become one of the most problematic hospital acquired pathogens and a major burden for health care systems. Although antibiotics work effectively in most C. difficile infections (CDIs), their detrimental effect on the intestinal microbiome paves the way for recurrent episodes of CDI. To develop alternative, non-antibiotics-based treatment strategies, deeper knowledge on the physiology of C. difficile, stress adaptation mechanisms and regulation of virulence factors is mandatory. The focus of this work was to tackle the thiol proteome of C. difficile and its stress-induced alterations, because recent research has reported that the amino acid cysteine plays a central role in the metabolism of this pathogen. We have developed a novel cysteine labeling approach to determine the redox state of protein thiols on a global scale. Applicability of this technique was demonstrated by inducing disulfide stress using the chemical diamide. The method can be transferred to any kind of redox challenge and was applied in this work to assess the effect of bile acids on the thiol proteome of C. difficile We present redox-quantification for more than 1,500 thiol peptides and discuss the general difficulty of redox analyses of peptides possessing more than a single cysteine residue. The presented method will be especially useful not only when determining redox status, but also for providing information on protein quantity. Additionally, our comprehensive data set reveals protein cysteine sites particularly susceptible to oxidation and builds a groundwork for redox proteomics studies in C. difficile.
PXD006809	29496907	Phosphoproteomics Analysis Identifies Novel Candidate Substrates of the Nonreceptor Tyrosine Kinase, Src-related Kinase Lacking C-terminal Regulatory Tyrosine and N-terminal Myristoylation Sites (SRMS). 	Phosphoproteomics analysis identifies novel candidate substrates of the non-receptor tyrosine kinase, SRMS	BRK, FRK, PTK 70, PTK6, SRMS, Src, phosphoproteomics, substrates	SRMS (Src-related kinase lacking C-terminal regulatory tyrosine and N-terminal myristoylation sites), also known as PTK 70 (Protein tyrosine kinase 70), is a non-receptor tyrosine kinase that belongs to the BRK family of kinases (BFKs). To date less is known about the cellular role of SRMS primarily because of the unidentified substrates or signaling intermediates regulated by the kinase. In this study, we used phosphotyrosine antibody-based immunoaffinity purification in large-scale label-free quantitative phosphoproteomics to identify novel candidate substrates of SRMS. Our analyses led to the identification of 1258 tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides which mapped to 663 phosphoproteins, exclusively from SRMS-expressing cells. DOK1, a previously characterized SRMS substrate, was also identified in our analyses. Functional enrichment analyses revealed that the candidate SRMS substrates were enriched in various biological processes including protein ubiquitination, mitotic cell cycle, energy metabolism and RNA processing, as well as Wnt and TNF signaling. Analyses of the sequence surrounding the phospho-sites in these proteins revealed novel candidate SRMS consensus substrate motifs. We utilized customized high-throughput peptide arrays to validate a subset of the candidate SRMS substrates identified in our MS-based analyses. Finally, we independently validated Vimentin and Sam68, as bona fide SRMS substrates through in vitro and in vivo assays. Overall, our study identified a number of novel and biologically relevant SRMS candidate substrates, which suggests the involvement of the kinase in a vast array of unexplored cellular functions.
PXD006599	29496908	Quantitative Phosphoproteomic and Metabolomic Analyses Reveal GmMYB173 Optimizes Flavonoid Metabolism in Soybean under Salt Stress. 	Soybean, Root, LC-MSMS -  Quantitative Phosphoproteomic and Metabonomic Analyses Reveal GmMYB173 Optimizes Flavonoid Metabolism in Soybean under Salt Stress	Root, Soybean	Salinity causes osmotic stress to crops and limits their productivity. To understand the mechanism underlying soybean salt tolerance, proteomics approach was used to identify phosphoproteins altered by NaCl treatment. Results revealed that 412 of the 4698 quantitatively analyzed phosphopeptides were significantly up-regulated on salt treatment, including a phosphopeptide covering the serine 59 in the transcription factor GmMYB173. Our data showed that GmMYB173 is one of the three MYB proteins differentially phosphorylated on salt treatment, and a substrate of the casein kinase-II. MYB recognition sites exist in the promoter of flavonoid synthase gene GmCHS5 and one was found to mediate its recognition by GmMYB173, an event facilitated by phosphorylation. Because GmCHS5 catalyzes the synthesis of chalcone, flavonoids derived from chalcone were monitored using metabolomics approach. Results revealed that 24 flavonoids of 6745 metabolites were significantly up-regulated after salt treatment. We further compared the salt tolerance and flavonoid accumulation in soybean transgenic roots expressing the (35)S promoter driven cds and RNAi constructs of GmMYB173 and GmCHS5, as well as phospho-mimic (GmMYB173S59D ) and phospho-ablative (GmMYB173S59A ) mutants of GmMYB173 Overexpression of GmMYB173S59D and GmCHS5 resulted in the highest increase in salt tolerance and accumulation of cyaniding-3-arabinoside chloride, a dihydroxy B-ring flavonoid. The dihydroxy B-ring flavonoids are more effective as anti-oxidative agents when compared with monohydroxy B-ring flavonoids, such as formononetin. Hence the salt-triggered phosphorylation of GmMYB173, subsequent increase in its affinity to GmCHS5 promoter and the elevated transcription of GmCHS5 likely contribute to soybean salt tolerance by enhancing the accumulation of dihydroxy B-ring flavonoids.
PXD008019	29497067	The use of SWATH to analyse the dynamic changes of bacterial proteome of carbapanemase-producing Escherichia coli under antibiotic pressure. 	First dataset - bacterial proteome of carbapanemase-producing Escherichia coli and other Enterobacteriaceae under antibiotic pressure	Antibiotic resistance, IMP, KPC, NDM, SWATH analysis, carbapenemases	Antibiotic resistance associated with the clinically significant carbapenemases KPC, NDM and OXA-48 in Enterobacteriaceae is emerging as worldwide. In Australia, IMP-producing Enterobacteriaceae are the most prevalent carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (CPE). Genomic characteristics of such CPE are well described, but the corresponding proteome is poorly characterised. We have thus developed a method to analyse dynamic changes in the proteome of CPE under antibiotic pressure. Specifically, we have investigated the effect of meropenem at sub-lethal concentrations to develop a better understanding of how antibiotic pressure leads to resistance. Escherichia coli strains producing either NDM-, IMP- or KPC-type carbapenemases were included in this study, and their proteomes were analysed in growth conditions with or without meropenem. The most significant difference in the bacterial proteomes upon the addition of meropenem was triggered amongst NDM-producers and to a lower extent amongst KPC-producers. In particular, HU DNA-binding proteins, the GroEL/GroES chaperonin complex and GrpE proteins were overexpressed. These proteins may thus contribute to the better adaptability of NDM- and KPC-producers to meropenem. A significant meropenem-induced increase in the expression of the outer membrane protein A was only observed in IMP-producers, thus demonstrating that carbapenemase-mediated resistance relies on far more complex mechanisms than simple inactivation of the antibiotic.
PXD008589	29497428	Proteomic Analysis of Kiwifruit in Response to the Postharvest Pathogen, Botrytis cinerea. 	Proteomic analysis of kiwifruit Proteomic analysis of kiwifruit in response to the postharvest pathogen, Botrytis cinereain response to the postharvest pathogen, Botrytis cinerea	Defense response, Gray mold, Kiwifruit-B.cinerea interaction, Postharvest decay	Gray mold, caused by the fungus Botrytis cinerea, is the most significant postharvest disease of kiwifruit. In the present study, iTRAQ with LC-ESI-MS/MS was used to identify the kiwifruit proteins associated with the response to B. cinerea. A total of 2,487 proteins in kiwifruit were identified. Among them, 292 represented differentially accumulated proteins (DAPs), with 196 DAPs having increased, and 96 DAPs having decreased in accumulation in B. cinerea-inoculated vs. water-inoculated, control kiwifruits. DAPs were associated with penetration site reorganization, cell wall degradation, MAPK cascades, ROS signaling, and PR proteins. In order to examine the corresponding transcriptional levels of the DAPs, RT-qPCR was conducted on a subset of 9 DAPs. In addition, virus-induced gene silencing was used to examine the role of myosin 10 in kiwifruit, a gene modulating host penetration resistance to fungal infection, in response to B. cinerea infection. The present study provides new insight on the understanding of the interaction between kiwifruit and B. cinerea.
PXD008229	29500295	Colorectal Tumors Require NUAK1 for Protection from Oxidative Stress. 	Colorectal tumors require NUAK1 for protection from oxidative stress	IAA, NUAK1, colorectal cancer, cystein oxidation, oxidative stress	Exploiting oxidative stress has recently emerged as a plausible strategy for treatment of human cancer, and antioxidant defenses are implicated in resistance to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Targeted suppression of antioxidant defenses could thus broadly improve therapeutic outcomes. Here, we identify the AMPK-related kinase NUAK1 as a key component of the antioxidant stress response pathway and reveal a specific requirement for this role of NUAK1 in colorectal cancer. We show that NUAK1 is activated by oxidative stress and that this activation is required to facilitate nuclear import of the antioxidant master regulator NRF2: Activation of NUAK1 coordinates PP1beta inhibition with AKT activation in order to suppress GSK3beta-dependent inhibition of NRF2 nuclear import. Deletion of NUAK1 suppresses formation of colorectal tumors, whereas acute depletion of NUAK1 induces regression of preexisting autochthonous tumors. Importantly, elevated expression of NUAK1 in human colorectal cancer is associated with more aggressive disease and reduced overall survival.Significance: This work identifies NUAK1 as a key facilitator of the adaptive antioxidant response that is associated with aggressive disease and worse outcome in human colorectal cancer. Our data suggest that transient NUAK1 inhibition may provide a safe and effective means for treatment of human colorectal cancer via disruption of intrinsic antioxidant defenses. Cancer Discov; 8(5); 632-47. (c)2018 AACR.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 517.
PXD010234	29501172	A fully validated liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry method for the quantification of the soluble receptor of advanced glycation end-products (sRAGE) in serum using immunopurification in a 96-well plate format. 	Quantification of the Soluble Receptor, (Frank, et al. 2018)	SRM, selected reaction monitoring, targeted	The study of proteins is central to unraveling (patho)physiological processes and has contributed greatly to our understanding of biological systems. Corresponding studies often employ procedures to enrich proteins from their biological matrix using antibodies or other affinity binders coupled to beads with a large surface area and a correspondingly high binding capacity. Striving for maximal binding capacity may, however, not always be required or desirable, for example for proteins of low abundance. Here we describe a simplified immunoprecipitation in 96-well ELISA format (IPE) approach for fast and easy enrichment of proteins. The applicability of this approach for enriching low-abundant proteins was demonstrated by an IPE-based quantitative workflow using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) for the soluble Receptor of Advanced Glycation End-products (sRAGE), a promising biomarker in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The method was validated according to U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European Medicines Agency (EMA) guidelines and enabled accurate quantitation of sRAGE between 0.1 and 10 ng/mL in 50 microL serum. The assay showed substantial correlation with the two most commonly-used sRAGE immunoassays (ELISAs) (R(2)-values between 0.7 and 0.8). However, the LC-MS method reported 2-4 times higher sRAGE levels compared to the ELISAs, which is largely due to a suboptimal amount of capturing antibody and/or calibration strategy used by the immunoassays. In conclusion, our simplified IPE approach proved to be an efficient strategy for enriching the low-abundant protein sRAGE from serum and may provide an easy to use platform for enriching other (low-abundant) proteins from complex, biological matrices.
PXD007538	29501571	Integrated 'omics analysis reveals new drug-induced mitochondrial perturbations in human hepatocytes. 	Protein data in PHH after VPA-treatment	Liver	We performed a multiple 'omics study by integrating data on epigenomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic perturbations associated with mitochondrial dysfunction in primary human hepatocytes caused by the liver toxicant valproic acid (VPA), to deeper understand downstream events following epigenetic alterations in the mitochondrial genome. Furthermore, we investigated persistence of cross-omics changes after terminating drug treatment. Upon transient methylation changes of mitochondrial genes during VPA-treatment, increasing complexities of gene-interaction networks across time were demonstrated, which normalized during washout. Furthermore, co-expression between genes and their corresponding proteins increased across time. Additionally, in relation to persistently decreased ATP production, we observed decreased expression of mitochondrial complex I and III-V genes. Persistent transcripts and proteins were related to citric acid cycle and beta-oxidation. In particular, we identified a potential novel mitochondrial-nuclear signaling axis, MT-CO2-FN1-MYC-CPT1. In summary, this cross-omics study revealed dynamic responses of the mitochondrial epigenome to an impulse toxicant challenge resulting in persistent mitochondrial dysfunctioning. Moreover, this approach allowed for discriminating between the toxic effect of VPA and adaptation.
PXD025103	29501709	SWATH mass spectrometry as a tool for quantitative profiling of the matrisome. 	Chemical and Random Additive Noise Elimination (CRANE) - Case Study - Matrisome Dataset	Baseline Noise, Chemical Noise, DIA, Random Noise	Proteomic analysis of extracellular matrix (ECM) and ECM-associated proteins, collectively known as the matrisome, is a challenging task due to the inherent complexity and insolubility of these proteins. Here we present sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra mass spectrometry (SWATH MS) as a tool for the quantitative analysis of matrisomal proteins in both non-enriched and ECM enriched tissue without the need for prior fractionation. Utilising a spectral library containing 201 matrisomal proteins, we compared the performance and reproducibility of SWATH MS over conventional data-dependent analysis mass spectrometry (DDA MS) in unfractionated murine lung and liver. SWATH MS conferred a 15-20% increase in reproducible peptide identification across replicate experiments in both tissue types and identified 54% more matrisomal proteins in the liver versus DDA MS. We further use SWATH MS to evaluate the quantitative changes in matrisome content that accompanies ECM enrichment. Our data shows that ECM enrichment led to a systematic increase in core matrisomal proteins but resulted in significant losses in matrisome-associated proteins including the cathepsins and proteins of the S100 family. Our proof-of-principle study demonstrates the utility of SWATH MS as a versatile tool for in-depth characterisation of the matrisome in unfractionated and non-enriched tissues. SIGNIFICANCE: The matrisome is a complex network of extracellular matrix (ECM) and ECM-associated proteins that provides scaffolding function to tissues and plays important roles in the regulation of fundamental cellular processes. However, due to its inherent complexity and insolubility, proteomic studies of the matrisome typically require the application of enrichment workflows prior to MS analysis. Such enrichment strategies often lead to losses in soluble matrisome-associated components. In this study, we present sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra mass spectrometry (SWATH MS) as a tool for the quantitative analysis of matrisomal proteins. We show that SWATH MS provides a more reproducible coverage of the matrisome compared to data-dependent analysis (DDA) MS. We also demonstrate that SWATH MS is capable of accurate quantification of matrisomal proteins without prior ECM enrichment and fractionation, which may simplify sample handling workflows and avoid losses in matrisome-associated proteins commonly linked to ECM enrichment.
PXD008205	29503093	Contractile Work Contributes to Maturation of Energy Metabolism in hiPSC-Derived Cardiomyocytes. 	Contractile work contributes to maturation of energy metabolism in hiPSC-derived cardiomyocytes	cardiomyocyte, engineered heart tissue, iPSC	Energy metabolism is a key aspect of cardiomyocyte biology. Human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) are a promising tool for biomedical application, but they are immature and have not undergone metabolic maturation related to early postnatal development. To assess whether cultivation of hiPSC-CMs in 3D engineered heart tissue format leads to maturation of energy metabolism, we analyzed the mitochondrial and metabolic state of 3D hiPSC-CMs and compared it with 2D culture. 3D hiPSC-CMs showed increased mitochondrial mass, DNA content, and protein abundance (proteome). While hiPSC-CMs exhibited the principal ability to use glucose, lactate, and fatty acids as energy substrates irrespective of culture format, hiPSC-CMs in 3D performed more oxidation of glucose, lactate, and fatty acid and less anaerobic glycolysis. The increase in mitochondrial mass and DNA in 3D was diminished by pharmacological reduction of contractile force. In conclusion, contractile work contributes to metabolic maturation of hiPSC-CMs.
PXD008642	29503206	Novel RNA-Affinity Proteogenomics Dissects Tumor Heterogeneity for Revealing Personalized Markers in Precision Prognosis of Cancer. 	Human breast cancer cell line and tissue, ISE-affinity proteogenomics	ISE trans-interactomes, ISE-Affinity proteomics, precision marker	To discriminate the patient subpopulations with different clinical outcomes within each breast cancer (BC) subtype, we introduce a robust, clinical-practical, activity-based proteogenomic method that identifies, in their oncogenically active states, candidate biomarker genes bearing patient-specific transcriptomic/genomic alterations of prognostic value. First, we used the intronic splicing enhancer (ISE) probes to sort ISE-interacting trans-acting protein factors (trans-interactome) directly from a tumor tissue for subsequent mass spectrometry characterization. In the retrospective, proteogenomic analysis of patient datasets, we identified those ISE trans-factor-encoding genes showing interaction-correlated expression patterns (iCEPs) as new BC-subtypic genes. Further, patient-specific co-alterations in mRNA expression of select iCEP genes distinguished high-risk patient subsets/subpopulations from other patients within a single BC subtype. Function analysis further validated a tumor-phenotypic trans-interactome contained the drivers of oncogenic splicing switches, representing the predominant tumor cells in a tissue, from which novel personalized biomarkers were clinically characterized/validated for precise prognostic prediction and subsequent individualized alignment of optimal therapy.
PXD006134	29507050	Proteomics of Aspergillus fumigatus Conidia-containing Phagolysosomes Identifies Processes Governing Immune Evasion. 	Phagolysosomal proteomics identifies DHN-melanin-regulated processes in activated macrophage in response to Aspergillus fumigatus conidia	Aspergillus fumigatus, DHN-melanin, LC-MS, host-pathogen interactions, macrophage, mycology, phagolysosome	Invasive infections by the human pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus start with the outgrowth of asexual, airborne spores (conidia) into the lung tissue of immunocompromised patients. The resident alveolar macrophages phagocytose conidia, which end up in phagolysosomes. However, A. fumigatus conidia resist phagocytic degradation to a certain degree. This is mainly attributable to the pigment 1,8-dihydroxynaphthalene (DHN) melanin located in the cell wall of conidia, which manipulates the phagolysosomal maturation and prevents their intracellular killing. To get insight in the underlying molecular mechanisms, we comparatively analyzed proteins of mouse macrophage phagolysosomes containing melanized wild-type (wt) or nonmelanized pksP mutant conidia. For this purpose, a protocol to isolate conidia-containing phagolysosomes was established and a reference protein map of phagolysosomes was generated. We identified 637 host and 22 A. fumigatus proteins that were differentially abundant in the phagolysosome. 472 of the host proteins were overrepresented in the pksP mutant and 165 in the wt conidia-containing phagolysosome. Eight of the fungal proteins were produced only in pksP mutant and 14 proteins in wt conidia-containing phagolysosomes. Bioinformatical analysis compiled a regulatory module, which indicates host processes affected by the fungus. These processes include vATPase-driven phagolysosomal acidification, Rab5 and Vamp8-dependent endocytic trafficking, signaling pathways, as well as recruitment of the Lamp1 phagolysosomal maturation marker and the lysosomal cysteine protease cathepsin Z. Western blotting and immunofluorescence analyses confirmed the proteome data and moreover showed differential abundance of the major metabolic regulator mTOR. Taken together, with the help of a protocol optimized to isolate A. fumigatus conidia-containing phagolysosomes and a potent bioinformatics algorithm, we were able to confirm A. fumigatus conidia-dependent modification of phagolysosomal processes that have been described before and beyond that, identify pathways that have not been implicated in A. fumigatus evasion strategy, yet.Mass spectrometry proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD005724 and PXD006134.
PXD005508	29507054	Targeting CDK2 overcomes melanoma resistance against BRAF and Hsp90 inhibitors. 	CETSA Hsp90i -  Targeting CDK2 overcomes melanoma resistance against BRAF and Hsp90 inhibitors	CETSA-MS, LC/MS/MS, bRP	Novel therapies are undergoing clinical trials, for example, the Hsp90 inhibitor, XL888, in combination with BRAF inhibitors for the treatment of therapy-resistant melanomas. Unfortunately, our data show that this combination elicits a heterogeneous response in a panel of melanoma cell lines including PDX-derived models. We sought to understand the mechanisms underlying the differential responses and suggest a patient stratification strategy. Thermal proteome profiling (TPP) identified the protein targets of XL888 in a pair of sensitive and unresponsive cell lines. Unbiased proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses identified CDK2 as a driver of resistance to both BRAF and Hsp90 inhibitors and its expression is regulated by the transcription factor MITF upon XL888 treatment. The CDK2 inhibitor, dinaciclib, attenuated resistance to both classes of inhibitors and combinations thereof. Notably, we found that MITF expression correlates with CDK2 upregulation in patients; thus, dinaciclib would warrant consideration for treatment of patients unresponsive to BRAF-MEK and/or Hsp90 inhibitors and/or harboring MITF amplification/overexpression.
PXD008833	29507079	Zc3h10 is a novel mitochondrial regulator. 	Zc3h10 is a novel mitochondrial regulator	Zc3h10, energy metabolism, mitochondria, oxidative phosphorylation.	Mitochondria are the energy-generating hubs of the cell. In spite of considerable advances, our understanding of the factors that regulate the molecular circuits that govern mitochondrial function remains incomplete. Using a genome-wide functional screen, we identify the poorly characterized protein Zinc finger CCCH-type containing 10 (Zc3h10) as regulator of mitochondrial physiology. We show that Zc3h10 is upregulated during physiological mitochondriogenesis as it occurs during the differentiation of myoblasts into myotubes. Zc3h10 overexpression boosts mitochondrial function and promotes myoblast differentiation, while the depletion of Zc3h10 results in impaired myoblast differentiation, mitochondrial dysfunction, reduced expression of electron transport chain (ETC) subunits, and blunted TCA cycle flux. Notably, we have identified a loss-of-function mutation of Zc3h10 in humans (Tyr105 to Cys105) that is associated with increased body mass index, fat mass, fasting glucose, and triglycerides. Isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells from individuals homozygotic for Cys105 display reduced oxygen consumption rate, diminished expression of some ETC subunits, and decreased levels of some TCA cycle metabolites, which all together derive in mitochondrial dysfunction. Taken together, our study identifies Zc3h10 as a novel mitochondrial regulator.
PXD008710	29507115	Neurochondrin interacts with the SMN protein suggesting a novel mechanism for spinal muscular atrophy pathology. 	Neurochondrin interacts with the SMN protein suggesting a novel mechanism for Spinal Muscular Atrophy pathology.	Neurochondrin, SMN, Sm Proteins, Spinal Muscular Atrophy, snRNPs	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an inherited neurodegenerative condition caused by a reduction in the amount of functional survival motor neuron (SMN) protein. SMN has been implicated in transport of mRNA in neural cells for local translation. We previously identified microtubule-dependent mobile vesicles rich in SMN and SNRPB, a member of the Sm family of small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP)-associated proteins, in neural cells. By comparing the interactomes of SNRPB and SNRPN, a neural-specific Sm protein, we now show that the essential neural protein neurochondrin (NCDN) interacts with Sm proteins and SMN in the context of mobile vesicles in neurites. NCDN has roles in protein localisation in neural cells and in maintenance of cell polarity. NCDN is required for the correct localisation of SMN, suggesting they may both be required for formation and transport of trafficking vesicles. NCDN may have potential as a therapeutic target for SMA together with, or in place of the targeting of SMN expression.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD008367	29507607	H2 drives metabolic rearrangements in gas-fermenting Clostridium autoethanogenum. 	H2 drives metabolic rearrangements in gas-fermenting Clostridium autoethanogenum	acetogen, data-independent acquisition, gas fermentation, genome-scale modelling, metabolomics, quantitative proteomics	BACKGROUND: The global demand for affordable carbon has never been stronger, and there is an imperative in many industrial processes to use waste streams to make products. Gas-fermenting acetogens offer a potential solution and several commercial gas fermentation plants are currently under construction. As energy limits acetogen metabolism, supply of H2 should diminish substrate loss to CO2 and facilitate production of reduced and energy-intensive products. However, the effects of H2 supply on CO-grown acetogens have yet to be experimentally quantified under controlled growth conditions. RESULTS: Here, we quantify the effects of H2 supplementation by comparing growth on CO, syngas, and a high-H2 CO gas mix using chemostat cultures of Clostridium autoethanogenum. Cultures were characterised at the molecular level using metabolomics, proteomics, gas analysis, and a genome-scale metabolic model. CO-limited chemostats operated at two steady-state biomass concentrations facilitated co-utilisation of CO and H2. We show that H2 supply strongly impacts carbon distribution with a fourfold reduction in substrate loss as CO2 (61% vs. 17%) and a proportional increase of flux to ethanol (15% vs. 61%). Notably, H2 supplementation lowers the molar acetate/ethanol ratio by fivefold. At the molecular level, quantitative proteome analysis showed no obvious changes leading to these metabolic rearrangements suggesting the involvement of post-translational regulation. Metabolic modelling showed that H2 availability provided reducing power via H2 oxidation and saved redox as cells reduced all the CO2 to formate directly using H2 in the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway. Modelling further indicated that the methylene-THF reductase reaction was ferredoxin reducing under all conditions. In combination with proteomics, modelling also showed that ethanol was synthesised through the acetaldehyde:ferredoxin oxidoreductase (AOR) activity. CONCLUSIONS: Our quantitative molecular analysis revealed that H2 drives rearrangements at several layers of metabolism and provides novel links between carbon, energy, and redox metabolism advancing our understanding of energy conservation in acetogens. We conclude that H2 supply can substantially increase the efficiency of gas fermentation and thus the feed gas composition can be considered an important factor in developing gas fermentation-based bioprocesses.
PXD005245	29507698	SuperQuant-assisted comparative proteome analysis of glioblastoma subpopulations allows for identification of potential novel therapeutic targets and cell markers. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of glioblastoma subpopulations	LCMS, SuperQuant, cancer, glioblastoma, shotgun proteomics	Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly aggressive brain cancer with poor prognosis and low survival rate. Invasive cancer stem-like cells (CSCs) are responsible for tumor recurrence because they escape current treatments. Our main goal was to study the proteome of three GBM subpopulations to identify key molecules behind GBM cell phenotypes and potential cell markers for migrating cells. We used SuperQuant-an enhanced quantitative proteome approach-to increase proteome coverage. We found 148 proteins differentially regulated in migrating CSCs and 199 proteins differentially regulated in differentiated cells. We used Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) to predict upstream regulators, downstream effects and canonical pathways associated with regulated proteins. IPA analysis predicted activation of integrin-linked kinase (ILK) signaling, actin cytoskeleton signaling, and lysine demethylase 5B (KDM5B) in CSC migration. Moreover, our data suggested that microRNA-122 (miR-122) is a potential upstream regulator of GBM phenotypes as miR-122 activation was predicted for differentiated cells while its inhibition was predicted for migrating CSCs. Finally, we validated transferrin (TF) and procollagen-lysine 2-oxoglutarate 5-dioxygenase 2 (PLOD2) as potential markers for migrating cells.
PXD007935	29508533	Comparison of the MHC I Immunopeptidome Repertoire of B-Cell Lymphoblasts Using Two Isolation Methods. 	Comparison of the MHC I immunopeptidome repertoire of B-cell lymphoblasts using two isolation methods	B-cell, IP, MAE, MHC I-associated peptides, MIPs	Significant technological advances in both affinity chromatography and mass spectrometry have facilitated the identification of peptides associated with the major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) molecules, and enabled a greater understanding of the dynamic nature of the immunopeptidome of normal and neoplastic cells. While the isolation of MHC I-associated peptides (MIPs) typically used mild acid elution (MAE) or immunoprecipitation (IP), limited information currently exists regarding their respective analytical merits. Here, a comparison of these approaches for the isolation of two different B-cell lymphoblast cell models is presented, and it is reported on the recovery, reproducibility, scalability, and complementarity of identification from each method. Both approaches yielded reproducible datasets for peptide extracts obtained from 2 to 100 million cells, with 2016 to 5093 MIPs, respectively. The IP typically provides up to 6.4-fold increase in MIPs compared to the MAE. The comprehensiveness of these immunopeptidome analyses is extended using personalized genomic database of B-cell lymphoblasts, and it is discovered that 0.4% of their respective MIP repertoire harbored nonsynonymous single nucleotide variations (also known as minor histocompatibility antigens, MiHAs).
PXD008204	29508616	Proteomic Identification of Interferon-Induced Proteins with Tetratricopeptide Repeats as Markers of M1 Macrophage Polarization. 	Proteomic Identification of Interferon-induced Proteins with Tetratricopeptide Repeats (IFITs) as Markers of M1 Macrophage Polarization	IFIT, LC MS/MS, LFQ, THP-1 macrophage polarisation	Macrophages, which accumulate in tissues during inflammation, may be polarized toward pro-inflammatory (M1) or tissue reparative (M2) phenotypes. The balance between these phenotypes can have a substantial influence on the outcome of inflammatory diseases such as atherosclerosis. Improved biomarkers of M1 and M2 macrophages would be beneficial for research, diagnosis, and monitoring the effects of trial therapeutics in such diseases. To identify novel biomarkers, we have characterized the global proteomes of THP-1 macrophages polarized to M1 and M2 states in comparison with unpolarized (M0) macrophages. M1 polarization resulted in increased expression of numerous pro-inflammatory proteins including the products of 31 genes under the transcriptional control of interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF-1). In contrast, M2 polarization identified proteins regulated by components of the transcription factor AP-1. Among the most highly upregulated proteins under M1 conditions were the three interferon-induced proteins with tetratricopeptide repeats (IFITs: IFIT1, IFIT2, and IFIT3), which function in antiviral defense. Moreover, IFIT1, IFIT2, and IFIT3 mRNA were strongly upregulated in M1 polarized human primary macrophages and IFIT1 was also expressed in a subset of macrophages in aortic sinus and brachiocephalic artery sections from atherosclerotic ApoE(-/-) mice. On the basis of these results, we propose that IFITs may serve as useful markers of atherosclerosis and potentially other inflammatory diseases.
PXD006280	29509190	Quantitative mapping of RNA-mediated nuclear estrogen receptor beta interactome in human breast cancer cells. 	The nuclear receptor ERbeta engages AGO2 in regulation of gene transcription, RNA splicing and RISC loading	AGO2, AP-MS, ERbeta receptor	The nuclear receptor estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2, ERbeta) modulates cancer cell proliferation and tumor growth, exerting an oncosuppressive role in breast cancer (BC). Interaction proteomics by tandem affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry was previously applied in BC cells to identify proteins acting in concert with ERbeta to control key cellular functions, including gene transcription, RNA splicing and post-transcriptional mRNA regulation. These studies revealed an involvement of RNA in ERbeta interactome assembly and functions. By applying native protein complex purification followed by nano LC-MS/MS before and after in vitro RNA removal, we generated a large dataset of newly identified nuclear ERbeta interactors, including a subset associating with the receptor via RNA bridging. These datasets will be useful to investigate further the role of ERbeta, nuclear RNAs and the other proteins identified here in BC and other cell types.
PXD004735	29509946	Comparative proteomic analysis of ovaries from Huoyan geese between pre-laying and laying periods using an iTRAQ-based approach. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of ovarian tissue from Huoyan goose between pre-laying period and laying period using iTRAQ-based approach	Goose, ovary	To explore the key regulatory genes and their translated products involved in Huoyan goose egg laying, we first applied the iTRAQ technology integrated with LC-MS/MS analysis to identify differentially abundant proteins in the ovarian tissue of Huoyan geese between the pre-laying and laying periods. Then, Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses of the proteins were conducted. As observed, 403 proteins, which included 255 up-regulated and 148 down-regulated proteins, were identified. Some differentially abundant proteins, such as apolipoprotein B (apoB), retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4), vitellogenin-2 (VTG-2), apolipoprotein II (apoVLDL-II), and fatty-acid binding protein 4 (FABP4), were found to be involved in lipid transportation and metabolic process, follicle development and final egg production, ovarian steroidogenesis, and steroid hormone biosynthesis. Subsequently, the modification of the abundance of 3 proteins, adiponectin, FABP4, and RBP4, was verified using Western blotting. Our findings might provide comprehensive protein expression information that can facilitate the understanding of the reproductive biology and improve the egg-laying performance of Huoyan geese.
PXD008538	29509983	Three unrelated protease inhibitors enhance accumulation of pharmaceutical recombinant proteins in Nicotiana benthamiana. 	Three unrelated protease inhibitors enhance accumulation of pharmaceutical recombinant proteins in N. benthamiana	Activity Based Protein Profiling (ABPP), Agrobacterium tumefaciens, biopharmaceutical production, inhibitor mutant, metalloprotease, transient expression	Agroinfiltrated Nicotiana benthamiana is a flexible and scalable platform for recombinant protein (RP) production, but its great potential is hampered by plant proteases that degrade RPs. Here, we tested 29 candidate protease inhibitors (PIs) in agroinfiltrated N. benthamiana leaves for enhancing accumulation of three unrelated RPs: glycoenzyme alpha-Galactosidase; glycohormone erythropoietin (EPO); and IgG antibody VRC01. Of the previously described PIs enhancing RP accumulation, we found only cystatin SlCYS8 to be effective. We identified three additional new, unrelated PIs that enhance RP accumulation: N. benthamiana NbPR4, NbPot1 and human HsTIMP, which have been reported to inhibit cysteine, serine and metalloproteases, respectively. Remarkably, accumulation of all three RPs is enhanced by each PI similarly, suggesting that the mechanism of degradation of unrelated RPs follows a common pathway. Inhibitory functions HsTIMP and SlCYS8 are required to enhance RP accumulation, suggesting that their target proteases may degrade RPs. Different PIs additively enhance RP accumulation, but the effect of each PI is dose-dependent. Activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) revealed that the activities of papain-like Cys proteases (PLCPs), Ser hydrolases (SHs) or vacuolar processing enzymes (VPEs) in leaves are unaffected upon expression of the new PIs, whereas SlCYS8 expression specifically suppresses PLCP activity only. Quantitative proteomics indicates that the three new PIs affect agroinfiltrated tissues similarly and that they all increase immune responses. NbPR4, NbPot1 and HsTIMP can be used to study plant proteases and improve RP accumulation in molecular farming.
PXD007963	29510212	Overexpression of bifunctional fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase/sedoheptulose-1,7-bisphosphatase leads to enhanced photosynthesis and global reprogramming of carbon metabolism in Synechococcus sp. PCC 7002. 	Synechococcus sp. (PCC 7002) analysis by LC-MS/MS	CO2 fixation, Calvin cycle, RUBISCO, Synechococcus, cyanobacteria	Cyanobacteria fix atmospheric CO2 to biomass and through metabolic engineering can also act as photosynthetic factories for sustainable productions of fuels and chemicals. The Calvin Benson cycle is the primary pathway for CO2 fixation in cyanobacteria, algae and C3 plants. Previous studies have overexpressed the Calvin Benson cycle enzymes, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO) and bifunctional sedoheptulose-1,7-bisphosphatase/fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (hereafter BiBPase), in both plants and algae, although their impacts on cyanobacteria have not yet been rigorously studied. Here, we show that overexpression of BiBPase and RuBisCO have distinct impacts on carbon metabolism in the cyanobacterium Synechococcus sp. PCC 7002 through physiological, biochemical, and proteomic analyses. The former enhanced growth, cell size, and photosynthetic O2 evolution, and coordinately upregulated enzymes in the Calvin Benson cycle including RuBisCO and fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase. At the same time it downregulated enzymes in respiratory carbon metabolism (glycolysis and the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway) including glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH). The content of glycogen was also significantly reduced while the soluble carbohydrate content increased. These results indicate that overexpression of BiBPase leads to global reprogramming of carbon metabolism in Synechococcus sp. PCC 7002, promoting photosynthetic carbon fixation and carbon partitioning towards non-storage carbohydrates. In contrast, whilst overexpression of RuBisCO had no measurable impact on growth and photosynthetic O2 evolution, it led to coordinated increase in the abundance of proteins involved in pyruvate metabolism and fatty acid biosynthesis. Our results underpin that singular genetic modifications in the Calvin Benson cycle can have far broader cellular impact than previously expected. These features could be exploited to more efficiently direct carbons towards desired bioproducts.
PXD003217	29510761	Murine Gbp1 and Gbp2 are ubiquitinated independent of Toxoplasma gondii infection. 	TRIM21 innate immune detection of GBP1-positive Toxoplasma gondii is essential for host survival	TRIM21, Toxoplasma gondii	OBJECTIVE: The intracellular parasite Toxoplasma gondii can invade any nucleated cell residing inside a parasitophorous vacuole (PV). Upon infection, the cytokine interferon gamma (IFNgamma) is produced and elicits host defence mechanisms able to recognise the PV and destroy the parasite. Hereby, Guanylate binding proteins, ubiquitin and the E3 ubiquitin ligases Tripartite Motif Containing 21 (TRIM21) and TNF receptor associated factor 6 are targeted to the murine PV leading to its destruction. This study is the side product of research aiming to identify ubiquitinated substrates in a TRIM21-dependent fashion in murine cells infected with Toxoplasma. RESULTS: We infected IFNgamma-stimulated murine embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) from either C57BL/6x129 wild-type (WT) mice or C57BL/6 TRIM21(-/-) mice with Toxoplasma. Using mass spectrometry, we analysed proteins in both cell backgrounds presenting with the di-glycine remnant of ubiquitination. In addition, we compared peptide levels between WT and TRIM21(-/-) cells. In line with earlier reports, Gbp1 was expressed to higher levels in the C57BL/6x129 WT MEFs compared to the C57BL/6-only background TRIM21(-/-) MEFs. Protein expression differences in these different murine backgrounds thus precluded identification of TRIM21-dependent ubiquitinated substrates. Nevertheless, we identified and confirmed Gbp1 and Gbp2 as being ubiquitinated in a Toxoplasma-infection independent manner.
PXD008505	29510985	Molecular architecture of LSM14 interactions involved in the assembly of mRNA silencing complexes. 	Brandmann_LSM14	APMS, DDX6, FLAG, LSM14, Processing body	The LSM domain-containing protein LSM14/Rap55 plays a role in mRNA decapping, translational repression, and RNA granule (P-body) assembly. How LSM14 interacts with the mRNA silencing machinery, including the eIF4E-binding protein 4E-T and the DEAD-box helicase DDX6, is poorly understood. Here we report the crystal structure of the LSM domain of LSM14 bound to a highly conserved C-terminal fragment of 4E-T. The 4E-T C-terminus forms a bi-partite motif that wraps around the N-terminal LSM domain of LSM14. We also determined the crystal structure of LSM14 bound to the C-terminal RecA-like domain of DDX6. LSM14 binds DDX6 via a unique non-contiguous motif with distinct directionality as compared to other DDX6-interacting proteins. Together with mutational and proteomic studies, the LSM14-DDX6 structure reveals that LSM14 has adopted a divergent mode of binding DDX6 in order to support the formation of mRNA silencing complexes and P-body assembly.
PXD008896	29511296	Characterization of gene regulation and protein interaction networks for Matrin 3 encoding mutations linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and myopathy. 	Protein interaction networks for Matrin 3 encoding mutations	Matrin 3, interaction	To understand how mutations in Matrin 3 (MATR3) cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and distal myopathy, we used transcriptome and interactome analysis, coupled with microscopy. Over-expression of wild-type (WT) or F115C mutant MATR3 had little impact on gene expression in neuroglia cells. Only 23 genes, expressed at levels of >100 transcripts showed >=1.6-fold changes in expression by transfection with WT or mutant MATR3:YFP vectors. We identified ~123 proteins that bound MATR3, with proteins associated with stress granules and RNA processing/splicing being prominent. The interactome of myopathic S85C and ALS-variant F115C MATR3 were virtually identical to WT protein. Deletion of RNA recognition motif (RRM1) or Zn finger motifs (ZnF1 or ZnF2) diminished the binding of a subset of MATR3 interacting proteins. Remarkably, deletion of the RRM2 motif caused enhanced binding of >100 hundred proteins. In live cells, MATR3 lacking RRM2 (DeltaRRM2) formed intranuclear spherical structures that fused over time into large structures. Our findings in the cell models used here suggest that MATR3 with disease-causing mutations is not dramatically different from WT protein in modulating gene regulation or in binding to normal interacting partners. The intra-nuclear localization and interaction network of MATR3 is strongly modulated by its RRM2 domain.
PXD008599	29514069	Proteome Imbalance of Mitochondrial Electron Transport Chain in Brown Adipocytes Leads to Metabolic Benefits. 	Proteome imbalance of mitochondrial electron transport chain in brown adipocytes leads to metabolic benefits	mitochondria	Brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis is critical for thermoregulation and contributes to total energy expenditure. However, whether BAT has non-thermogenic functions is largely unknown. Here, we describe that BAT-specific liver kinase b1 knockout (Lkb1(BKO)) mice exhibited impaired BAT mitochondrial respiration and thermogenesis but reduced adiposity and liver triglyceride accumulation under high-fat-diet feeding at room temperature. Importantly, these metabolic benefits were also present in Lkb1(BKO) mice at thermoneutrality, where BAT thermogenesis was not required. Mechanistically, decreased mRNA levels of mtDNA-encoded electron transport chain (ETC) subunits and ETC proteome imbalance led to defective BAT mitochondrial respiration in Lkb1(BKO) mice. Furthermore, reducing mtDNA gene expression directly in BAT by removing mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam) in BAT also showed ETC proteome imbalance and the trade-off between BAT thermogenesis and systemic metabolism at room temperature and thermoneutrality. Collectively, our data demonstrate that ETC proteome imbalance in BAT regulates systemic metabolism independently of thermogenesis.
PXD005803	29514104	Large-Scale Phosphoproteomics Reveals Shp-2 Phosphatase-Dependent Regulators of Pdgf Receptor Signaling. 	Large-scale phosphoproteomics reveals Shp-2 phosphatase-dependent regulators of Pdgf-receptor signaling	Label-Free Quantitation, Orbitrap, PDGF, Phosphoproteomics, Q-Exactive, SHP099, Shp-2, TiO2, Tyrosine phosphorylation	Despite its low cellular abundance, phosphotyrosine (pTyr) regulates numerous cell signaling pathways in health and disease. We applied comprehensive phosphoproteomics to unravel differential regulators of receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK)-initiated signaling networks upon activation by Pdgf-betabeta, Fgf-2, or Igf-1 and identified more than 40,000 phosphorylation sites, including many phosphotyrosine sites without additional enrichment. The analysis revealed RTK-specific regulation of hundreds of pTyr sites on key signaling molecules. We found the tyrosine phosphatase Shp-2 to be the master regulator of Pdgfr pTyr signaling. Application of a recently introduced allosteric Shp-2 inhibitor revealed global regulation of the Pdgf-dependent tyrosine phosphoproteome, which significantly impaired cell migration. In addition, we present a list of hundreds of Shp-2-dependent targets and putative substrates, including Rasa1 and Cortactin with increased pTyr and Gab1 and Erk1/2 with decreased pTyr. Our study demonstrates that large-scale quantitative phosphoproteomics can precisely dissect tightly regulated kinase-phosphatase signaling networks.
PXD008842	29514927	A VCP inhibitor substrate trapping approach (VISTA) enables proteomic profiling of endogenous ERAD substrates. 	Endoplasmic reticulum di-glycine modified proteome under p97/VCP inhibition	ERAD, digly, ubiquitin	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated degradation (ERAD) mediates the proteasomal clearance of proteins from the early secretory pathway. In this process, ubiquitinated substrates are extracted from membrane-embedded dislocation complexes by the AAA ATPase VCP and targeted to the cytosolic 26S proteasome. In addition to its well-established role in the degradation of misfolded proteins, ERAD also regulates the abundance of key proteins such as enzymes involved in cholesterol synthesis. However, due to the lack of generalizable methods, our understanding of the scope of proteins targeted by ERAD remains limited. To overcome this obstacle, we developed a VCP inhibitor substrate trapping approach (VISTA) to identify endogenous ERAD substrates. VISTA exploits the small-molecule VCP inhibitor CB5083 to trap ERAD substrates in a membrane-associated, ubiquitinated form. This strategy, coupled with quantitative ubiquitin proteomics, identified previously validated (e.g., ApoB100, Insig2, and DHCR7) and novel (e.g., SCD1 and RNF5) ERAD substrates in cultured human hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Moreover, our results indicate that RNF5 autoubiquitination on multiple lysine residues targets it for ubiquitin and VCP--dependent clearance. Thus, VISTA provides a generalizable discovery method that expands the available toolbox of strategies to elucidate the ERAD substrate landscape.
PXD008461	29518331	Interactome Analysis Reveals Regulator of G Protein Signaling 14 (RGS14) is a Novel Calcium/Calmodulin (Ca(2+)/CaM) and CaM Kinase II (CaMKII) Binding Partner. 	Proteomic Analysis and Validation of the RGS14 Signaling Interactome in the Mouse Brain	RGS14, immunoprecipitation, interactome, neuroproteomics	Regulator of G Protein Signaling 14 (RGS14) is a complex scaffolding protein that integrates G protein and MAPK signaling pathways. In the adult mouse brain, RGS14 is predominantly expressed in hippocampal CA2 neurons where it naturally inhibits synaptic plasticity and hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. However, the signaling proteins that RGS14 natively engages to regulate plasticity are unknown. Here, we show that RGS14 exists in a high-molecular-weight protein complex in brain. To identify RGS14 neuronal interacting partners, endogenous RGS14 immunoprecipitated from mouse brain was subjected to mass spectrometry and proteomic analysis. We find that RGS14 interacts with key postsynaptic proteins that regulate plasticity. Gene ontology analysis reveals the most enriched RGS14 interactors have functional roles in actin-binding, calmodulin(CaM)-binding, and CaM-dependent protein kinase (CaMK) activity. We validate these findings using biochemical assays that identify interactions with two previously unknown binding partners. We report that RGS14 directly interacts with Ca(2+)/CaM and is phosphorylated by CaMKII in vitro. Lastly, we detect that RGS14 associates with CaMKII and CaM in hippocampal CA2 neurons. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that RGS14 is a novel CaM effector and CaMKII phosphorylation substrate thereby providing new insight into mechanisms by which RGS14 controls plasticity in CA2 neurons.
PXD008988	29518335	Dynamic Changes in the Protein Localization in the Nuclear Environment in Pancreatic beta-Cell after Brief Glucose Stimulation. 	Dynamic changes in the protein localization in the nuclear environment in pancreatic beta-cell after brief glucose stimulation	GSIS, nucleus, pancreatic beta-cells	Characterization of molecular mechanisms underlying pancreatic beta-cell function in relation to glucose-stimulated insulin secretion is incomplete, especially with respect to global response in the nuclear environment. We focus on the characterization of proteins in the nuclear environment of beta-cells after brief, high glucose stimulation. We compared purified nuclei derived from beta-cells stimulated with 17 mM glucose for 0, 2, and 5 min using quantitative proteomics, a time frame that most likely does not result in translation of new protein in the cell. Among the differentially regulated proteins, we identified 20 components of the nuclear organization processes, including nuclear pore organization, ribonucleoprotein complex, and pre-mRNA transcription. We found alteration of the nuclear pore complex, together with calcium/calmodulin-binding chaperones that facilitate protein and RNA import or export to/from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. Putative insulin mRNA transcription-associated factors were identified among the regulated proteins, and they were cross-validated by Western blotting and confocal immunofluorescence imaging. Collectively, our data suggest that protein translocation between the nucleus and the cytoplasm is an important process, highly involved in the initial molecular mechanism underlying glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in pancreatic beta-cells.
PXD008436	29518574	Proteomic profiling of rectal cancer reveals acid ceramidase is implicated in radiation response. 	Predicting response to chemotherapy in rectal cancer	Rectal, biomarker, cancer, chemoradiotherapy, response	BACKGROUND: Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is used in locally advanced rectal cancer when tumours threaten the circumferential resection margin, with varying response to treatment. This experimental study aimed to identify significantly differentially expressed proteins between patients responding and not responding to CRT, and to validate any proteins of interest. METHODS: Mass spectrometry (with isobaric tagging for relative quantification) analysis of rectal cancers pre- and post-CRT, and at resection. Validation of proteins of interest was performed by assessing tissue microarray (TMA) immunohistochemistry expression in a further 111 patients with rectal cancer. RESULTS: Proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008436. Reduced abundance of contributing peptide ions for acid ceramidase (AC) (log fold change -1.526, p = 1.17E-02) was observed in CRT responders. Differential expression of AC was confirmed upon analysis of the TMAs. Cancer site expression of AC in stromal cells from post-CRT resection specimens was observed to be relatively low in pathological complete response (p = 0.003), and relatively high with no response to CRT (p = 0.017). CONCLUSION: AC may be implicated in the response of rectal cancer to CRT. We propose its further assessment as a novel potential biomarker and therapeutic target. SIGNIFICANCE: There is a need for biomarkers to guide the use of chemoradiotherapy in rectal cancer, as none are in routine clinical use. We have determined acid ceramidase may have a role in radiation response, based on novel proteomic profiling and validation in a wider dataset using tissue microarrays. The ability to predict or improve response would positively select those patients who will derive benefit, prevent delays in the local and systemic management of disease in non-responders, and reduce morbidity associated with chemoradiotherapy.
PXD008955	29519897	MARCH6 and TRC8 facilitate the quality control of cytosolic and tail-anchored proteins. 	Protein quality control by MARCH6/TRC8	ERAD, Intramembrane proteolysis, MARCH6, Protein quality control, TRC8	Misfolded or damaged proteins are typically targeted for destruction by proteasome-mediated degradation, but the mammalian ubiquitin machinery involved is incompletely understood. Here, using forward genetic screens in human cells, we find that the proteasome-mediated degradation of the soluble misfolded reporter, mCherry-CL1, involves two ER-resident E3 ligases, MARCH6 and TRC8. mCherry-CL1 degradation is routed via the ER membrane and dependent on the hydrophobicity of the substrate, with complete stabilisation only observed in double knockout MARCH6/TRC8 cells. To identify a more physiological correlate, we used quantitative mass spectrometry and found that TRC8 and MARCH6 depletion altered the turnover of the tail-anchored protein heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). These E3 ligases associate with the intramembrane cleaving signal peptide peptidase (SPP) and facilitate the degradation of HO-1 following intramembrane proteolysis. Our results highlight how ER-resident ligases may target the same substrates, but work independently of each other, to optimise the protein quality control of selected soluble and tail-anchored proteins.
PXD006563	29520855	The composition of prostate core matrisome in vivo and in vitro unveiled by mass spectrometric analysis. 	Analysis of extracellular matrix proteins from 3D cultures of primary prostate fibroblasts, DU145 cells and mixed cells	3D culture, extracellular matrix, fibroblast, prostate cancer	BACKGROUND: The composition and organization of extracellular matrix (ECM) are important regulators of cell behavior. In particular in the prostate, this central role of the ECM is further stressed by the fact that several potential markers of prostate stem cells are matrix receptors. METHODS: We established 12 fibroblastic cell lines from cancerous and non-cancerous areas of six prostates and allowed the cells to produce ECM under cell culture conditions. We also performed a proteome wide analysis of the ECM components by mass spectrometry. To study the in vitro activation of fibroblastic cells we compared the differences between the ECM produced in cell culture by six non-cancerous-tissue-derived fibroblasts and the in vivo matrisome from the corresponding non-cancerous tissue of prostate. RESULTS: Our results suggest that at tissue level the ECM is mainly produced by fibroblastic cells and that it contains standard collagen I fibrils and fibril-associated proteins. Beaded-filament forming collagen VI is also abundant and basement membranes potentially contain five laminin subtypes and collagens XV and XVIII. As the main finding, we also detected differences when in vivo and in vitro matrisomes were compared. Only 65 out of 206 proteins were found to be common for both in vivo and in vitro samples. Majority of the 55 proteins, which were solely detected in in vivo samples, were considered to be plasma derived. Eighty-six proteins were solely found from in vitro fibroblast-derived ECM, and most of them were related to matrix remodeling or growth factor action, proposing that the activation of fibroblasts in cell culture may remarkably modify their gene expression profile. Finally, in comparison to traditional 2D in vitro cell culture, the ECM composition of 3D spheroid culture was analyzed. The matrisome in spheroid culture did not resemble the in vivo ECM more closely than in monolayer culture. CONCLUSIONS: Artificial activation of ECM remodeling seems to be a distinctive feature in in vitro models. In conclusion the constitution of ECM produced by prostate derived fibroblasts in vitro is similar, but not identical to the prostate ECM in vivo as shown here by mass spectrometric analysis.
PXD009342	29522331	Accurate, Sensitive, and Precise Multiplexed Proteomics Using the Complement Reporter Ion Cluster. 	Accurate, Sensitive, and Precise Multiplexed Proteomics using the Complement Reporter Ion Cluster	MS2, MS3, Quantitative Multiplexed Proteomics, TMT, TMTc, label free	Quantitative analysis of proteomes across multiple time points, organelles, and perturbations is essential for understanding both fundamental biology and disease states. The development of isobaric tags (e.g., TMT) has enabled the simultaneous measurement of peptide abundances across several different conditions. These multiplexed approaches are promising in principle because of advantages in throughput and measurement quality. However, in practice, existing multiplexing approaches suffer from key limitations. In its simple implementation (TMT-MS2), measurements are distorted by chemical noise leading to poor measurement accuracy. The current state-of-the-art (TMT-MS3) addresses this but requires specialized quadrupole-iontrap-Orbitrap instrumentation. The complement reporter ion approach (TMTc) produces high accuracy measurements and is compatible with many more instruments, like quadrupole-Orbitraps. However, the required deconvolution of the TMTc cluster leads to poor measurement precision. Here, we introduce TMTc+, which adds the modeling of the MS2-isolation step into the deconvolution algorithm. The resulting measurements are comparable in precision to TMT-MS3/MS2. The improved duty cycle and lower filtering requirements make TMTc+ more sensitive than TMT-MS3 and comparable with TMT-MS2. At the same time, unlike TMT-MS2, TMTc+ is exquisitely able to distinguish signal from chemical noise even outperforming TMT-MS3. Lastly, we compare TMTc+ to quantitative label-free proteomics of total HeLa lysate and find that TMTc+ quantifies 7.8k versus 3.9k proteins in a 5-plex sample. At the same time, the median coefficient of variation improves from 13% to 4%. Thus, TMTc+ advances quantitative proteomics by enabling accurate, sensitive, and precise multiplexed experiments on more commonly used instruments.
PXD008786	29522652	Anton Chekhov and Robert Koch Cheek to Cheek: A Proteomic Study. 	Proteomic study of Anton Chekhov' letters	Cultural Heritage., EVA film, Mycobacterium tuberculosis	Five different letters and post cards as well as the shirt worn by Anton Chekhov on his death bed, stored in the State Literary-Memorial Museum-Reserve A. P. Chekhov Melikhovo (nearby Moscow), have been analyzed by applying EVA (an ethyl vinyl acetate foil studded with crushed strong anion and cation exchangers and with C8 resins) diskettes to these surfaces. Three different eluates (under acidic and basic conditions and with acetonitrile) were analyzed by high resolution mass spectrometry. The environmental microbiota present on samples and the Mycobacterium tuberculosis strain were described by a meta-proteomics approach. Eight identified M. tuberculosis proteins confirmed the presence of the bacterium and the cause of Chekhov's death, in addition to several sequenced peptides belonging to other bacterial species. The human plasma proteins and human keratins, detected on a tiny blood spot on the shirt, demonstrated the power of the combined approach.
PXD005603	29523767	Protease Activities Triggered by Ralstonia solanacearum Infection in Susceptible and Tolerant Tomato Lines. 	Protease activities induced in the apoplast of the resistant tomato cultivar Hawaii 7996 in response to Ralstonia solanacearum infection	Ralstonia solanacearum, activity-based protein profiling, bacterial wilt, disease resistance, papain-like cysteine protease, proteases, quantitative proteomics, serine hydrolase, tomato	Activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) is a powerful proteomic technique to display protein activities in a proteome. It is based on the use of small molecular probes that react with the active site of proteins in an activity-dependent manner. We used ABPP to dissect the protein activity changes that occur in the intercellular spaces of tolerant (Hawaii 7996) and susceptible (Marmande) tomato plants in response to R. solanacearum, the causing agent of bacterial wilt, one of the most destructive bacterial diseases in plants. The intercellular space -or apoplast- is the first battlefield where the plant faces R. solanacearum Here, we explore the possibility that the limited R. solanacearum colonization reported in the apoplast of tolerant tomato is partly determined by its active proteome. Our work reveals specific activation of papain-like cysteine proteases (PLCPs) and serine hydrolases (SHs) in the leaf apoplast of the tolerant tomato Hawaii 7996 on R. solanacearum infection. The P69 family members P69C and P69F, and an unannotated lipase (Solyc02g077110.2.1), were found to be post-translationally activated. In addition, protein network analysis showed that deeper changes in network topology take place in the susceptible tomato variety, suggesting that the tolerant cultivar might be more prepared to face R. solanacearum in its basal state. Altogether this work identifies significant changes in the activity of 4 PLCPs and 27 SHs in the tomato leaf apoplast in response to R. solanacearum, most of which are yet to be characterized. Our findings denote the importance of novel proteomic approaches such as ABPP to provide new insights on old and elusive questions regarding the molecular basis of resistance to R. solanacearum.
PXD004255	29523821	p38-MK2 signaling axis regulates RNA metabolism after UV-light-induced DNA damage. 	p38-MK2 signaling axis regulates RNA metabolism  after UV light-induced DNA damage	MK2, NELFE, UV, p38, phosphoproteomics	Ultraviolet (UV) light radiation induces the formation of bulky photoproducts in the DNA that globally affect transcription and splicing. However, the signaling pathways and mechanisms that link UV-light-induced DNA damage to changes in RNA metabolism remain poorly understood. Here we employ quantitative phosphoproteomics and protein kinase inhibition to provide a systems view on protein phosphorylation patterns induced by UV light and uncover the dependencies of phosphorylation events on the canonical DNA damage signaling by ATM/ATR and the p38 MAP kinase pathway. We identify RNA-binding proteins as primary substrates and 14-3-3 as direct readers of p38-MK2-dependent phosphorylation induced by UV light. Mechanistically, we show that MK2 phosphorylates the RNA-binding subunit of the NELF complex NELFE on Serine 115. NELFE phosphorylation promotes the recruitment of 14-3-3 and rapid dissociation of the NELF complex from chromatin, which is accompanied by RNA polymerase II elongation.
PXD005847	29527140	Proteomic characterization of high-density lipoprotein particles in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. 	High Density Lipoprotein Proteome in Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Patients	HDL, NAFLD, Obesity	BACKGROUND: Metabolic diseases such as obesity and diabetes are associated with changes in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) particles, including changes in particle size and protein composition, often resulting in abnormal function. Recent studies suggested that patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), including individuals with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), have smaller HDL particles when compared to individuals without liver pathologies. However, no studies have investigated potential changes in HDL particle protein composition in patients with NAFLD, in addition to changes related to obesity, to explore putative functional changes of HDL which may increase the risk of cardiovascular complications. METHODS: From a cohort of morbidly obese females who were diagnosed with simple steatosis (SS), NASH, or normal liver histology, we selected five matched individuals from each condition for a preliminary pilot HDL proteome analysis. HDL particles were enriched using size-exclusion chromatography, and the proteome of the resulting fraction was analyzed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Differences in the proteomes between the three conditions (normal, SS, NASH) were assessed using label-free quantitative analysis. Gene ontology term analysis was performed to assess the potential impact of proteomic changes on specific functions of HDL particles. RESULTS: Of the 95 proteins identified, 12 proteins showed nominally significant differences between the three conditions. Gene ontology term analysis revealed that severity of the liver pathology may significantly impact the anti-thrombotic functions of HDL particles, as suggested by changes in the abundance of HDL-associated proteins such as antithrombin III and plasminogen. CONCLUSIONS: The pilot data from this study suggest that changes in the HDL proteome may impact the functionality of HDL particles in NAFLD and NASH patients. These proteome changes may alter cardio-protective properties of HDL, potentially contributing to the increased cardiovascular disease risk in affected individuals. Further validation of these protein changes by orthogonal approaches is key to confirming the role of alterations in the HDL proteome in NAFLD and NASH. This will help elucidate the mechanistic effects of the altered HDL proteome on cardioprotective properties of HDL particles.
PXD006401	29527141	Reproducible proteomics sample preparation for single FFPE tissue slices using acid-labile surfactant and direct trypsinization. 	Reproducible proteomics sample preparation for single FFPE tissue slices using acid-labile surfactant and direct trypsinization	FASP, FFPE, RapiGest, archival tissue, biomarker discovery, label-free quantitation, shotgun  proteomics	BACKGROUND: Proteomic analyses of clinical specimens often rely on human tissues preserved through formalin-fixation and paraffin embedding (FFPE). Minimal sample consumption is the key to preserve the integrity of pathological archives but also to deal with minimal invasive core biopsies. This has been achieved by using the acid-labile surfactant RapiGest in combination with a direct trypsinization (DTR) strategy. A critical comparison of the DTR protocol with the most commonly used filter aided sample preparation (FASP) protocol is lacking. Furthermore, it is unknown how common histological stainings influence the outcome of the DTR protocol. METHODS: Four single consecutive murine kidney tissue specimens were prepared with the DTR approach or with the FASP protocol using both 10 and 30 k filter devices and analyzed by label-free, quantitative liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). We compared the different protocols in terms of proteome coverage, relative label-free quantitation, missed cleavages, physicochemical properties and gene ontology term annotations of the proteins. Additionally, we probed compatibility of the DTR protocol for the analysis of common used histological stainings, namely hematoxylin & eosin (H&E), hematoxylin and hemalaun. These were proteomically compared to an unstained control by analyzing four human tonsil FFPE tissue specimens per condition. RESULTS: On average, the DTR protocol identified 1841 +/- 22 proteins in a single, non-fractionated LC-MS/MS analysis, whereas these numbers were 1857 +/- 120 and 1970 +/- 28 proteins for the FASP 10 and 30 k protocol. The DTR protocol showed 15% more missed cleavages, which did not adversely affect quantitation and intersample comparability. Hematoxylin or hemalaun staining did not adversely impact the performance of the DTR protocol. A minor perturbation was observed for H&E staining, decreasing overall protein identification by 13%. CONCLUSIONS: In essence, the DTR protocol can keep up with the FASP protocol in terms of qualitative and quantitative reproducibility and performed almost as well in terms of proteome coverage and missed cleavages. We highlight the suitability of the DTR protocol as a viable and straightforward alternative to the FASP protocol for proteomics-based clinical research.
PXD007203	29529017	Improved Ribo-seq enables identification of cryptic translation events. 	MHC-I peptidome analysis of human foreskin fibroblasts	HFF, MHC-I, peptidome	Ribosome profiling has been used to predict thousands of short open reading frames (sORFs) in eukaryotic cells, but it suffers from substantial levels of noise. PRICE (https://github.com/erhard-lab/price) is a computational method that models experimental noise to enable researchers to accurately resolve overlapping sORFs and noncanonical translation initiation. We experimentally validated translation using major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) peptidomics and observed that sORF-derived peptides efficiently enter the MHC I presentation pathway and thus constitute a substantial fraction of the antigen repertoire.
PXD008917	29529248	Protein composition of catalytically active U7-dependent processing complexes assembled on histone pre-mRNA containing biotin and a photo-cleavable linker. 	Protein composition of catalytically active U7-dependent processing complexes assembled on histone pre-mRNA containing biotin and a photo-cleavable linker	3' end processing, FLASH, Histone pre-mRNA, Lsm11, SLBP, U7 snRNP, photo-cleavable linker	3' end cleavage of metazoan replication-dependent histone pre-mRNAs requires the multi-subunit holo-U7 snRNP and the stem-loop binding protein (SLBP). The exact composition of the U7 snRNP and details of SLBP function in processing remain unclear. To identify components of the U7 snRNP in an unbiased manner, we developed a novel approach for purifying processing complexes from Drosophila and mouse nuclear extracts. In this method, catalytically active processing complexes are assembled in vitro on a cleavage-resistant histone pre-mRNA containing biotin and a photo-sensitive linker, and eluted from streptavidin beads by UV irradiation for direct analysis by mass spectrometry. In the purified processing complexes, Drosophila and mouse U7 snRNP have a remarkably similar composition, always being associated with CPSF73, CPSF100, symplekin and CstF64. Many other proteins previously implicated in the U7-dependent processing are not present. Drosophila U7 snRNP bound to histone pre-mRNA in the absence of SLBP contains the same subset of polyadenylation factors but is catalytically inactive and addition of recombinant SLBP is sufficient to trigger cleavage. This result suggests that Drosophila SLBP promotes a structural rearrangement of the processing complex, resulting in juxtaposition of the CPSF73 endonuclease with the cleavage site in the pre-mRNA substrate.
PXD001215	29530978	Elucidation of the 14-3-3zeta interactome reveals critical roles of RNA-splicing factors during adipogenesis. 	Role of 14-3-3  in the adipogenesis program and the differentiation of healthy adipose tissue	14-3-3, adipocytes, adipogenesis, differentiation, molecular adaptors	Adipogenesis involves a complex signaling network requiring strict temporal and spatial organization of effector molecules. Molecular scaffolds, such as 14-3-3 proteins, facilitate such organization, and we have previously identified 14-3-3zeta as an essential scaffold in adipocyte differentiation. The interactome of 14-3-3zeta is large and diverse, and it is possible that novel adipogenic factors may be present within it, but this possibility has not yet been tested. Herein, we generated mouse embryonic fibroblasts from mice overexpressing a tandem affinity purification (TAP) epitope-tagged 14-3-3zeta molecule. After inducing adipogenesis, TAP-14-3-3zeta complexes were purified, followed by MS analysis to determine the 14-3-3zeta interactome. We observed more than 100 proteins that were unique to adipocyte differentiation, 56 of which were novel interacting partners. Among these, we were able to identify previously established regulators of adipogenesis (i.e. Ptrf/Cavin1) within the 14-3-3zeta interactome, confirming the utility of this approach to detect adipogenic factors. We found that proteins related to RNA metabolism, processing, and splicing were enriched in the interactome. Analysis of transcriptomic data revealed that 14-3-3zeta depletion in 3T3-L1 cells affected alternative splicing of mRNA during adipocyte differentiation. siRNA-mediated depletion of RNA-splicing factors within the 14-3-3zeta interactome, that is, of Hnrpf, Hnrpk, Ddx6, and Sfpq, revealed that they have essential roles in adipogenesis and in the alternative splicing of Pparg and the adipogenesis-associated gene Lpin1 In summary, we have identified novel adipogenic factors within the 14-3-3zeta interactome. Further characterization of additional proteins within the 14-3-3zeta interactome may help identify novel targets to block obesity-associated expansion of adipose tissues.
PXD004444	29531019	Paclitaxel Treatment and Proprotein Convertase 1/3 (PC1/3) Knockdown in Macrophages is a Promising Antiglioma Strategy as Revealed by Proteomics and Cytotoxicity Studies. 	A novel treatment for glioblastoma based on Taxol activation of PC1/3-depleted macrophages: evidence from a proteomic and functional study.	Proprotein convertase PC1/3, STAT3, TLR4 signaling, Taxol, calcium, intracellular trafficking, macrophage, shotgun proteomic, tumors	High grade gliomas are the most common brain tumors in adult. These tumors are characterized by a high infiltration in microglial cells and macrophages. The immunosuppressive tumor environment is known to orient immune cells toward a pro-tumoral and anti-inflammatory phenotype. Therefore, the current challenge for cancer therapy is to find a way to reorient macrophages toward an antitumoral phenotype. Previously, we demonstrated that macrophages secreted antitumoral factors when they were invalidated for the proprotein converstase 1/3 (PC1/3) and treated with LPS. However, achieving an activation of macrophages via LPS/TLR4/Myd88-dependent pathway appears yet unfeasible in cancer patients. On the contrary, the antitumor drug Paclitaxel is also known to activate the TLR4 MyD88-dependent signaling pathway and mimics LPS action. Therefore, we evaluated if PC1/3 knock-down (KD) macrophages could be activated by Paclitaxel and efficient against glioma. We report here that such a treatment of PC1/3 KD macrophages drove to the overexpression of proteins mainly involved in cytoskeleton rearrangement. In support of this finding, we found that these cells exhibited a Ca(2+) increase after Paclitaxel treatment. This is indicative of a possible depolymerization of microtubules and may therefore reflect an activation of inflammatory pathways in macrophages. In such a way, we found that PC1/3 KD macrophages displayed a repression of the anti-inflammatory pathway STAT3 and secreted more pro-inflammatory cytokines. Extracellular vesicles isolated from these PC1/3 KD cells inhibited glioma growth. Finally, the supernatant collected from the coculture between glioma cells and PC1/3 KD macrophages contained more antitumoral factors. These findings unravel the potential value of a new therapeutic strategy combining Paclitaxel and PC1/3 inhibition to switch macrophages toward an antitumoral immunophenotype.
PXD008868	29531219	TRiC controls transcription resumption after UV damage by regulating Cockayne syndrome protein A. 	TRiC controls transcription resumption after UV damage by regulating Cockayne Syndrome protein A	CSA, TC-NER, TRiC	Transcription-blocking DNA lesions are removed by transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair (TC-NER) to preserve cell viability. TC-NER is triggered by the stalling of RNA polymerase II at DNA lesions, leading to the recruitment of TC-NER-specific factors such as the CSA-DDB1-CUL4A-RBX1 cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase complex (CRL(CSA)). Despite its vital role in TC-NER, little is known about the regulation of the CRL(CSA) complex during TC-NER. Using conventional and cross-linking immunoprecipitations coupled to mass spectrometry, we uncover a stable interaction between CSA and the TRiC chaperonin. TRiC's binding to CSA ensures its stability and DDB1-dependent assembly into the CRL(CSA) complex. Consequently, loss of TRiC leads to mislocalization and depletion of CSA, as well as impaired transcription recovery following UV damage, suggesting defects in TC-NER. Furthermore, Cockayne syndrome (CS)-causing mutations in CSA lead to increased TRiC binding and a failure to compose the CRL(CSA) complex. Thus, we uncover CSA as a TRiC substrate and reveal that TRiC regulates CSA-dependent TC-NER and the development of CS.
PXD006383	29531307	Mucosal-luminal interface proteomics reveals biomarkers of pediatric inflammatory bowel disease-associated colitis. 	Human colon aspirate proteins analyzed by LC-MSMS	colon aspirates	OBJECTIVE: Improved biomarkers are an unmet clinical need for suspected inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Need is greatest for children, since current biomarkers suffers from low specificity, particularly in this population; thus, invasive testing methods, with the accompanying risk of complications, are necessary. Additionally, current biomarkers do not delineate disease extent assessment for ulcerative colitis (UC), a factor involved in therapeutic decisions. METHODS: Intestinal mucosal-luminal interface (MLI) aspirates from the ascending colon (AC) and descending colon (DC) were collected during diagnostic colonoscopy from treatment-naive children. The MLI proteomes of 18 non-IBD and 42 IBD patients were analyzed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry. Analyses of proteomic data generated protein panels distinguishing IBD from non-IBD and pancolitis from non-pancolitis (UC disease extent). Select protein biomarkers were evaluated in stool samples by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (n = 24). RESULTS: A panel of four proteins discriminated active IBD from non-IBD (discovery cohort) with a sensitivity of 0.954 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.772-0.999) and >0.999 (95% CI: 0.824-1.00) for the AC and DC, respectively, and a specificity of >0.999 (AC, 95% CI: 0.815-1.00; DC, 95% CI:0.692-1.00) for both the AC and DC. A separate panel of four proteins distinguished pancolitis from non-pancolitis in UC patients with sensitivity >0.999 (95% CI: 0.590-1.00) and specificity >0.999 (95% CI: 0.715-1.00). Catalase (p < 0.0001) and LTA4H (p = 0.0002) were elevated in IBD stool samples compared to non-IBD stool samples. CONCLUSION: This study identified panels of proteins that have significantly different expression levels and contribute to accurate IBD diagnosis and disease extent characterization in children with UC. Biomarkers identified from the MLI demonstrate transferable results in stool samples.
PXD006839	29533181	NuRD and CAF-1-mediated silencing of the D4Z4 array is modulated by DUX4-induced MBD3L proteins. 	NuRD and CAF-1-mediated silencing of the D4Z4 array is modulated by DUX4-induced MBD3L proteins	D4Z4, DUX4, FSHD	The DUX4 transcription factor is encoded by a retrogene embedded in each unit of the D4Z4 macrosatellite repeat. DUX4 is normally expressed in the cleavage-stage embryo, whereas chromatin repression prevents DUX4 expression in most somatic tissues. Failure of this repression causes facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) due to mis-expression of DUX4 in skeletal muscle. In this study, we used CRISPR/Cas9 engineered chromatin immunoprecipitation (enChIP) locus-specific proteomics to characterize D4Z4-associated proteins. These and other approaches identified the Nucleosome Remodeling Deacetylase (NuRD) and Chromatin Assembly Factor 1 (CAF-1) complexes as necessary for DUX4 repression in human skeletal muscle cells and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. Furthermore, DUX4-induced expression of MBD3L proteins partly relieved this repression in FSHD muscle cells. Together, these findings identify NuRD and CAF-1 as mediators of DUX4 chromatin repression and suggest a mechanism for the amplification of DUX4 expression in FSHD muscle cells.
PXD009051	29533670	Proteomic and Biochemical Analyses Reveal a Novel Mechanism for Promoting Protein Ubiquitination and Degradation by UFBP1, a Key Component of Ufmylation. 	Identification of UFBP1 interacting proteins	293T, UFBP1, homo sapiens, interacting proteins, orbitrap	Protein post-translational modification by ubiquitin-fold modifier 1, UFM1, regulates many biological processes such as response to endoplasmic reticulum stress and regulation of tumor progression. A recent study has indicated that the UFM1-binding and PCI domain-containing protein 1 (UFBP1) is required for the conjugation of UFM1 to a substrate. However, other biological functions of UFBP1 have not been explored. Here, we use immunoprecipitation and label-free quantitative proteomics to identify UFBP1-interacting proteins in a mammalian cell line. About 80 potential interacting proteins are obtained from MS analyses of three biological replicates. Bioinformatics analyses of these proteins suggest that UFBP1 may participate in the regulation of protein folding, stability, and trafficking. Biochemical experiments discover that UFBP1 expression downregulates the protein level and reduces the stability of several of its interacting proteins, while UFBP1 knockdown increases their protein levels. Protein synthesis inhibition and proteasomal inhibition experiments reveal that UFBP1 promotes their ubiquitination and degradation. Experiments using a model UFBP1-interacting protein ANT3 demonstrate that UFBP1 enhances the interaction between ANT3 and its E3 ligase and thus promotes its ubiquitination and degradation. Our work elucidates a novel molecular mechanism by which UFBP1 regulates protein ubiquitination and degradation.
PXD008111	29535189	Zc3h13/Flacc is required for adenosine methylation by bridging the mRNA-binding factor Rbm15/Spenito to the m(6)A machinery component Wtap/Fl(2)d. 	Zc3h13/Flacc is required for adenosine methylation by bridging the mRNA binding factor Rbm15/Spenito to other components of the m6A machinery	Flacc, RNA modifications, Zc3h13, m6A, methyltransferase complex, sex determination	N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) is the most abundant mRNA modification in eukaryotes, playing crucial roles in multiple biological processes. m(6)A is catalyzed by the activity of methyltransferase-like 3 (Mettl3), which depends on additional proteins whose precise functions remain poorly understood. Here we identified Zc3h13 (zinc finger CCCH domain-containing protein 13)/Flacc [Fl(2)d-associated complex component] as a novel interactor of m(6)A methyltransferase complex components in Drosophila and mice. Like other components of this complex, Flacc controls m(6)A levels and is involved in sex determination in Drosophila We demonstrate that Flacc promotes m(6)A deposition by bridging Fl(2)d to the mRNA-binding factor Nito. Altogether, our work advances the molecular understanding of conservation and regulation of the m(6)A machinery.
PXD007145	29535314	Benchmarking common quantification strategies for large-scale phosphoproteomics. 	Benchmarking LFQ, SILAC and MS2/MS3-based TMT quantification strategies for large-scale phosphoproteomics	LFQ, MS2, MS3, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, SILAC, TMT, benchmark, benchmarking, machine learning, phosphoproteomics, quantification	Comprehensive mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics is now feasible, but reproducible quantification remains challenging, especially for post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation. Here, we compare the most popular quantification techniques for global phosphoproteomics: label-free quantification (LFQ), stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) and MS(2)- and MS(3)-measured tandem mass tags (TMT). In a mixed species comparison with fixed phosphopeptide ratios, we find LFQ and SILAC to be the most accurate techniques. MS(2)-based TMT yields the highest precision but lowest accuracy due to ratio compression, which MS(3)-based TMT can partly rescue. However, MS(2)-based TMT outperforms MS(3)-based TMT when analyzing phosphoproteome changes in the DNA damage response, since its higher precision and larger identification numbers allow detection of a greater number of significantly regulated phosphopeptides. Finally, we utilize the TMT multiplexing capabilities to develop an algorithm for determining phosphorylation site stoichiometry, showing that such applications benefit from the high accuracy of MS(3)-based TMT.
PXD005709	29535834	Innovative methodology for the identification of soluble biomarkers in fresh tissues. 	Biomarkers discovery for Colorectal cancer liver metastasis	colon cancer liver metastasis	The identification of diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers from early lesions, measurable in liquid biopsies remains a major challenge, particularly in oncology. Fresh human material of high quality is required for biomarker discovery but is often not available when it is totally required for clinical pathology investigation. Hence, all OMICs studies are done on residual and less clinically relevant biological samples. Here after, we present an innovative, simple, and non-destructive, procedure named EXPEL that uses rapid, pressure-assisted, interstitial fluid extrusion, preserving the specimen for full routine clinical pathology investigation. In the meantime, the technique allows a comprehensive OMICs analysis (proteins, metabolites, miRNAs and DNA). As proof of concept, we have applied EXPEL on freshly collected human colorectal cancer and liver metastases tissues. We demonstrate that the procedure efficiently allows the extraction, within a few minutes, of a wide variety of biomolecules holding diagnostic and prognostic potential while keeping both tissue morphology and antigenicity unaltered. Our method enables, for the first time, both clinicians and scientists to explore identical clinical material regardless of its origin and size, which has a major positive impact on translation to the clinic.
PXD005657	29537826	Direct Evidence of the Presence of Cross-Linked Abeta Dimers in the Brains of Alzheimer's Disease Patients. 	Direct evidence of the presence of cross-linked Abeta dimers in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients	Alzheimer's disease, amyloid-beta, cross-linked dimers, oxidative stress	Brain-derived amyloid-beta (Abeta) dimers are associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, their covalent nature remains controversial. This feature is relevant, as a covalent cross-link has been proposed to make brain-derived dimers (brain dimers) more synaptotoxic than Abeta monomers and would also make them suitable candidates for biomarker development. To resolve this controversy, we here present a three-step approach. First, we validated a type of synthetic cross-linked Abeta (CL Abeta) dimers, obtained by means of the photoinduced cross-linking of unmodified proteins (PICUP) reaction, as well-defined mimics of putative brain CL Abeta dimers. Second, we used these PICUP CL Abeta dimers as standards to improve the isolation of brain Abeta dimers and to develop state-of-the-art mass spectrometry (MS) strategies to allow their characterization. Third, we applied these MS methods to the analysis of brain Abeta dimer samples allowing the detection of the CL [Abeta(6-16)]2 peptide comprising a dityrosine cross-link. This result demonstrates the presence of CL Abeta dimers in the brains of patients with AD and opens up avenues for establishing new therapeutic targets and developing novel biomarkers for this disease.
PXD008065	29540765	Xanthomonas citri jumbo phage XacN1 exhibits a wide host range and high complement of tRNA genes. 	Protein ID of XacN1	Xanthomonas citri, jumbo phage, XacN1	Xanthomonas virus (phage) XacN1 is a novel jumbo myovirus infecting Xanthomonas citri, the causative agent of Asian citrus canker. Its linear 384,670 bp double-stranded DNA genome encodes 592 proteins and presents the longest (66 kbp) direct terminal repeats (DTRs) among sequenced viral genomes. The DTRs harbor 56 tRNA genes, which correspond to all 20 amino acids and represent the largest number of tRNA genes reported in a viral genome. Codon usage analysis revealed a propensity for the phage encoded tRNAs to target codons that are highly used by the phage but less frequently by its host. The existence of these tRNA genes and seven additional translation-related genes as well as a chaperonin gene found in the XacN1 genome suggests a relative independence of phage replication on host molecular machinery, leading to a prediction of a wide host range for this jumbo phage. We confirmed the prediction by showing a wider host range of XacN1 than other X. citri phages in an infection test against a panel of host strains. Phylogenetic analyses revealed a clade of phages composed of XacN1 and ten other jumbo phages, indicating an evolutionary stable large genome size for this group of phages.
PXD008922	29541085	Physiological and Proteomic Responses of Contrasting Alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) Varieties to PEG-Induced Osmotic Stress. 	iTRAQ-based labeling proteomics analysis of alfalfa roots in response to PEG-induced osmotic stress	alfalfa, iTRAQ-based proteomics, osmotic stress, roots	Drought severely limits global plant distribution and agricultural production. Elucidating the physiological and molecular mechanisms governing alfalfa stress responses will contribute to the improvement of drought tolerance in leguminous crops. In this study, the physiological and proteomic responses of two alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) varieties contrasting in drought tolerance, Longzhong (drought-tolerant) and Gannong No. 3 (drought-sensitive), were comparatively assayed when seedlings were exposed to -1.2 MPa polyethylene glycol (PEG-6000) treatments for 15 days. The results showed that the levels of proline, malondialdehyde (MDA), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), hydroxyl free radical (OH(*)) and superoxide anion free radical (O2(*-)) in both varieties were significantly increased, while the root activity, the superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione reductase (GR) activities, and the ratios of reduced/oxidized ascorbate (AsA/DHA) and reduced/oxidized glutathione (GSH/GSSG) were significantly decreased. The soluble protein and soluble sugar contents, the total antioxidant capability (T-AOC) and the activities of peroxidase (POD), catalase (CAT), and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) first increased and then decreased with the increase in treatment days. Under osmotic stress, Longzhong exhibited lower levels of MDA, H2O2, OH(*) and O2(*-) but higher levels of SOD, CAT, APX, T-AOC and ratios of AsA/DHA and GSH/GSSG compared with Gannong No.3. Using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ), 142 differentially accumulated proteins (DAPs) were identified from two alfalfa varieties, including 52 proteins (34 up-regulated and 18 down-regulated) in Longzhong, 71 proteins (28 up-regulated and 43 down-regulated) in Gannong No. 3, and 19 proteins (13 up-regulated and 6 down-regulated) shared by both varieties. Most of these DAPs were involved in stress and defense, protein metabolism, transmembrane transport, signal transduction, as well as cell wall and cytoskeleton metabolism. In conclusion, the stronger drought-tolerance of Longzhong was attributed to its higher osmotic adjustment capacity, greater ability to orchestrate its enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant systems and thus avoid great oxidative damage in comparison to Gannong No. 3. Moreover, the involvement of other pathways, including carbohydrate metabolism, ROS detoxification, secondary metabolism, protein processing, ion and water transport, signal transduction, and cell wall adjustment, are important mechanisms for conferring drought tolerance in alfalfa.
PXD007094	29543447	Small Molecule Interactome Mapping by Photoaffinity Labeling Reveals Binding Site Hotspots for the NSAIDs. 	Small molecule interactome mapping by photo-affinity labeling (SIM-PAL)	NSAID, binding site, interactome, photo-crosslinking	Many therapeutics elicit cell-type specific polypharmacology that is executed by a network of molecular recognition events between a small molecule and the whole proteome. However, measurement of the structures that underpin the molecular associations between the proteome and even common therapeutics, such as the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), is limited by the inability to map the small molecule interactome. To address this gap, we developed a platform termed small molecule interactome mapping by photoaffinity labeling (SIM-PAL) and applied it to the in cellulo direct characterization of specific NSAID binding sites. SIM-PAL uses (1) photochemical conjugation of NSAID derivatives in the whole proteome and (2) enrichment and isotope-recoding of the conjugated peptides for (3) targeted mass spectrometry-based assignment. Using SIM-PAL, we identified the NSAID interactome consisting of over 1000 significantly enriched proteins and directly characterized nearly 200 conjugated peptides representing direct binding sites of the photo-NSAIDs with proteins from Jurkat and K562 cells. The enriched proteins were often identified as parts of complexes, including known targets of NSAID activity (e.g., NF-kappaB) and novel interactions (e.g., AP-2, proteasome). The conjugated peptides revealed direct NSAID binding sites from the cell surface to the nucleus and a specific binding site hotspot for the three photo-NSAIDs on histones H2A and H2B. NSAID binding stabilized COX-2 and histone H2A by cellular thermal shift assay. Since small molecule stabilization of protein complexes is a gain of function regulatory mechanism, it is conceivable that NSAIDs affect biological processes through these broader proteomic interactions. SIM-PAL enabled characterization of NSAID binding site hotspots and is amenable to map global binding sites for virtually any molecule of interest.
PXD008422	29545142	A 90-day OECD TG 413 rat inhalation study with systems toxicology endpoints demonstrates reduced exposure effects of the aerosol from the carbon heated tobacco product version 1.2 (CHTP1.2) compared with cigarette smoke. II. Systems toxicology assessment. 	Systems toxicology assessment of CHTP1.2 [Lung Data]	MRTP, Rat, Systems Toxicology, iTRAQ	Modified risk tobacco products (MRTPs) have the potential to reduce smoking-related health risks. The Carbon Heated Tobacco Product 1.2 (CHTP1.2) is a potential MRTP that uses a pressed carbon heat source to generate an aerosol by heating tobacco. Here, we report the results from the systems toxicology arm of a 90-day rat inhalation study (OECD test guideline 413) to assess the effects of CHTP1.2 aerosol compared with cigarette smoke (CS). Transcriptomics, proteomics, and lipidomics analyses complemented the standard endpoints. In the respiratory nasal epithelium, CS induced an adaptive tissue and inflammatory response, which was much weaker after CHTP1.2 aerosol exposure, mostly limited to the highest CHTP1.2 concentration (at twice the 3R4F CS concentration: 50 vs. 23 mug nicotine/L), in female rats. In the lungs, the effects of CS exposure included inflammatory and cellular stress responses, which were absent or much lower after CHTP1.2 aerosol exposure. Outside of the respiratory tract, CS and CHTP1.2 aerosol induced effects that were previously associated with exposure to any nicotine-containing aerosol, e.g., lower lipid concentrations in serum. Overall, this systems toxicology analysis complements and confirms the results from classical toxicological endpoints and further suggests potentially reduced respiratory health risks of CHTP1.2.
PXD008494	29547667	Comparison of secretome from osteoblasts derived from sclerotic versus non-sclerotic subchondral bone in OA: A pilot study. 	Osteoarthritis osteoblasts secretome	Matrix mineralization, Non-collagenous proteins, Osteoarthritis, Osteoblasts, Secretome	OBJECTIVE: Osteoarthritis (OA) is characterized by cartilage degradation but also by other joint tissues modifications like subchondral bone sclerosis. In this study, we used a proteomic approach to compare secretome of osteoblast isolated from sclerotic (SC) or non sclerotic (NSC) area of OA subchondral bone. DESIGN: Secretome was analyzed using differential quantitative and relative label free analysis on nanoUPLC G2 HDMS system. mRNA of the more differentially secreted proteins were quantified by RT-PCR in cell culture from 5 other patients. Finally, osteomodulin and fibulin-3 sequences were quantified by western blot and immunoassays in serum and culture supernatants. RESULTS: 175 proteins were identified in NSC osteoblast secretome. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008494. Compared to NSC osteoblast secretome, 12 proteins were significantly less secreted (Osteomodulin, IGFBP5, VCAM-1, IGF2, 78 kDa glucose-regulated protein, versican, calumenin, IGFBP2, thrombospondin-4, periostin, reticulocalbin 1 and osteonectin), and 13 proteins were significantly more secreted by SC osteoblasts (CHI3L1, fibulin-3, SERPINE2, IGFBP6, SH3BGRL3, SERPINE1, reticulocalbin3, alpha-2-HS-glycoprotein, TIMP-2, IGFBP3, TIMP-1, SERPINF1, CSF-1). Similar changes in osteomodulin, IGF2, SERPINE1, fibulin-3 and CHI3L1 mRNA levels were observed. ELISAs assays confirm the decrease by half of osteomodulin protein in SC osteoblasts supernatant compared to NSC and in OA patients serum compared to healthy subjects. Fibulin-3 epitopes Fib3-1, Fib3-2 and Fib3-3 were also increased in SC osteoblasts supernatant compared to NSC. CONCLUSIONS: We highlighted some proteins differentially secreted by the osteoblasts coming from OA subchondral bone sclerosis. These changes contribute to explain some features observed in OA subchondral bone, like the increase of bone remodeling or abnormalities in bone matrix mineralization. Among identified proteins, osteomodulin was found decreased and fibulin-3 increased in serum of OA patients. These findings suggest that osteomodulin and fibulin-3 fragments could be biomarkers to monitor early changes in subchondral bone metabolism in OA.
PXD006154	29547722	CDK and MAPK Synergistically Regulate Signaling Dynamics via a Shared Multi-site Phosphorylation Region on the Scaffold Protein Ste5. 	CDK and MAPK collaborate to regulate signaling dynamics via multi-site phosphorylation of the scaffold protein Ste5	CDK, MAPK, Ste5, pheromone response, phospho proteomics	We report an unanticipated system of joint regulation by cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), involving collaborative multi-site phosphorylation of a single substrate. In budding yeast, the protein Ste5 controls signaling through a G1 arrest pathway. Upon cell-cycle entry, CDK inhibits Ste5 via multiple phosphorylation sites, disrupting its membrane association. Using quantitative time-lapse microscopy, we examined Ste5 membrane recruitment dynamics at different cell-cycle stages. Surprisingly, in S phase, where Ste5 recruitment should be blocked, we observed an initial recruitment followed by a steep drop-off. This delayed inhibition revealed a requirement for both CDK activity and negative feedback from the pathway MAPK Fus3. Mutagenesis, mass spectrometry, and electrophoretic analyses suggest that the CDK and MAPK modify shared sites, which are most extensively phosphorylated when both kinases are active and able to bind their docking sites on Ste5. Such collaborative phosphorylation can broaden regulatory inputs and diversify output dynamics of signaling pathways.
PXD005841	29548275	OsNOA1 functions in a threshold-dependent manner to regulate chloroplast proteins in rice at lower temperatures. 	OsNOA1 functions in a threshold-dependent manner to regulate chloroplast proteins in rice at lower temperatures	Chloroplast, NOA1, Quantitative proteomics, Rice, TMT, Threshold-dependent	BACKGROUND: Although decreased protein expressions have been observed in NOA1 (Nitric Oxide Associated protein 1) deficient plants, the molecular mechanisms of how NOA1 regulates protein metabolism remain poorly understood. In this study, we have used a global comparative proteomic approach for both OsNOA1 suppression and overexpression transgenic lines under two different temperatures, in combination with physiological and biochemical analyses to explore the regulatory mechanisms of OsNOA1 in rice. RESULTS: In OsNOA1-silenced or highly overexpressed rice, considerably different expression patterns of both chlorophyll and Rubisco as well as distinct phenotypes were observed between the growth temperatures at 22 degreesC and 30 degreesC. These observations led us to hypothesize there appears a narrow abundance threshold for OsNOA1 to function properly at lower temperatures, while higher temperatures seem to partially compensate for the changes of OsNOA1 abundance. Quantitative proteomic analyses revealed higher temperatures could restore 90% of the suppressed proteins to normal levels, whereas almost all of the remaining suppressed proteins were chloroplast ribosomal proteins. Additionally, our data showed 90% of the suppressed proteins in both types of transgenic plants at lower temperatures were located in the chloroplast, suggesting a primary effect of OsNOA1 on chloroplast proteins. Transcript analyses, along with in vitro pull-down experiments further demonstrated OsNOA1 is associated with the function of chloroplast ribosomes. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest OsNOA1 functions in a threshold-dependent manner for regulation of chloroplast proteins at lower temperatures, which may be mediated by interactions between OsNOA1 and chloroplast ribosomes.
PXD007709	29549123	Wnt7a activates canonical Wnt signaling, promotes bladder cancer cell invasion, and is suppressed by miR-370-3p. 	Proteomic analysis of the invasiveness of human bladder cancer cells	TMT6, bladder cancer cells, invasiveness	Once urinary bladder cancer (UBC) develops into muscle-invasive bladder cancer, its mortality rate increases dramatically. However, the molecular mechanisms of UBC invasion and metastasis remain largely unknown. Herein, using 5637 UBC cells, we generated two sublines with low (5637 NMI) and high (5637 HMI) invasive capabilities. Mass spectrum analyses revealed that the Wnt family protein Wnt7a is more highly expressed in 5637 HMI cells than in 5637 NMI cells. We also found that increased Wnt7a expression is associated with UBC metastasis and predicted worse clinical outcome in UBC patients. Wnt7a depletion in 5637 HMI and T24 cells reduced UBC cell invasion and decreased levels of active beta-catenin and its downstream target genes involved in the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation. Consistently, treating 5637 NMI and J82 cells with recombinant Wnt7a induced cell invasion, EMT, and expression of ECM degradation-associated genes. Moreover, TOP/FOPflash luciferase assays indicated that Wnt7a activated canonical beta-catenin signaling in UBC cells, and increased Wnt7a expression was associated with nuclear beta-catenin in UBC samples. Wnt7a ablation suppressed matrix metalloproteinase 10 (MMP10) expression, and Wnt7a overexpression increased MMP10 promoter activity through two TCF/LEF promoter sites, confirming that Wnt7a-mediated MMP10 activation is mediated by the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. Of note, the microRNA miR-370-3p directly repressed Wnt7a expression and thereby suppressed UBC cell invasion, which was partially restored by Wnt7a overexpression. Our results have identified an miR-370-3p/Wnt7a axis that controls UBC invasion through canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, which may offer prognostic and therapeutic opportunities.
PXD006335	29549242	SUMO targets the APC/C to regulate transition from metaphase to anaphase. 	SUMO targets the APC/C in a phosphorylation-dependent manner to regulate transition from metaphase to anaphase	APC4, Anaphase promoting complex, KIF18B, SUMO, chromatin bridges, mitosis, phosphorylation, ubiquitin	Signal transduction by small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) regulates a myriad of nuclear processes. Here we report on the role of SUMO in mitosis in human cell lines. Knocking down the SUMO conjugation machinery results in a delay in mitosis and defects in mitotic chromosome separation. Searching for relevant SUMOylated proteins in mitosis, we identify the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a master regulator of metaphase to anaphase transition. The APC4 subunit is the major SUMO target in the complex, containing SUMO acceptor lysines at positions 772 and 798. SUMOylation is crucial for accurate progression of cells through mitosis and increases APC/C ubiquitylation activity toward a subset of its targets, including the newly identified target KIF18B. Combined, our findings demonstrate the importance of SUMO signal transduction for genome integrity during mitotic progression and reveal how SUMO and ubiquitin cooperate to drive mitosis.
PXD005894	29550192	Immune response elicited by two rBCG strains devoid of genes involved in c-di-GMP metabolism affect protection versus challenge with M. tuberculosis strains of different virulence. 	Proteome changes as consequence of altered c-di-GMP metabolism in BCG	Mycobacteria, c-di-GMP, pellicle	Pellicles, a type of biofilm, have gathered a renewed interest in the field of tuberculosis as a structure that mimics some characteristics occurring during M. tuberculosis infection, such as antibiotic recalcitrance and chronicity of infection, and as a source of antigens for humoral response in infected guinea pigs. In other bacteria, it has been well documented that the second messenger c-di-GMP modulates the transition from planktonic cells to biofilm formation. In this work, we used the live vaccine Mycobacterium bovis BCG to determine whether deletion of genes involved in c-di-GMP metabolism would affect interaction with macrophages, capacity to induce immune response in a murine cell line and mice, and how the protein profile was modified when grown as surface pellicles. We found that deletion of the BCG1419c (Delta c-di-GMP phosphodiesterase, DeltaPDE) gene, or deletion of the BCG1416c (Delta c-di-GMP diguanylate cyclase, DeltaDGC) gene, altered production of TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-1beta, in murine macrophages, and resulted in attenuation in intra-macrophage replication. Moreover, in addition to the improved immunogenicity of the BCGDeltaBCG1419c mutant already reported, deletion of the BCG1416c gene leads to increased T CD4(+) and T CD8(+) activation. This correlated with protection versus lethality in mice infected with the highly virulent M. tuberculosis 5186 afforded by vaccination with all the tested BCG strains, and controlled the growth of the mildly virulent M. tuberculosis H37Rv in lungs by vaccination with BCGDeltaBCG1419c during chronic late infection from 4 to 6 months after challenge. Furthermore, when grown as surface pellicles, a condition used to manufacture BCG vaccine, in comparison to BCG wild type, both rBCGs changed expression of antigenic proteins such as DnaK, HbhA, PstS2, 35KDa antigen, GroEL2, as well as AcpM, a protein involved in synthesis of mycolic acids, molecules relevant to modulate inflammatory responses.
PXD008633	29551266	Multiplexed Proteome Dynamics Profiling Reveals Mechanisms Controlling Protein Homeostasis. 	Multiplexed proteome dynamics profiling of HSP90 inhibitor 17-AAG	17-AAG, HSP90, mPDP	Protein degradation plays important roles in biological processes and is tightly regulated. Further, targeted proteolysis is an emerging research tool and therapeutic strategy. However, proteome-wide technologies to investigate the causes and consequences of protein degradation in biological systems are lacking. We developed "multiplexed proteome dynamics profiling" (mPDP), a mass-spectrometry-based approach combining dynamic-SILAC labeling with isobaric mass tagging for multiplexed analysis of protein degradation and synthesis. In three proof-of-concept studies, we uncover different responses induced by the bromodomain inhibitor JQ1 versus a JQ1 proteolysis targeting chimera; we elucidate distinct modes of action of estrogen receptor modulators; and we comprehensively classify HSP90 clients based on their requirement for HSP90 constitutively or during synthesis, demonstrating that constitutive HSP90 clients have lower thermal stability than non-clients, have higher affinity for the chaperone, vary between cell types, and change upon external stimuli. These findings highlight the potential of mPDP to identify dynamically controlled degradation mechanisms in cellular systems.
PXD007532	29552294	Integrated analysis of fine-needle-aspiration cystic fluid proteome, cancer cell secretome, and public transcriptome datasets for papillary thyroid cancer biomarker discovery. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of human thyroid cystic fluid and thyroid cancer cell secreted proteins	Thyroid cancer cell, Thyroid cystic fluid	Thyroid ultrasound and ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (USG/FNA) biopsy are currently used for diagnosing papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), but their detection limit could be improved by combining other biomarkers. To discover novel PTC biomarkers, we herein applied a GeLC-MS/MS strategy to analyze the proteome profiles of serum-abundant-protein-depleted FNA cystic fluid from benign and PTC patients, as well as two PTC cell line secretomes. From them, we identified 346, 488, and 2105 proteins, respectively. Comparative analysis revealed that 191 proteins were detected in the PTC but not the benign cystic fluid samples, and thus may represent potential PTC biomarkers. Among these proteins, 101 were detected in the PTC cell line secretomes, and seven of them (NPC2, CTSC, AGRN, GPNMB, DPP4, ERAP2, and SH3BGRL3) were reported in public PTC transcriptome datasets as having 4681 elevated mRNA expression in PTC. Immunoblot analysis confirmed the elevated expression levels of five proteins (NPC2, CTSC, GPNMB, DPP4, and ERAP2) in PTC versus benign cystic fluids. Immunohistochemical studies from near 100 pairs of PTC tissue and their adjacent non-tumor counterparts further showed that AGRN (n = 98), CTSC (n = 99), ERAP2 (n = 98) and GPNMB (n = 100) were significantly (p < 0.05) overexpressed in PTC and higher expression levels of AGRN and CTSC were also significantly associated with metastasis and poor prognosis of PTC patients. Collectively, our results indicate that an integrated analysis of FNA cystic fluid proteome, cancer cell secretome and tissue transcriptome datasets represents a useful strategy for efficiently discovering novel PTC biomarker candidates.
PXD008741	29555687	Proteomic Analysis of the Cell Cycle of Procylic Form Trypanosoma brucei. 	Proteomic analysis of the cell cycle of procylic form Trypanosoma brucei	Cell Cycle, Procyclic, TMT, Trypanosoma brucei	We describe a single-step centrifugal elutriation method to produce synchronous Gap1 (G1)-phase procyclic trypanosomes at a scale amenable for proteomic analysis of the cell cycle. Using ten-plex tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling and mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics technology, the expression levels of 5325 proteins were quantified across the cell cycle in this parasite. Of these, 384 proteins were classified as cell-cycle regulated and subdivided into nine clusters with distinct temporal regulation. These groups included many known cell cycle regulators in trypanosomes, which validates the approach. In addition, we identify 40 novel cell cycle regulated proteins that are essential for trypanosome survival and thus represent potential future drug targets for the prevention of trypanosomiasis. Through cross-comparison to the TrypTag endogenous tagging microscopy database, we were able to validate the cell-cycle regulated patterns of expression for many of the proteins of unknown function detected in our proteomic analysis. A convenient interface to access and interrogate these data is also presented, providing a useful resource for the scientific community. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008741 (https://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/archive/).
PXD009014	29555787	Multiplex Fluorescent, Activity-Based Protein Profiling Identifies Active alpha-Glycosidases and Other Hydrolases in Plants. 	Activity profiling of alphalpha-glycosidases in plants	activity-profiling, glucosidase, glycan, glycoside hydrolase, mannosidase, xylosidase	With nearly 140 alpha-glycosidases in 14 different families, plants are well equipped with enzymes that can break the alpha-glucosidic bonds in a large diversity of molecules. Here, we introduce activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) of alpha-glycosidases in plants using alpha-configured cyclophellitol aziridine probes carrying various fluorophores or biotin. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), these probes label members of the GH31 family of glycosyl hydrolases, including endoplasmic reticulum-resident alpha-glucosidase-II Radial Swelling3/Priority for Sweet Life5 (RSW3/PSL5) and Golgi-resident alpha-mannosidase-II Hybrid Glycosylation1 (HGL1), both of which trim N-glycans on glycoproteins. We detected the active state of extracellular alpha-glycosidases such as alpha-xylosidase XYL1, which acts on xyloglucans in the cell wall to promote cell expansion, and alpha-glucosidase AGLU1, which acts in starch hydrolysis and can suppress fungal invasion. Labeling of alpha-glycosidases generates pH-dependent signals that can be suppressed by alpha-glycosidase inhibitors in a broad range of plant species. To demonstrate its use on a nonmodel plant species, we applied ABPP on saffron crocus (Crocus sativus), a cash crop for the production of saffron spice. Using a combination of biotinylated glycosidase probes, we identified and quantified 67 active glycosidases in saffron crocus stigma, of which 10 are differentially active. We also uncovered massive changes in hydrolase activities in the corms upon infection with Fusarium oxysporum using multiplex fluorescence labeling in combination with probes for serine hydrolases and cysteine proteases. These experiments demonstrate the ease with which active alpha-glycosidases and other hydrolases can be analyzed through ABPP in model and nonmodel plants.
PXD006081	29556000	Environmental allergens induce allergic inflammation through proteolytic maturation of IL-33. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of cleavage sites for different protease allergens in human IL-33	Interleukin-33, peptide mapping, protease processing	Allergic inflammation has crucial roles in allergic diseases such as asthma. It is therefore important to understand why and how the immune system responds to allergens. Here we found that full-length interleukin 33 (IL-33FL), an alarmin cytokine with critical roles in type 2 immunity and asthma, functioned as a protease sensor that detected proteolytic activities associated with various environmental allergens across four kingdoms, including fungi, house dust mites, bacteria and pollens. When exposed to allergen proteases, IL-33FL was rapidly cleaved in its central 'sensor' domain, which led to activation of the production of type 2 cytokines in group 2 innate lymphoid cells. Preventing cleavage of IL-33FL reduced allergic airway inflammation. Our findings reveal a molecular mechanism for the rapid induction of allergic type 2 inflammation following allergen exposure, with important implications for allergic diseases.
PXD006705	29556515	Targeting focal adhesion kinase overcomes erlotinib resistance in smoke induced lung cancer by altering phosphorylation of epidermal growth factor receptor. 	Targeting Focal Adhesion Kinase overcomes erlotinib resistance in smoke induced lung cancer by altering phosphorylation of Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor	NSCLC, cigarette smoke, drug resistance, epidermal growth factor receptor, phosphoproteomics	EGFR-based targeted therapies have shown limited success in smokers. Identification of alternate signaling mechanism(s) leading to TKI resistance in smokers is critically important. We observed increased resistance to erlotinib in H358 NSCLC (non-small cell lung carcinoma) cells chronically exposed to cigarette smoke (H358-S) compared to parental cells. SILAC-based mass-spectrometry approach was used to study altered signaling in H358-S cell line. Importantly, among the top phosphosites in H358-S cells we observed hyperphosphorylation of EGFR (Y1197) and non-receptor tyrosine kinase FAK (Y576/577). Supporting these observations, a transcriptomic-based pathway activation analysis of TCGA NSCLC datasets revealed that FAK and EGFR internalization pathways were significantly upregulated in smoking patients, compared to the never-smokers and were associated with elevated PI3K signaling and lower level of caspase cascade and E-cadherin pathways activation. We show that inhibition of FAK led to decreased cellular proliferation and invasive ability of the smoke-exposed cells, and restored their dependency on EGFR signaling. Our data suggests that activation of focal adhesion pathway significantly contributes to erlotinib resistance, and that FAK is a potential therapeutic target for management of erlotinib resistance in smoke-induced NSCLC.
PXD008199	29558726	Detection of salivary protein biomarkers of saliva secretion disorder in a primary Sjoegren syndrome murine model. 	Salivary Protein Biomarker Detection of Saliva Secretion Disorder in a Primary Sjgren Syndrome Murine Model	Sjgren syndrome, biomarker, differential proteomic analysis, saliva, saliva secretion disorder	Saliva secretion disorder is one of the most common symptoms in primary Sjoegren syndrome (pSS). Salivary biomarkers related to saliva secretion disorder were identified in a pSS murine model, NOD/ShiLtJ mouse, using differential proteomic analysis. Candidate biomarkers were screened with Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analysis and validated in saliva and salivary glands by western blotting and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Biological functions were detected using ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA). We identified 1101 salivary proteins from NOD/ShiLtJ mice and BALB/c mice (control). Catenin alpha-3 (CTNNA3), tyrosine-protein phosphatase non-receptor type 6 (PTPN6), Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate (RAC2), and intermediate conductance calcium-activated potassium channel protein 4 (KCNN4) were screened as candidate biomarkers from 225 significantly dysregulated salivary proteins. These proteins participated in adherens junction or saliva secretion pathway and may be related to saliva secretion disorder. Proteomic analysis revealed that CTNNA3, PTPN6, and RAC2 were dysregulated in saliva and salivary glands and showed satisfactory sensitivity and specificity in receiver-operating characteristic curve; KCNN4 showed no statistical difference. IHC and IPA indicated that CTNNA3 may regulate acinar cell morphology, while PTPN6 and RAC2 promoted lymphocyte adhesion in salivary glands. Thus, CTNNA3, PTPN6, and RAC2 may be related to saliva secretion disorder in pSS.
PXD007794	29560723	High-Confidence Interactome for RNF41 Built on Multiple Orthogonal Assays. 	Orthogonal interactome profiling of RNF41	human AP-MS Viortrap BioID	Ring finger protein 41 (RNF41) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in the ubiquitination and degradation of many proteins including ErbB3 receptors, BIRC6, and parkin. Next to this, RNF41 regulates the intracellular trafficking of certain JAK2-associated cytokine receptors by ubiquitinating and suppressing USP8, which, in turn, destabilizes the ESCRT-0 complex. To further elucidate the function of RNF41 we used different orthogonal approaches to reveal the RNF41 protein complex: affinity purification-mass spectrometry, BioID, and Virotrap. We combined these results with known data sets for RNF41 obtained with microarray MAPPIT and Y2H screens. This way, we establish a comprehensive high-resolution interactome network comprising 175 candidate protein partners. To remove potential methodological artifacts from this network, we distilled the data into a high-confidence interactome map by retaining a total of 19 protein hits identified in two or more of the orthogonal methods. AP2S1, a novel RNF41 interaction partner, was selected from this high-confidence interactome for further functional validation. We reveal a role for AP2S1 in leptin and LIF receptor signaling and show that RNF41 stabilizes and relocates AP2S1.
PXD009123	29561781	The Secretome and N-Glycosylation Profiles of the Charophycean Green Alga, Penium margaritaceum, Resemble Those of Embryophytes. 	The secretome and N-glycosylation profiles of the charophycean green alga, Penium margaritaceum, resemble those of embryophytes	N-glycosylation, cell wall proteins, charophycean green algae, embryophytes, secretome	The secretome can be defined as the population of proteins that are secreted into the extracellular environment. Many proteins that are secreted by eukaryotes are N-glycosylated. However, there are striking differences in the diversity and conservation of N-glycosylation patterns between taxa. For example, the secretome and N-glycosylation structures differ between land plants and chlorophyte green algae, but it is not clear when this divergence took place during plant evolution. A potentially valuable system to study this issue is provided by the charophycean green algae (CGA), which is the immediate ancestors of land plants. In this study, we used lectin affinity chromatography (LAC) coupled with mass spectrometry to characterize the secretome including secreted N-glycoproteins of Penium margaritaceum, which is a member of the CGA. The identified secreted proteins and N-glycans were compared to those known from the chlorophyte green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and the model land plant, Arabidopsis thaliana, to establish their evolutionary context. Our approach allowed the identification of cell wall proteins and proteins modified with N-glycans that are identical to those of embryophytes, which suggests that the P. margaritaceum secretome is more closely related to those of land plants than to those of chlorophytes. The results of this study support the hypothesis that many of the proteins associated with plant cell wall modification as well as other extracellular processes evolved prior to the colonization of terrestrial habitats.
PXD006382	29562190	Subregion-Specific Proteomic Signature in the Hippocampus for Recognition Processes in Adult Mice. 	Subregion-specific proteomic signature in the hippocampus for memory formation in adult mice	SWATH-MS LC-MS/MS hippocampus ca1 ca3 mouse memory recognition	The hippocampal formation is a brain structure essential for higher-order cognitive functions. It has a complex anatomical organization and cellular composition, and hippocampal subregions have different properties and functional roles. In this study, we used SWATH-MS to determine whether the proteomes of hippocampus areas CA1 and CA3 can explain the commonalities or specificities of these subregions in basal conditions and after recognition memory. We show that the proteomes of areas CA1 and CA3 are largely different in basal conditions and that differential changes and dynamics in protein expression are induced in these areas after recognition of an object or object location. While changes are consistent across both recognition paradigms in area CA1, they are not in area CA3, suggesting distinct proteomic responses in areas CA1 and CA3 for memory formation.
PXD007965	29565900	Mapping in vivo target interaction profiles of covalent inhibitors using chemical proteomics with label-free quantification. 	Mapping in vivo target interaction profiles of covalent inhibitors using chemical proteomics with label-free quantification	Activity-based protein profiling, chemical proteomics, covalent inhibitors, label-free quantification, target engagement	Activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) has emerged as a valuable chemical proteomics method to guide the therapeutic development of covalent drugs by assessing their on-target engagement and off-target activity. We recently used ABPP to determine the serine hydrolase interaction landscape of the experimental drug BIA 10-2474, thereby providing a potential explanation for the adverse side effects observed with this compound. ABPP allows mapping of protein interaction landscapes of inhibitors in cells, tissues and animal models. Whereas our previous protocol described quantification of proteasome activity using stable-isotope labeling, this protocol describes the procedures for identifying the in vivo selectivity profile of covalent inhibitors with label-free quantitative proteomics. The optimization of our protocol for label-free quantification methods results in high proteome coverage and allows the comparison of multiple biological samples. We demonstrate our protocol by assessing the protein interaction landscape of the diacylglycerol lipase inhibitor DH376 in mouse brain, liver, kidney and testes. The stages of the protocol include tissue lysis, probe incubation, target enrichment, sample preparation, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) measurement, data processing and analysis. This approach can be used to study target engagement in a native proteome and to identify potential off targets for the inhibitor under investigation. The entire protocol takes at least 4 d, depending on the number of samples.
PXD008187	29565997	Proteomic characterization of fresh spermatozoa and supernatant after cryopreservation in relation to freezability of carp (Cyprinus carpio L) semen. 	Proteomic characterization of fresh spermatozoa and supernatant after cryopreservation in relation to freezability of carp (Cyprinus carpio) semen	Cryoresilience, cryopreservation, fish, semen, sperm	Our recent studies suggested that the freezability of carp semen is related to seminal plasma protein profiles. Here, we aimed to compare the spermatozoa proteomes of good (GF) and poor (PF) freezability semen of carp. To achieve this, we used two-dimensional difference in gel electrophoresis followed by MALDI-TOF/TOF mass spectrometry. The semen was classified as GF or PF based on sperm motility after freeze/thawing. We identified proteins enriched in spermatozoa of GF (22 proteins) and PF (18 proteins) semen. We also identified 12 proteins enriched in the supernatant after cryopreservation of PF semen. Good freezability is related to high concentrations of proteins involved in the maintenance of flagella structure, membrane fluidity, efficient control of Ca2+ and sperm motility, energy production, and antioxidative protection, which likely reflects the full maturation status of spermatozoa of GF semen. On the other hand poor freezability seems to be related to the presence of proteins identified as released in high quantities from cryopreserved sperm of PF. Thus, the identified proteins might be useful bioindicators of freezing resilience and could be used to screen carp males before cryopreservation, thus improve long-term sperm preservation in carp. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008187.
PXD006836	29567292	N-terminome and proteogenomic analysis of the Methylobacterium extorquens DM4 reference strain for dichloromethane utilization. 	Proteogenomic analysis of Mehtylobacterium extorquens DM4	N terminome analysis - dN-TOP strategy	Methylobacterium strains can use one-carbon compounds, such as methanol, for methylotrophic growth. In addition to methanol, a few strains also utilize dichloromethane, a major industrial chlorinated solvent pollutant. With a fully assembled and annotated genome, M. extorquens DM4 is the reference bacterium for aerobic dichloromethane degradation. The doublet N-terminal oriented proteomics (dN-TOP) strategy was applied to further improve its genome annotation and a differential proteomics approach was performed to compare M. extorquens DM4 grown either with methanol or dichloromethane as the sole source of carbon and energy. These approaches led to experimental confirmation of 259 hypothetical proteins, correction of 78 erroneous predicted start codons, discovery of 39 new proteins and annotation of 66 signal peptides, including essential enzymes involved in methylotrophic growth. SIGNIFICANCE: Dichloromethane (methylene chloride, CH2Cl2, DCM) is one of the most widely used industrial halogenated solvents and a potential carcinogen. Microbial rehabilitation of worldwide-contaminated sites involves DCM breakdown by bacteria that are able to grow using this pollutant as their sole carbon and energy source. The most-studied methylotrophic DCM degrader is Methylobacterium extorquens strain DM4. Proteomic studies of the Methylobacterium genus have been performed previously, but genome-wide investigation of N-termini of expressed proteins has not yet been performed. Differential quantitative proteomic analysis also opens new research perspectives to better monitor and understand bacterial growth with DCM.
PXD002894	29567388	Inducing hair follicle neogenesis with secreted proteins enriched in embryonic skin. 	Phosphoproteome analysis      .	tyrosine phosphorylation	Organ development is a sophisticated process of self-organization. However, despite growing understanding of the developmental mechanisms, little is known about how to reactivate them postnatally for regeneration. We found that treatment of adult non-hair fibroblasts with cell-free extract from embryonic skin conferred upon them the competency to regenerate hair follicles. Proteomics analysis identified three secreted proteins enriched in the embryonic skin, apolipoprotein-A1, galectin-1 and lumican that together were essential and sufficient to induce new hair follicles. These 3 proteins show a stage-specific co-enrichment in the perifolliculogenetic embryonic dermis. Mechanistically, exposure to embryonic skin extract or to the combination of the 3 proteins altered the gene expression to an inductive hair follicle dermal papilla fibroblast-like profile and activated Igf and Wnt signaling, which are crucial for the regeneration process. Therefore, a cocktail of organ-specific extracellular proteins from the embryonic environment can render adult cells competent to re-engage in developmental interactions for organ neogenesis. Identification of factors that recreate the extracellular context of respective developing tissues can become an important strategy to promote regeneration in adult organs.
PXD005440	29568113	Multiple mechanisms drive phage infection efficiency in nearly identical hosts. 	Cellulophaga Bacteriophage -  Multiple mechanisms drive phage infection efficiency in nearly identical hosts	bacteriophage, infection, time course	Phage-host interactions are critical to ecology, evolution, and biotechnology. Central to those is infection efficiency, which remains poorly understood, particularly in nature. Here we apply genome-wide transcriptomics and proteomics to investigate infection efficiency in nature's own experiment: two nearly identical (genetically and physiologically) Bacteroidetes bacterial strains (host18 and host38) that are genetically intractable, but environmentally important, where phage infection efficiency varies. On host18, specialist phage phi18:3 infects efficiently, whereas generalist phi38:1 infects inefficiently. On host38, only phi38:1 infects, and efficiently. Overall, phi18:3 globally repressed host18's transcriptome and proteome, expressed genes that likely evaded host restriction/modification (R/M) defenses and controlled its metabolism, and synchronized phage transcription with translation. In contrast, phi38:1 failed to repress host18's transcriptome and proteome, did not evade host R/M defenses or express genes for metabolism control, did not synchronize transcripts with proteins and its protein abundances were likely targeted by host proteases. However, on host38, phi38:1 globally repressed host transcriptome and proteome, synchronized phage transcription with translation, and infected host38 efficiently. Together these findings reveal multiple infection inefficiencies. While this contrasts the single mechanisms often revealed in laboratory mutant studies, it likely better reflects the phage-host interaction dynamics that occur in nature.
PXD007784	29568304	Early Cold-Induced Peroxidases and Aquaporins Are Associated With High Cold Tolerance in Dajiao (Musa spp. 'Dajiao'). 	Musa spp, LC-MSMS	Aquaporin, Cold tolerance, Peroxidase, Quantitative proteomics	Banana is an important tropical fruit with high economic value. One of the main cultivars ('Cavendish') is susceptible to low temperatures, while another closely related specie ('Dajiao') has considerably higher cold tolerance. We previously reported that some membrane proteins appear to be involved in the cold tolerance of Dajiao bananas via an antioxidation mechanism. To investigate the early cold stress response of Dajiao, here we applied comparative membrane proteomics analysis for both cold-sensitive Cavendish and cold-tolerant Dajiao bananas subjected to cold stress at 10degreesC for 0, 3, and 6 h. A total of 2,333 and 1,834 proteins were identified in Cavendish and Dajiao, respectively. Subsequent bioinformatics analyses showed that 692 Cavendish proteins and 524 Dajiao proteins were predicted to be membrane proteins, of which 82 and 137 differentially abundant membrane proteins (DAMPs) were found in Cavendish and Dajiao, respectively. Interestingly, the number of DAMPs with increased abundance following 3 h of cold treatment in Dajiao (80) was seven times more than that in Cavendish (11). Gene ontology molecular function analysis of DAMPs for Cavendish and Dajiao indicated that they belong to eight categories including hydrolase activity, binding, transporter activity, antioxidant activity, etc., but the number in Dajiao is twice that in Cavendish. Strikingly, we found peroxidases (PODs) and aquaporins among the protein groups whose abundance was significantly increased after 3 h of cold treatment in Dajiao. Some of the PODs and aquaporins were verified by reverse-transcription PCR, multiple reaction monitoring, and green fluorescent protein-based subcellular localization analysis, demonstrating that the global membrane proteomics data are reliable. By combining the physiological and biochemical data, we found that membrane-bound Peroxidase 52 and Peroxidase P7, and aquaporins (MaPIP1;1, MaPIP1;2, MaPIP2;4, MaPIP2;6, MaTIP1;3) are mainly involved in decreased lipid peroxidation and maintaining leaf cell water potential, which appear to be the key cellular adaptations contributing to the cold tolerance of Dajiao. This membrane proteomics study provides new insights into cold stress tolerance mechanisms of banana, toward potential applications for ultimate genetic improvement of cold tolerance in banana.
PXD006509	29568375	Quantitative mass spectrometry analysis reveals a panel of nine proteins as diagnostic markers for colon adenocarcinomas. 	PROTEOMIC ALTERATIONS IN COLON ADENOCARCINOMA TISSUE LYSATES	LC-MS, MRM, colon adenocarcinoma, iTRAQ	Adenocarcinomas are cancers originating from the gland forming cells of the colon and rectal lining, and are known to be the most common type of colorectal cancers. The current diagnosis strategies for colorectal cancers include biopsy, laboratory tests, and colonoscopy which are time consuming. Identification of protein biomarkers could aid in the detection of colon adenocarcinomas (CACs). In this study, tissue proteome of colon adenocarcinomas (n = 11) was compared with the matched control specimens (n = 11) using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) based liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) approach. A list of 285 significantly altered proteins was identified in colon adenocarcinomas as compared to its matched controls, which are associated with growth and malignancy of the tumors. Protein interaction analysis revealed the association of altered proteins in colon adenocarcinomas with various transcription factors and their targets. A panel of nine proteins was validated using multiple reaction monitoring (MRM). Additionally, S100A9 was also validated using immunoblotting. The identified panel of proteins may serve as potential biomarkers and thereby aid in the detection of colon adenocarcinomas.
PXD008785	29570052	Normal mitochondrial function in Saccharomyces cerevisiae has become dependent on inefficient splicing. 	Saccharomyces cerevisiae mitochondrial fractions by LC-MS/MS	MSS116, Yeast mitochondrial fraction, mitochondria	Self-splicing introns are mobile elements that have invaded a number of highly conserved genes in prokaryotic and organellar genomes. Here, we show that deletion of these selfish elements from the Saccharomyces cerevisiae mitochondrial genome is stressful to the host. A strain without mitochondrial introns displays hallmarks of the retrograde response, with altered mitochondrial morphology, gene expression and metabolism impacting growth and lifespan. Deletion of the complete suite of mitochondrial introns is phenocopied by overexpression of the splicing factor Mss116. We show that, in both cases, abnormally efficient transcript maturation results in excess levels of mature cob and cox1 host mRNA. Thus, inefficient splicing has become an integral part of normal mitochondrial gene expression. We propose that the persistence of S. cerevisiae self-splicing introns has been facilitated by an evolutionary lock-in event, where the host genome adapted to primordial invasion in a way that incidentally rendered subsequent intron loss deleterious.
PXD007139	29572155	N-Terminomics identifies HtrA1 cleavage of thrombospondin-1 with generation of a proangiogenic fragment in the polarized retinal pigment epithelial cell model of age-related macular degeneration. 	N-terminomic analysis of RPE secretome	HtrA1, human RPE	Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of irreversible blindness in the elderly population. Variants in the HTRA1-ARMS2 locus have been linked to increased AMD risk. In the present study we investigated the impact of elevated HtrA1 levels on the retina pigment epithelial (RPE) secretome using a polarized culture system. Upregulation of HtrA1 alters the abundance of key proteins involved in angiogenesis and extracellular matrix remodeling. Thrombospondin-1, an angiogenesis modulator, was identified as a substrate for HtrA1 using terminal amine isotope labeling of substrates in conjunction with HtrA1 specificity profiling. HtrA1 cleavage of thrombospondin-1 was further corroborated by in vitro cleavage assays and targeted proteomics together with small molecule inhibition of HtrA1. While thrombospondin-1 is anti-angiogenic, the proteolytically released N-terminal fragment promotes the formation of tube-like structure by endothelial cells. Taken together, our findings suggest a mechanism by which increased levels of HtrA1 may contribute to AMD pathogenesis. The proteomic data has been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier. For quantitative secretome analysis, project accession: PXD007691, username: reviewer45093@ebi.ac.uk, password: 1FUpS6Yq. For TAILS analysis, project accession: PXD007139, username: reviewer76731@ebi.ac.uk, password: sNbMp7xK.
PXD007686	29572246	Comparative Proteomics of Dying and Surviving Cancer Cells Improves the Identification of Drug Targets and Sheds Light on Cell Life/Death Decisions. 	Comparative proteomics of dying and surviving cancer cells improves the identification of drug targets and sheds light on cell life/death decisions	cell death, chemotherapeutic, drug mechanism, survival	Chemotherapeutics cause the detachment and death of adherent cancer cells. When studying the proteome changes to determine the protein target and mechanism of action of anticancer drugs, the still-attached cells are normally used, whereas the detached cells are usually ignored. To test the hypothesis that proteomes of detached cells contain valuable information, we separately analyzed the proteomes of detached and attached HCT-116, A375, and RKO cells treated for 48 h with 5-fluorouracil, methotrexate and paclitaxel. Individually, the proteomic data on attached and detached cells had comparable performance in target and drug mechanism deconvolution, whereas the combined data significantly improved the target ranking for paclitaxel. Comparative analysis of attached versus detached proteomes provided further insight into cell life and death decision making. Six proteins consistently up- or downregulated in the detached versus attached cells regardless of the drug and cell type were discovered; their role in cell death/survival was tested by silencing them with siRNA. Knocking down USP11, CTTN, ACAA2, and EIF4H had anti-proliferative effects, affecting UHRF1 additionally sensitized the cells to the anticancer drugs, while knocking down RNF-40 increased cell survival against the treatments. Therefore, adding detached cells to the expression proteomics analysis of drug-treated cells can significantly increase the analytical value of the approach. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007686.
PXD009138	29572490	Mice lacking the mitochondrial exonuclease MGME1 accumulate mtDNA deletions without developing progeria. 	Mice lacking the mitochondrial exonuclease MGME1 accumulate mtDNA deletions without developing progeria	MGME1 knock out, mtDNA deletions, progeria	Replication of mammalian mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is an essential process that requires high fidelity and control at multiple levels to ensure proper mitochondrial function. Mutations in the mitochondrial genome maintenance exonuclease 1 (MGME1) gene were recently reported in mitochondrial disease patients. Here, to study disease pathophysiology, we generated Mgme1 knockout mice and report that homozygous knockouts develop depletion and multiple deletions of mtDNA. The mtDNA replication stalling phenotypes vary dramatically in different tissues of Mgme1 knockout mice. Mice with MGME1 deficiency accumulate a long linear subgenomic mtDNA species, similar to the one found in mtDNA mutator mice, but do not develop progeria. This finding resolves a long-standing debate by showing that point mutations of mtDNA are the main cause of progeria in mtDNA mutator mice. We also propose a role for MGME1 in the regulation of replication and transcription termination at the end of the control region of mtDNA.
PXD008592	29573213	Identification of Clostridium difficile Immunoreactive Spore Proteins of the Epidemic Strain R20291. 	Identification of Clostdridium difficile Immunoreactive Spore Proteins of the Epidemic strain R20291	CDI patients, Clostridium difficile, Immunoblotting, Serologic reactivity, Spores, isoelectric focusing, two-dimensional electrophoresis	PURPOSE: Clostridium difficile infections are the leading cause of diarrhea associated with the use of antibiotics. During infection, C. difficile initiates a sporulation cycle leading to the persistence of C. difficile spores in the host and disease dissemination. The development of vaccine and passive immunization therapies against C. difficile has focused on toxins A and B. In this study, an immunoproteome-based approach to identify immunogenic proteins located on the outer layers of C. difficile spores as potential candidates for the development of immunotherapy and/or diagnostic methods against this devastating infection is used. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: To identify potential immunogenic proteins on the surface of C. difficile R20291, spore coat/exosporium extracts are separated by 2D electrophoresis (2-DE) and analyzed for reactivity against C. difficile spore-specific goat sera. Finally, the selected spots are in-gel digested with chymotrypsin, peptides generated are separated by nanoUPLC followed by MS/MS using Quad-TOF-MS, corroborated by Ultimate 3000RS-nano-UHPLC coupled to Q-Exactive-Plus-Orbitrap MS. RESULTS: The analysis identify five immunoreactive proteins: spore coat proteins CotE, CotA, and CotCB; exosporium protein CdeC; and a cytosolic methyltransferase. CONCLUSION: This data provides a list of spore surface protein candidates as antigens for vaccine development against C. difficile infections.
PXD007089	29573367	Proteome and acylome analyses of the functional interaction network between the carbazole-degradative plasmid pCAR1 and host Pseudomonas putida KT2440. 	Proteome, acetylome and succinylome analysis of pCAR1-free and pCAR1-harbouring Pseudomonas putida KT2440	Pseudomonas putida KT2440, SILAC, pCAR1	Understanding the interplay between a plasmid and its host system is a bottleneck towards prediction of the fate of plasmid-harbouring strains in the natural environments. Here, we studied the impact of the conjugative plasmid pCAR1, involved in carbazole degradation, on the proteome of Pseudomonas putida KT2440 using SILAC method. Furthermore, we investigated two acyl lysine modifications (acetylation and succinylation) that respond to the metabolic status of the cell and are implicated in regulation of various cellular processes. The total proteome analysis revealed that the abundance of key proteins involved in metabolism, signal transduction and motility was affected by pCAR1 carriage. In total, we identified 1359 unique acetylation sites on 637 proteins and 567 unique succinylation sites on 259 proteins. Changes in the acylation status of proteins involved in metabolism and translation by pCAR1 carriage were detected. Remarkably, acylation was identified on proteins involved in important plasmid functions, including partitioning and carbazole degradation, and on nucleoid-associated proteins that play a key role in the functional interaction with the chromosome. This study provides a novel insight on the functional consequences of plasmid carriage and improves our understanding of the plasmid-host cross-talk.
PXD006713	29575704	Essential role of Rpd3-dependent lysine modification in the growth, development and virulence of Beauveria bassiana. 	Quantitative analysis of proteome reveals the roles of Rpd3 and Sir2 in asexual development, virulence and multiple stress responses in Beauveria bassiana.	Beauveria bassiana, LC-MS/MS., rpd3, sir2	Rpd3 is a class I histone deacetylase that reverses lysine acetylation thus influencing cellular processes and functions. However, its role in fungal insect pathogens has not been explored yet. Here we show that Rpd3-dependent lysine modification and gene expression orchestrate growth, conidiation and virulence in Beauveria bassiana. Deletion of Rpd3 resulted in severe growth defects on various carbon/nitrogen sources, 97% reduction in conidiation capacity and drastic attenuation in virulence. These phenotypes concurred with differential expression of 1479 proteins and hyperacetylation or hypoacetylation of 2227 lysine residues on 1134 proteins. Many of these proteins fell into carbon/nitrogen metabolism and cell rescue/defence/virulence, indicating vital roles of Rpd3-dependent protein expression and lysine modification in the fungal growth and virulence. Intriguingly, lysine residues of four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3 and H4) and many histone acetyltransferases were also hyper- or hypoacetylated in Deltarpd3, suggesting direct and indirect roles for Rpd3 in genome-wide lysine modification. However, crucial development activators were transcriptionally repressed and not found in either proteome or acetylome. Single/double-site-directed H3K9/K14 mutations for hyper/hypoacetylation exerted significant impacts on conidiation and dimorphic transition crucial for fungal virulence. Altogether, Rpd3 mediates growth, asexual development and virulence through transcriptional/translational regulation and posttranslational lysine modification in B. bassiana.
PXD003652	29575903	Selective Enrichment and Direct Analysis of Protein S-Palmitoylation Sites. 	S-acylation and fatty acylation in Nave and LPS/IFN- gamma activated Raw264.7	RAW264.7, S-acylation, S-palmitoylation, fatty acylation, post translational modifications	S-Fatty-acylation is the covalent attachment of long chain fatty acids, predominately palmitate (C16:0, S-palmitoylation), to cysteine (Cys) residues via a thioester linkage on proteins. This post-translational and reversible lipid modification regulates protein function and localization in eukaryotes and is important in mammalian physiology and human diseases. While chemical labeling methods have improved the detection and enrichment of S-fatty-acylated proteins, mapping sites of modification and characterizing the endogenously attached fatty acids are still challenging. Here, we describe the integration and optimization of fatty acid chemical reporter labeling with hydroxylamine-mediated enrichment of S-fatty-acylated proteins and direct tagging of modified Cys residues to selectively map lipid modification sites. This afforded improved enrichment and direct identification of many protein S-fatty-acylation sites compared to previously described methods. Notably, we directly identified the S-fatty-acylation sites of IFITM3, an important interferon-stimulated inhibitor of virus entry, and we further demonstrated that the highly conserved Cys residues are primarily modified by palmitic acid. The methods described here should facilitate the direct analysis of protein S-fatty-acylation sites and their endogenously attached fatty acids in diverse cell types and activation states important for mammalian physiology and diseases.
PXD008846	29576497	Urine Proteome Profiling Predicts Lung Cancer from Control Cases and Other Tumors. 	Urine Proteome Profiling Predicts Lung Cancer from Control Cases and Other Tumors	Lung cancer biomarker	Development of noninvasive, reliable biomarkers for lung cancer diagnosis has many clinical benefits knowing that most of lung cancer patients are diagnosed at the late stage. For this purpose, we conducted proteomic analyses of 231 human urine samples in healthy individuals (n=33), benign pulmonary diseases (n=40), lung cancer (n=33), bladder cancer (n=17), cervical cancer (n=25), colorectal cancer (n=22), esophageal cancer (n=14), and gastric cancer (n=47) patients collected from multiple medical centers. By random forest modeling, we nominated a list of urine proteins that could separate lung cancers from other cases. With a feature selection algorithm, we selected a panel of five urinary biomarkers (FTL: Ferritin light chain; MAPK1IP1L: Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 1 Interacting Protein 1 Like; FGB: Fibrinogen Beta Chain; RAB33B: RAB33B, Member RAS Oncogene Family; RAB15: RAB15, Member RAS Oncogene Family) and established a combinatorial model that can correctly classify the majority of lung cancer cases both in the training set (n=46) and the test sets (n=14-47 per set) with an AUC ranging from 0.8747 to 0.9853. A combination of five urinary biomarkers not only discriminates lung cancer patients from control groups but also differentiates lung cancer from other common tumors. The biomarker panel and the predictive model, when validated by more samples in a multi-center setting, may be used as an auxiliary diagnostic tool along with imaging technology for lung cancer detection.
PXD008509	29576527	Discovery and Characterization of ZUFSP/ZUP1, a Distinct Deubiquitinase Class Important for Genome Stability. 	Discovery and characterization of ZUFSP, a novel DUB class important for genome stability	DNA damage, Deubiquitinase, Ubiquitin binding domain	Deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) are important regulators of ubiquitin signaling. Here, we report the discovery of deubiquitinating activity in ZUFSP/C6orf113. High-resolution crystal structures of ZUFSP in complex with ubiquitin reveal several distinctive features of ubiquitin recognition and catalysis. Our analyses reveal that ZUFSP is a novel DUB with no homology to any known DUBs, leading us to classify ZUFSP as the seventh DUB family. Intriguingly, the minimal catalytic domain does not cleave polyubiquitin. We identify two ubiquitin binding domains in ZUFSP: a ZHA (ZUFSP helical arm) that binds to the distal ubiquitin and an atypical UBZ domain in ZUFSP that binds to polyubiquitin. Importantly, both domains are essential for ZUFSP to selectively cleave K63-linked polyubiquitin. We show that ZUFSP localizes to DNA lesions, where it plays an important role in genome stability pathways, functioning to prevent spontaneous DNA damage and also promote cellular survival in response to exogenous DNA damage.
PXD008435	29576976	Proteomic identification of galectin-11 and 14 ligands from Haemonchus contortus. 	Proteomic identification of Galectin-11 and 14 ligands from Haemonchus contortus		Haemonchus contortus is the most pathogenic nematode of small ruminants. Infection in sheep and goats results in anaemia that decreases animal productivity and can ultimately cause death. The involvement of ruminant-specific galectin-11 (LGALS-11) and galectin-14 (LGALS-14) has been postulated to play important roles in protective immune responses against parasitic infection; however, their ligands are unknown. In the current study, LGALS-11 and LGALS-14 ligands in H. contortus were identified from larval (L4) and adult parasitic stages extracts using immobilised LGALS-11 and LGALS-14 affinity column chromatography and mass spectrometry. Both LGALS-11 and LGALS-14 bound more putative protein targets in the adult stage of H. contortus (43 proteins) when compared to the larval stage (two proteins). Of the 43 proteins identified in the adult stage, 34 and 35 proteins were bound by LGALS-11 and LGALS-14, respectively, with 26 proteins binding to both galectins. Interestingly, hematophagous stage-specific sperm-coating protein and zinc metalloprotease (M13), which are known vaccine candidates, were identified as putative ligands of both LGALS-11 and LGALS-14. The identification of glycoproteins of H. contortus by LGALS-11 and LGALS-14 provide new insights into host-parasite interactions and the potential for developing new interventions.
PXD008928	29577599	Proteins Identified from Saliva and Salivary Glands of the Chinese Gall Aphid Schlechtendalia chinensis. 	Gall aphid saliva LC-MS/MS -  Proteins Identified from Saliva and Salivary Glands of the Chinese Gall Aphid Schlechtendalia chinensis	Chinese gall aphid, saliva, salivary gland	Aphid saliva plays an essential role in the interaction between aphids and their host plants. Several aphid salivary proteins have been identified but none from galling aphids. Here the salivary proteins from the Chinese gall aphid are analyzed, Schlechtendalia chinensis, via an LC-MS/MS analysis. A total of 31 proteins are identified directly from saliva collected via an artificial diet, and 141 proteins are identified from extracts derived from dissected salivary glands. Among these identified proteins, 17 are found in both collected saliva and dissected salivary glands. In comparison with salivary proteins from ten other free-living Hemipterans, the most striking feature of the salivary protein from S. chinensis is the existence of high proportion of proteins with binding activity, including DNA-, protein-, ATP-, and iron-binding proteins. These proteins maybe involved in gall formation. These results provide a framework for future research to elucidate the molecular basis for gall induction by galling aphids.
PXD008267	29578310	Insights into Islet Differentiation and Maturation through Proteomic Characterization of a Human iPSC-Derived Pancreatic Endocrine Model. 	Proteomic profiling of human iPSC-derived pancreatic endocrine cells for the identification of clinical biomarkers	Beta-cell, Diabetes mellitus, Differentiation, Maturation, Pluripotent, Spectral counting, Stem cells, Therapy	PURPOSE: Great progresses have been made for generating in vitro pluripotent stem cell pancreatic beta-like cells. However, the maturation stage of the cells still requires in vivo maturation to recreate the environmental niche. A deeper understanding of the factors promoting maturation of the cells is of great interest for clinical applications. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Label-free mass spectrometry based proteomic analysis is performed on samples from a longitudinal study of differentiation of human induced pluripotent stem cells toward glucose responsive insulin producing cells. RESULTS: Proteome patterns correlate with specific transcription factor gene expression levels during in vitro differentiation, showing the relevance of the technology for identification of pancreatic-specific markers. The analysis of proteomes of the implanted cells in a longitudinal study shows that the neovascularization process linked to the extracellular matrix environment is time-dependent and conditions the proper maturation of the cells in beta-like cells secreting insulin in response to glucose. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Proteomic profiling is valuable to qualify and better understand in vivo maturation of progenitor cells toward beta-cells. This is critical for future clinical trials where in vivo maturation still needs to be improved for robustness and effectiveness of cell therapy. Novel biomarkers for predicting the efficiency of maturation represents noninvasive monitoring tools for following efficiency of the implant.
PXD006856	29581253	NAA80 is actin's N-terminal acetyltransferase and regulates cytoskeleton assembly and cell motility. 	Naa80 acetylates the actin N-terminus impacting the actin cytoskeleton and cell motility	N-terminal acetylation, NAT, actin	Actin, one of the most abundant proteins in nature, participates in countless cellular functions ranging from organelle trafficking and pathogen motility to cell migration and regulation of gene transcription. Actin's cellular activities depend on the dynamic transition between its monomeric and filamentous forms, a process exquisitely regulated in cells by a large number of actin-binding and signaling proteins. Additionally, several posttranslational modifications control the cellular functions of actin, including most notably N-terminal (Nt)-acetylation, a prevalent modification throughout the animal kingdom. However, the biological role and mechanism of actin Nt-acetylation are poorly understood, and the identity of actin's N-terminal acetyltransferase (NAT) has remained a mystery. Here, we reveal that NAA80, a suggested NAT enzyme whose substrate specificity had not been characterized, is Nt-acetylating actin. We further show that actin Nt-acetylation plays crucial roles in cytoskeletal assembly in vitro and in cells. The absence of Nt-acetylation leads to significant differences in the rates of actin filament depolymerization and elongation, including elongation driven by formins, whereas filament nucleation by the Arp2/3 complex is mostly unaffected. NAA80-knockout cells display severely altered cytoskeletal organization, including an increase in the ratio of filamentous to globular actin, increased filopodia and lamellipodia formation, and accelerated cell motility. Together, the results demonstrate NAA80's role as actin's NAT and reveal a crucial role for actin Nt-acetylation in the control of cytoskeleton structure and dynamics.
PXD007632	29581850	Interactome analysis of transforming growth factor-beta-activated kinase 1 in Helicobacter pylori-infected cells revealed novel regulators tripartite motif 28 and CDC37. 	human H. pylori induced TAK1/TAB1 interactomics	H. pylori infection, TAB1, TAK1, epithelial cells, interactomics	Transforming growth factor-beta (TGFbeta)-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) plays a central role in controlling the cellular pro-inflammatory response via the activation of the nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB)- and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases-dependent transcriptional programs. Here, we show that depletion of TAK1 and the TAK1-binding proteins TAB1 and TAB2 affects NF-kappaB, JNK and p38 phosphorylation and suppresses NF-kappaB activity in AGS cells infected with Helicobacter pylori or stimulated with the cytokines TNF and IL-1beta. To increase our understanding of TAK1 regulation and function, we performed mass spectrometry (MS)-based TAK1 interactomics. In addition to the identification of known and novel TAK1 interacting proteins, including TRIM28, CDC37 and STOML2, analysis of the MS data revealed various post-translational modifications within the TAK1/TAB complex. By applying siRNAs, TRIM28 and CDC37 were found to regulate phosphorylations of TAK1, IkappaB kinases IKKalpha/IKKbeta and MAP kinases, NF-kappaB transactivation activity and IL-8 expression in the infected epithelial cells.
PXD005481	29582996	Conventional-Flow Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry for Exploratory Bottom-Up Proteomic Analyses. 	High-flow LC-MS/MS analyses -  Conventional-Flow Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry for Exploratory Bottom-Up Proteomic Analyses	HeLa, High-Flow, microbore column, narrow-bore column	Due to its sensitivity and productivity, bottom-up proteomics based on liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) has become the core approach in the field. The de facto standard LC-MS platform for proteomics operates at sub-muL/min flow rates, and nanospray is required for efficiently introducing peptides into a mass spectrometer. Although this is almost a "dogma", this view is being reconsidered in light of developments in highly efficient chromatographic columns, and especially with the introduction of exceptionally sensitive MS instruments. Although conventional-flow LC-MS platforms have recently penetrated targeted proteomics successfully, their possibilities in discovery-oriented proteomics have not yet been thoroughly explored. Our objective was to determine what are the extra costs and what optimization and adjustments to a conventional-flow LC-MS system must be undertaken to identify a comparable number of proteins as can be identified on a nanoLC-MS system. We demonstrate that the amount of a complex tryptic digest needed for comparable proteome coverage can be roughly 5-fold greater, providing the column dimensions are properly chosen, extra-column peak dispersion is minimized, column temperature and flow rate are set to levels appropriate for peptide separation, and the composition of mobile phases is fine-tuned. Indeed, we identified 2 835 proteins from 2 mug of HeLa cells tryptic digest separated during a 60 min gradient at 68 muL/min on a 1.0 mm x 250 mm column held at 55 degreesC and using an aqua-acetonitrile mobile phases containing 0.1% formic acid, 0.4% acetic acid, and 3% dimethyl sulfoxide. Our results document that conventional-flow LC-MS is an attractive alternative for bottom-up exploratory proteomics.
PXD007054	29588388	SUMOylome Profiling Reveals a Diverse Array of Nuclear Targets Modified by the SUMO Ligase SIZ1 during Heat Stress. 	SUMOylome Profiling in Arabidopsis of Targets Modified by the Sumo Ligase Siz1 During Heat Stress	Heat Stress, SIZ1, SUMO, SUMO E3 Ligases	The posttranslational addition of small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) is an essential protein modification in plants that provides protection against numerous environmental challenges. Ligation is accomplished by a small set of SUMO ligases, with the SAP-MIZ domain-containing SIZ1 and METHYL METHANESULFONATE-SENSITIVE21 (MMS21) ligases having critical roles in stress protection and DNA endoreduplication/repair, respectively. To help identify their corresponding targets in Arabidopsis thaliana, we used siz1 and mms21 mutants for proteomic analyses of SUMOylated proteins enriched via an engineered SUMO1 isoform suitable for mass spectrometric studies. Through multiple data sets from seedlings grown at normal temperatures or exposed to heat stress, we identified over 1000 SUMO targets, most of which are nuclear localized. Whereas no targets could be assigned to MMS21, suggesting that it modifies only a few low abundance proteins, numerous targets could be assigned to SIZ1, including major transcription factors, coactivators/repressors, and chromatin modifiers connected to abiotic and biotic stress defense, some of which associate into multisubunit regulatory complexes. SIZ1 itself is also a target, but studies with mutants protected from SUMOylation failed to uncover a regulatory role. The catalog of SIZ1 substrates indicates that SUMOylation by this ligase provides stress protection by modifying a large array of key nuclear regulators.
PXD008556	29588665	The diversity and specificity of the extracellular proteome in the cellulolytic bacterium Caldicellulosiruptor bescii is driven by the nature of the cellulosic growth substrate. 	Diversity and specificity of extracellular proteome in the cellulolytic bacterium Caldicellulosiruptor bescii is driven by the nature of the cellulosic substrate 	Biofuel, CAZymes, Extracellular, Extracellular solute binding proteins, Glycosyl hydrolases, Lignocellulose, Protein of Unknown Function, Secretome	BACKGROUND: Caldicellulosiruptor bescii is a thermophilic cellulolytic bacterium that efficiently deconstructs lignocellulosic biomass into sugars, which subsequently can be fermented into alcohols, such as ethanol, and other products. Deconstruction of complex substrates by C. bescii involves a myriad of highly abundant, substrate-specific extracellular solute binding proteins (ESBPs) and carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) containing carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs). Mass spectrometry-based proteomics was employed to investigate how these substrate recognition proteins and enzymes vary as a function of lignocellulosic substrates. RESULTS: Proteomic analysis revealed several key extracellular proteins that respond specifically to either C5 or C6 mono- and polysaccharides. These include proteins of unknown functions (PUFs), ESBPs, and CAZymes. ESBPs that were previously shown to interact more efficiently with hemicellulose and pectin were detected in high abundance during growth on complex C5 substrates, such as switchgrass and xylan. Some proteins, such as Athe_0614 and Athe_2368, whose functions are not well defined were predicted to be involved in xylan utilization and ABC transport and were significantly more abundant in complex and C5 substrates, respectively. The proteins encoded by the entire glucan degradation locus (GDL; Athe_1857, 1859, 1860, 1865, 1867, and 1866) were highly abundant under all growth conditions, particularly when C. bescii was grown on cellobiose, switchgrass, or xylan. In contrast, the glycoside hydrolases Athe_0609 (Pullulanase) and 0610, which both possess CBM20 and a starch binding domain, appear preferential to C5/complex substrate deconstruction. Some PUFs, such as Athe_2463 and 2464, were detected as highly abundant when grown on C5 substrates (xylan and xylose), also suggesting C5-substrate specificity. CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals the protein membership of the C. bescii secretome and demonstrates its plasticity based on the complexity (mono-/disaccharides vs. polysaccharides) and type of carbon (C5 vs. C6) available to the microorganism. The presence or increased abundance of extracellular proteins as a response to specific substrates helps to further elucidate C. bescii's utilization and conversion of lignocellulosic biomass to biofuel and other valuable products. This includes improved characterization of extracellular proteins that lack discrete functional roles and are poorly/not annotated.
PXD029155	29590092	Itaconate is an anti-inflammatory metabolite that activates Nrf2 via alkylation of KEAP1. 	Explorining the effect of LPS treatment on mouse macrophages	mouse macrophage LPS	The endogenous metabolite itaconate has recently emerged as a regulator of macrophage function, but its precise mechanism of action remains poorly understood. Here we show that itaconate is required for the activation of the anti-inflammatory transcription factor Nrf2 (also known as NFE2L2) by lipopolysaccharide in mouse and human macrophages. We find that itaconate directly modifies proteins via alkylation of cysteine residues. Itaconate alkylates cysteine residues 151, 257, 288, 273 and 297 on the protein KEAP1, enabling Nrf2 to increase the expression of downstream genes with anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory capacities. The activation of Nrf2 is required for the anti-inflammatory action of itaconate. We describe the use of a new cell-permeable itaconate derivative, 4-octyl itaconate, which is protective against lipopolysaccharide-induced lethality in vivo and decreases cytokine production. We show that type I interferons boost the expression of Irg1 (also known as Acod1) and itaconate production. Furthermore, we find that itaconate production limits the type I interferon response, indicating a negative feedback loop that involves interferons and itaconate. Our findings demonstrate that itaconate is a crucial anti-inflammatory metabolite that acts via Nrf2 to limit inflammation and modulate type I interferons.
PXD009453	29593093	TAILS N-terminomics and proteomics reveal complex regulation of proteolytic cleavage by O-glycosylation. 	TAILS N-Terminomics and Proteomics Show Complex Regulation of Proteolytic Processing by O-glycosylation	Degradomics, Glycoproteomics (B/D-HPP), O-glycoproteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), TAILS	Proteolytic processing is an irreversible post-translational modification functioning as a ubiquitous regulator of cellular activity. Protease activity is tightly regulated via control of gene expression, enzyme and substrate compartmentalization, zymogen activation, enzyme inactivation, and substrate availability. Emerging evidence suggests that proteolysis can also be regulated by substrate glycosylation and that glycosylation of individual sites on a substrate can decrease or, in rare cases, increase its sensitivity to proteolysis. Here, we investigated the relationship between site-specific, mucin-type (or GalNAc-type) O-glycosylation and proteolytic cleavage of extracellular proteins. Using in silico analysis, we found that O-glycosylation and cleavage sites are significantly associated with each other. We then used a positional proteomic strategy, terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates (TAILS), to map the in vivo cleavage sites in HepG2 SimpleCells with and without one of the key initiating GalNAc transferases, GalNAc-T2, and after treatment with exogenous matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) or neutrophil elastase. Surprisingly, we found that loss of GalNAc-T2 not only increased cleavage, but also decreased cleavage across a broad range of other substrates, including key regulators of the protease network. We also found altered processing of several central regulators of lipid homeostasis, including apolipoprotein B and the phospholipid transfer protein, providing new clues to the previously reported link between GALNT2 and lipid homeostasis. In summary, we show that loss of GalNAc-T2 O-glycosylation leads to a general decrease in cleavage and that GalNAc-T2 O-glycosylation affects key regulators of the cellular proteolytic network, including multiple members of the serpin family.
PXD008890	29593298	Opn5L1 is a retinal receptor that behaves as a reverse and self-regenerating photoreceptor. 	Retinal-cysteine adduct in Opn5L1	label-free, targeted analysis	Most opsins are G protein-coupled receptors that utilize retinal both as a ligand and as a chromophore. Opsins' main established mechanism is light-triggered activation through retinal 11-cis-to-all-trans photoisomerization. Here we report a vertebrate non-visual opsin that functions as a Gi-coupled retinal receptor that is deactivated by light and can thermally self-regenerate. This opsin, Opn5L1, binds exclusively to all-trans-retinal. More interestingly, the light-induced deactivation through retinal trans-to-cis isomerization is followed by formation of a covalent adduct between retinal and a nearby cysteine, which breaks the retinal-conjugated double bond system, probably at the C11 position, resulting in thermal re-isomerization to all-trans-retinal. Thus, Opn5L1 acts as a reverse photoreceptor. We conclude that, like vertebrate rhodopsin, Opn5L1 is a unidirectional optical switch optimized from an ancestral bidirectional optical switch, such as invertebrate rhodopsin, to increase the S/N ratio of the signal transduction, although the direction of optimization is opposite to that of vertebrate rhodopsin.
PXD005444	29593339	Quantitative proteomic profiling of primary cancer-associated fibroblasts in oesophageal adenocarcinoma. 	Quantitative proteomic profiling of fibroblasts in oesophageal adenocarcinoma	LC-MS, cancer associated fibroblasts	BACKGROUND: Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) form the major stromal component of the tumour microenvironment (TME). The present study aimed to examine the proteomic profiles of CAFs vs. normal fibroblasts (NOFs) from patients with oesophageal adenocarcinoma to gain insight into their pro-oncogenic phenotype. METHODS: CAFs/NOFs from four patients were sub-cultured and analysed using quantitative proteomics. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were subjected to bioinformatics and compared with published proteomics and transcriptomics  datasets. RESULTS: Principal component analysis of all profiled proteins showed that CAFs had high heterogeneity and clustered separately from NOFs. Bioinformatics interrogation of the DEPs demonstrated inhibition of adhesion of epithelial cells, adhesion of connective tissue cells and cell death of fibroblast cell lines in CAFs vs. NOFs (p < 0.0001). KEGG pathway analysis showed a significant enrichment of the insulin-signalling pathway (p = 0.03). Gene ontology terms related with myofibroblast phenotype, metabolism, cell adhesion/migration, hypoxia/oxidative stress, angiogenesis, immune/inflammatory response were enriched in CAFs vs. NOFs. Nestin, a stem-cell marker up-regulated in CAFs vs. NOFs, was confirmed to be expressed in the TME with immunohistochemistry. CONCLUSIONS: The identified pathways and participating proteins may provide novel insight on the tumour-promoting properties of CAFs and unravel novel adjuvant therapeutic targets in the TME.
PXD009048	29596458	Quantitative N-glycoproteomics reveals altered glycosylation levels of various plasma proteins in bloodstream infected patients. 	Bloodstream infection N-glycoproteomics	Bloodstream infection, Human plasma, N-Glycoproteomics, Sepsis	Bloodstream infections are associated with high morbidity and mortality with rates varying from 10-25% and higher. Appropriate and timely onset of antibiotic therapy influences the prognosis of these patients. It requires the diagnostic accuracy which is not afforded by current gold standards such as blood culture. Moreover, the time from blood sampling to blood culture results is a key determinant of reducing mortality. No established biomarkers exist which can differentiate bloodstream infections from other systemic inflammatory conditions. This calls for studies on biomarkers potential of molecular profiling of plasma as it is affected most by the molecular changes accompanying bloodstream infections. N-glycosylation is a post-translational modification which is very sensitive to changes in physiology. Here we have performed targeted quantitative N-glycoproteomics from plasma samples of patients with confirmed positive blood culture together with age and sex matched febrile controls with negative blood culture reports. Three hundred and sixty eight potential N-glycopeptides were quantified by mass spectrometry and 149 were further selected for identification. Twenty four N-glycopeptides were identified with high confidence together with elucidation of the peptide sequence, N-glycosylation site, glycan composition and proposed glycan structures. Principal component analysis, orthogonal projections to latent structures-discriminant analysis (S-Plot) and self-organizing maps clustering among other statistical methods were employed to analyze the data. These methods gave us clear separation of the two patient classes. We propose high-confidence N-glycopeptides which have the power to separate the bloodstream infections from blood culture negative febrile patients and shed light on host response during bacteremia. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009048.
PXD006445	29597011	Quantitative multiplexed profiling of Penicillium funiculosum secretome grown on polymeric cellulase inducers and glucose. 	"Intelligent versus Blind response"- Unveiling a Hypercellulolytic Fungus Strategy for Efficient Polymeric Carbon Deconstruction via Multiplexed Quantitative Proteomics	Hypercellulolytic fungus, carbohydrate active enzymes, lignocellulose, quantitative proteomics, secretomes	Filamentous fungi respond to the need to secure utilisable carbon from their growth milieu by secreting unique extracellular proteins depending upon the types of polymeric substrates. We have here profiled the variations in the secretome pattern of a non-model hypercellulolytic fungus - Penicillium funiculosum, grown in minimal media containing four different polymeric cellulase inducers, i.e., Avicel, wheat bran, ammonium-pretreated wheat straw and Avicel & wheat bran, and glucose over its early and late log phases of growth. Of the 137 secreted proteins validated at 1% FDR, we identified the quantified proteins in three clusters as early, persistently or lately expressed. The type of carbon substrate present in the culture media significantly affected the levels of cellulolytic enzymes expression by the fungus. The top abundant proteins quantified in the secretome for Avicel and wheat bran were cellobiohydrolaseI [GH7-CBM1], cellobiohydrolaseII [GH6-CBM1], beta-glucosidase [GH3], arabinofuranosidase [GH51] and beta-xylosidase [GH3], with bicupin being highest in case of wheat straw. Our results further suggested that the fungus secreted the extracellular proteins in waves, such that the initial responders act to hydrolyse the composite substrates in the culture environment before the second wave of proteins which tend to be more tailored to the specific substrate in the cultivating media. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: In this article, we have comprehensively examined the dynamics of the secretome of a non-model hypercellulolytic fungus produced in response to model and composite cellulase inducers. Our study has provided additional insights into how the fungus enzyme machinery responds to the presence of different polymeric cellulase inducers over the two different growth phases (early growth and late growth phase). The comprehensive typing and quantification of the different proteins present in the secretomes of the cellulolytic fungal strains in response to diverse nutrient sources hold many prospects in understanding the fungus unique enzyme machinery and dynamics for the downstream biotechnological applications.
PXD007876	29599191	AP-SWATH Reveals Direct Involvement of VCP/p97 in Integrated Stress Response Signaling Through Facilitating CReP/PPP1R15B Degradation. 	AP-SWATH analysis reveals a direct involvement of VCP/p97 in integrated stress response signalling through CReP/PPP1R15B degradation	AP-SWATH, integrated stress response, p97	The ubiquitin-directed AAA-ATPase VCP/p97 facilitates degradation of damaged or misfolded proteins in diverse cellular stress response pathways. Resolving the complexity of its interactions with partner and substrate proteins and understanding its links to stress signaling is therefore a major challenge. Here, we used affinity-purification SWATH mass spectrometry (AP-SWATH) to identify proteins that specifically interact with the substrate-trapping mutant, p97-E578Q. AP-SWATH identified differential interactions over a large detection range from abundant p97 cofactors to pathway-specific partners and individual ligases such as RNF185 and MUL1 that were trapped in p97-E578Q complexes. In addition, we identified various substrate proteins and candidates including the PP1 regulator CReP/PPP1R15B that dephosphorylates eIF2alpha and thus counteracts attenuation of translation by stress-kinases. We provide evidence that p97 with its Ufd1-Npl4 adapter ensures rapid constitutive turnover and balanced levels of CReP in unperturbed cells. Moreover, we show that p97-mediated degradation, together with a reduction in CReP synthesis, is essential for timely stress-induced reduction of CReP levels and, consequently, for robust eIF2alpha phosphorylation to enforce the stress response. Thus, our results demonstrate that p97 not only facilitates bulk degradation of misfolded proteins upon stress, but also directly modulates the integrated stress response at the level of signaling.
PXD009074	29599781	Extracellular Vesicle Subtypes Released From Activated or Apoptotic T-Lymphocytes Carry a Specific and Stimulus-Dependent Protein Cargo. 	Human T-cells EVs LC-MSMS -  Extracellular Vesicle Subtypes Released From Activated or Apoptotic T-Lymphocytes Carry a Specific and Stimulus-Dependent Protein Cargo	Apoptosis, EVs, exosomes, microvesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are released from nearly all mammalian cells and different EV populations have been described. Microvesicles represent large EVs (LEVs) released from the cellular surface, while exosomes are small EVs (SEVs) released from an intracellular compartment. As it is likely that different stimuli promote the release of distinct EV populations, we analyzed EVs from human lymphocytes considering the respective release stimuli (activation Vs. apoptosis induction). We could clearly separate two EV populations, namely SEVs (average diameter <200 nm) and LEVs (diameter range between 200 and 1000 nm). Morphology and size were analyzed by electron microscopy and nanoparticle tracking analysis. Apoptosis induction caused a massive release of LEVs, while activated T-cells released SEVs and LEVs in considerably lower amounts. The release of SEVs from apoptotic T-cells was comparable with LEV release from activated ones. LEVs contained signaling proteins and proteins of the actin-myosin cytoskeleton. SEVs carried cytoplasmic/endosomal proteins like the 70-kDa heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) or tumor susceptibility 101 (TSG101), microtubule-associated proteins, and ubiquitinated proteins. The protein expression profile of SEVs and LEVs changed substantially after the induction of apoptosis. After apoptosis induction, HSP70 and TSG101 (often used as exosome markers) were highly expressed within LEVs. Interestingly, in contrast to HSP70 and TSG101, gelsolin and eps15 homology domain-containing protein 3 (EHD3) turned out to be specific for SEVs irrespective of the stimulus causing the EV release. Finally, we detected several subunits of the proteasome (PSMB9, PSMB10) as well as the danger signal HMGB1 exclusively within apoptotic cell-released LEVs. Thus, we were able to identify new marker proteins that can be useful to discriminate between distinct LEV subpopulations. The mass spectrometry proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009074.
PXD004443	29599912	Coagulation cascade and complement system in systemic lupus erythematosus. 	Blood coagulation and complement activation interact to increase disease activity in systemic lupus erythematosus and coagulation D-Dimer combined with complement C4 is a biomarker of lupus activity	Blood coagulation, Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, iTRAQ	This study was conducted to (1) characterize coagulation cascade and complement system in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE); (2) evaluate the associations between coagulation cascade, complement system, inflammatory response and SLE disease severity; (3) test the diagnostic value of a combination of D-dimer and C4 for lupus activity. Transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics were performed in 24 SLE patients and 24 healthy controls. The levels of ten coagulations, seven complements and three cytokines were measured in 112 SLE patients. Clinical data were collected from 2025 SLE patients. The analysis of multi-omics data revealed the common links for the components of coagulation cascade and complement system. The results of ELISA showed coagulation cascade and complement system had an interaction effect on SLE disease severity, this effect was pronounced among patients with excess inflammation. The analysis of clinical data revealed a combination of D-dimer and C4 provided good diagnostic performance for lupus activity. This study suggested that coagulation cascade and complement system become 'partners in crime', contributing to SLE disease severity and identified the diagnostic value of D-dimer combined with C4for lupus activity.
PXD008486	29603563	Palaeoproteomic Profiling of Conservation Layers on a 14th Century Italian Wall Painting. 	Palaeoproteomic Profiling of Conservation Layers on a 14th Century Italian Wall Painting	conservation science, cultural heritage, posttranslational modifications	Ahead of display, a non-original layer was observed on the surface of a fragment of a wall painting by Ambrogio Lorenzetti (active 1319, died 1348/9). FTIR analysis suggested proteinaceous content. Mass spectrometry was used to better characterise this layer and revealed two protein components: sheep and cow glue and chicken and duck egg white. Analysis of post-translational modifications detected several photo-oxidation products, which suggest that the egg experienced prolonged exposure to UV light and was likely applied long before the glue layer. Additionally, glycation products detected may indicate naturally occurring glycoprotein degradation or reaction with a carbohydrate material such as starch, identified by ATR-FTIR in a cross-section of a sample taken from the painting. Palaeoproteomics is shown to provide detailed characterisation of organic layers associated with mural paintings and therefore aids reconstruction of the conservation history of these objects.
PXD006463	29603567	Involvement of serum-derived exosomes of elderly patients with bone loss in failure of bone remodeling via alteration of exosomal bone-related proteins. 	Involvement of serum-derived exosomes of patients with low bone density in progressive failure of bone remodeling via alteration of intercellular signal transduction and integrin-mediated mechanosensation	Exosome, bone remodeling, integrin, osteoblasts, osteoclast, osteoporosis	Exosomes are secreted into the blood by various types of cells. These extracellular vesicles are involved in the contribution of exosomal proteins to osteoblastic or osteoclastic regulatory networks during the failure of bone remodeling, which results in age-related bone loss. However, the molecular changes in serum-derived exosomes (SDEs) from aged patients with low bone density and their functions in bone remodeling remain to be fully elucidated. We present a quantitative proteomics analysis of exosomes purified from the serum of the elderly patients with osteoporosis/osteopenia and normal volunteers; these data are available via Proteome Xchange with the identifier PXD006463. Overall, 1,371 proteins were identified with an overlap of 1,160 Gene IDs among the ExoCarta proteins. Bioinformatics analysis and in vitro studies suggested that protein changes in SDEs of osteoporosis patients are not only involved in suppressing the integrin-mediated mechanosensation and activation of osteoblastic cells, but also trigger the differentiation and resorption of osteoclasts. In contrast, the main changes in SDEs of osteopenia patients facilitated both activation of osteoclasts and formation of new bone mass, which could result in a compensatory elevation in bone remodeling. While the SDEs from aged normal volunteers might play a protective role in bone health through facilitating adhesion of bone cells and suppressing aging-associated oxidative stress. This information will be helpful in elucidating the pathophysiological functions of SDEs and aid in the development of senile osteoporosis diagnostics and therapeutics.
PXD006781	29605177	Distinct Proteomic, Transcriptomic, and Epigenetic Stress Responses in Dorsal and Ventral Hippocampus. 	Distinct transcriptomic, proteomic and epigenetic stress-responses in dorsal and ventral hippocampus	mouse hippocampus ventral dorsal proteome SWATH-MS stress	BACKGROUND: Acutely stressful experiences can trigger neuropsychiatric disorders and impair cognitive processes by altering hippocampal function. Although the intrinsic organization of the hippocampus is highly conserved throughout its long dorsal-ventral axis, the dorsal (anterior) hippocampus mediates spatial navigation and memory formation, whereas the ventral (posterior) hippocampus is involved in emotion regulation. To understand the molecular consequences of stress, detailed genome-wide screens are necessary and need to distinguish between dorsal and ventral hippocampal regions. While transcriptomic screens have become a mainstay in basic and clinical research, proteomic methods are rapidly evolving and hold even greater promise to reveal biologically and clinically relevant biomarkers. METHODS: Here, we provide the first combined transcriptomic (RNA sequencing) and proteomic (sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra [SWATH-MS]) profiling of dorsal and ventral hippocampus in mice. We used three different acute stressors (novelty, swim, and restraint) to assess the impact of stress on both regions. RESULTS: We demonstrated that both hippocampal regions display radically distinct molecular responses and that the ventral hippocampus is particularly sensitive to the effects of stress. Separately analyzing these structures greatly increased the sensitivity to detect stress-induced changes. For example, protein interaction cluster analyses revealed a stress-responsive epigenetic network around histone demethylase Kdm6b restricted to the ventral hippocampus, and acute stress reduced methylation of its enzymatic target H3K27me3. Selective Kdm6b knockdown in the ventral hippocampus led to behavioral hyperactivity/hyperresponsiveness. CONCLUSIONS: These findings underscore the importance of considering dorsal and ventral hippocampus separately when conducting high-throughput molecular analyses, which has important implications for fundamental research as well as clinical studies.
PXD008211	29605292	Parallel reaction monitoring on a Q Exactive mass spectrometer increases reproducibility of phosphopeptide detection in bacterial phosphoproteomics measurements. 	Parallel Reaction Monitoring on a Q Exactive Mass Spectrometer Increases Reproducibility of Phosphopeptide Detection in Bacterial Phosphoproteomics Measurements	DDA, E.coli, PRM, Phosphoproteomics, QExactive, TiO2	Increasing number of studies report the relevance of protein Ser/Thr/Tyr phosphorylation in bacterial physiology, yet the analysis of this type of modification in bacteria still presents a considerable challenge. Unlike in eukaryotes, where tens of thousands of phosphorylation events likely occupy more than two thirds of the proteome, the abundance of protein phosphorylation is much lower in bacteria. Even the state-of-the-art phosphopeptide enrichment protocols fail to remove the high background of abundant unmodified peptides, leading to low signal intensity and undersampling of phosphopeptide precursor ions in consecutive data-dependent MS runs. Consequently, large-scale bacterial phosphoproteomic datasets often suffer from poor reproducibility and a high number of missing values. Here we explore the application of parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) on a Q Exactive mass spectrometer in bacterial phosphoproteome analysis, focusing especially on run-to-run sampling reproducibility. In multiple measurements of identical phosphopeptide-enriched samples, we show that PRM outperforms data-dependent acquisition (DDA) in terms of detection frequency, reaching almost complete sampling efficiency, compared to 20% in DDA. We observe a similar trend over multiple heterogeneous phosphopeptide-enriched samples and conclude that PRM shows a great promise in bacterial phosphoproteomics analyses where reproducible detection and quantification of a relatively small set of phosphopeptides is desired. SIGNIFICANCE: Bacterial phosphorylated peptides occur in low abundance compared to their unmodified counterparts, and are therefore rarely reproducibly detected in shotgun (DDA) proteomics measurements. Here we show that parallel reaction monitoring complements DDA analyses and makes detection of known, targeted phosphopeptides more reproducible. This will be of significance in replicated MS measurements that have a goal to reproducibly detect and quantify phosphopeptides of interest.
PXD008910	29606089	iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis reveals the lateral meristem developmental mechanism for branched spike development in tetraploid wheat (Triticum turgidum L.). 	Tetraploid wheat (Triticum turgidum L.),LC-MSMS	Spikelete, Tetraploid wheat (Triticum turgidum L.)	BACKGROUND: Spike architecture mutants in tetraploid wheat (Triticum turgidum L., 2n = 28, AABB) have a distinct morphology, with parts of the rachis node producing lateral meristems that develop into ramified spikelete (RSs) or four-rowed spikelete (FRSs). The genetic basis of RSs and FRSs has been analyzed, but little is known about the underlying developmental mechanisms of the lateral meristem. We used isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) to perform a quantitative proteomic analysis of immature spikes harvested from tetraploid near-isogenic lines of wheat with normal spikelete (NSs), FRSs, and RSs and investigated the molecular mechanisms of lateral meristem differentiation and development. This work provides valuable insight into the underlying functions of the lateral meristem and how it can produce differences in the branching of tetraploid wheat spikes. RESULTS: Using an iTRAQ-based shotgun quantitation approach, 104 differential abundance proteins (DAPs) with < 1% false discovery rate (FDR) and a 1.5-fold change (> 1.50 or < 0.67) were identified by comparing FRS with NS and RS with NS genotypes. To determine the functions of the proteins, 38 co-expressed DAPs from the two groups were annotated using the Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analytical tools. We discovered that proteins involved in "post-embryonic development" and "metabolic pathways" such as carbohydrate and nitrogen metabolism could be used to construct a developmentally associated network. Additionally, 6 out of 38 DAPs in the network were analyzed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and the correlation coefficient between proteomics and qRT-PCR was 0.7005. These key genes and proteins were closely scrutinized and discussed. CONCLUSIONS: Here, we predicted that DAPs involved in "post-embryonic development" and "metabolic pathways" may be responsible for the spikelete architecture changes in FRS and RS. Furthermore, we discussed the potential function of several vital DAPs from GO and KEGG analyses that were closely related to histone modification, ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation, transcription factors, carbohydrate and nitrogen metabolism and heat shock proteins (HSPs). This work provides valuable insight into the underlying functions of the lateral meristem in the branching of tetraploid wheat spikes.
PXD006722	29608554	Specter: linear deconvolution for targeted analysis of data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry proteomics. 	Specter -  Specter: linear deconvolution for targeted analysis of data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry proteomics	data-independent acquisition	Mass spectrometry with data-independent acquisition (DIA) is a promising method to improve the comprehensiveness and reproducibility of targeted and discovery proteomics, in theory by systematically measuring all peptide precursors in a biological sample. However, the analytical challenges involved in discriminating between peptides with similar sequences in convoluted spectra have limited its applicability in important cases, such as the detection of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and alternative site localizations in phosphoproteomics data. We report Specter (https://github.com/rpeckner-broad/Specter), an open-source software tool that uses linear algebra to deconvolute DIA mixture spectra directly through comparison to a spectral library, thus circumventing the problems associated with typical fragment-correlation-based approaches. We validate the sensitivity of Specter and its performance relative to that of other methods, and show that Specter is able to successfully analyze cases involving highly similar peptides that are typically challenging for DIA analysis methods.
PXD008088	29608573	Development of a Trypanosoma cruzi strain typing assay using MS2 peptide spectral libraries (Tc-STAMS2). 	Development of a Trypanosoma cruzi Strain Typing Assay using MS2 peptide spectral libraries (Tc-STAMS2)	Discrete Typing Units (DTUs), Spectral matching, Strain typing methods, Trypanosoma cruzi	BACKGROUND: Chagas disease also known as American trypanosomiasis is caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. Over the last 30 years, Chagas disease has expanded from a neglected parasitic infection of the rural population to an urbanized chronic disease, becoming a potentially emergent global health problem. T. cruzi strains were assigned to seven genetic groups (TcI-TcVI and TcBat), named discrete typing units (DTUs), which represent a set of isolates that differ in virulence, pathogenicity and immunological features. Indeed, diverse clinical manifestations (from asymptomatic to highly severe disease) have been attempted to be related to T.cruzi genetic variability. Due to that, several DTU typing methods have been introduced. Each method has its own advantages and drawbacks such as high complexity and analysis time and all of them are based on genetic signatures. Recently, a novel method discriminated bacterial strains using a peptide identification-free, genome sequence-independent shotgun proteomics workflow. Here, we aimed to develop a Trypanosoma cruzi Strain Typing Assay using MS/MS peptide spectral libraries, named Tc-STAMS2. METHODS/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The Tc-STAMS2 method uses shotgun proteomics combined with spectral library search to assign and discriminate T. cruzi strains independently on the genome knowledge. The method is based on the construction of a library of MS/MS peptide spectra built using genotyped T. cruzi reference strains. For identification, the MS/MS peptide spectra of unknown T. cruzi cells are identified using the spectral matching algorithm SpectraST. The Tc-STAMS2 method allowed correct identification of all DTUs with high confidence. The method was robust towards different sample preparations, length of chromatographic gradients and fragmentation techniques. Moreover, a pilot inter-laboratory study showed the applicability to different MS platforms. CONCLUSIONS AND SIGNIFICANCE: This is the first study that develops a MS-based platform for T. cruzi strain typing. Indeed, the Tc-STAMS2 method allows T. cruzi strain typing using MS/MS spectra as discriminatory features and allows the differentiation of TcI-TcVI DTUs. Similar to genomic-based strategies, the Tc-STAMS2 method allows identification of strains within DTUs. Its robustness towards different experimental and biological variables makes it a valuable complementary strategy to the current T. cruzi genotyping assays. Moreover, this method can be used to identify DTU-specific features correlated with the strain phenotype.
PXD009007	29608613	Proteomic fingerprinting in HIV/HCV co-infection reveals serum biomarkers for the diagnosis of fibrosis staging. 	HIV/HCV co-infection proteomics	HCV, HIV, MALDI, SELDI, biomarker discovery, co-infection, fibrosis, liver	BACKGROUND: Hepatic complications of hepatitis C virus (HCV), including fibrosis and cirrhosis are accelerated in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected individuals. Although, liver biopsy remains the gold standard for staging HCV-associated liver disease, this test can result in serious complications and is subject to sampling errors. These challenges have prompted a search for non-invasive methods for liver fibrosis staging. To this end, we compared serum proteome profiles at different stages of fibrosis in HIV/HCV co- and HCV mono-infected patients using surface-enhanced laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF MS). METHODS: Sera from 83 HIV/HCV co- and 68 HCV mono-infected subjects in 4 stages of fibrosis were tested. Sera were fractionated, randomly applied to protein chip arrays (IMAC, CM10 and H50) and spectra were generated at low and high laser intensities. RESULTS: Sixteen biomarkers achieved a p value < 0.01 (ROC values > 0.75 or < 0.25) predictive of fibrosis status in co-infected individuals and 14 in mono infected subjects. Five of these candidate biomarkers contributed to both mono- and co-infected subjects. Candidate diagnostic algorithms were created to distinguish between non-fibrotic and fibrotic individuals using a panel of 4 biomarker peaks. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that SELDI MS profiling can identify diagnostic serum biomarkers for fibrosis that are both common and distinct in HIV/HCV co-infected and HCV mono-infected individuals.
PXD008190	29610054	Comparison of protein expression between human livers and the hepatic cell lines HepG2, Hep3B, and Huh7 using SWATH and MRM-HR proteomics: Focusing on drug-metabolizing enzymes. 	Comparison of Protein Expressions of Drug-Metabolizing Enzymes between Human Liver and the Hepatic Cell Lines HepG2, Hep3B and Huh7 using SWATH and MRM-HR Proteomics	Drug-metabolizing Enzymes, Hep3B, HepG2, Huh7, Human Liver, MRM-HR, Protein Expression, SWATH	Human hepatic cell lines are widely used as an in vitro model for the study of drug metabolism and liver toxicity. However, the validity of this model is still a subject of debate because the expressions of various proteins in the cell lines, including drug-metabolizing enzymes (DMEs), can differ significantly from those in human livers. In the present study, we first conducted an untargeted proteomics analysis of the microsomes of the cell lines HepG2, Hep3B, and Huh7, and compared them to human livers using a sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH) method. Furthermore, high-resolution multiple reaction monitoring (MRM-HR), a targeted proteomic approach, was utilized to compare the expressions of pre-selected DMEs between human livers and the cell lines. In general, the SWATH quantifications were in good agreement with the MRM-HR analysis. Over 3000 protein groups were quantified in the cells and human livers, and the proteome profiles of human livers significantly differed from the cell lines. Among the 101 DMEs quantified with MRM-HR, most were expressed at substantially lower levels in the cell lines. Thus, appropriate caution must be exercised when using these cell lines for the study of hepatic drug metabolism and toxicity.
PXD007535	29610270	Targeted Proteomics Guided by Label-free Quantitative Proteome Analysis in Saliva Reveal Transition Signatures from Health to Periodontal Disease. 	LFQ and SRM proteome analysis of Saliva reveals transition signatures from health to periodontal disease	LFQ, SRM, data integration	Periodontal diseases are among the most prevalent worldwide, but largely silent, chronic diseases. They affect the tooth-supporting tissues with multiple ramifications on life quality. Their early diagnosis is still challenging, due to lack of appropriate molecular diagnostic methods. Saliva offers a non-invasively collectable reservoir of clinically relevant biomarkers, which, if utilized efficiently, could facilitate early diagnosis and monitoring of ongoing disease. Despite several novel protein markers being recently enlisted by discovery proteomics, their routine diagnostic application is hampered by the lack of validation platforms that allow for rapid, accurate and simultaneous quantification of multiple proteins in large cohorts. Here we carried out a pipeline of two proteomic platforms; firstly, we applied open ended label-free quantitative (LFQ) proteomics for discovery in saliva (n = 67, including individuals with health, gingivitis, and periodontitis), followed by selected-reaction monitoring (SRM)-targeted proteomics for validation in an independent cohort (n = 82). The LFQ platform led to the discovery of 119 proteins with at least 2-fold significant difference between health and disease. The 65 proteins chosen for the subsequent SRM platform included 50 functionally related proteins derived from the significantly enriched processes of the LFQ data, 11 from literature-mining, and four house-keeping ones. Among those, 60 were reproducibly quantifiable proteins (92% success rate), represented by a total of 143 peptides. Machine-learning modeling led to a narrowed-down panel of five proteins of high predictive value for periodontal diseases with maximum area under the receiver operating curve >0.97 (higher in disease: Matrix metalloproteinase-9, Ras-related protein-1, Actin-related protein 2/3 complex subunit 5; lower in disease: Clusterin, Deleted in Malignant Brain Tumors 1). This panel enriches the pool of credible clinical biomarker candidates for diagnostic assay development. Yet, the quantum leap brought into the field of periodontal diagnostics by this study is the application of the biomarker discovery-through-verification pipeline, which can be used for validation in further cohorts.
PXD008970	29610271	Mining the Human Tissue Proteome for Protein Citrullination. 	Protein citrullination in human tissues	Citrullination, ProteomeXchange project tag: ProteomeTools, human proteome, peptidylarginine deiminase, post-translational modification, synthetic peptides	Citrullination is a posttranslational modification of arginine catalyzed by five peptidylarginine deiminases (PADs) in humans. The loss of a positive charge may cause structural or functional alterations, and while the modification has been linked to several diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and cancer, its physiological or pathophysiological roles remain largely unclear. In part, this is owing to limitations in available methodology to robustly enrich, detect, and localize the modification. As a result, only a few citrullination sites have been identified on human proteins with high confidence. In this study, we mined data from mass-spectrometry-based deep proteomic profiling of 30 human tissues to identify citrullination sites on endogenous proteins. Database searching of ~70 million tandem mass spectra yielded ~13,000 candidate spectra, which were further triaged by spectrum quality metrics and the detection of the specific neutral loss of isocyanic acid from citrullinated peptides to reduce false positives. Because citrullination is easily confused with deamidation, we synthetized ~2,200 citrullinated and 1,300 deamidated peptides to build a library of reference spectra. This led to the validation of 375 citrullination sites on 209 human proteins. Further analysis showed that >80% of the identified modifications sites were new, and for 56% of the proteins, citrullination was detected for the first time. Sequence motif analysis revealed a strong preference for Asp and Gly, residues around the citrullination site. Interestingly, while the modification was detected in 26 human tissues with the highest levels found in the brain and lung, citrullination levels did not correlate well with protein expression of the PAD enzymes. Even though the current work represents the largest survey of protein citrullination to date, the modification was mostly detected on high abundant proteins, arguing that the development of specific enrichment methods would be required in order to study the full extent of cellular protein citrullination.
PXD007156	29610302	Identification of long-lived synaptic proteins by proteomic analysis of synaptosome protein turnover. 	Identification of Long Lived Synaptic Proteins by Comprehensive Proteomic Analysis of Synaptosome Protein Turnover	Long lived protein, Protein turnover, Synaptosome	Memory formation is believed to result from changes in synapse strength and structure. While memories may persist for the lifetime of an organism, the proteins and lipids that make up synapses undergo constant turnover with lifetimes from minutes to days. The molecular basis for memory maintenance may rely on a subset of long-lived proteins (LLPs). While it is known that LLPs exist, whether such proteins are present at synapses is unknown. We performed an unbiased screen using metabolic pulse-chase labeling in vivo in mice and in vitro in cultured neurons combined with quantitative proteomics. We identified synaptic LLPs with half-lives of several months or longer. Proteins in synaptic fractions generally exhibited longer lifetimes than proteins in cytosolic fractions. Protein turnover was sensitive to pharmacological manipulations of activity in neuronal cultures or in mice exposed to an enriched environment. We show that synapses contain LLPs that may underlie stabile long-lasting changes in synaptic structure and function.
PXD007595	29615075	Lipid accumulation in human breast cancer cells injured by iron depletors. 	Unravelling the Mechanism of DFO/DpT44mt-Induced Cell Death in breast cancer cells	4-dimethyl-3-thiosemicarbazone, Deferoxamine, Iron, LC/MS-MS analyses., di-2-pyridylketone 4, di-2-pyridylketone thiosemicarbazone scaffold, flow cytometry, iron chelator	BACKGROUND: Current insights into the effects of iron deficiency in tumour cells are not commensurate with the importance of iron in cell metabolism. Studies have predominantly focused on the effects of oxygen or glucose scarcity in tumour cells, while attributing insufficient emphasis to the inadequate supply of iron in hypoxic regions. Cellular responses to iron deficiency and hypoxia are interlinked and may strongly affect tumour metabolism. METHODS: We examined the morphological, proteomic, and metabolic effects induced by two iron chelators-deferoxamine (DFO) and di-2-pyridylketone 4,4-dimethyl-3-thiosemicarbazone (Dp44mT)-on MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-157 breast cancer cells. RESULTS: These chelators induced a cytoplasmic massive vacuolation and accumulation of lipid droplets (LDs), eventually followed by implosive, non-autophagic, and non-apoptotic death similar to methuosis. Vacuoles and LDs are generated by expansion of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) based on extracellular fluid import, which includes unsaturated fatty acids that accumulate in LDs. Typical physiological phenomena associated with hypoxia are observed, such as inhibition of translation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and metabolic remodelling. These survival-oriented changes are associated with a greater expression of epithelial/mesenchymal transcription markers. CONCLUSIONS: Iron starvation induces a hypoxia-like program able to scavenge nutrients from the extracellular environment, and cells assume a hypertrophic phenotype. Such survival strategy is accompanied by the ER-dependent massive cytoplasmic vacuolization, mitochondrial dysfunctions, and LD accumulation and then evolves into cell death. LDs containing a greater proportion of unsaturated lipids are released as a consequence of cell death. The consequence of the disruption of iron metabolism in tumour tissue and the effects of LDs on intercellular communication, cancer-inflammation axis, and immunity remain to be explored. Considering the potential benefits, these are crucial subjects for future mechanistic and clinical studies.
PXD008802	29615493	Proline hydroxylation in collagen supports integrin binding by two distinct mechanisms. 	Proline hydroxylation of collagens in prolyl 4-hydroxylase mutant mice	collagen prolyl 4-hydroxylase	Collagens are the most abundant extracellular matrix proteins in vertebrates and have a characteristic triple-helix structure. Hydroxylation of proline residues is critical for helix stability, and diminished prolyl hydroxylase activity causes wide-spread defects in connective tissues. Still, the role of proline hydroxylation in the binding of collagen receptors such as integrins is unclear. Here, we isolated skin collagen from genetically modified mice having reduced prolyl 4-hydroxylase activity. At room temperature, the reduced proline hydroxylation did not affect interactions with the recombinant integrin alpha2I domain, but at 37 degreesC, collagen hydroxylation correlated with the avidity of alpha2I domain binding. Of note, LC-MS/MS analysis of isolated skin collagens revealed no major changes in the hydroxyproline content of the main integrin-binding sites. Thus, the disrupted alpha2I domain binding at physiological temperatures was most likely due to structural destabilization of the collagenous helix. Integrin alpha2I binding to the triple-helical GFPGER motif was slightly weaker than to GFOGER (O = hydroxyproline). This phenomenon was more prominent when alpha1 integrin was tested. Integrin alpha1beta1 expressed on CHO cells and recombinant alpha1I domain showed remarkably slower binding velocity and weaker avidity to GFPGER when compared with GFOGER. Structural modeling revealed the critical interaction between Arg-218 in alpha1I and the hydroxyproline residue in the integrin-binding motif. The role of Arg-218 was further validated by testing a variant R218D alpha1I domain in solid-phase binding assays. Thus, our results show that the lack of proline hydroxylation in collagen can affect integrin binding by a direct mechanism and via structural destabilization of the triple helix.
PXD009101	29615495	Software for Peak Finding and Elemental Composition Assignment for Glycosaminoglycan Tandem Mass Spectra. 	GAGfinder: glycosaminoglycan MS/MS fragment peak finding and elemental composition assignment	bioinformatics, chondroitin sulfate, glycosaminoglycans, heparan sulfate, keratan sulfate	Glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) covalently linked to proteoglycans (PGs) are characterized by repeating disaccharide units and variable sulfation patterns along the chain. GAG length and sulfation patterns impact disease etiology, cellular signaling, and structural support for cells. We and others have demonstrated the usefulness of tandem mass spectrometry (MS(2)) for assigning the structures of GAG saccharides; however, manual interpretation of tandem mass spectra is time-consuming, so computational methods must be employed. In the proteomics domain, the identification of monoisotopic peaks and charge states relies on algorithms that use averagine, or the average building block of the compound class being analyzed. Although these methods perform well for protein and peptide spectra, they perform poorly on GAG tandem mass spectra, because a single average building block does not characterize the variable sulfation of GAG disaccharide units. In addition, it is necessary to assign product ion isotope patterns to interpret the tandem mass spectra of GAG saccharides. To address these problems, we developed GAGfinder, the first tandem mass spectrum peak finding algorithm developed specifically for GAGs. We define peak finding as assigning experimental isotopic peaks directly to a given product ion composition, as opposed to deconvolution or peak picking, which are terms more accurately describing the existing methods previously mentioned. GAGfinder is a targeted, brute force approach to spectrum analysis that uses precursor composition information to generate all theoretical fragments. GAGfinder also performs peak isotope composition annotation, which is typically a subsequent step for averagine-based methods. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009101.
PXD008343	29615496	CRISPR/Cas9-mediated Genomic Editing of Cluap1/IFT38 Reveals a New Role in Actin Arrangement. 	CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout and endogenous complex analysis of Cluap1/ IFT38	CRISPR/Cas9, IFT, cilia	CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene editing allows manipulation of a gene of interest in its own chromosomal context. When applied to the analysis of protein interactions and in contrast to exogenous expression of a protein, this can be studied maintaining physiological stoichiometry, topology, and context. We have used CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genomic editing to investigate Cluap1/IFT38, a component of the intraflagellar transport complex B (IFT-B). Cluap1 has been implicated in human development as well as in cancer progression. Cluap1 loss of function results in early developmental defects with neural tube closure, sonic hedgehog signaling and left-right defects. Herein, we generated an endogenously tagged Cluap1 for protein complex analysis, which was then correlated to the corresponding interactome determined by ectopic expression. Besides IFT-B complex components, new interacting proteins like Ephrin-B1 and TRIP6, which are known to be involved in cytoskeletal arrangement and protein transport, were identified. With the identification of platelet-derived growth factor A (PDGFA) and coiled-coil domain-containing protein 6 (CCDC6) two new interactions were discovered, which link Cluap1 to ciliogenesis and cancer development. The CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of Cluap1 revealed a new phenotype affecting the actin cytoskeleton. Together, these data provide first evidence for a role of Cluap1 not only for cilia assembly and maintenance but also for cytoskeletal rearrangement and intracellular transport processes.
PXD008665	29615814	The impact of circulating preeclampsia-associated extracellular vesicles on the migratory activity and phenotype of THP-1 monocytic cells. 	The impact of circulating preeclampsia-associated extracellular vesicles on the migratory activity and phenotype of THP-1 monocytic cells	Bruker Q-TOF, extracellular vesicle, flow cytometry, monocyte, preeclampsia	Intercellular communication via extracellular vesicles (EVs) and their target cells, especially immune cells, results in functional and phenotype changes that consequently may play a significant role in various physiological states and the pathogenesis of immune-mediated disorders. Monocytes are the most prominent environment-sensing immune cells in circulation, skilled to shape their microenvironments via cytokine secretion and further differentiation. Both the circulating monocyte subset distribution and the blood plasma EV pattern are characteristic for preeclampsia, a pregnancy induced immune-mediated hypertensive disorder. We hypothesized that preeclampsia-associated EVs (PE-EVs) induced functional and phenotypic alterations of monocytes. First, we proved EV binding and uptake by THP-1 cells. Cellular origin and protein cargo of circulating PE-EVs were characterized by flow cytometry and mass spectrometry. An altered phagocytosis-associated molecular pattern was found on 12.5 K fraction of PE-EVs: an elevated CD47 "don't eat me" signal (p < 0.01) and decreased exofacial phosphatidylserine "eat-me" signal (p < 0.001) were found along with decreased uptake of these PE-EVs (p < 0.05). The 12.5 K fraction of PE-EVs induced significantly lower chemotaxis (p < 0.01) and cell motility but accelerated cell adhesion of THP-1 cells (p < 0.05). The 12.5 K fraction of PE-EVs induced altered monocyte functions suggest that circulating EVs may have a role in the pathogenesis of preeclampsia.
PXD007239	29616197	The Use of CRISPR/Cas9 Gene Editing to Confirm Congenic Contaminations in Host-Pathogen Interaction Studies. 	BL6vsTLR7-/- label-free analysis	C57BL/6, TLR7	Murine models of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium infection are one of the commonest tools to study host-pathogen interactions during bacterial infections. Critically, the outcome of S. Typhimurium infection is impacted by the genetic background of the mouse strain used, with macrophages from C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice lacking the capacity to control intracellular bacterial replication. For this reason, the use of congenic strains, which mix the genetic backgrounds of naturally protected mouse strains with those of susceptible strains, has the capacity to significantly alter results and interpretation of S. Typhimurium infection studies. Here, we describe how macrophage knockout cell lines generated by CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing can help determine the contribution of background contaminations in the phenotypes of primary macrophages from congenic mice, on the outcome of S. Typhimurium infection studies. Our own experience illustrates how the CRISPR/Cas9 technology can be used to complement pre-existing knockout models, and shows that there is great merit in performing concurrent studies with both genetic models, to exclude unanticipated side-effects on host-pathogen interactions.
PXD008953	29617628	A Retentive Memory of Tetrachloroethene Respiration in Sulfurospirillum halorespirans - involved Proteins and a possible link to Acetylation of a Two-Component Regulatory System. 	Proteome and acetylome of Sulfurospirillum halorespirans during long-term downregulation of organohalide respiratory genes	Organohalide respiration, Sulfurospirillum halorespirans, Thermo QExactive, acetylomics, bioremediation, dehalorespiration, nitrate, tetrachloroethene, two-component regulatory system	Organohalide respiration (OHR), comprising the reductive dehalogenation of halogenated organic compounds, is subject to a unique memory effect and long-term transcriptional downregulation of the involved genes in Sulfurospirillum multivorans. Gene expression ceases slowly over approximately 100 generations in the absence of tetrachloroethene (PCE). However, the molecular mechanisms of this regulation process are not understood. We show here that Sulfurospirillum halorespirans undergoes the same type of regulation when cultivated without chlorinated ethenes for a long period of time. In addition, we compared the proteomes of S. halorespirans cells cultivated in the presence of PCE with those of cells long- and short-term cultivated with nitrate as the sole electron acceptor. Important OHR-related proteins previously unidentified in S. multivorans include a histidine kinase, a putative quinol dehydrogenase membrane protein, and a PCE-induced porin. Since for some regulatory proteins a posttranslational regulation of activity by lysine acetylations is known, we also analyzed the acetylome of S. halorespirans, revealing that 32% of the proteome was acetylated in at least one condition. The data indicate that the response regulator and the histidine kinase of a two-component system most probably involved in induction of PCE respiration are highly acetylated during short-term cultivation with nitrate in the absence of PCE. SIGNIFICANCE: The so far unique long-term downregulation of organohalide respiration is now identified in a second species suggesting a broader distribution of this regulatory phenomenon. An improved protein extraction method allowed the identification of proteins most probably involved in transcriptional regulation of OHR in Sulfurospirillum spp. Our data indicate that acetylations of regulatory proteins are involved in this extreme, sustained standby-mode of metabolic enzymes in the absence of a substrate. This first published acetylome of Epsilonproteobacteria might help to study other ecologically or medically important species of this clade.
PXD007235	29618087	Extensive and systematic rewiring of histone post-translational modifications in cancer model systems. 	Extensive and systematic rewiring of histone post-translational modifications in cancer model systems	cell culture, histone post-translational modifications, primary cells, tissue	Histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) generate a complex combinatorial code that regulates gene expression and nuclear functions, and whose deregulation has been documented in different types of cancers. Therefore, the availability of relevant culture models that can be manipulated and that retain the epigenetic features of the tissue of origin is absolutely crucial for studying the epigenetic mechanisms underlying cancer and testing epigenetic drugs. In this study, we took advantage of quantitative mass spectrometry to comprehensively profile histone PTMs in patient tumor tissues, primary cultures and cell lines from three representative tumor models, breast cancer, glioblastoma and ovarian cancer, revealing an extensive and systematic rewiring of histone marks in cell culture conditions, which includes a decrease of H3K27me2/me3, H3K79me1/me2 and H3K9ac/K14ac, and an increase of H3K36me1/me2. While some changes occur in short-term primary cultures, most of them are instead time-dependent and appear only in long-term cultures. Remarkably, such changes mostly revert in cell line- and primary cell-derived in vivo xenograft models. Taken together, these results support the use of xenografts as the most representative models of in vivo epigenetic processes, suggesting caution when using cultured cells, in particular cell lines and long-term primary cultures, for epigenetic investigations.
PXD009169	29618514	Activation of stimulator of interferon genes (STING) induces ADAM17-mediated shedding of the immune semaphorin SEMA4D. 	LFQ of DMXAA-treated Raw264.7 secretome	DMXAA, LFQ, secretome	Stimulator of interferon genes (STING) is an endoplasmic reticulum-resident membrane protein that mediates cytosolic pathogen DNA-induced innate immunity and inflammatory responses in host defenses. STING is activated by cyclic di-nucleotides and is then translocated to the Golgi apparatus, an event that triggers STING assembly with the downstream enzyme TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). This assembly leads to the phosphorylation of the transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3), which in turn induces expression of type-I interferon (IFN) and chemokine genes. STING also mediates inflammatory responses independently of IRF3, but these molecular pathways are largely unexplored. Here, we analyzed the RAW264.7 macrophage secretome to comprehensively identify proinflammatory factors released into the extracellular medium upon STING activation. In total, we identified 1299 proteins in macrophage culture supernatants, of which 23 were significantly increased after STING activation. These proteins included IRF3-dependent cytokines, as well as previously unknown targets of STING, such as the immune semaphorin SEMA4D/CD100, which possesses proinflammatory cytokine-like activities. Unlike for canonical cytokines, the expression of the SEMA4D gene was not up-regulated. Instead, upon STING activation, membrane-bound SEMA4D was cleaved into a soluble form, suggesting the presence of a post-translational shedding machinery. Importantly, the SEMA4D shedding was blocked by TMI-1, an inhibitor of the sheddase ADAM metallopeptidase domain 17 (ADAM17) but not by the TBK1 inhibitor BX795. These results suggest that STING activates ADAM17 and that this activation produces soluble proinflammatory SEMA4D independently of the TBK1/IRF3-mediated transcriptional pathway.
PXD007956	29619022	Linking Microbial Community Structure and Function During the Acidified Anaerobic Digestion of Grass. 	Linking microbial community structure and function during the anaerobic digestion of grass	Anaerobic digestion, Grass, Metaproteomics	Harvesting valuable bioproducts from various renewable feedstocks is necessary for the critical development of a sustainable bioeconomy. Anaerobic digestion is a well-established technology for the conversion of wastewater and solid feedstocks to energy with the additional potential for production of process intermediates of high market values (e.g., carboxylates). In recent years, first-generation biofuels typically derived from food crops have been widely utilized as a renewable source of energy. The environmental and socioeconomic limitations of such strategy, however, have led to the development of second-generation biofuels utilizing, amongst other feedstocks, lignocellulosic biomass. In this context, the anaerobic digestion of perennial grass holds great promise for the conversion of sustainable renewable feedstock to energy and other process intermediates. The advancement of this technology however, and its implementation for industrial applications, relies on a greater understanding of the microbiome underpinning the process. To this end, microbial communities recovered from replicated anaerobic bioreactors digesting grass were analyzed. The bioreactors leachates were not buffered and acidic pH (between 5.5 and 6.3) prevailed at the time of sampling as a result of microbial activities. Community composition and transcriptionally active taxa were examined using 16S rRNA sequencing and microbial functions were investigated using metaproteomics. Bioreactor fraction, i.e., grass or leachate, was found to be the main discriminator of community analysis across the three molecular level of investigation (DNA, RNA, and proteins). Six taxa, namely Bacteroidia, Betaproteobacteria, Clostridia, Gammaproteobacteria, Methanomicrobia, and Negativicutes accounted for the large majority of the three datasets. The initial stages of grass hydrolysis were carried out by Bacteroidia, Gammaproteobacteria, and Negativicutes in the grass biofilms, in addition to Clostridia in the bioreactor leachates. Numerous glycolytic enzymes and carbohydrate transporters were detected throughout the bioreactors in addition to proteins involved in butanol and lactate production. Finally, evidence of the prevalence of stressful conditions within the bioreactors and particularly impacting Clostridia was observed in the metaproteomes. Taken together, this study highlights the functional importance of Clostridia during the anaerobic digestion of grass and thus research avenues allowing members of this taxon to thrive should be explored.
PXD007514	29620869	Mechanisms of Persistence of the Ammonia-Oxidizing Bacteria Nitrosomonas to the Biocide Free Nitrous Acid. 	Mechanism of persistence of the ammonia oxidising bacteria - Nitrosomonas to the the biocide Free Nitrous Acid (FNA)	Activated sludge, ammonia oxidising bacteria, metaproteomics	Free nitrous acid (FNA) exerts a broad range of antimicrobial effects on bacteria, although susceptibility varies considerably among microorganisms. Among nitrifiers found in activated sludge of wastewater treatment processes (WWTPs), nitrite-oxidizing bacteria (NOB) are more susceptible to FNA compared to ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB). This selective inhibition of NOB over AOB in WWTPs bypasses nitrate production and improves the efficiency and costs of the nitrogen removal process in both the activated sludge and anaerobic ammonium oxidation (Anammox) system. However, the molecular mechanisms governing this atypical tolerance of AOB to FNA have yet to be understood. Herein we investigate the varying effects of the antimicrobial FNA on activated sludge containing AOB and NOB using an integrated metagenomics and label-free quantitative sequential windowed acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion mass spectra (SWATH-MS) metaproteomic approach. The Nitrosomonas genus of AOB, on exposure to FNA, maintains internal homeostasis by upregulating a number of known oxidative stress enzymes, such as pteridine reductase and dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase. Denitrifying enzymes were upregulated on exposure to FNA, suggesting the detoxification of nitrite to nitric oxide. Interestingly, proteins involved in stress response mechanisms, such as DNA and protein repair enzymes, phage prevention proteins, and iron transport proteins, were upregulated on exposure to FNA. In addition enzymes involved in energy generation were also upregulated on exposure to FNA. The total proteins specifically derived from the NOB genus Nitrobacter was low and, as such, did not allow for the elucidation of the response mechanism to FNA exposure. These findings give us an understanding of the adaptive mechanisms of tolerance within the AOB Nitrosomonas to the biocidal agent FNA.
PXD043541	29621647	Molecular mechanisms underlying intraspecific variation in snake venom. 	Molecular mechanisms underlying intraspecific variation in snake venom	Evolution, Plasticity, Snake venom, Toxin function, Transcriptome	Elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying snake venom variability provides important clues for understanding how the biological functions of this powerful toxic arsenal evolve. We analyzed in detail individual transcripts and venom protein isoforms produced by five specimens of a venomous snake (Bothrops atrox) from two nearby but genetically distinct populations from the Brazilian Amazon rainforest which show functional similarities in venom properties. Individual variation was observed among the venoms of these specimens, but the overall abundance of each general toxin family was conserved both in transcript and in venom protein levels. However, when expression of independent paralogues was analyzed, remarkable differences were observed within and among each toxin group, both between individuals and between populations. Transcripts for functionally essential venom proteins ("core function" proteins) were highly expressed in all specimens and showed similar transcription/translation rates. In contrast, other paralogues ("adaptive" proteins) showed lower expression levels and the toxins they coded for varied among different individuals. These results provide support for the inferences that (a) expression and translational differences play a greater role in defining adaptive variation in venom phenotypes than does sequence variation in protein coding genes and (b) convergent adaptive venom phenotypes can be generated through different molecular mechanisms. SIGNIFICANCE: Analysis of individual transcripts and venom protein isoforms produced by specimens of a venomous snake (Bothrops atrox), from the Brazilian Amazon rainforest, revealed that transcriptional and translational mechanisms contribute to venom phenotypic variation. Our finding of evidence for high expression of toxin proteins with conserved function supports the hypothesis that the venom phenotype consists of two kinds of proteins: conserved "core function" proteins that provide essential functional activities with broader relevance and less conserved "adaptive" proteins that vary in expression and may permit customization of protein function. These observations allowed us to suggest that genetic mechanisms controlling venom variability are not restricted to selection of gene copies or mutations in structural genes but also to selection of the mechanisms controlling gene expression, contributing to the plasticity of this important phenotype for venomous snakes.
PXD006930	29622495	Identification of Serine 119 as an Effective Inhibitor Binding Site of M. tuberculosis Ubiquitin-like Protein Ligase PafA Using Purified Proteins and M. smegmatis. 	PafA-ABESF -  Identification of Serine 119 as an Effective Inhibitor Binding Site of M	PafA ABESF	Owing to the spread of multidrug resistance (MDR) and extensive drug resistance (XDR), there is a pressing need to identify potential targets for the development of more-effective anti-M. tuberculosis (Mtb) drugs. PafA, as the sole Prokaryotic Ubiquitin-like Protein ligase in the Pup-proteasome System (PPS) of Mtb, is an attractive drug target. Here, we show that the activity of purified Mtb PafA is significantly inhibited upon the association of AEBSF (4-(2-aminoethyl) benzenesulfonyl fluoride) to PafA residue Serine 119 (S119). Mutation of S119 to amino acids that resemble AEBSF has similar inhibitory effects on the activity of purified Mtb PafA. Structural analysis reveals that although S119 is distant from the PafA catalytic site, it is located at a critical position in the groove where PafA binds the C-terminal region of Pup. Phenotypic studies demonstrate that S119 plays critical roles in the function of Mtb PafA when tested in M. smegmatis. Our study suggests that targeting S119 is a promising direction for developing an inhibitor of M. tuberculosis PafA.
PXD009410	29622560	Role of ADAMTS-5 in Aortic Dilatation and Extracellular Matrix Remodeling. 	ECM characterization of aortas from Adamts5+/+ and Adamts5cat AngII-treated mice by LC-MS/MS	Adamts, aneurysm, ascending aorta, extracellular matrix, protease	OBJECTIVE: Thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA), a degenerative disease of the aortic wall, is accompanied by changes in the structure and composition of the aortic ECM (extracellular matrix). The ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) family of proteases has recently been implicated in TAA formation. This study aimed to investigate the contribution of ADAMTS-5 to TAA development. APPROACH AND RESULTS: A model of aortic dilatation by AngII (angiotensin II) infusion was adopted in mice lacking the catalytic domain of ADAMTS-5 (Adamts5(Deltacat)). Adamts5(Deltacat) mice showed an attenuated rise in blood pressure while displaying increased dilatation of the ascending aorta (AsAo). Interestingly, a proteomic comparison of the aortic ECM from AngII-treated wild-type and Adamts5(Deltacat) mice revealed versican as the most upregulated ECM protein in Adamts5(Deltacat) mice. This was accompanied by a marked reduction of ADAMTS-specific versican cleavage products (versikine) and a decrease of LRP1 (low-density lipoprotein-related protein 1). Silencing LRP1 expression in human aortic smooth muscle cells reduced the expression of ADAMTS5, attenuated the generation of versikine, but increased soluble ADAMTS-1. A similar increase in ADAMTS-1 was observed in aortas of AngII-treated Adamts5(Deltacat) mice but was not sufficient to maintain versican processing and prevent aortic dilatation. CONCLUSIONS: Our results support the emerging role of ADAMTS proteases in TAA. ADAMTS-5 rather than ADAMTS-1 is the key protease for versican regulation in murine aortas. Further studies are needed to define the ECM substrates of the different ADAMTS proteases and their contribution to TAA formation.
PXD006581	29622655	Repurposing tofacitinib as an anti-myeloma therapeutic to reverse growth-promoting effects of the bone marrow microenvironment. 	Repurposing tofacitinib as an anti-myeloma therapeutic to reverse growth-promoting effects of the bone marrow microenvironment	LFQ, bone marrow microenvironment, myeloma, tofacitinib	The myeloma bone marrow microenvironment promotes proliferation of malignant plasma cells and resistance to therapy. Activation of JAK/STAT signaling is thought to be a central component of these microenvironment-induced phenotypes. In a prior drug repurposing screen, we identified tofacitinib, a pan-JAK inhibitor Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for rheumatoid arthritis, as an agent that may reverse the tumor-stimulating effects of bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells. Herein, we validated in vitro, in stromal-responsive human myeloma cell lines, and in vivo, in orthotopic disseminated xenograft models of myeloma, that tofacitinib showed efficacy in myeloma models. Furthermore, tofacitinib strongly synergized with venetoclax in coculture with bone marrow stromal cells but not in monoculture. Surprisingly, we found that ruxolitinib, an FDA approved agent targeting JAK1 and JAK2, did not lead to the same anti-myeloma effects. Combination with a novel irreversible JAK3-selective inhibitor also did not enhance ruxolitinib effects. Transcriptome analysis and unbiased phosphoproteomics revealed that bone marrow stromal cells stimulate a JAK/STAT-mediated proliferative program in myeloma cells, and tofacitinib reversed the large majority of these pro-growth signals. Taken together, our results suggest that tofacitinib reverses the growth-promoting effects of the tumor microenvironment. As tofacitinib is already FDA approved, these results can be rapidly translated into potential clinical benefits for myeloma patients.
PXD007969	29622771	Glioblastoma-secreted soluble CD44 activates tau pathology in the brain. 	Human Glioblastoma Cell Line Secretome LC-MS/MS	Brain, Glioblastoma	During aggressive tumor growth and migration, glioblastoma cells secrete diverse molecules and adhesion proteins to the extracellular matrix. Yet, the biochemical effects of the glioblastoma secretome in the brain remain largely unknown. Here we show that soluble CD44 secreted from glioblastoma cells induces neuronal degeneration through the activation of tau pathology in the brain. Glioblastoma-xenograft tissues showed a number of degenerating neurons bearing highly phosphorylated tau. Through a series of secretome-analyses, we identified that soluble CD44 was the responsible protein inducing tau phosphorylation and aggregation (EC50 = 19.1 ng/mL). The treatment of sCD44 to primary hippocampal neurons-induced tau hyperphosphorylation, leading to neuronal degeneration. Also, the injection of sCD44 into the brains of tau transgenic mice induced tau hyper-phosphorylation in hippocampal neurons. Altogether, our data suggest a neurodegenerative role of sCD44 in promoting tau pathology and serving as a molecular link between glioblastoma and neurodegeneration.
PXD008879	29623069	A Highly Efficient Xylan-Utilization System in Aspergillus niger An76: A Functional-Proteomics Study. 	Aspergillus niger An76 LC-MS/MS analysis	Aspergillus niger An76, intracellular proteins, secreted proteins, sugar transporters, xylan	Xylan constituted with beta-1,4-D-xylose linked backbone and diverse substituted side-chains is the most abundant hemicellulose component of biomass, which can be completely and rapidly degraded into fermentable sugars by Aspergillus niger. This is of great value for obtaining renewable biofuels and biochemicals. To clarify the underlying mechanisms associated with highly efficient xylan degradation, assimilation, and metabolism by A. niger, we utilized functional proteomics to analyze the secreted proteins, sugar transporters, and intracellular proteins of A. niger An76 grown on xylan-based substrates. Results demonstrated that the complete xylanolytic enzyme system required for xylan degradation and composed of diverse isozymes was secreted in a sequential order. Xylan-backbone-degrading enzymes were preferentially induced by xylose or other soluble sugars, which efficiently produced large amounts of xylooligosaccharides (XOS) and xylose; however, XOS was more efficient than xylose in triggering the expression of the key transcription activator XlnR, resulting in higher xylanase activity and shortening xylanase-production time. Moreover, the substituted XOS was responsible for improving the abundance of side-chain-degrading enzymes, specific transporters, and key reductases and dehydrogenases in the pentose catabolic pathway. Our findings indicated that industries might be able to improve the species and concentrations of xylan-degrading enzymes and shorten fermentation time by adding abundant intermediate products of natural xylan (XOS) to cultures of filamentous fungi.
PXD009114	29625189	The dystrophin isoform Dp71eDelta71 is involved in neurite outgrowth and neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells. 	Dystrophin isoform Dp71e71 is involved in the neurite outgrowth and neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells	Dp71e71, Dystrophin, HspB1, PC12 cells., neuronal differentiation	The Dp71 protein is the most abundant dystrophin in the central nervous system (CNS). Several dystrophin Dp71 isoforms have been described and are classified into three groups, each with a different C-terminal end. However, the functions of Dp71 isoforms remain unknown. In the present study, we analysed the effect of Dp71eDelta71 overexpression on neuronal differentiation of PC12 Tet-On cells. Overexpression of dystrophin Dp71eDelta71 stimulates neuronal differentiation, increasing the percentage of cells with neurites and neurite length. According to 2-DE analysis, Dp71eDelta71 overexpression modified the protein expression profile of rat pheochromocytoma PC12 Tet-On cells that had been treated with neuronal growth factor (NGF) for nine days. Interestingly, all differentially expressed proteins were up-regulated compared to the control. The proteomic analysis showed that Dp71eDelta71 increases the expression of proteins with important roles in the differentiation process, such as HspB1, S100A6, and K8 proteins involved in the cytoskeletal structure and HCNP protein involved in neurotransmitter synthesis. The expression of neuronal marker TH was also up-regulated. Mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009114. SIGNIFICANCE: This study is the first to explore the role of the specific isoform Dp71eDelta71. The results obtained here support the hypothesis that the dystrophin Dp71eDelta71 isoform has an important role in the neurite outgrowth by regulating the levels of proteins involved in the cytoskeletal structure, such as HspB1, S100A6, and K8, and in neurotransmitter synthesis, such as HCNP and TH, biological processes required to stimulate neuronal differentiation.
PXD006792	29627459	Tadpole-like Conformations of Huntingtin Exon 1 Are Characterized by Conformational Heterogeneity that Persists regardless of Polyglutamine Length. 	Tadpole-like conformations of polyglutamine-expanded soluble huntingtin exon 1 engenders novel interactions	Huntingtons disease, huntingtin, neurodegeneration, polyq	Soluble huntingtin exon 1 (Httex1) with expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) engenders neurotoxicity in Huntington's disease. To uncover the physical basis of this toxicity, we performed structural studies of soluble Httex1 for wild-type and mutant polyQ lengths. Nuclear magnetic resonance experiments show evidence for conformational rigidity across the polyQ region. In contrast, hydrogen-deuterium exchange shows absence of backbone amide protection, suggesting negligible persistence of hydrogen bonds. The seemingly conflicting results are explained by all-atom simulations, which show that Httex1 adopts tadpole-like structures with a globular head encompassing the N-terminal amphipathic and polyQ regions and the tail encompassing the C-terminal proline-rich region. The surface area of the globular domain increases monotonically with polyQ length. This stimulates sharp increases in gain-of-function interactions in cells for expanded polyQ, and one of these interactions is with the stress-granule protein Fus. Our results highlight plausible connections between Httex1 structure and routes to neurotoxicity.
PXD009331	29627624	Cryopreservation and egg yolk medium alter the proteome of ram spermatozoa. 	Cryopreservation and egg yolk medium alter the proteome of ram spermatozoa	Ram, SWATH, sperm	Cryopreservation causes significant lethal and sub-lethal damage to spermatozoa. In order to improve freezing outcomes, a comprehensive understanding of sub-lethal damage is required. Cryopreservation induced changes to sperm proteins have been investigated in several species, but few have employed currently available state of the art, data independent acquisition mass spectrometry (MS) methods. We used the SWATH LC-MS method to quantitatively profile proteomic changes to ram spermatozoa following exposure to egg yolk and cryopreservation. Egg yolk contributed 15 proteins to spermatozoa, including vitellogenins, apolipoproteins and complement component C3. Cryopreservation significantly altered the abundance of 51 proteins. Overall, 27 proteins increased (e.g. SERPINB1, FER) and 24 proteins decreased (e.g. CCT subunits, CSNK1G2, TOM1L1) in frozen thawed ram spermatozoa, compared to fresh spermatozoa. Chaperones constituted 20% of the proteins lost from spermatozoa following cryopreservation. These alterations may interfere with both normal cellular functioning and the ability of frozen thawed spermatozoa to appropriately respond to stress. This is the first study to apply SWATH mass spectrometry techniques to characterise proteins contributed by egg yolk based freezing media and to profile cryopreservation induced proteomic changes to ram spermatozoa. SIGNIFICANCE: This study profiles changes to the sperm proteome induced by exposure to egg yolk based media and the process of cryopreservation, and the biological consequences are discussed.
PXD008676	29628141	Pseudouridylation of tRNA-Derived Fragments Steers Translational Control in Stem Cells. 	Pseudouridylation of tRNA-derived fragments steers translational control in stem cells	dimethyl labelling, pseudouridylation, tRNA	Pseudouridylation (Psi) is the most abundant and widespread type of RNA epigenetic modification in living organisms; however, the biological role of Psi remains poorly understood. Here, we show that a Psi-driven posttranscriptional program steers translation control to impact stem cell commitment during early embryogenesis. Mechanistically, the Psi "writer" PUS7 modifies and activates a novel network of tRNA-derived small fragments (tRFs) targeting the translation initiation complex. PUS7 inactivation in embryonic stem cells impairs tRF-mediated translation regulation, leading to increased protein biosynthesis and defective germ layer specification. Remarkably, dysregulation of this posttranscriptional regulatory circuitry impairs hematopoietic stem cell commitment and is common to aggressive subtypes of human myelodysplastic syndromes. Our findings unveil a critical function of Psi in directing translation control in stem cells with important implications for development and disease.
PXD007572	29629753	Analytical Pipeline for Discovery and Verification of Glycoproteins from Plasma-Derived Extracellular Vesicles as Breast Cancer Biomarkers. 	A pipeline for discovery and verification of glycoproteins from plasma-derived extracellular vesicles as breast cancer biomarkers	biomarker, extracellular vesicles, glycoproteomics	Glycoproteins comprise more than half of current FDA-approved protein cancer markers, but the development of new glycoproteins as disease biomarkers has been stagnant. Here we present a pipeline to develop glycoproteins from extracellular vesicles (EVs) through integrating quantitative glycoproteomics with a novel reverse phase glycoprotein array and then apply it to identify novel biomarkers for breast cancer. EV glycoproteomics show promise in circumventing the problems plaguing current serum/plasma glycoproteomics and allowed us to identify hundreds of glycoproteins that have not been identified in blood. We identified 1,453 unique glycopeptides representing 556 glycoproteins in EVs, among which 20 were verified significantly higher in individual breast cancer patients. We further applied a novel glyco-specific reverse phase protein array to quantify a subset of the candidates. Together, this study demonstrates the great potential of this integrated pipeline for biomarker discovery.
PXD008425	29631402	A Protein Standard That Emulates Homology for the Characterization of Protein Inference Algorithms. 	A protein standard that emulates homology for the characterization of protein inference algorithms	Protein Standard, protein inference	A natural way to benchmark the performance of an analytical experimental setup is to use samples of known composition and see to what degree one can correctly infer the content of such a sample from the data. For shotgun proteomics, one of the inherent problems of interpreting data is that the measured analytes are peptides and not the actual proteins themselves. As some proteins share proteolytic peptides, there might be more than one possible causative set of proteins resulting in a given set of peptides and there is a need for mechanisms that infer proteins from lists of detected peptides. A weakness of commercially available samples of known content is that they consist of proteins that are deliberately selected for producing tryptic peptides that are unique to a single protein. Unfortunately, such samples do not expose any complications in protein inference. Hence, for a realistic benchmark of protein inference procedures, there is a need for samples of known content where the present proteins share peptides with known absent proteins. Here, we present such a standard, that is based on E. coli expressed human protein fragments. To illustrate the application of this standard, we benchmark a set of different protein inference procedures on the data. We observe that inference procedures excluding shared peptides provide more accurate estimates of errors compared to methods that include information from shared peptides, while still giving a reasonable performance in terms of the number of identified proteins. We also demonstrate that using a sample of known protein content without proteins with shared tryptic peptides can give a false sense of accuracy for many protein inference methods.
PXD008500	29632046	Ranking the Contribution of Ankylosing Spondylitis-associated Endoplasmic Reticulum Aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) Polymorphisms to Shaping the HLA-B*27 Peptidome. 	Ranking the contribution of ankylosing spondylitis-associated ERAP1 polymorphisms to shaping the HLA-B*27 peptidome	HLA, MHC, immunopeptidome, peptidome	The Endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase I (ERAP1) trims peptides to their optimal size for binding to Major Histocompatibility Complex class I proteins. The natural polymorphism of this enzyme is associated with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) in epistasis with the major risk factor for this disease, HLA-B*27, suggesting a direct relationship between AS and HLA-B*27-bound peptides. Three polymorphisms that affect peptide trimming protect from AS: K528R, D575N/R725Q, and Q730E. We characterized and ranked the effects of each mutation, and their various combinations, by quantitative comparisons of the HLA-B*27 peptidomes from cells expressing distinct ERAP1 variants. Five features were examined: peptide length, N-terminal flanking residues, N-terminal residues of the natural ligands, internal sequences and affinity for B*27:05. Polymorphism at residue 528 showed the largest influence, affecting all five features regardless of peptide length. D575N/R725Q showed a much smaller effect. Yet, when co-occurring with K528R, it further decreased ERAP1 activity. Polymorphism at residue 730 showed a significant influence on peptide length, because of distinct effects on trimming of nonamers compared with longer peptides. Accordingly, multiple features were affected by the Q730E mutation in a length-dependent way. The alterations induced in the B*27:05 peptidome by natural ERAP1 variants with different K528R/Q730E combinations reflected separate and additive effects of both mutations. Thus, the influence of ERAP1 on HLA-B*27 is very diverse at the population level, because of the multiplicity and complexity of ERAP1 variants, and to the distinct effects of their co-occurring polymorphisms, leading to significant modulation of disease risk among HLA-B*27-positive individuals.
PXD008906	29632244	Cross-talk between monocyte invasion and astrocyte proliferation regulates scarring in brain injury. 	Cross-talk between monocyte invasion and astrocyte proliferation regulates scarring in brain injury	Brain	Scar formation after brain injury is still poorly understood. To further elucidate such processes, here, we examine the interplay between astrocyte proliferation taking place predominantly at the vascular interface and monocyte invasion. Using genetic mouse models that decrease or increase reactive astrocyte proliferation, we demonstrate inverse effects on monocyte numbers in the injury site. Conversely, reducing monocyte invasion using CCR2(-/-) mice causes a strong increase in astrocyte proliferation, demonstrating an intriguing negative cross-regulation between these cell types at the vascular interface. CCR2(-/-) mice show reduced scar formation with less extracellular matrix deposition, smaller lesion site and increased neuronal coverage. Surprisingly, the GFAP(+) scar area in these mice is also significantly decreased despite increased astrocyte proliferation. Proteomic analysis at the peak of increased astrocyte proliferation reveals a decrease in extracellular matrix synthesizing enzymes in the injury sites of CCR2(-/-) mice, highlighting how early key aspects of scar formation are initiated. Taken together, we provide novel insights into the cross-regulation of juxtavascular proliferating astrocytes and invading monocytes as a crucial mechanism of scar formation upon brain injury.
PXD008829	29632369	A type VI secretion system effector delivery mechanism dependent on PAAR and a chaperone-co-chaperone complex. 	Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA3904 pull down coupled to LC-MS/MS	Pseudomonas aeruginosa	The type VI secretion system (T6SS) is used by many Gram-negative bacteria as a molecular weapon to modulate neighbouring bacterial and eukaryotic cells, thereby affecting the dynamics of community structure in multiple species environments. The T6SS injects its inner-needle Hcp tube, the sharpening tip complex consisting of VgrG and PAAR, and toxic effectors into neighbouring cells. Its functions are largely determined by the activities of its delivered effectors. Six mechanisms of effector delivery have been described: two mediated by the inner tube and the others mediated by the VgrG and PAAR tip complex. Here, we report an additional effector delivery mechanism that relies on interaction with a chaperone complex and a PAAR protein as a carrier. The Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 TOX-REase-5 domain-containing effector TseT directly interacts with PAAR4 and the chaperone TecT for delivery, and an immunity protein, TsiT, for protection from its toxicity. TecT forms a complex with its co-chaperone, co-TecT, which is disrupted by the carboxy-terminal tail of PAAR4. In addition, we delineate a complex, multilayered competitive process that dictates effector trafficking. PAAR delivery provides an additional tool for engineering cargo protein translocation.
PXD009166	29633471	SUMO1-conjugation is altered during normal aging but not by increased amyloid burden. 	SUMO1-conjugation is altered during normal aging but not by increased amyloid burden	Alzheimer, affinity purification, aging, brain, label-free quantification, post-translational modification, small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO)	A proper equilibrium of post-translational protein modifications is essential for normal cell physiology, and alteration in these processes is key in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Recently, for instance, alteration in protein SUMOylation has been linked to amyloid pathology. In this work, we aimed to elucidate the role of protein SUMOylation during aging and increased amyloid burden in vivo using a His6 -HA-SUMO1 knock-in mouse in the 5XFAD model of Alzheimer's disease. Interestingly, we did not observe any alteration in the levels of SUMO1-conjugation related to Alzheimer's disease. SUMO1 conjugates remained localized to neuronal nuclei upon increased amyloid burden and during aging and were not detected in amyloid plaques. Surprisingly however, we observed age-related alterations in global levels of SUMO1 conjugation and at the level of individual substrates using quantitative proteomic analysis. The identified SUMO1 candidate substrates are dominantly nuclear proteins, mainly involved in RNA processing. Our findings open novel directions of research for studying a functional link between SUMOylation and its role in guarding nuclear functions during aging.
PXD008171	29634277	Polylysine is a Proteostasis Network-Engaging Structural Determinant. 	Polylysine interactome in human cells	293T cells, Polylysine, translation read-through	C-terminal polylysine (PL) can be synthesized from the polyadenine tail of prematurely cleaved mRNAs or when a read-though of a stop codon happens. Due to the highly positive charge, PL stalls in the electrostatically negative ribosomal exit channel. The stalled polypeptide recruits the Ribosome-associated quality control (RQC) complex which processes and extracts the nascent chain. Dysfunction of the RQC leads to the accumulation of PL-tagged proteins, induction of a stress response, and cellular toxicity. Not much is known about the PL-specific aspect of protein quality control. Using quantitative mass spectrometry, we uncovered the post-ribosomal PL-processing machinery in human cytosol. It encompasses key cytosolic complexes of the proteostasis network, such as chaperonin TCP-1 ring complexes (TRiC) and half-capped 19S-20S proteasomes. Furthermore, we found that the nuclear transport machinery associates with PL, which suggests a novel mechanism by which faulty proteins can be compartmentalized in the cell. The enhanced nuclear import of a PL-tagged polypeptide confirmed this implication, which leads to questions regarding the biological rationale behind it.
PXD005527	29634903	Unbiased Proteomic Study of the Axons of Cultured Rat Cortical Neurons. 	Unbiased proteomic study of the axons of cultured rat cortical neurons	2D-LC-MSMS, Axon, Dimethyl-labeling quantitative proteomics, Label-free quantification, Rat	The axon is a long projection connecting a neuron to its targets. Here, the axons of cultured rat cortical neurons were isolated with micropatterned chips that enable the separation of axons from their cell bodies. Proteins extracted from isolated axons and whole neurons were subjected to analyses using two-dimensional liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (2D-LC-MS/MS) analyses without and with stable isotope dimethyl labeling, resulting in the identification of >2500 axonal proteins and 103 axon-enriched proteins. A strong correlation exists between the abundances of axonal proteins and their counterparts in whole neurons. The proteomic results confirm the axonal protein constituents of the subcellular structures documented in earlier electron microscopic studies. Cortical axons have proteins that are components of machineries for protein degradation and the synthesis of soluble, membrane, and secretory proteins, although axons lack conventional Golgi apparatus. Despite the fact that axons lack nucleus, nuclear proteins were identified, and 67 of them were found enriched in axons. Some of the results obtained by the MS-based studies were validated by quantitative Western blotting and immunofluorescence staining analyses. The results represent the first comprehensive description of the axonal protein landscape. The MS proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005527.
PXD007683	29635916	Proteome-Wide Evaluation of Two Common Protein Quantification Methods. 	Proteome-wide evaluation of two common protein quantification methods	LFQ, MaxQuant, TMT	Proteomics experiments commonly aim to estimate and detect differential abundance across all expressed proteins. Within this experimental design, some of the most challenging measurements are small fold changes for lower abundance proteins. While bottom-up proteomics methods are approaching comprehensive coverage of even complex eukaryotic proteomes, failing to reliably quantify lower abundance proteins can limit the precision and reach of experiments to much less than the identified-let alone total-proteome. Here we test the ability of two common methods, a tandem mass tagging (TMT) method and a label-free quantitation method (LFQ), to achieve comprehensive quantitative coverage by benchmarking their capacity to measure 3 different levels of change (3-, 2-, and 1.5-fold) across an entire data set. Both methods achieved comparably accurate estimates for all 3-fold-changes. However, the TMT method detected changes that reached statistical significance three times more often due to higher precision and fewer missing values. These findings highlight the importance of refining proteome quantitation methods to bring the number of usefully quantified proteins into closer agreement with the number of total quantified proteins.
PXD008533	29636436	Broad-Spectrum Regulation of Nonreceptor Tyrosine Kinases by the Bacterial ADP-Ribosyltransferase EspJ. 	Defining targets of the bacterial ADP-ribosyltransferase EspJ	ADP-ribosyltransferase, EHEC	Tyrosine phosphorylation is key for signal transduction from exogenous stimuli, including the defense against pathogens. Conversely, pathogens can subvert protein phosphorylation to control host immune responses and facilitate invasion and dissemination. The bacterial effectors EspJ and SeoC are injected into host cells through a type III secretion system by enteropathogenic and enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EPEC and EHEC, respectively), Citrobacter rodentium, and Salmonella enterica, where they inhibit Src kinase by coupled amidation and ADP-ribosylation. C. rodentium, which is used to model EPEC and EHEC infections in humans, is a mouse pathogen triggering colonic crypt hyperplasia (CCH) and colitis. Enumeration of bacterial shedding and CCH confirmed that EspJ affects neither tolerance nor resistance to infection. However, comparison of the proteomes of intestinal epithelial cells isolated from mice infected with wild-type C. rodentium or C. rodentium encoding catalytically inactive EspJ revealed that EspJ-induced ADP-ribosylation regulates multiple nonreceptor tyrosine kinases in vivo Investigation of the substrate repertoire of EspJ revealed that in HeLa and A549 cells, Src and Csk were significantly targeted; in polarized Caco2 cells, EspJ targeted Src and Csk and the Src family kinase (SFK) Yes1, while in differentiated Thp1 cells, EspJ modified Csk, the SFKs Hck and Lyn, the Tec family kinases Tec and Btk, and the adapter tyrosine kinase Syk. Furthermore, Abl (HeLa and Caco2) and Lyn (Caco2) were enriched specifically in the EspJ-containing samples. Biochemical assays revealed that EspJ, the only bacterial ADP-ribosyltransferase that targets mammalian kinases, controls immune responses and the Src/Csk signaling axis.IMPORTANCE Enteropathogenic and enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EPEC and EHEC, respectively) strains cause significant mortality and morbidity worldwide. Citrobacter rodentium is a mouse pathogen used to model EPEC and EHEC pathogenesis in vivo Diarrheal disease is triggered following injection of bacterial effectors, via a type III secretion system (T3SS), into intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). While insights into the role of the effectors were historically obtained from pathological, immunologic, or cell culture phenotypes, subtle roles of individual effectors in vivo are often masked. The aim of this study was to elucidate the role and specificity of the ADP-ribosyltransferase effector EspJ. For the first time, we show that the in vivo processes affected by a T3SS effector can be studied by comparing the proteomes of IECs extracted from mice infected with wild-type C. rodentium or an espJ catalytic mutant. We show that EspJ, the only bacterial ADP-ribosyltransferase that targets mammalian kinases, regulates the host immune response in vivo.
PXD003479	29636444	Identification of potential urine proteins and microRNA biomarkers for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis patients. 	Comprehensive Immunoproteome of Mycoplasma bovis	2-DE, Immunoblotting, Immunoinformatics, MALDI-TOF MS	This study identified urinary biomarkers for tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis. The urine proteomic profiles of 45 pulmonary tuberculosis patients prior to anti-TB treatment and 45 healthy controls were analyzed and compared using two-dimensional electrophoresis with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry. Nineteen differentially expressed proteins were identified preliminarily, and western blotting and qRT-PCR were performed to confirm these changes at the translational and transcriptional levels, respectively, using samples from 122 additional pulmonary tuberculosis patients and 73 additional healthy controls. Two proteins, mannose-binding lectin 2 and a 35-kDa fragment of inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor H4, exhibited the highest differential expression. We constructed a protein-microRNA interaction network that primarily involved complement and inflammatory responses. Eleven microRNAs from microRNA-target protein interactions were screened and validated using qRT-PCR with some of the above samples, including 97 pulmonary tuberculosis patients and 48 healthy controls. Only miR-625-3p exhibited significant differential expression (p < 0.05). miR-625-3p was increased to a greater extent in samples of smear-positive than smear-negative patients. miR-625-3p was predicted to target mannose-binding lectin 2 protein. A binary logistic regression model based on miR-625-3p, mannose-binding lectin 2, and inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor H4 was further established. This three-biomarker combination exhibited better performance for tuberculosis diagnosis than individual biomarkers or any two-biomarker combination and generated a diagnostic sensitivity of 85.87% and a specificity of 87.50%. These novel urine biomarkers may significantly improve tuberculosis diagnosis.
PXD008163	29641209	A Cost-Effective High-Throughput Plasma and Serum Proteomics Workflow Enables Mapping of the Molecular Impact of Total Pancreatectomy with Islet Autotransplantation. 	Depleted Prefractionated Human Plasma for Data Independent Acquisition Spectral Library	depletion, high pH, plasma, prefractionated, spectral library	Blood is an ideal body fluid for the discovery or monitoring of diagnostic and prognostic protein biomarkers. However, discovering robust biomarkers requires the analysis of large numbers of samples to appropriately represent interindividual variability. To address this analytical challenge, we established a high-throughput and cost-effective proteomics workflow for accurate and comprehensive proteomics at an analytical depth applicable for clinical studies. For validation, we processed 1 muL each from 62 plasma samples in 96-well plates and analyzed the product by quantitative data-independent acquisition liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry; the data were queried using feature quantification with Spectronaut. To show the applicability of our workflow to serum, we analyzed a unique set of samples from 48 chronic pancreatitis patients, pre and post total pancreatectomy with islet autotransplantation (TPIAT) surgery. We identified 16 serum proteins with statistically significant abundance alterations, which represent a molecular signature distinct from that of chronic pancreatitis. In summary, we established a cost-efficient high-throughput workflow for comprehensive proteomics using PVDF-membrane-based digestion that is robust, automatable, and applicable to small plasma and serum volumes, e.g., finger stick. Application of this plasma/serum proteomics workflow resulted in the first mapping of the molecular implications of TPIAT on the serum proteome.
PXD007953	29643357	Release of Staphylococcus aureus extracellular vesicles and their application as a vaccine platform. 	LC-MS of extracellular vesicles from Staphylococcus aureus USA300 JE2 and its agrspa double mutant strain	Staphylococcus aureus, USA300, extracellular vesicle, mutant	Secretion of extracellular vesicles (EVs), a process common to eukaryotes, archae, and bacteria, represents a secretory pathway that allows cell-free intercellular communication. Microbial EVs package diverse proteins and influence the host-pathogen interaction, but the mechanisms underlying EV production in Gram-positive bacteria are poorly understood. Here we show that EVs purified from community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus package cytosolic, surface, and secreted proteins, including cytolysins. Staphylococcal alpha-type phenol-soluble modulins promote EV biogenesis by disrupting the cytoplasmic membrane; whereas, peptidoglycan cross-linking and autolysin activity modulate EV production by altering the permeability of the cell wall. We demonstrate that EVs purified from a S. aureus mutant that is genetically engineered to express detoxified cytolysins are immunogenic in mice, elicit cytolysin-neutralizing antibodies, and protect the animals in a lethal sepsis model. Our study reveals mechanisms underlying S. aureus EV production and highlights the usefulness of EVs as a S. aureus vaccine platform.
PXD004658	29643415	Proteomic profiling of human cancer pseudopodia for the identification of anti-metastatic drug candidates. 	Proteomic profiling of human cancer pseudopodia for the identification of anti-metastatic drug candidates	breast cancer, metastasis, migration, pseudopodia	Cancer metastasis causes approximately 90% of all cancer-related death and independent of the advancement of cancer therapy, a majority of late stage patients suffers from metastatic cancer. Metastasis implies cancer cell migration and invasion throughout the body. Migration requires the formation of pseudopodia in the direction of movement, but a detailed understanding of this process and accordingly strategies of prevention remain elusive. Here, we use quantitative proteomic profiling of human cancer pseudopodia to examine this mechanisms essential to metastasis formation, and identify potential candidates for pharmacological interference with the process. We demonstrate that Prohibitins (PHBs) are significantly enriched in the pseudopodia fraction derived from cancer cells, and knockdown of PHBs, as well as their chemical inhibition through Rocaglamide (Roc-A), efficiently reduces cancer cell migration.
PXD009190	29643857	A 17-kDa Fragment of Lactoferrin Associates With the Termination of Inflammation and Peptides Within Promote Resolution. 	A 17 kDa fragment of lactoferrin associates with the termination of inflammation and peptides within promote resolution	NETosis, Resolution of Inflammation, efferocytosis, lactoferrin, macrophages	During the resolution of inflammation, macrophages engulf apoptotic polymorphonuclear cells (PMN) and can accumulate large numbers of their corpses. Here, we report that resolution phase macrophages acquire the neutrophil-derived glycoprotein lactoferrin (Lf) and fragments thereof in vivo and ex vivo. During the onset and resolving phases of inflammation in murine peritonitis and bovine mastitis, Lf fragments of 15 and 17 kDa occurred in various body fluids, and the murine fragmentation, accumulation, and release were mediated initially by neutrophils and later by efferocytic macrophages. The 17-kDa fragment contained two bioactive tripeptides, FKD and FKE that promoted resolution phase macrophage conversion to a pro-resolving phenotype. This resulted in a reduction in peritoneal macrophage numbers and an increase in the CD11b(low) subset of these cells. Moreover, FKE, but not FKD, peptides enhanced efferocytosis of apoptotic PMN, reduced TNFalpha and interleukin (IL)-6, and increased IL-10 secretion by lipopolysaccharide-stimulated macrophages ex vivo. In addition, FKE promoted neutrophil-mediated resolution at high concentrations (100 microM) by enhancing the formation of cytokine-scavenging aggregated NETs (tophi) at a low cellular density. Thus, PMN Lf is processed, acquired, and "recycled" by neutrophils and macrophages during inflammation resolution to generate fragments and peptides with paramount pro-resolving activities.
PXD009288	29644703	Evaluation of six sample preparation procedures for qualitative and quantitative proteomics analysis of milk fat globule membrane. 	cow MFGM LC-MS/MS	MFGM, cow	Proteomic analysis of membrane proteins is challenged by the proteins solubility and detergent incompatibility with MS analysis. No single perfect protocol can be used to comprehensively characterize the proteome of membrane fraction. Here, we used cow milk fat globule membrane (MFGM) proteome analysis to assess six sample preparation procedures including one in-gel and five in-solution digestion approaches prior to LC-MS/MS analysis. The largest number of MFGM proteins were identified by suspension trapping (S-Trap) and filter-aided sample preparation (FASP) methods, followed by acetone precipitation without clean-up of tryptic peptides method. Protein identifications with highest average coverage was achieved by Chloroform/MeOH, in-gel and S-Trap methods. Most distinct proteins were identified by FASP method, followed by S-Trap. Analyses by Venn diagram, principal-component analysis, hierarchical clustering and the abundance ranking of quantitative proteins highlight differences in the MFGM fraction by the all sample preparation procedures. These results reveal the biased proteins/peptides loss occurred in each protocol. In this study, we found several novel proteins that were not observed previously by in-depth proteomics characterization of MFGM fraction in milk. Thus, a combination of multiple procedures with orthologous properties of sample preparation was demonstrated to improve the protein sequence coverage and expression level accuracy of membrane samples.
PXD008084	29648665	Homozygous TAF8 mutation in a patient with intellectual disability results in undetectable TAF8 protein, but preserved RNA polymerase II transcription. 	TAF8 MUTATION CAUSES INTELLECUAL DISABILITY, TFIID DISASSEMBLY WITH NO EFFECT ON RNA POLYMERASE II TRANSCRIPTION	Patient, RNA polymerase II (Pol II), TATA binding protein (TBP), TBP-associated factor (TAF), TFIID, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), frame shift, intellectual disability, splice site mutation	The human general transcription factor TFIID is composed of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) and 13 TBP-associated factors (TAFs). In eukaryotic cells, TFIID is thought to nucleate RNA polymerase II (Pol II) preinitiation complex formation on all protein coding gene promoters and thus, be crucial for Pol II transcription. In a child with intellectual disability, mild microcephaly, corpus callosum agenesis and poor growth, we identified a homozygous splice-site mutation in TAF8 (NM_138572.2: c.781-1G > A). Our data indicate that the patient's mutation generates a frame shift and an unstable TAF8 mutant protein with an unrelated C-terminus. The mutant TAF8 protein could not be detected in extracts from the patient's fibroblasts, indicating a loss of TAF8 function and that the mutation is most likely causative. Moreover, our immunoprecipitation and proteomic analyses show that in patient cells only partial TAF complexes exist and that the formation of the canonical TFIID is impaired. In contrast, loss of TAF8 in mouse embryonic stem cells and blastocysts leads to cell death and to a global decrease in Pol II transcription. Astonishingly however, in human TAF8 patient cells, we could not detect any cellular phenotype, significant changes in genome-wide Pol II occupancy and pre-mRNA transcription. Thus, the disorganization of the essential holo-TFIID complex did not affect global Pol II transcription in the patient's fibroblasts. Our observations further suggest that partial TAF complexes, and/or an altered TFIID containing a mutated TAF8, could support human development and thus, the absence of holo-TFIID is less deleterious for transcription than originally predicted.
PXD008897	29651020	GFI1 facilitates efficient DNA repair by regulating PRMT1 dependent methylation of MRE11 and 53BP1. 	GFI1 facilitates efficient DNA repair by regulating PRMT1-dependent methylation of MRE11 and 53BP1	DNA repair GFI1 PRMT1 methylation MRE11 53bp1	GFI1 is a transcriptional regulator expressed in lymphoid cells, and an "oncorequisite" factor required for development and maintenance of T-lymphoid leukemia. GFI1 deletion causes hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation, for which the molecular mechanism remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that GFI1 is required in T cells for the regulation of key DNA damage signaling and repair proteins. Specifically, GFI1 interacts with the arginine methyltransferase PRMT1 and its substrates MRE11 and 53BP1. We demonstrate that GFI1 enables PRMT1 to bind and methylate MRE11 and 53BP1, which is necessary for their function in the DNA damage response. Thus, our results provide evidence that GFI1 can adopt non-transcriptional roles, mediating the post-translational modification of proteins involved in DNA repair. These findings have direct implications for treatment responses in tumors overexpressing GFI1 and suggest that GFI1's activity may be a therapeutic target in these malignancies.
PXD008777	29654183	Optimizing Recombinant Protein Production in the Escherichia coli Periplasm Alleviates Stress. 	Investigation of the effects on the proteome composition of Escherichia coli producing a recombinant protein in the periplasm under non-optimized and optimized conditions	Escherichia coli, Lemo21(DE3), periplasm, protein production, recombinant protein	In Escherichia coli, many recombinant proteins are produced in the periplasm. To direct these proteins to this compartment, they are equipped with an N-terminal signal sequence so that they can traverse the cytoplasmic membrane via the protein-conducting Sec translocon. Recently, using the single-chain variable antibody fragment BL1, we have shown that harmonizing the target gene expression intensity with the Sec translocon capacity can be used to improve the production yields of a recombinant protein in the periplasm. Here, we have studied the consequences of improving the production of BL1 in the periplasm by using a proteomics approach. When the target gene expression intensity is not harmonized with the Sec translocon capacity, the impaired translocation of secretory proteins, protein misfolding/aggregation in the cytoplasm, and an inefficient energy metabolism result in poor growth and low protein production yields. The harmonization of the target gene expression intensity with the Sec translocon capacity results in normal growth, enhanced protein production yields, and, surprisingly, a composition of the proteome that is-besides the produced target-the same as that of cells with an empty expression vector. Thus, the single-chain variable antibody fragment BL1 can be efficiently produced in the periplasm without causing any notable detrimental effects to the production host. Finally, we show that under the optimized conditions, a small fraction of the target protein is released into the extracellular milieu via outer membrane vesicles. We envisage that our observations can be used to design strategies to further improve the production of secretory recombinant proteins in E. coliIMPORTANCE The bacterium Escherichia coli is widely used to produce recombinant proteins. Usually, trial-and-error-based screening approaches are used to identify conditions that lead to high recombinant protein production yields. Here, for the production of an antibody fragment in the periplasm of E. coli, we show that an optimization of its production is accompanied by the alleviation of stress. This indicates that the monitoring of stress responses could be used to facilitate enhanced recombinant protein production yields.
PXD002213	29654727	Comparative proteomic analysis of human malignant ascitic fluids for the development of gastric cancer biomarkers. 	Gastric cancer ascites proteome	Ascites, Gastric cancer, biomarker, proteome profiling	OBJECTIVES: Malignant ascites is a sign of peritoneal seeding, which is one of the most frequent forms of incurable distant metastasis. Because the development of malignant ascites is associated with an extremely poor prognosis, determining whether it resulted from peritoneal seeding has critical clinical implications in diagnosis, choice of treatment, and active surveillance. At present, the molecular characterizations of malignant ascites are especially limited in case of gastric cancer. We aimed to identify malignant ascites-specific proteins that may contribute to the development of alternative methods for diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring and also increase our understanding of the pathophysiology of peritoneal seeding. DESIGN & METHODS: First, comprehensive proteomic strategies were employed to construct an in-depth proteome of ascitic fluids. Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis was subsequently performed to identify candidates that can differentiate between malignant ascitic fluilds of gastric cancer patients from benign ascitic fluids. Finally, two candidate proteins were verified by ELISA in 84 samples with gastric cancer or liver cirrhosis. RESULTS: Comprehensive proteome profiling resulted in the identification of 5347 ascites proteins. Using label-free quantification, we identified 299 proteins that were differentially expressed in ascitic fluids between liver cirrhosis and stage IV gastric cancer patients. In addition, we identified 645 proteins that were significantly expressed in ascitic fluids between liver cirrhosis and gastric cancer patients with peritoneal seeding. Finally, Gastriscin and Periostin that can distinguish malignant ascites from benign ascites were verified by ELISA. CONCLUSIONS: This study identified and verified protein markers that can distinguish malignant ascites with or without peritoneal seeding from benign ascites. Consequently, our results could be a significant resource for gastric cancer research and biomarker discovery in the diagnosis of malignant ascites.
PXD007902	29654920	Myristic acid induces proteomic and secretomic changes associated with steatosis, cytoskeleton remodeling, endoplasmic reticulum stress, protein turnover and exosome release in HepG2 cells. 	Myristic acid induces proteomic and secretomic changes associated with steatosis, cytoskeleton remodeling, endoplasmatic reticulum stress and exosome release in HepG2 cells	HepG2, Myristic acid	Myristic acid, the 14-carbon saturated fatty acid (C14:0), is associated to an increased cardiovascular disease risk. Since it is found in low concentration in cells, its specific properties have not been fully analyzed. The aim of this study was to explore the cell response to this fatty acid to help explaining clinical findings on the relationship between C14:0 and cardiovascular disease. The human liver HepG2 cell line was used to investigate the hepatic response to C14:0 in a combined proteomic and secretomic approach. A total of 47 intracellular and 32 secreted proteins were deregulated after treatments with different concentrations of C14:0. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD007902). In addition, C14:0 treatment of primary murine hepatocytes confirmed that C14:0 induces lipid droplet accumulation and elevates perilipin-2 levels. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that C14:0 modulates lipid droplet formation and cytoskeleton organization, induce ER stress, changes in exosome and extracellular miRNA sorting in HepG2cells. Our data provide for the first time a proteomic profiling of the effects of C14:0 in human hepatoma cells and contribute to the elucidation of molecular mechanisms through which this fatty acid may cause adverse health effects. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Myristic acid is correlated with an increase in plasma cholesterol and mortality due to cardiovascular diseases. This study is the first example of an integration of proteomic and secretomic analysis of HepG2 cells to investigate the specific properties and functional roles of myristic acid on hepatic cells. Our analyses will lead to a better understanding of the myristic acid induced effects and can elicit new diagnostic and treatment strategies based on altered proteins.
PXD009050	29654978	Proteomic approach and expression analysis revealed the differential expression of predicted leptospiral proteases capable of ECM degradation. 	Proteomic approach and expression analysis revealed the differential expression of leptospiral proteases capable of ECM degradation	Leptospira, high resolution proteomics, metalloprotease, pathogenesis, protease	Leptospira, the causative agent of leptospirosis is known to have many proteases with potential to degrade extracellular matrix. However, a multipronged approach to identify, classify, characterize and elucidate their role has not been attempted. Our proteomic approach using high-resolution LC-MS/MS analysis of Triton X-114 fractions of Leptospira interrogans resulted in the identification of 104 proteases out of 130 proteases predicted by MEROPS. In Leptospira approximately 3.5% of the genome complements for proteases, which include catalytic types of metallo-, serine-, cysteine-, aspartic-, threonine- and asparagine- peptidases. Comparison of proteases from different serovars revealed that M04, M09B, M14A, M75, M28A, A01 and U73 protease families are exclusively present in pathogenic form. The M23 and S33 protease families are represented with >14 members in Leptospira. The differential expression under physiological temperature (37 degreesC) and osmolarity (300 mOsM) showed that proteases belonging to the catalytic type of Metallo-peptidases are upregulated significantly in pathogenic conditions. In silico prediction and characterization of the proteases revealed that several proteases are membrane anchored and secretory, classical as well as non-classical system. The study demonstrates the diversity and complexity of proteases, while maintaining conservation across the serovars in Leptospira and their differential expression under pathogenic conditions.
PXD008076	29656018	Systematic analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid proteome of fibromyalgia patients. 	Systematic Analysis of the Cerebrospinal Fluid Proteome of Fibromyalgia patients	CSF, LC-MS, biomarker, fibromyalgia	Fibromyalgia (FM) is a syndrome characterized by widespread muscular pain, fatigue and functional symptoms, which is known to be difficult to diagnose as the various symptoms overlap with many other conditions. Currently, there are no biomarkers for FM, and the diagnosis is made subjectively by the clinicians. We have performed shotgun proteomics on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from FM patients and non-pain controls to find potential biomarker candidates for this syndrome. Based on our multivariate and univariate analyses, we found that the relative differences in the CSF proteome between FM patients and controls were moderate. Four proteins, important to discriminate FM patients from non-pain controls, were found: Apolipoprotein C-III, Galectin-3-binding protein, Malate dehydrogenase cytoplasmic and the neuropeptide precursor protein ProSAAS. These proteins are involved in lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity, inflammatory signaling, energy metabolism and neuropeptide signaling. SIGNIFICANCE: Fibromyalgia is present in as much as 2% of the population, causing pain, stiffness, and tenderness of the muscles. Upon accurate diagnostic, nonpharmacological and pharmacological therapies can be used to alleviate pain and manage other symptoms. However, lack of objective, universal applicable diagnostic criteria as well as vague and diffused symptoms, have made diagnosis difficult. In this context, our findings can shed light on potential value of CSF proteome for objectively diagnosing FM.
PXD009284	29656893	DNA Repair Network Analysis Reveals Shieldin as a Key Regulator of NHEJ and PARP Inhibitor Sensitivity. 	DNA repair proximity landscape analysis reveals shieldin as a key regulator of NHEJ-dependent processes	DNA damage repair, proximity labeling, shieldin	Repair of damaged DNA is essential for maintaining genome integrity and for preventing genome-instability-associated diseases, such as cancer. By combining proximity labeling with quantitative mass spectrometry, we generated high-resolution interaction neighborhood maps of the endogenously expressed DNA repair factors 53BP1, BRCA1, and MDC1. Our spatially resolved interaction maps reveal rich network intricacies, identify shared and bait-specific interaction modules, and implicate previously concealed regulators in this process. We identified a novel vertebrate-specific protein complex, shieldin, comprising REV7 plus three previously uncharacterized proteins, RINN1 (CTC-534A2.2), RINN2 (FAM35A), and RINN3 (C20ORF196). Recruitment of shieldin to DSBs, via the ATM-RNF8-RNF168-53BP1-RIF1 axis, promotes NHEJ-dependent repair of intrachromosomal breaks, immunoglobulin class-switch recombination (CSR), and fusion of unprotected telomeres. Shieldin functions as a downstream effector of 53BP1-RIF1 in restraining DNA end resection and in sensitizing BRCA1-deficient cells to PARP inhibitors. These findings have implications for understanding cancer-associated PARPi resistance and the evolution of antibody CSR in higher vertebrates.
PXD009252	29659066	A mass spectrometry based predictive strategy reveals ADAP1 is phosphorylated at tyrosine 364. 	A mass spectrometry-based predictive strategy reveals ADAP1 is phosphorylated at Tyrosine 364.	ADAP1, phosphorylation	RATIONALE: The goal of this work was to identify phosphorylation sites within the amino acid sequence of human ADAP1. Using traditional mass spectrometry based techniques we were unable to produce interpretable spectra demonstrating modification by phosphorylation. This prompted us to employ a strategy in which phosphorylated peptides were first predicted using peptide mapping followed by targeted MS/MS acquisition. METHODS: ADAP1 was immunoprecipitated from extracts of HEK293 cells stably transfected with ADAP1 cDNA. Immunoprecipitated ADAP1 was digested with proteolytic enzymes and analyzed by LC/MS in MS(1) mode by high-resolution quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (QTOF-MS). Peptide molecular features were extracted using an untargeted data-mining algorithm. Extracted peptide neutral masses were matched against the ADAP1 amino acid sequence with phosphorylation included as a predicted modification. Peptides with predicted phosphorylation sites were analyzed by targeted LC/MS(2) . Acquired MS(2) spectra were then analyzed using database search engines to confirm phosphorylation. Spectra of phosphorylated peptides were validated by manual interpretation. Further confirmation was performed by manipulating phospho-peptide abundance using calf intestinal phosphatase (CIP) and the phorbol ester, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA). RESULTS: Of five predicted phosphopeptides, one, comprised of the sequence AVDRPMLPQEYAVEAHFK, was confirmed to be phosphorylated on a tyrosine at position 364. Pre-treatment of cells with PMA prior to immunoprecipitation increased the ratio of phosphorylated to unphosphorylated peptide as determined by area counts of extracted ion chromatograms (EIC). Addition of CIP to immunoprecipitation reactions eliminated the phosphorylated form. CONCLUSIONS: A novel phosphorylation site was identified at tyrosine 364. Phosphorylation at this site is increased by treatment with PMA. PMA promotes membrane translocation and activation of protein kinase C (PKC), indicating that tyrosine 364 is phosphorylated by a PKC-dependent mechanism.
PXD007135	29662615	Transcriptome and proteome profiling reveals stress-induced expression signatures of imiquimod-treated Tasmanian devil facial tumor disease (DFTD) cells. 	Tasmanian Devil Facial Tumour Disease - Imiquimod treatment of DFT1 cells	DFTD, Imiquimod	As a topical cancer immunotherapy, the toll-like receptor 7 ligand imiquimod activates tumor regression via stimulation of immune cell infiltration and cytotoxic responses. Imiquimod also exerts direct pro-apoptotic effects on tumor cells in vitro, but a role for these effects in imiquimod-induced tumor regression remains undefined. We previously demonstrated that cell lines derived from devil facial tumor disease (DFTD), a transmissible cancer threatening the survival of the Tasmanian devil (Sarcophilus harrisii), are sensitive to imiquimod-induced apoptosis. In this study, the pro-apoptotic effects of imiquimod in DFTD have been investigated using RNA-sequencing and label-free quantitative proteomics. This analysis revealed that changes to gene and protein expression in imiquimod treated DFTD cells are consistent with the onset of oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stress responses, and subsequent activation of the unfolded protein response, autophagy, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Imiquimod also regulates the expression of oncogenic pathways, providing a direct mechanism by which this drug may increase tumor susceptibility to immune cytotoxicity in vivo. Our study has provided the first global analysis of imiquimod-induced effects in any tumor cell line. These findings have highlighted the potential of cell stress pathways as therapeutic targets in DFTD, and will allow for improved mechanistic use of imiquimod as a therapy in both the Tasmanian devil and human cancers.
PXD007556	29664642	Protease Specificity Profiling in a Pipet Tip Using "Charge-Synchronized" Proteome-Derived Peptide Libraries. 	Protease specificity profiling in a pipette tip using "charge-synchronized" proteome-derived peptide libraries	ChaFRAtip, charged-synchronized peptide library, label-free, protease specificity	About 2% of the genome of human and other organisms codes for proteases. An important step toward deciphering the biological function of a protease and designing inhibitors is the profiling of protease specificity. In this work we present a novel, label-free, proteomics-based protease specificity profiling method that only requires simple sample preparation steps. It uses proteome-derived peptide libraries and enriches the cleaved sequences using strong cation exchange chromatography (SCX) material in a pipet tip. As a demonstration of the method's versatility, we successfully determined the specificity of GluC, caspase-3, chymotrypsin, MMP-1 and cathepsin G from several hundreds to almost 2000 cleavage events per protease. Interestingly, we also found a novel intrinsic preference of cathepsin G for Asn at the P1 subsite, which we confirmed using synthetic peptides. Overall, this method is straightforward and requires so far the lowest investment in material and equipment for protease specificity profiling. Therefore, we think it will be applicable in any biochemistry laboratory and promote an increased understanding of protease specificity.
PXD011609	29665991	Differential proteomic analysis of actinic keratosis, Bowen's disease and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma by label-free LC-MS/MS. 	Differential proteomic analysis of actinic keratosis, Bowen's disease and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma by label-free LC-MS/MS	Actinic keratosis, Bowen's disease, Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, Mass spectrometry-based proteomics	BACKGROUND: The boundaries between actinic keratosis (AK), Bowen's disease (BD), and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) are sometimes not clear. Large-scale proteomic profiling studies of these lesions are also non-existent. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate proteomic changes between normal epidermis, AK, BD and cSCC that could support a molecular classification and improve our understanding of disease progression. METHODS: Microdissected formalin-fixed paraffin embedded samples of normal epidermis (n = 4, pooled), AK (n = 10), BD (n = 10) and cSCC (n = 10) were analyzed by mass spectrometry. Following normalization and multiple testing adjustments, differential abundance analysis was performed using Linear Models for Microarray data. Proteins were filtered for significance (adjusted p-value <= 0.05) and fold change of at least +/-1.5. Comparative bioinformatics analysis was performed using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software. Proteomic findings were subsequently substantiated using immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: 2073 unique proteins were identified. cSCC had the highest number of differentially abundant proteins (63 proteins) followed by BD (58 proteins) and AK (46 proteins). Six proteins (APOA1, ALB, SERPINA1, HLA-B, HP and TXNDC5) were differentially abundant in cSCC compared to AK. Immunohistochemical analysis corroborated changes in MIF, RPL37A and TXNDC5. IPA analysis predicted that cell proliferation, angiogenesis and inflammatory reactions were significantly activated in cSCC compared to BD and AK. Cell death and DNA damage were predicted to be inhibited in BD. CONCLUSION: Our study supports the concept that AK and BD are precursors of cSCC. The identification of proteome changes indicates disruption of repair, pro-apoptotic, and tumor promoting pathways. Our findings will help select targets for classification and treatment.
PXD008112	29666307	Interleukin-2 shapes the cytotoxic T cell proteome and immune environment-sensing programs. 	Interleukin-2 shapes the cytotoxic T cell proteome and immune-environment sensing	IL-2, Interleukin-2, JAK1, JAK3, lymphocytes	Interleukin-2 (IL-2) and Janus kinases (JAKs) regulate transcriptional programs and protein synthesis to promote the differentiation of effector CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). Using high-resolution mass spectrometry, we generated an in-depth characterization of how IL-2 and JAKs configure the CTL proteome to control CTL function. We found that IL-2 signaling through JAK1 and JAK3 (JAK1/3) increased the abundance of a key subset of proteins to induce the accumulation of critical cytokines and effector molecules in T cells. Moreover, IL-2 maintained the concentration of proteins that support core metabolic processes essential for cellular fitness. One fundamental insight was the dominant role for IL-2 in stimulating effector T cells to detect microenvironmental cues. IL-2-JAK1/3 signaling pathways thus increased the abundance of nutrient transporters, nutrient sensors, and critical oxygen-sensing molecules. These data provide key insights into how IL-2 promotes T cell function and highlight signaling mechanisms and transcription factors that integrate oxygen sensing to transcriptional control of CD8(+) T cell differentiation.
PXD006831	29666759	Phosphoproteomic insights into processes influenced by the kinase-like protein DIA1/C3orf58. 	Phosphoproteomics of DIA1-overexpressing HEK cells and protemics of probable DIA1 interactors	Novel kinases, phosphoproteomics, secretory pathway	Many kinases are still 'orphans,' which means knowledge about their substrates, and often also about the processes they regulate, is lacking. Here, DIA1/C3orf58, a member of a novel predicted kinase-like family, is shown to be present in the endoplasmic reticulum and to influence trafficking via the secretory pathway. Subsequently, DIA1 is subjected to phosphoproteomics analysis to cast light on its signalling pathways. A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry proteomic approach with phosphopeptide enrichment is applied to membrane fractions of DIA1-overexpressing and control HEK293T cells, and phosphosites dependent on the presence of DIA1 are elucidated. Most of these phosphosites belonged to CK2- and proline-directed kinase types. In parallel, the proteomics of proteins immunoprecipitated with DIA1 reported its probable interactors. This pilot study provides the basis for deeper studies of DIA1 signalling.
PXD008296	29667342	Middle-Down Characterization of the Cell Cycle Dependence of Histone H4 Posttranslational Modifications and Proteoforms. 	Middle-Down Characterization of the Cell Cycle Dependence of Histone H4 PTMs and Proteoforms	ETD, FT-ICR, HILIC, PTM	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) of histones are important epigenetic regulatory mechanisms that are often dysregulated in cancer. We employ middle-down proteomics to investigate the PTMs and proteoforms of histone H4 during cell cycle progression. We use pH gradient weak cation exchange-hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (WCX-HILIC) for on-line liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis to separate and analyze the proteoforms of histone H4. This procedure provides enhanced separation of proteoforms, including positional isomers, and simplifies downstream data analysis. We use ultrahigh mass accuracy and resolution Fourier transform-ion cyclotron resonance (FT-ICR) mass spectrometer to unambiguously distinguish between acetylation and tri-methylation (incrementm = 0.036 Da). In total, we identify and quantify 233 proteoforms of histone H4 in two breast cancer cell lines. We observe significant increases in S1 phosphorylation during mitosis, implicating an important role in mitotic chromatin condensation. A decrease of K20 unmodified proteoforms is observed as the cell cycle progresses, corresponding to an increase of K20 mono- and di-methylation. Acetylation at K5, K8, K12, and K16 declines as cells traverse from S phase to mitosis, suggesting cell cycle-dependence and an important role during chromatin replication and condensation. These new insights into the epigenetics of the cell cycle may provide new diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers.
PXD009235	29668758	Clostridium sordellii outer spore proteins maintain spore structural integrity and promote bacterial clearance from the gastrointestinal tract. 	Clostridium sordellii outer spore proteins	Clostridium sordellii, bacteria, spore	Bacterial spores play an important role in disease initiation, transmission and persistence. In some species, the exosporium forms the outermost structure of the spore and provides the first point of contact between the spore and the environment. The exosporium may also be involved in spore adherence, protection and germination. Clostridium sordellii is a highly lethal, spore forming pathogen that causes soft-tissue infections, enteritis and toxic-shock syndrome. Despite the importance of C. sordellii spores in disease, spore proteins from this bacterium have not been defined or interrogated functionally. In this study, we identified the C. sordellii outer spore proteome and two of the identified proteins, CsA and CsB, were characterised using a genetic and phenotypic approach. Both proteins were essential for the correct formation and positioning of the C. sordellii spore coat and exosporium. The absence of CsA reduced sporulation levels and increased spore sensitivity to heat, sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid. By comparison, CsB was required for normal levels of spore adherence to cervical, but not vaginal, cells, with csB mutant spores having increased adherence properties. The establishment of a mouse infection model of the gastrointestinal tract for C. sordellii allowed the role of CsA and CsB to be interrogated in an infected host. Following the oral administration of spores to mice, the wild-type strain efficiently colonized the gastrointestinal tract, with the peak of bacterial numbers occurring at one day post-infection. Colonization was reduced by two logs at four days post-infection. By comparison, mice infected with the csB mutant did not show a reduction in bacterial numbers. We conclude that C. sordellii outer spore proteins are important for the structural and functional integrity of spores. Furthermore, outer spore proteins are required for wild-type levels of colonization during infection, possibly as a result of the role that the proteins play in spore structure and morphology.
PXD006403	29669253	An Antibody Targeting the Fusion Machinery Neutralizes Dual-Tropic Infection and Defines a Site of Vulnerability on Epstein-Barr Virus. 	Glycopeptides from recombinant EBV gH, gL and gp42 with EThcD	epstein barr virus, glycopeptide	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a causative agent of infectious mononucleosis and is associated with 200,000 new cases of cancer and 140,000 deaths annually. Subunit vaccines against this pathogen have focused on the gp350 glycoprotein and remain unsuccessful. We isolated human antibodies recognizing the EBV fusion machinery (gH/gL and gB) from rare memory B cells. One anti-gH/gL antibody, AMMO1, potently neutralized infection of B cells and epithelial cells, the two major cell types targeted by EBV. We determined a cryo-electron microscopy reconstruction of the gH/gL-gp42-AMMO1 complex and demonstrated that AMMO1 bound to a discontinuous epitope formed by both gH and gL at the Domain-I/Domain-II interface. Integrating structural, biochemical, and infectivity data, we propose that AMMO1 inhibits fusion of the viral and cellular membranes. This work identifies a crucial epitope that may aid in the design of next-generation subunit vaccines against this major public health burden.
PXD007284	29669734	A Selective Extracellular Matrix Proteomics Approach Identifies Fibronectin Proteolysis by A Disintegrin-like and Metalloprotease Domain with Thrombospondin Type 1 Motifs (ADAMTS16) and Its Impact on Spheroid Morphogenesis. 	Substrate identification of ADAMTS16	ADAMTS16, Fibronectin	Secreted and cell-surface proteases are major mediators of extracellular matrix (ECM) turnover, but their mechanisms and regulatory impact are poorly understood. We developed a mass spectrometry approach using a cell-free ECM produced in vitro to identify fibronectin (FN) as a novel substrate of the secreted metalloprotease ADAMTS16. ADAMTS16 cleaves FN between its (I)5 and (I)6 modules, releasing the N-terminal 30 kDa heparin-binding domain essential for FN self-assembly. ADAMTS16 impairs FN fibrillogenesis as well as fibrillin-1 and tenascin-C assembly, thus inhibiting formation of a mature ECM by cultured fibroblasts. Furthermore ADAMTS16 has a marked morphogenetic impact on spheroid formation by renal tubule-derived MDCKI cells. The N-terminal FN domain released by ADAMTS16 up-regulates MMP3, which cleaves the (I)5-(I)6 linker of FN similar to ADAMTS16, therefore creating a proteolytic feed-forward mechanism. Thus, FN proteolysis not only regulates FN turnover, but also FN assembly, with potential long-term consequences for ECM assembly and morphogenesis.
PXD007898	29669735	CTGF/VEGFA-activated Fibroblasts Promote Tumor Migration Through Micro-environmental Modulation. 	Fibroblast activation -  CTGF/VEGFA-activated fibroblasts promote tumor migration through micro-environmental modulation	Tumor microenvironment, fibroblast activation, mass spectrometry., reciprocal signaling, secretome	Fibroblast activation is associated with tumor progression and implicated in metastasis, but the initial triggering signals required to kick-start this process remain largely unknown. Because small cancerous lesions share limited physical contact with neighboring fibroblasts, we reasoned the first tumor-derived signal for fibroblast activation should be secreted and diffusible. By pulsed metabolic labeling and click-chemistry based affinity enrichment, we sieved through the ductal carcinoma secretome for potential fibroblast activators. Using immuno-depletion/supplementation assays on various secreted factors, we pinpointed that tumor-secreted CTGF/VEGFA alone is sufficient to activate paired mammary fibroblasts from the same patient via ROCK1 and JunB signaling. Fibroblasts activated in this manner are distinct in morphology, growth, and adopt a highly tumor-like secretion profile, which in turn promotes tumor migration by counteracting oxidative and lactate stress. These findings reveal a profound division-of-labor between normal and cancer cells under the directive of the latter, and allude to potential metastatic prevention through inhibiting local fibroblast activation.
PXD007182	29669812	Tankyrase modulates insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle cells by regulating the stability of GLUT4 vesicle proteins. 	Tankyrase modulates insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle cells by regulating stability of GLUT4 vesicle proteins	GSV, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Skeletal muscle, Tankyrase	Tankyrase 1 and 2, members of the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase family, have previously been shown to play a role in insulin-mediated glucose uptake in adipocytes. However, their precise mechanism of action, and their role in insulin action in other cell types, such as myocytes, remains elusive. Treatment of differentiated L6 myotubes with the small molecule tankyrase inhibitor XAV939 resulted in insulin resistance as determined by impaired insulin-stimulated glucose uptake. Proteomic analysis of XAV939-treated myotubes identified down-regulation of several glucose transporter GLUT4 storage vesicle (GSV) proteins including RAB10, VAMP8, SORT1, and GLUT4. A similar effect was observed following knockdown of tankyrase 1 in L6 myotubes. Inhibition of the proteasome using MG132 rescued GSV protein levels as well as insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in XAV939-treated L6 myotubes. These studies reveal an important role for tankyrase in maintaining the stability of key GLUT4 regulatory proteins that in turn plays a role in regulating cellular insulin sensitivity.
PXD008966	29671274	An Internal Standard for Assessing Phosphopeptide Recovery from Metal Ion/Oxide Enrichment Strategies. 	An Internal Standard for Assessing Phosphopeptide Recovery from Metal Ion/Oxide Enrichment Strategies	Lumos, ProteomeXchange project tag: Reference, TMT super-heavy, TMT0, TMTsh, TMTzero, mTRAQ, phosphorylation	Phosphorylation-mediated signaling pathways have major implications in cellular regulation and disease. However, proteins with roles in these pathways are frequently less abundant and phosphorylation is often sub-stoichiometric. As such, the efficient enrichment, and subsequent recovery of phosphorylated peptides, is vital. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics is a well-established approach for quantifying thousands of phosphorylation events in a single experiment. We designed a peptide internal standard-based assay directed toward sample preparation strategies for mass spectrometry analysis to understand better phosphopeptide recovery from enrichment strategies. We coupled mass-differential tandem mass tag (mTMT) reagents (specifically, TMTzero and TMTsuper-heavy), nine mass spectrometry-amenable phosphopeptides (phos9), and peak area measurements from extracted ion chromatograms to determine phosphopeptide recovery. We showcase this mTMT/phos9 recovery assay by evaluating three phosphopeptide enrichment workflows. Our assay provides data on the recovery of phosphopeptides, which complement other metrics, namely the number of identified phosphopeptides and enrichment specificity. Our mTMT/phos9 assay is applicable to any enrichment protocol in a typical experimental workflow irrespective of sample origin or labeling strategy. Graphical Abstract  .
PXD008370	29673699	The phosphorylated redox proteome of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii: Revealing novel means for regulation of protein structure and function. 	Sequential enrichment of phosphorylation on reversibly oxidized proteoforms - part 1	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, cross-talk, phosphorylation, redox proteomics, redox regulation	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) are covalent modifications to protein residues which may alter both conformation and activity, thereby modulating signaling and metabolic processes. While PTMs have been largely investigated independently, examination into how different modification interact, or crosstalk, will reveal a more complete understanding of the reciprocity of signaling cascades across numerous pathways. Combinatorial reversible thiol oxidation and phosphorylation in eukaryotes is largely recognized, but rigorous approaches for experimental discovery are underdeveloped. To begin meaningful interrogation of PTM crosstalk in systems biology research, knowledge of targeted proteins must be advanced. Herein, we demonstrate protein-level enrichment of reversibly oxidized proteoforms in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii with subsequent phosphopeptide analysis to determine the extent of phosphorylation in the redox thiol proteome. Label-free quantification was used to quantify 3353 oxidized Cys-sites on 1457 enriched proteins, where sequential phosphopeptide enrichment measured 1094 sites of phosphorylation on 720 proteins with 23% (172 proteins) also identified as reversibly oxidized. Proteins identified with both reversible oxidation and phosphorylation were involved in signaling transduction, ribosome and translation-related machinery, and metabolic pathways. Several redox-modified Calvin-Benson cycle proteins were found phosphorylated and many kinases/phosphatases involved in phosphorylation-dependent photosynthetic state transition and stress-response pathways had sites of reversible oxidation. Identification of redox proteins serves as a crucial element in understanding stress response in photosynthetic organisms and beyond, whereby knowing the ensemble of modifications co-occurring with oxidation highlights novel mechanisms for cellular control.
PXD009180	29674963	A Bivalent Securinine Compound SN3-L6 Induces Neuronal Differentiation via Translational Upregulation of Neurogenic Transcription Factors. 	Neuro-2a drug treatment iTRAQ -  A Bivalent Securinine Compound SN3-L6 Induces Neuronal Differentiation via Translational Upregulation of Neurogenic Transcription Factors	Neuro-2a cells, iTRAQ	Developing therapeutic approaches that target neuronal differentiation will be greatly beneficial for the regeneration of neurons and synaptic networks in neurological diseases. Protein synthesis (mRNA translation) has recently been shown to regulate neurogenesis of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs). However, it has remained unknown whether engineering translational machinery is a valid approach for manipulating neuronal differentiation. The present study identifies that a bivalent securinine compound SN3-L6, previously designed and synthesized by our group, induces potent neuronal differentiation through a novel translation-dependent mechanism. An isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based proteomic analysis in Neuro-2a progenitor cells revealed that SN3-L6 upregulated a group of neurogenic transcription regulators, and also upregulated proteins involved in RNA processing, translation, and protein metabolism. Notably, puromycylation and metabolic labeling of newly synthesized proteins demonstrated that SN3-L6 induced rapid and robust activation of general mRNA translation. Importantly, mRNAs of the proneural transcription factors Foxp1, Foxp4, Hsf1, and Erf were among the targets that were translationally upregulated by SN3-L6. Either inhibition of translation or knockdown of these transcription factors blocked SN3-L6 activity. We finally confirmed that protein synthesis of a same set of transcription factors was upregulated in primary cortical NPCs. These findings together identify a new compound for translational activation and neuronal differentiation, and provide compelling evidence that reprogramming transcriptional regulation network at translational levels is a promising strategy for engineering NSPCs.
PXD008975	29676898	Mango: A General Tool for Collision Induced Dissociation-Cleavable Cross-Linked Peptide Identification. 	Mango-EcoliBDP -  Mango: A General Tool for Collision Induced Dissociation-Cleavable Cross-Linked Peptide Identification	Cross-linking	Chemical cross-linking combined with mass spectrometry provides a method to study protein structures and interactions. The introduction of cleavable bonds in a cross-linker provides an avenue to decouple released peptide masses from their precursor species, greatly simplifying the downstream search, allowing for whole proteome investigations to be performed. Typically, these experiments have been challenging to carry out, often utilizing nonstandard methods to fully identify cross-linked peptides. Mango is an open source software tool that extracts precursor masses from chimeric spectra generated using cleavable cross-linkers, greatly simplifying the downstream search. As it is designed to work with chimeric spectra, Mango can be used on traditional high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) capable mass spectrometers without the need for additional modifications. When paired with a traditional proteomics search engine, Mango can be used to identify several thousand cross-linked peptide pairs searching against the entire Escherichia coli proteome. Mango provides an avenue to perform whole proteome cross-linking experiments without specialized instrumentation or access to nonstandard methods.
PXD009465	29678115	Characterization of Plasmodium falciparum Atypical Kinase PfPK7(-) Dependent Phosphoproteome. 	Plasmodium falciparum PfPK7-Dependent Phosphoproteome	Malaria, Phosphorylation, Plasmodium falciparum, TMT	PfPK7 is an "orphan" kinase displaying regions of homology to multiple protein kinase families. PfPK7 functions in regulating parasite proliferation/development as evident from the phenotype analysis of knockout parasites. Despite this regulatory role, the functions of PfPK7 in signaling pathways are not known. To better understand PfPK7-regulated phosphorylation events, we performed isobaric tag-based quantitative comparative phosphoproteomics of the schizont and segmenter stages from wild-type and pfpk7 (-) parasite lines. This analysis identified 3,875 phosphorylation sites on 1,047 proteins. Among these phosphorylation events, 146 proteins with 239 phosphorylation sites displayed reduction in phosphorylation in the absence of PfPK7. Further analysis of the phosphopeptides revealed three motifs whose phosphorylation was down regulated in the pfpk7 (-) cell line in both schizonts and segmenters. Decreased phosphorylation following loss of PfPK7 indicates that these proteins may function as direct substrates of PfPK7. We demonstrated that PfPK7 is active toward three of these potential novel substrates; however, PfPK7 did not phosphorylate many of the other proteins, suggesting that decreased phosphorylation in these proteins is an indirect effect. Our phosphoproteomics analysis is the first study to identify direct substrates of PfPK7 and reveals potential downstream or compensatory signaling pathways.
PXD011148	29678203	Quantitative shotgun proteomics distinguishes wound-healing biomarker signatures in common carp skin mucus in response to Ichthyophthirius multifiliis. 	Shotgun proteomic profiling of skin mucus common carp (Cyprinus carpio)	Common carp, Ichthyophthirius multifiliis, LC MS-MS, Mucus proteome profile, protozoan parasite	Ichthyophthirius multifiliis is a ciliated protozoan parasite recognized as one of the most pathogenic diseases of wild and cultured freshwater fish. Fish skin mucus plays a significant role against invading pathogens. However, the protein-based modulation against infection with I. multifiliis, of host fish at this barrier is unknown. Thus, we investigated the skin mucus proteome of common carp using a shotgun proteomic approach at days 1 and 9 after I. multifiliis exposure. We identified 25 differentially expressed proteins in infected carp skin mucus. Upregulated proteins were mainly involved in metabolism, whereas downregulated proteins were mainly structural. This is the first proteomic analysis of infected common carp skin mucus, and it provides novel information about proteome alteration caused by I. multifiliis. Furthermore, we identified novel proteins with yet unknown function in common carp following penetrating injuries such as olfactomedin 4, lumican, dermatopontin, papilin and I cytoskeletal 18. This analysis, therefore, represents a key for the search for potential biomarkers, which can help in a better understanding and monitoring of interactions between carp and I. multifiliis. This proteomic study not only provides information on the protein-level pathways involved in fish-ciliate interactions but also could represent a complementary system for studying tissue repair.
PXD006372	29679077	Proteome-wide analysis of cysteine oxidation reveals metabolic sensitivity to redox stress. 	Proteome-wide analysis of cysteine oxidation reveals metabolic sensitivity to redox stress, PART 2	Dimethyl labeling, High pH fractionation, Mouse kidney tissue fumarate hydratase (FH) deficient, Orbitrap HF, Oxidative stress, Primary immortalised kidney epithelial cells fumarate hydratase, ROS	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are increasingly recognised as important signalling molecules through oxidation of protein cysteine residues. Comprehensive identification of redox-regulated proteins and pathways is crucial to understand ROS-mediated events. Here, we present stable isotope cysteine labelling with iodoacetamide (SICyLIA), a mass spectrometry-based workflow to assess proteome-scale cysteine oxidation. SICyLIA does not require enrichment steps and achieves unbiased proteome-wide sensitivity. Applying SICyLIA to diverse cellular models and primary tissues provides detailed insights into thiol oxidation proteomes. Our results demonstrate that acute and chronic oxidative stress causes oxidation of distinct metabolic proteins, indicating that cysteine oxidation plays a key role in the metabolic adaptation to redox stress. Analysis of mouse kidneys identifies oxidation of proteins circulating in biofluids, through which cellular redox stress can affect whole-body physiology. Obtaining accurate peptide oxidation profiles from complex organs using SICyLIA holds promise for future analysis of patient-derived samples to study human pathologies.
PXD008440	29681787	The response to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy with 5-fluorouracil in locally advanced rectal cancer patients: a predictive proteomic signature. 	The response to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy to 5-fluorouracil in locally advanced colorectal cancer patients: a predictive proteomic signature.	5-fluorouracil, colorectal cancer, predictive biomarkers, resistance to neoadjuvant radio-chemotherapy	BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer is the third most common and the fourth most lethal cancer in the world. In the majority of cases, patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage or even metastatic, thus explaining the high mortality. The standard treatment for patients with locally advanced non-metastatic rectal cancer is neoadjuvant radio-chemotherapy (NRCT) with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) followed by surgery, but the resistance rate to this treatment remains high with approximately 30% of non-responders. The lack of evidence available in clinical practice to predict NRCT resistance to 5-FU and to guide clinical practice therefore encourages the search for biomarkers of this resistance. METHODS: From twenty-three formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) biopsies performed before NRCT with 5-FU of locally advanced non-metastatic rectal cancer patients, we extracted and analysed the tumor proteome of these patients. From clinical data, we were able to classify the twenty-three patients in our cohort into three treatment response groups: non-responders (NR), partial responders (PR) and total responders (TR), and to compare the proteomes of these different groups. RESULTS: We have highlighted 384 differentially abundant proteins between NR and PR, 248 between NR and TR and 417 between PR and TR. Among these proteins, we have identified many differentially abundant proteins identified as having a role in cancer (IFIT1, FASTKD2, PIP4K2B, ARID1B, SLC25A33: overexpressed in TR; CALD1, CPA3, B3GALT5, CD177, RIPK1: overexpressed in NR). We have also identified that DPYD, the main degradation enzyme of 5-FU, was overexpressed in NR, as well as several ribosomal and mitochondrial proteins also overexpressed in NR. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008440. CONCLUSIONS: From these retrospective study, we implemented a protein extraction protocol from FFPE biopsy to highlight protein differences between different response groups to RCTN with 5-FU in patients with locally advanced non-metastatic rectal cancer. These results will pave the way for a larger cohort for better sensitivity and specificity of the signature to guide decisions in the choice of treatment.
PXD008787	29682972	Parsing and Quantification of Raw Orbitrap Mass Spectrometer Data Using RawQuant. 	Efficient Parsing and Quantification of Native Mass Spectrometer Files with RawQuant	Orbitrap, SPS-MS3, TMT, iTRAQ, isobaric labeling, quantitative proteomics	Effective analysis of protein samples by mass spectrometry (MS) requires careful selection and optimization of a range of experimental parameters. As the output from the primary detection device, the "raw" MS data file can be used to gauge the success of a given sample analysis. However, the closed-source nature of the standard raw MS file can complicate effective parsing of the data contained within. To ease and increase the range of analyses possible, the RawQuant tool was developed to enable parsing of raw MS files derived from Thermo Orbitrap instruments to yield meta and scan data in an openly readable text format. RawQuant can be commanded to export user-friendly files containing MS(1), MS(2), and MS(3) metadata as well as matrices of quantification values based on isobaric tagging approaches. In this study, the utility of RawQuant is demonstrated in several scenarios: (1) reanalysis of shotgun proteomics data for the identification of the human proteome, (2) reanalysis of experiments utilizing isobaric tagging for whole-proteome quantification, and (3) analysis of a novel bacterial proteome and synthetic peptide mixture for assessing quantification accuracy when using isobaric tags. Together, these analyses successfully demonstrate RawQuant for the efficient parsing and quantification of data from raw Thermo Orbitrap MS files acquired in a range of common proteomics experiments. In addition, the individual analyses using RawQuant highlights parametric considerations in the different experimental sets and suggests targetable areas to improve depth of coverage in identification-focused studies and quantification accuracy when using isobaric tags.
PXD006661	29684192	The exon-intron gene structure upstream of the initiation codon predicts translation efficiency. 	Iron response of HepG2 cells -  The exon-intron gene structure upstream of the initiation codon predicts translation efficiency	hepatocellular cacinoma, iron	Introns in mRNA leaders are common in complex eukaryotes, but often overlooked. These introns are spliced out before translation, leaving exon-exon junctions in the mRNA leaders (leader EEJs). Our multi-omic approach shows that the number of leader EEJs inversely correlates with the main protein translation, as does the number of upstream open reading frames (uORFs). Across the five species studied, the lowest levels of translation were observed for mRNAs with both leader EEJs and uORFs (29%). This class of mRNAs also have ribosome footprints on uORFs, with strong triplet periodicity indicating uORF translation. Furthermore, the positions of both leader EEJ and uORF are conserved between human and mouse. Thus, the uORF, in combination with leader EEJ predicts lower expression for nearly one-third of eukaryotic proteins.
PXD008992	29684362	Characterization of the Small Intestinal Lesion in Celiac Disease by Label-Free Quantitative Mass Spectrometry. 	Characterization of the small intestinal lesion in celiac disease by label-free quantitative mass spectrometry	FFPE, celiac disease, label-free quantification, shot-gun proteomics, small intestine	Global characterization of tissue proteomes from small amounts of biopsy material has become feasible because of advances in mass spectrometry and bioinformatics tools. In celiac disease (CD), dietary gluten induces an immune response that is accompanied by pronounced remodeling of the small intestine. Removal of gluten from the diet abrogates the immune response, and the tissue architecture normalizes. In this study, differences in global protein expression of small intestinal biopsy specimens from CD patients were quantified by analyzing formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded material using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and label-free protein quantitation. Protein expression was compared in biopsy specimens collected from the same patients before and after 1-year treatment with gluten-free diet (n = 10) or before and after 3-day gluten provocation (n = 4). Differential expression of proteins in particular from mature enterocytes, neutrophils, and plasma cells could distinguish untreated from treated CD mucosa, and Ig variable region IGHV5-51 expression was found to serve as a CD-specific marker of ongoing immune activation. In patients who had undergone gluten challenge, coordinated up-regulation of wound response proteins, including the CD autoantigen transglutaminase 2, was observed. Our study provides a global and unbiased assessment of antigen-driven changes in protein expression in the celiac intestinal mucosa.
PXD009286	29685892	Expansion of DUB functionality generated by alternative isoforms - USP35, a case study. 	Expansion of DUB functionality by alternative isoforms: USP35, a case study	Deubiquitinase, apoptosis, endoplasmic reticulum, lipid droplets, ubiquitin signalling	Protein ubiquitylation is a dynamic post-translational modification that can be reversed by deubiquitylating enzymes (DUBs). It is unclear how the small number (~100) of DUBs present in mammalian cells regulate the thousands of different ubiquitylation events. Here, we analysed annotated transcripts of human DUBs and found ~300 ribosome-associated transcripts annotated as protein coding, which thus increases the total number of DUBs. By using USP35, a poorly studied DUB, as a case study, we provide evidence that alternative isoforms contribute to the functional expansion of DUBs. We show that there are two different USP35 isoforms that localise to different intracellular compartments and have distinct functions. Our results reveal that isoform 1 is an anti-apoptotic factor that inhibits staurosporine- and TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL; also known as TNFSF10)-induced apoptosis. In contrast, USP35 isoform 2 is an integral membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) that is also present at lipid droplets. Manipulations of isoform 2 levels cause rapid ER stress, likely through deregulation of lipid homeostasis, and lead to cell death. Our work highlights how alternative isoforms provide functional expansion of DUBs and sets directions for future research.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD009421	29686103	Abscisic acid-induced degradation of Arabidopsis guanine nucleotide exchange factor requires calcium-dependent protein kinases. 	Abscisic acid-induced degradation of Arabidopsis guanine nucleotide exchange factor requires calcium-dependent protein kinases, part 1	ABA, CPK4, RopGEF1	Abscisic acid (ABA) plays essential roles in plant development and responses to environmental stress. ABA induces subcellular translocation and degradation of the guanine nucleotide exchange factor RopGEF1, thus facilitating ABA core signal transduction. However, the underlying mechanisms for ABA-triggered RopGEF1 trafficking/degradation remain unknown. Studies have revealed that RopGEFs associate with receptor-like kinases to convey developmental signals to small ROP GTPases. However, how the activities of RopGEFs are modulated is not well understood. Type 2C protein phosphatases stabilize the RopGEF1 protein, indicating that phosphorylation may trigger RopGEF1 trafficking and degradation. We have screened inhibitors followed by several protein kinase mutants and find that quadruple-mutant plants in the Arabidopsis calcium-dependent protein kinases (CPKs) cpk3/4/6/11 disrupt ABA-induced trafficking and degradation of RopGEF1. Moreover, cpk3/4/6/11 partially impairs ABA inhibition of cotyledon emergence. Several CPKs interact with RopGEF1. CPK4 binds to and phosphorylates RopGEF1 and promotes the degradation of RopGEF1. CPK-mediated phosphorylation of RopGEF1 at specific N-terminal serine residues causes the degradation of RopGEF1 and mutation of these sites also compromises the RopGEF1 overexpression phenotype in root hair development in Arabidopsis Our findings establish the physiological and molecular functions and relevance of CPKs in regulation of RopGEF1 and illuminate physiological roles of a CPK-GEF-ROP module in ABA signaling and plant development. We further discuss that CPK-dependent RopGEF degradation during abiotic stress could provide a mechanism for down-regulation of RopGEF-dependent growth responses.
PXD007759	29687002	Identification of Key Candidate Proteins and Pathways Associated with Temozolomide Resistance in Glioblastoma Based on Subcellular Proteomics and Bioinformatical Analysis. 	Cytoplasmic Proteomics for Temozolomide Resistance in Glioblastoma	Glioblastoma, Subcellular Proteomics, Temozolomide resistance	TMZ resistance remains one of the main reasons why treatment of glioblastoma (GBM) fails. In order to investigate the underlying proteins and pathways associated with TMZ resistance, we conducted a cytoplasmic proteome research of U87 cells treated with TMZ for 1 week, followed by differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) screening, KEGG pathway analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, and validation of key candidate proteins in TCGA dataset. A total of 161 DEPs including 65 upregulated proteins and 96 downregulated proteins were identified. Upregulated DEPs were mainly related to regulation in actin cytoskeleton, focal adhesion, and phagosome and PI3K-AKT signaling pathways which were consistent with our previous studies. Further, the most significant module consisted of 28 downregulated proteins that were filtered from the PPI network, and 9 proteins (DHX9, HNRNPR, RPL3, HNRNPA3, SF1, DDX5, EIF5B, BTF3, and RPL8) among them were identified as the key candidate proteins, which were significantly associated with prognosis of GBM patients and mainly involved in ribosome and spliceosome pathway. Taking the above into consideration, we firstly identified candidate proteins and pathways associated with TMZ resistance in GBM using proteomics and bioinformatic analysis, and these proteins could be potential biomarkers for prevention or prediction of TMZ resistance in the future.
PXD008677	29687606	Comparative Proteome Analysis Reveals that Cuticular Proteins Analogous to Peritrophin-Motif Proteins are Involved in the Regeneration of Chitin Layer in the Silk Gland of Bombyx mori at the Molting Stage. 	The fourth instar in the silk gland of silkworm LC-MSMS	silkworm,silk gland,LC-MSMS	The silk gland of silkworm produces silk proteins during larval development. Many studies have long focused on the silk gland of the fifth instar larvae, but few have investigated this gland at other larval stages. In the present study, the silk gland proteomes of the fourth instar and fourth molt are analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. In total, 2654 proteins are identified from the silk gland. A high abundance of ribosomal proteins and RR-motif chitin-binding proteins is identified during day 2 of the fourth instar (IV-2) larval developmental stage, and the expression of cuticular proteins analogous to peritrophin (CPAP)-motif chitin-binding proteins is higher during the fourth molt (IV-M). In all, nine enzymes are found to be involved in the chitin regeneration pathway in the silk gland. Among them, two chitinase and two chitin deacetylases are identified as CPAP-motif proteins. Furthermore, the expression of CPAP3-G, the most abundant CPAP-motif cuticular protein in the silk gland during the IV-M stage, is investigated using western blot and immunofluorescence analyses; CPAP3-G shows a reverse changing trend with chitin in the silk gland. The findings of this study suggest that CPAP-motif chitin-binding proteins are involved in the degradation of the chitin layer in the silk gland. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008677.
PXD007613	29688323	SILAC-based phosphoproteomics reveals new PP2A-Cdc55-regulated processes in budding yeast. 	SILAC-based phosphoproteomics reveals new PP2A-Cdc55-regulated processes in budding yeast.	Cla4, Mob1., PP2ACdc55 phosphatase, Pkc1, mitotic exit network (MEN)	Background: Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is a family of conserved serine/threonine phosphatases involved in several essential aspects of cell growth and proliferation. PP2ACdc55 phosphatase has been extensively related to cell cycle events in budding yeast; however, few PP2ACdc55 substrates have been identified. Here, we performed a quantitative mass spectrometry approach to reveal new substrates of PP2ACdc55 phosphatase and new PP2A-related processes in mitotic arrested cells. Results: We identified 62 statistically significant PP2ACdc55 substrates involved mainly in actin-cytoskeleton organization. In addition, we validated new PP2ACdc55 substrates such as Slk19 and Lte1, involved in early and late anaphase pathways, and Zeo1, a component of the cell wall integrity pathway. Finally, we constructed docking models of Cdc55 and its substrate Mob1. We found that the predominant interface on Cdc55 is mediated by a protruding loop consisting of residues 84-90, thus highlighting the relevance of these aminoacids for substrate interaction. Conclusions: We used phosphoproteomics of Cdc55-deficient cells to uncover new PP2ACdc55 substrates and functions in mitosis. As expected, several hyperphosphorylated proteins corresponded to Cdk1-dependent substrates, although other kinases' consensus motifs were also enriched in our dataset, suggesting that PP2ACdc55 counteracts and regulates other kinases distinct from Cdk1. Indeed, Pkc1 emerged as a novel node of PP2ACdc55 regulation, highlighting a major role of PP2ACdc55 in actin cytoskeleton and cytokinesis, gene ontology terms significantly enriched in the PP2ACdc55-dependent phosphoproteome.
PXD007183	29688452	Differential protein expression and post-translational modifications in metronidazole-resistant Giardia duodenalis. 	Proteomics of Metronidazole Resistance in three seminal lines of Giardia duodenalis	Giardia, TMT labelling	Background: Metronidazole (Mtz) is the frontline drug treatment for multiple anaerobic pathogens, including the gastrointestinal protist, Giardia duodenalis. However, treatment failure is common and linked to in vivo drug resistance. In Giardia, in vitro drug-resistant lines allow controlled experimental interrogation of resistance mechanisms in isogenic cultures. However, resistance-associated changes are inconsistent between lines, phenotypic data are incomplete, and resistance is rarely genetically fixed, highlighted by reversion to sensitivity after drug selection ceases or via passage through the life cycle. Comprehensive quantitative approaches are required to resolve isolate variability, fully define Mtz resistance phenotypes, and explore the role of post-translational modifications therein. Findings: We performed quantitative proteomics to describe differentially expressed proteins in 3 seminal Mtz-resistant lines compared to their isogenic, Mtz-susceptible, parental line. We also probed changes in post-translational modifications including protein acetylation, methylation, ubiquitination, and phosphorylation via immunoblotting. We quantified more than 1,000 proteins in each genotype, recording substantial genotypic variation in differentially expressed proteins between isotypes. Our data confirm substantial changes in the antioxidant network, glycolysis, and electron transport and indicate links between protein acetylation and Mtz resistance, including cross-resistance to deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A in Mtz-resistant lines. Finally, we performed the first controlled, longitudinal study of Mtz resistance stability, monitoring lines after cessation of drug selection, revealing isolate-dependent phenotypic plasticity. Conclusions: Our data demonstrate understanding that Mtz resistance must be broadened to post-transcriptional and post-translational responses and that Mtz resistance is polygenic, driven by isolate-dependent variation, and is correlated with changes in protein acetylation networks.
PXD008504	29689199	Arginine Methylation by PRMT2 Controls the Functions of the Actin Nucleator Cobl. 	Arginine methylation, Cob1 -  Arginine Methylation by PRMT2 Controls the Functions of the Actin Nucleator Cobl		The complex architecture of neuronal networks in the brain requires tight control of the actin cytoskeleton. The actin nucleator Cobl is critical for neuronal morphogenesis. Here we reveal that Cobl is controlled by arginine methylation. Coprecipitations, coimmunoprecipitations, cellular reconstitutions, and in vitro reconstitutions demonstrated that Cobl associates with the protein arginine methyltransferase PRMT2 in a Src Homology 3 (SH3) domain-dependent manner and that this promotes methylation of Cobl's actin nucleating C-terminal domain. Consistently, PRMT2 phenocopied Cobl functions in both gain- and loss-of-function studies. Both PRMT2- and Cobl-promoted dendritogenesis relied on methylation. PRMT2 effects require both its catalytic domain and SH3 domain. Cobl-mediated dendritic arborization required PRMT2, complex formation with PRMT2, and PRMT2's catalytic activity. Mechanistic studies reveal that Cobl methylation is key for Cobl actin binding. Therefore, arginine methylation is a regulatory mechanism reaching beyond controlling nuclear processes. It also controls a major, cytosolic, cytoskeletal component shaping neuronal cells.
PXD007075	29694247	Protein half-life determines expression of proteostatic networks in podocyte differentiation. 	Deep proteomic mapping of the human podocyte proteome	Podocyte, kidney	Podocytes are highly specialized, epithelial, postmitotic cells, which maintain the renal filtration barrier. When adapting to considerable metabolic and mechanical stress, podocytes need to accurately maintain their proteome. Immortalized podocyte cell lines are a widely used model for studying podocyte biology in health and disease in vitro. In this study, we performed a comprehensive proteomic analysis of the cultured human podocyte proteome in both proliferative and differentiated conditions at a depth of >7000 proteins. Similar to mouse podocytes, human podocyte differentiation involved a shift in proteostasis: undifferentiated podocytes have high expression of proteasomal proteins, whereas differentiated podocytes have high expression of lysosomal proteins. Additional analyses with pulsed stable-isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture and protein degradation assays determined protein dynamics and half-lives. These studies unraveled a globally increased stability of proteins in differentiated podocytes. Mitochondrial, cytoskeletal, and membrane proteins were stabilized, particularly in differentiated podocytes. Importantly, protein half-lives strongly contributed to protein abundance in each state. These data suggest that regulation of protein turnover of particular cellular functions determines podocyte differentiation, a paradigm involving mitophagy and, potentially, of importance in conditions of increased podocyte stress and damage.-Schroeter, C. B., Koehler, S., Kann, M., Schermer, B., Benzing, T., Brinkkoetter, P. T., Rinschen, M. M. Protein half-life determines expression of proteostatic networks in podocyte differentiation.
PXD005206	29695160	An Adaptive Pipeline To Maximize Isobaric Tagging Data in Large-Scale MS-Based Proteomics. 	Stop trashing your spectra! Use a "Quantify then Identify" pipeline based on machine learning to maximize your isobaric tagging data	6-plex, CSF, Isobaric tagging, LC-MS, Orbitrap, Plasma, TMT	Isobaric tagging is the method of choice in mass-spectrometry-based proteomics for comparing several conditions at a time. Despite its multiplexing capabilities, some drawbacks appear when multiple experiments are merged for comparison in large sample-size studies due to the presence of missing values, which result from the stochastic nature of the data-dependent acquisition mode. Another indirect cause of data incompleteness might derive from the proteomic-typical data-processing workflow that first identifies proteins in individual experiments and then only quantifies those identified proteins, leaving a large number of unmatched spectra with quantitative information unexploited. Inspired by untargeted metabolomic and label-free proteomic workflows, we developed a quantification-driven bioinformatic pipeline (Quantify then Identify (QtI)) that optimizes the processing of isobaric tandem mass tag (TMT) data from large-scale studies. This pipeline includes innovative features, such as peak filtering with a self-adaptive preprocessing pipeline optimization method, Peptide Match Rescue, and Optimized Post-Translational Modification. QtI outperforms a classical benchmark workflow in terms of quantification and identification rates, significantly reducing missing data while preserving unmatched features for quantitative comparison. The number of unexploited tandem mass spectra was reduced by 77 and 62% for two human cerebrospinal fluid and plasma data sets, respectively.
PXD007132	29695722	Global profiling of protein-DNA and protein-nucleosome binding affinities using quantitative mass spectrometry. 	Global profiling of protein-DNA and protein-nucleosome binding affinities using quantitative mass spectrometry	DNA-protein interactions, binding affinity, chromatin, transcription	Interaction proteomics studies have provided fundamental insights into multimeric biomolecular assemblies and cell-scale molecular networks. Significant recent developments in mass spectrometry-based interaction proteomics have been fueled by rapid advances in label-free, isotopic, and isobaric quantitation workflows. Here, we report a quantitative protein-DNA and protein-nucleosome binding assay that uses affinity purifications from nuclear extracts coupled with isobaric chemical labeling and mass spectrometry to quantify apparent binding affinities proteome-wide. We use this assay with a variety of DNA and nucleosome baits to quantify apparent binding affinities of monomeric and multimeric transcription factors and chromatin remodeling complexes.
PXD009105	29696004	Metaproteogenomic Profiling of Microbial Communities Colonizing Actively Venting Hydrothermal Chimneys. 	Metaproteome analysis of hydrothermal vent chimney biofilms	Hydrothermal vents, chimneys, metaproteome	At hydrothermal vent sites, chimneys consisting of sulfides, sulfates, and oxides are formed upon contact of reduced hydrothermal fluids with oxygenated seawater. The walls and surfaces of these chimneys are an important habitat for vent-associated microorganisms. We used community proteogenomics to investigate and compare the composition, metabolic potential and relative in situ protein abundance of microbial communities colonizing two actively venting hydrothermal chimneys from the Manus Basin back-arc spreading center (Papua New Guinea). We identified overlaps in the in situ functional profiles of both chimneys, despite differences in microbial community composition and venting regime. Carbon fixation on both chimneys seems to have been primarily mediated through the reverse tricarboxylic acid cycle and fueled by sulfur-oxidation, while the abundant metabolic potential for hydrogen oxidation and carbon fixation via the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle was hardly utilized. Notably, the highly diverse microbial community colonizing the analyzed black smoker chimney had a highly redundant metabolic potential. In contrast, the considerably less diverse community colonizing the diffusely venting chimney displayed a higher metabolic versatility. An increased diversity on the phylogenetic level is thus not directly linked to an increased metabolic diversity in microbial communities that colonize hydrothermal chimneys.
PXD007839	29696784	Unveiling Human Cardiac Fibroblast Membrane Proteome. 	Human cardiac fibroblast membrane proteome	human cardiac fibroblasts, membrane proteins, myocardium	Cardiac fibroblasts (CFs) are one of the main cell populations in the heart and play important roles in tissue homeostasis and myocardial fibrosis. The study of these cells has been hampered by the lack of reliable membrane markers: none of the antigens currently used for characterization and isolation of CFs is unique for this cell type. This issue has also raised doubts regarding a distinct identity of cardiac fibroblasts when compared to other myocardium cell populations with similar morphologies. In this work, we report a comprehensive description and functional analysis of human CFs (hCFs) membraneenriched fraction proteome by advanced mass spectrometry-based proteomic tools. A total number of 1478 proteins were identified, including 774 membrane proteins (52%). We also report the identification of a subset of 30 membrane proteins that in this workflow were only identified in hCFs by comparison with the membrane-enriched proteome lists of human cardiac stem cells, human mesenchymal stem cells, and human dermal fibroblasts. The data reported in this work are a valuable source of information for further studies aiming at defining a membrane molecular signature of human cardiac fibroblasts (hCFs), and a step forward in research regarding membrane proteins with key roles in hCF function in homeostasis and disease.
PXD005977	29698803	Fasting and refeeding induces changes in the mouse hepatic lipid droplet proteome. 	Mouse Hepatic Lipid Droplet Proteome under Fasting and Re-Feeding	Lipid Droplet Proteome, Lipid Droplets, Lipid metabolism, Liver LDs	During fasting, the liver increases lipid storage as a mean to reserve and provide energy for vital cellular functions. After re-feeding, hepatocytes rapidly decrease the amount of triacylglycerol that is stored in lipid droplets (LDs), visible as the size of hepatic LDs significantly decreases after re-feeding. Little is known about the changes in the liver LD proteome that occur during the fasting/re-feeding transition. This study aimed to investigate the hepatic LD proteome in fasted and re-fed conditions in the mouse. Using label-free LC-MS/MS analysis the relative abundance of 817 proteins was determined in highly purified LDs. Comparative analysis for differential protein abundance with respect to feeding states revealed 130 with higher abundance in LDs from fasted mice and 31 in LDs from re-fed mice. Among proteins observed to have higher abundance on LDs in the fasted state we found perilipin-5, and several mitochondrial and peroxisomal marker proteins, supporting the role of LDs in the provision of substrates for fatty acid oxidation. Proteins of higher abundance upon re-feeding included several peroxisomal and mitochondrial marker proteins and expand our understanding of the dynamic nature of the hepatic LD proteome according to the energetic requirements of the cell. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Proteomic investigations have been revealing the complexities and dynamics of cellular LDs from a variety of cell types. As these sub-cellular structures are truly dynamic in nature, our investigations reveal that simply the feeding state of an animal leads to significant changes to the protein composition of LDs and suggest a variety of dynamic interactions with other cellular organelles, such as the mitochondria and peroxisomes. As such, the experimental design for investigations of this cellular structure must consider this dynamic baseline. Lastly our analysis on global protein abundance has revealed the unforeseen high abundance of murine major urinary proteins associated with hepatic lipid droplets, which warrants further investigations.
PXD009291	29700043	Enhancement of red blood cell transfusion compatibility using CRISPR-mediated erythroblast gene editing. 	Enhancement of red blood cell transfusion compatibility using CRISPR-mediated erythroblast gene editing	BEL-A. Transfusion, Blood, CRISPR, Erythroid, Universal Donor	Regular blood transfusion is the cornerstone of care for patients with red blood cell (RBC) disorders such as thalassaemia or sickle-cell disease. With repeated transfusion, alloimmunisation often occurs due to incompatibility at the level of minor blood group antigens. We use CRISPR-mediated genome editing of an immortalised human erythroblast cell line (BEL-A) to generate multiple enucleation competent cell lines deficient in individual blood groups. Edits are combined to generate a single cell line deficient in multiple antigens responsible for the most common transfusion incompatibilities: ABO (Bombay phenotype), Rh (Rhnull), Kell (K0), Duffy (Fynull), GPB (S-s-U-). These cells can be differentiated to generate deformable reticulocytes, illustrating the capacity for coexistence of multiple rare blood group antigen null phenotypes. This study provides the first proof-of-principle demonstration of combinatorial CRISPR-mediated blood group gene editing to generate customisable or multi-compatible RBCs for diagnostic reagents or recipients with complicated matching requirements.
PXD009084	29700228	NUFIP1 is a ribosome receptor for starvation-induced ribophagy. 	Identification and characterization of a ribosome receptor for starvation-induced ribophagy	lysosome, mTOR, ribophagy	The lysosome degrades and recycles macromolecules, signals to the master growth regulator mTORC1 [mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) complex 1], and is associated with human disease. We performed quantitative proteomic analyses of rapidly isolated lysosomes and found that nutrient levels and mTOR dynamically modulate the lysosomal proteome. Upon mTORC1 inhibition, NUFIP1 (nuclear fragile X mental retardation-interacting protein 1) redistributes from the nucleus to autophagosomes and lysosomes. Upon these conditions, NUFIP1 interacts with ribosomes and delivers them to autophagosomes by directly binding to microtubule-associated proteins 1A/1B light chain 3B (LC3B). The starvation-induced degradation of ribosomes via autophagy (ribophagy) depends on the capacity of NUFIP1 to bind LC3B and promotes cell survival. We propose that NUFIP1 is a receptor for the selective autophagy of ribosomes.
PXD009536	29701990	Transcriptomic and Neuropeptidomic Analysis of the Stick Insect, Carausius morosus. 	Neuropeptidomic Analysis of the Stick Insect, <i> Carausius morosus </i>	Carausius morosus, nervous system, neurohormones, neuropeptide precursors, peptidomics, stick insects	One of the most thoroughly studied insect species, with respect to locomotion behavior, is the stick insect Carausius morosus. Although detailed information exists on premotor networks controlling walking, surprisingly little is known about neuropeptides, which are certainly involved in motor activity generation and modulation. So far, only few neuropeptides were identified from C. morosus or related stick insects. We performed a transcriptome analysis of the central nervous system to assemble and identify 65 neuropeptide and protein hormone precursors of C. morosus, including five novel putative neuropeptide precursors without clear homology to known neuropeptide precursors of other insects ( Carausius neuropeptide-like precursor 1, HanSolin, PK-like1, PK-like2, RFLamide). Using Q Exactive Orbitrap and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, 277 peptides including 153 likely bioactive mature neuropeptides were confirmed. Peptidomics yielded a complete coverage for many of the neuropeptide propeptides and confirmed a surprisingly high number of heterozygous sequences. Few neuropeptide precursors commonly occurring in insects, including those of insect kinins and sulfakinins, could neither be found in the transcriptome data nor did peptidomics support their presence. The results of our study represent one of the most comprehensive peptidomic analyses on insects and provide the necessary input for subsequent experiments revealing neuropeptide function in greater detail.
PXD009035	29703953	Structural analysis of human ARS2 as a platform for co-transcriptional RNA sorting. 	Structural analysis of human ARS2, a platform for co-transcriptional RNA sorting	ARS2, protein interaction	ARS2 is a highly conserved metazoan protein involved in numerous aspects of nuclear RNA metabolism. As a direct partner of the nuclear cap-binding complex (CBC), it mediates interactions with diverse RNA processing and transport machineries in a transcript-dependent manner. Here, we present the human ARS2 crystal structure, which exhibits similarities and metazoan-specific differences to the plant homologue SERRATE, most notably an additional RRM domain. We present biochemical, biophysical and cellular interactome data comparing wild type and mutant ARS2 that identify regions critical for interactions with FLASH (involved in histone mRNA biogenesis), NCBP3 (a putative cap-binding protein involved in mRNA export) and single-stranded RNA. We show that FLASH and NCBP3 have overlapping binding sites on ARS2 and that CBC-ARS2-NCBP3 form a ternary complex that is mutually exclusive with CBC-ARS-PHAX (involved in snRNA export). Our results support that mutually exclusive higher-order CBC-ARS2 complexes are critical in determining Pol II transcript fate.
PXD009146	29706543	Modulation of Protein-Interaction States through the Cell Cycle. 	K562 Chemical arrest cell cycle phase fractions 2D-MS-CETSA	MS-CETSA, Protein interaction state, cell cycle, chemical arrest	Global profiling of protein expression through the cell cycle has revealed subsets of periodically expressed proteins. However, expression levels alone only give a partial view of the biochemical processes determining cellular events. Using a proteome-wide implementation of the cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) to study specific cell-cycle phases, we uncover changes of interaction states for more than 750 proteins during the cell cycle. Notably, many protein complexes are modulated in specific cell-cycle phases, reflecting their roles in processes such as DNA replication, chromatin remodeling, transcription, translation, and disintegration of the nuclear envelope. Surprisingly, only small differences in the interaction states were seen between the G1 and the G2 phase, suggesting similar hardwiring of biochemical processes in these two phases. The present work reveals novel molecular details of the cell cycle and establishes proteome-wide CETSA as a new strategy to study modulation of protein-interaction states in intact cells.
PXD008646	29706546	Pervasive Protein Thermal Stability Variation during the Cell Cycle. 	Thermal proteome profiling of cell cycle	Thermal stability, cell cycle, complexes, disordered proteins	Quantitative mass spectrometry has established proteome-wide regulation of protein abundance and post-translational modifications in various biological processes. Here, we used quantitative mass spectrometry to systematically analyze the thermal stability and solubility of proteins on a proteome-wide scale during the eukaryotic cell cycle. We demonstrate pervasive variation of these biophysical parameters with most changes occurring in mitosis and G1. Various cellular pathways and components vary in thermal stability, such as cell-cycle factors, polymerases, and chromatin remodelers. We demonstrate that protein thermal stability serves as a proxy for enzyme activity, DNA binding, and complex formation in situ. Strikingly, a large cohort of intrinsically disordered and mitotically phosphorylated proteins is stabilized and solubilized in mitosis, suggesting a fundamental remodeling of the biophysical environment of the mitotic cell. Our data represent a rich resource for cell, structural, and systems biologists interested in proteome regulation during biological transitions.
PXD007596	29707912	Cell Surface MHC Class I Expression Is Limited by the Availability of Peptide-Receptive "Empty" Molecules Rather than by the Supply of Peptide Ligands. 	MHC peptides presentation is limited by availability of empty HLA molecules rather than the supply of peptides ligands	HLA, Immunopeptidome, Interferon, MHC, Peptidome	While antigen processing and presentation (APP) by the major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) molecules have been extensively studied, a question arises as to whether the level of MHC-I expression is limited by the supply of peptide-receptive (empty) MHC molecules, or by the availability of peptide ligands for loading. To this end, the effect of interferons (IFNs) on the MHC peptidomes of human breast cancer cells (MCF-7) were evaluated. Although all four HLA allotypes of the MCF-7 cells (HLA-A*02:01, B*18, B*44, and C*5) present peptides of similar lengths and C-termini, which should be processed similarly by the proteasome and by the APP chaperones, the IFNs induced differential modulation of the HLA-A, B, and C peptidomes. In addition, overexpression of recombinant soluble HLA-A*02:01, introduced to compete with the identical endogenous membrane-bound HLA-A*02:01 for peptides of the MCF-7 cells, did not alter the expression level or the presented peptidome of the membrane-bound HLA-A*02:01. Taken together, these results indicate that a surplus supply of peptides is available inside the ER for loading onto the MHC-I peptide-receptive molecules, and that cell surface MHC-I expression is likely limited by the availability of empty MHC molecules.
PXD007926	29707944	High Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectrometry in Nontargeted Bottom-up Proteomics of Dried Blood Spots. 	High Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectrometry in Non-targeted Bottom-up Proteomics of Dried Blood Spot	Dried Blood Spot, FAIMS, Non-targeted, bottom-up	Despite the great potential of dried blood spots (DBS) as a source of endogenous proteins for biomarker discovery, the literature relating to nontargeted bottom-up proteomics of DBS is sparse, primarily due to the inherent complexity and very high dynamic range associated with these samples. Here, we present proof-of-concept results in which we have coupled high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for nontargeted bottom-up proteomics of DBS with the aim of addressing these challenges. We, and others, have previously demonstrated the benefits of FAIMS more generally in proteomics including improved signal-to-noise and extended proteome coverage, and the aim of the current work was to extend those benefits specifically to DBS. The DBS samples were either extracted by the more traditional manual "punch and elute" approach or by an automated liquid surface extraction (LESA) approach prior to trypsin digestion. The resulting samples were analyzed by LC-MS/MS and LC-FAIMS-MS/MS analysis. The results show that the total number of proteins identified increased by ~50% for the punch and elute samples and ~45% for the LESA samples in the LC-FAIMS-MS/MS analysis. For both the punch and elute samples and the LESA samples, ~30% of the total proteins identified were observed in both the LC-MS/MS and the LC-FAIMS-MS/MS data sets, illustrating the complementarity of the approaches. Overall, this work demonstrates the benefits of inclusion of FAIMS for nontargeted proteomics of DBS.
PXD006842	29708631	Comparative proteomic analysis of hypothalamus tissue from Huoyan geese between pre-laying period and laying period using an iTRAQ-based approach. 	Goose,hypothalamus,LC-MS/MS   .	Goose, hypothalamus	The hypothalamus plays a central role in controlling poultry endocrine and reproductive activities. So far there is limited information focused on the proteome profiles of the hypothalamus from geese during different stages of the egg-laying cycle. In order to identify proteins regulating the egg-laying process of Huoyan geese, we investigated the proteome profiles of the hypothalamus from Huoyan geese during the laying period and pre-laying period by applying an isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based proteomic technology. A total number of 3,337 were identified and quantified, of which 18 were significantly up-regulated and 16 were significantly down-regulated. These differentially expressed proteins were subjected to bioinformatics analyses based on the Gene Ontology annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway. Some of these were revealed to be involved in hormone and neurotransmitter secretion, exocytosis, calcium ion transport and synaptic transmission. Subsequently, excitatory amino acid transporter 2, complexin-1 and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor, type 3 were confirmed at the messenger RNA level using quantitative real-time RT-PCR. Then, the abundance change of these proteins was verified further using Western blotting analysis. These data may aid in elucidating the molecular mechanism of higher laying performance in Huoyan geese.
PXD008526	29710410	Comprehensive Peptide Analysis of Mouse Brain Striatum Identifies Novel sORF-Encoded Polypeptides. 	Comprehensive peptide analysis of mouse brain striatum identifies novel sORF-encoded polypeptides	5'UTR, Bio-active peptides, SEPs, neuropeptides, peptidomic approach, ribosome profiling, sORF	Bio-active peptides are involved in the regulation of most physiological processes in the body. Classical bio-active peptides (CBAPs) are cleaved from a larger precursor protein and stored in secretion vesicles from which they are released in the extracellular space. Recently, another non-classical type of bio-active peptides (NCBAPs) has gained interest. These typically are not secreted but instead appear to be translated from short open reading frames (sORF) and released directly into the cytoplasm. In contrast to CBAPs, these peptides are involved in the regulation of intra-cellular processes such as transcriptional control, calcium handling and DNA repair. However, bio-chemical evidence for the translation of sORFs remains elusive. Comprehensive analysis of sORF-encoded polypeptides (SEPs) is hampered by a number of methodological and biological challenges: the low molecular mass (many 4-10 kDa), the low abundance, transient expression and complications in data analysis. We developed a strategy to address a number of these issues. Our strategy is to exclude false positive identifications. In total sample, we identified 926 peptides originated from 37 known (neuro)peptide precursors in mouse striatum. In addition, four SEPs were identified including NoBody, a SEP that was previously discovered in humans and three novel SEPS from 5' untranslated transcript regions (UTRs).
PXD022644	29712652	First Penicillin-Binding Protein Occupancy Patterns of beta-Lactams and beta-Lactamase Inhibitors in Klebsiella pneumoniae. 	First penicillin-binding protein occupancy patterns for 15 beta-lactams and beta-lactamase inhibitors in Mycobacterium abscessus	Mycobacterium abscessus, PbpA, Penicillin-binding proteins, PonA1, PonA2, beta-lactams, cell wall biosynthesis	Penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) are the high-affinity target sites of all beta-lactam antibiotics in bacteria. It is well known that each beta-lactam covalently binds to and thereby inactivates different PBPs with various affinities. Despite beta-lactams serving as the cornerstone of our therapeutic armamentarium against Klebsiella pneumoniae, PBP binding data are missing for this pathogen. We aimed to generate the first PBP binding data on 13 chemically diverse and clinically relevant beta-lactams and beta-lactamase inhibitors in K. pneumoniae PBP binding was determined using isolated membrane fractions from K. pneumoniae strains ATCC 43816 and ATCC 13883. Binding reactions were conducted using beta-lactam concentrations from 0.0075 to 256 mg/liter (or 128 mg/liter). After beta-lactam exposure, unbound PBPs were labeled by Bocillin FL. Binding affinities (50% inhibitory concentrations [IC50]) were reported as the beta-lactam concentrations that half-maximally inhibited Bocillin FL binding. PBP occupancy patterns by beta-lactams were consistent across both strains. Carbapenems bound to all PBPs, with PBP2 and PBP4 as the highest-affinity targets (IC50, <0.0075 mg/liter). Preferential PBP2 binding was observed by mecillinam (amdinocillin; IC50, <0.0075 mg/liter) and avibactam (IC50, 2 mg/liter). Aztreonam showed high affinity for PBP3 (IC50, 0.06 to 0.12 mg/liter). Ceftazidime bound PBP3 at low concentrations (IC50, 0.06 to 0.25 mg/liter) and PBP1a/b at higher concentrations (4 mg/liter), whereas cefepime bound PBPs 1 to 4 at more even concentrations (IC50, 0.015 to 2 mg/liter). These PBP binding data on a comprehensive set of 13 clinically relevant beta-lactams and beta-lactamase inhibitors in K. pneumoniae enable, for the first time, the rational design and optimization of double beta-lactam and beta-lactam-beta-lactamase inhibitor combinations.
PXD008143	29712727	The Human Cathelicidin Antimicrobial Peptide LL-37 Promotes the Growth of the Pulmonary Pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. 	The human cathelicidin antimicrobial peptide LL-37 promotes the growth of the pulmonary pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus.	Aspergillus, LL-37, antimicrobial, growth	The pulmonary mucus of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients displays elevated levels of the cathelicidin antimicrobial peptide LL-37, and the aim of this work was to assess the effect of LL-37 on the growth of Aspergillus fumigatus, a common pathogen of CF patients. Exposure of A. fumigatus to LL-37 and its derived fragment RK-31 (1.95 mug/ml) for 24 h had a positive effect on growth (199.94% +/- 6.172% [P < 0.05] and 218.20% +/- 4.63% [P < 0.05], respectively), whereas scrambled LL-37 peptide did not (85.12% +/- 2.92%). Exposure of mycelium (preformed for 24 h) to 5 mug/ml intact LL-37 for 48 h increased hyphal wet weight (4.37 +/- 0.23 g, P < 0.001) compared to the control (2.67 +/- 0.05 g) and scrambled LL-37 (2.23 +/- 0.09 g) treatments. Gliotoxin secretion from LL-37 exposed hyphae (169.1 +/- 6.36 ng/mg hyphae, P < 0.05) was increased at 24 h compared to the results seen with the control treatment (102 +/- 18.81 ng/mg hyphae) and the scrambled LL-37 treatment (96.09 +/- 15.15 ng/mg hyphae). Shotgun proteomic analysis of 24-h LL-37-treated hyphae revealed an increase in the abundance of proteins associated with growth (eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A [eIF-5A] [16.3-fold increased]), tissue degradation (aspartic endopeptidase [4.7-fold increased]), and allergic reactions (Asp F13 [10-fold increased]). By 48 h, there was an increase in protein levels indicative of cellular stress (glutathione peroxidase [9-fold increased]), growth (eIF-5A [6-fold increased]), and virulence (RNase mitogillin [3.7-fold increased]). These results indicate that LL-37 stimulates A. fumigatus growth and that this stimulation can result in increased fungal growth and secretion of toxins in the lungs of CF patients.
PXD008247	29712914	Structural basis for energy transduction by respiratory alternative complex III. 	High-resolution cryo-EM structure of the respiratory alternative complex III from Rhodothermus marinus	Complex III, cryo-EM	Electron transfer in respiratory chains generates the electrochemical potential that serves as energy source for the cell. Prokaryotes can use a wide range of electron donors and acceptors and may have alternative complexes performing the same catalytic reactions as the mitochondrial complexes. This is the case for the alternative complex III (ACIII), a quinol:cytochrome c/HiPIP oxidoreductase. In order to understand the catalytic mechanism of this respiratory enzyme, we determined the structure of ACIII from Rhodothermus marinus at 3.9 Aa resolution by single-particle cryo-electron microscopy. ACIII presents a so-far unique structure, for which we establish the arrangement of the cofactors (four iron-sulfur clusters and six c-type hemes) and propose the location of the quinol-binding site and the presence of two putative proton pathways in the membrane. Altogether, this structure provides insights into a mechanism for energy transduction and introduces ACIII as a redox-driven proton pump.
PXD008748	29712969	Nucleolar-nucleoplasmic shuttling of TARG1 and its control by DNA damage-induced poly-ADP-ribosylation and by nucleolar transcription. 	Nucleolar-nucleoplasmic shuttling of the RNA-binding macrodomain-containing TARG1 is controlled by DNA damage-induced poly-ADP-ribose and implies functions in ribosome biogenesis	ADP-ribosylation, AP-MS	Macrodomains are conserved protein folds associated with ADP-ribose binding and turnover. ADP-ribosylation is a posttranslational modification catalyzed primarily by ARTD (aka PARP) enzymes in cells. ARTDs transfer either single or multiple ADP-ribose units to substrates, resulting in mono- or poly-ADP-ribosylation. TARG1/C6orf130 is a macrodomain protein that hydrolyzes mono-ADP-ribosylation and interacts with poly-ADP-ribose chains. Interactome analyses revealed that TARG1 binds strongly to ribosomes and proteins associated with rRNA processing and ribosomal assembly factors. TARG1 localized to transcriptionally active nucleoli, which occurred independently of ADP-ribose binding. TARG1 shuttled continuously between nucleoli and nucleoplasm. In response to DNA damage, which activates ARTD1/2 (PARP1/2) and promotes synthesis of poly-ADP-ribose chains, TARG1 re-localized to the nucleoplasm. This was dependent on the ability of TARG1 to bind to poly-ADP-ribose. These findings are consistent with the observed ability of TARG1 to competitively interact with RNA and PAR chains. We propose a nucleolar role of TARG1 in ribosome assembly or quality control that is stalled when TARG1 is re-located to sites of DNA damage.
PXD008619	29716987	Click Chemistry-mediated Biotinylation Reveals a Function for the Protease BACE1 in Modulating the Neuronal Surface Glycoproteome. 	Surface glycoproteome of BACE1-inhibited neurons	BACE1, N-glycoproteome, murine neurons, surface	The cell surface proteome is dynamic and has fundamental roles in cell signaling. Many surface membrane proteins are proteolytically released into a cell's secretome, where they can have additional functions in cell-cell-communication. Yet, it remains challenging to determine the surface proteome and to compare it to the cell secretome, under serum-containing cell culture conditions. Here, we set up and evaluated the 'surface-spanning protein enrichment with click sugars' (SUSPECS) method for cell surface membrane glycoprotein biotinylation, enrichment and label-free quantitative mass spectrometry. SUSPECS is based on click chemistry-mediated labeling of glycoproteins, is compatible with labeling of living cells and can be combined with secretome analyses in the same experiment. Immunofluorescence-based confocal microscopy demonstrated that SUSPECS selectively labeled cell surface proteins. Nearly 700 transmembrane glycoproteins were consistently identified at the surface of primary neurons. To demonstrate the utility of SUSPECS, we applied it to the protease BACE1, which is a key drug target in Alzheimer's disease. Pharmacological BACE1-inhibition selectively remodeled the neuronal surface glycoproteome, resulting in up to 7-fold increased abundance of the BACE1 substrates APP, APLP1, SEZ6, SEZ6L, CNTN2, and CHL1, whereas other substrates were not or only mildly affected. Interestingly, protein changes at the cell surface only partly correlated with changes in the secretome. Several altered proteins were validated by immunoblots in neurons and mouse brains. Apparent nonsubstrates, such as TSPAN6, were also increased, indicating that BACE1-inhibition may lead to unexpected secondary effects. In summary, SUSPECS is broadly useful for determination of the surface glycoproteome and its correlation with the secretome.
PXD008952	29718670	Evaluation of NCI-7 Cell Line Panel as a Reference Material for Clinical Proteomics. 	Evaluation of NCI-7 Cell Line Panel	CPTAC, CPTAC Consortium, NCI-60, NCI-7, ProteomeXchange project tag: Reference, proteomics reference standard	Reference materials are vital to benchmarking the reproducibility of clinical tests and essential for monitoring laboratory performance for clinical proteomics. The reference material utilized for mass spectrometric analysis of the human proteome would ideally contain enough proteins to be suitably representative of the human proteome, as well as exhibit a stable protein composition in different batches of sample regeneration. Previously, The Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) utilized a PDX-derived comparative reference (CompRef) materials for the longitudinal assessment of proteomic performance; however, inherent drawbacks of PDX-derived material, including extended time needed to grow tumors and high level of expertise needed, have resulted in efforts to identify a new source of CompRef material. In this study, we examined the utility of using a panel of seven cancer cell lines, NCI-7 Cell Line Panel, as a reference material for mass spectrometric analysis of human proteome. Our results showed that not only is the NCI-7 material suitable for benchmarking laboratory sample preparation methods, but also NCI-7 sample generation is highly reproducible at both the global and phosphoprotein levels. In addition, the predicted genomic and experimental coverage of the NCI-7 proteome suggests the NCI-7 material may also have applications as a universal standard proteomic reference.
PXD008145	29719249	Skeletal Muscle-Specific Methyltransferase METTL21C Trimethylates p97 and Regulates Autophagy-Associated Protein Breakdown. 	Skeletal muscle-specific methyltransferase METTL21C trimethylates p97 and regulates autophagy-associated protein breakdown	Methylation, proteostasis	Protein aggregates and cytoplasmic vacuolization are major hallmarks of multisystem proteinopathies (MSPs) that lead to muscle weakness. Here, we identify METTL21C as a skeletal muscle-specific lysine methyltransferase. Insertion of a beta-galactosidase cassette into the Mettl21c mouse locus revealed that METTL21C is specifically expressed in MYH7-positive skeletal muscle fibers. Ablation of the Mettl21c gene reduced endurance capacity and led to age-dependent accumulation of autophagic vacuoles in skeletal muscle. Denervation-induced muscle atrophy highlighted further impairments of autophagy-related proteins, including LC3, p62, and cathepsins, in Mettl21c(-/-) muscles. In addition, we demonstrate that METTL21C interacts with the ATPase p97 (VCP), which is mutated in various human MSP conditions. We reveal that METTL21C trimethylates p97 on the Lys315 residue and found that loss of this modification reduced p97 hexamer formation and ATPase activity in vivo. We conclude that the methyltransferase METTL21C is an important modulator of protein degradation in skeletal muscle under both normal and enhanced protein breakdown conditions.
PXD008723	29719595	Proteomic alterations in early stage cervical cancer. 	Proteomic alterations in early stage cervical cancer	LCM, PRM, biomarker, cervical cancer	Laser capture microdissection (LCM) allows the capture of cell types or well-defined structures in tissue. We compared in a semi-quantitative way the proteomes from an equivalent of 8,000 tumor cells from patients with squamous cell cervical cancer (SCC, n = 22) with healthy epithelial and stromal cells obtained from normal cervical tissue (n = 13). Proteins were enzymatically digested into peptides which were measured by high-resolution mass spectrometry and analyzed by "all-or-nothing" analysis, Bonferroni, and Benjamini-Hochberg correction for multiple testing. By comparing LCM cell type preparations, 31 proteins were exclusively found in early stage cervical cancer (n = 11) when compared with healthy epithelium and stroma, based on criteria that address specificity in a restrictive "all-or-nothing" way. By Bonferroni correction for multiple testing, 30 proteins were significantly up-regulated between early stage cervical cancer and healthy control, including six members of the MCM protein family. MCM proteins are involved in DNA repair and expected to be participating in the early stage of cancer. After a less stringent Benjamini-Hochberg correction for multiple testing, we found that the abundances of 319 proteins were significantly different between early stage cervical cancer and healthy controls. Four proteins were confirmed in digests of whole tissue lysates by Parallel Reaction Monitoring (PRM). Ingenuity Pathway Analysis using correction for multiple testing by permutation resulted in two networks that were differentially regulated in early stage cervical cancer compared with healthy tissue. From these networks, we learned that specific tumor mechanisms become effective during the early stage of cervical cancer.
PXD008321	29720234	Two independent proteomic approaches provide a comprehensive analysis of the synovial fluid proteome response to Autologous Chondrocyte Implantation. 	Two independent proteomic approaches provide the most comprehensive analysis of the synovial fluid proteome in responders and non-responders to Autologous Chondrocyte Implantation	Autologous Chondrocyte Implantation (ACI), Cartilage repair, Label-free quantification proteomics, Osteoarthritis, Synovial Fluid, iTRAQ proteomics	BACKGROUND: Autologous chondrocyte implantation (ACI) has a failure rate of approximately 20%, but it is yet to be fully understood why. Biomarkers are needed that can pre-operatively predict in which patients it is likely to fail, so that alternative or individualised therapies can be offered. We previously used label-free quantitation (LF) with a dynamic range compression proteomic approach to assess the synovial fluid (SF) of ACI responders and non-responders. However, we were able to identify only a few differentially abundant proteins at baseline. In the present study, we built upon these previous findings by assessing higher-abundance proteins within this SF, providing a more global proteomic analysis on the basis of which more of the biology underlying ACI success or failure can be understood. METHODS: Isobaric tagging for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) proteomic analysis was used to assess SF from ACI responders (mean Lysholm improvement of 33; n = 14) and non-responders (mean Lysholm decrease of 14; n = 13) at the two stages of surgery (cartilage harvest and chondrocyte implantation). Differentially abundant proteins in iTRAQ and combined iTRAQ and LF datasets were investigated using pathway and network analyses. RESULTS: iTRAQ proteomic analysis confirmed our previous finding that there is a marked proteomic shift in response to cartilage harvest (70 and 54 proteins demonstrating >= 2.0-fold change and p < 0.05 between stages I and II in responders and non-responders, respectively). Further, it highlighted 28 proteins that were differentially abundant between responders and non-responders to ACI, which were not found in the LF study, 16 of which were altered at baseline. The differential expression of two proteins (complement C1s subcomponent and matrix metalloproteinase 3) was confirmed biochemically. Combination of the iTRAQ and LF proteomic datasets generated in-depth SF proteome information that was used to generate interactome networks representing ACI success or failure. Functional pathways that are dysregulated in ACI non-responders were identified, including acute-phase response signalling. CONCLUSIONS: Several candidate biomarkers for baseline prediction of ACI outcome were identified. A holistic overview of the SF proteome in responders and non-responders to ACI  has been profiled, providing a better understanding of the biological pathways underlying clinical outcome, particularly the differential response to cartilage harvest in non-responders.
PXD007511	29720423	Cutting Edge: The Histone Methyltransferase G9a Is Required for Silencing of Helper T Lineage-Associated Genes in Proliferating CD8 T Cells. 	The interactomes of RUNX1 and RUNX3 from Mus musculus T cells	Mus musculus RUNX1 RUNX3 Immunoprecipitation T cells	Helper versus cytotoxic T lineage decision in the thymus has been studied as a model for silencing of alternative lineage genes. Although the transcription factor RUNX3 is required for the initiation of Cd4 silencing in developing CD8 T cells, it is unknown how silencing of Cd4 and other helper T lineage genes is maintained. We show that the histone methyltransferase G9a is necessary for silencing helper T lineage genes in proliferating mouse CD8 T cells. Despite normal initial Cd4 downregulation, G9a-deficient CD8 T cells derepress Cd4 and other helper lineage genes during repeated division in lymphopenia or in response to tumor Ag. However, G9a was dispensable for continued silencing of those genes in CD8 T cells that respond to infection by Listeria monocytogenes These results demonstrate that G9a facilitates maintenance of cellular identity of CD8 T cells during cell division, which is further reinforced by inflammatory signals.
PXD008014	29720545	Multifocal demyelinating motor neuropathy and hamartoma syndrome associated with a de novo PTEN mutation. 	Multifocal demyelinating motor neuropathy associated with a de novo PTEN mutation	PTEN, demyelinating motor neuropathy	OBJECTIVE: To describe a patient with a multifocal demyelinating motor neuropathy with onset in childhood and a mutation in phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), a tumor suppressor gene associated with inherited tumor susceptibility conditions, macrocephaly, autism, ataxia, tremor, and epilepsy. Functional implications of this protein have been investigated in Parkinson and Alzheimer diseases. METHODS: We performed whole-exome sequencing in the patient's genomic DNA validated by Sanger sequencing. Immunoblotting, in vitro enzymatic assay, and label-free shotgun proteomic profiling were performed in the patient's fibroblasts. RESULTS: The predominant clinical presentation of the patient was a childhood onset, asymmetric progressive multifocal motor neuropathy. In addition, he presented with macrocephaly, autism spectrum disorder, and skin hamartomas, considered as clinical criteria for PTEN-related hamartoma tumor syndrome. Extensive tumor screening did not detect any malignancies. We detected a novel de novo heterozygous c.269T>C, p.(Phe90Ser) PTEN variant, which was absent in both parents. The pathogenicity of the variant is supported by altered expression of several PTEN-associated proteins involved in tumorigenesis. Moreover, fibroblasts showed a defect in catalytic activity of PTEN against the secondary substrate, phosphatidylinositol 3,4-trisphosphate. In support of our findings, focal hypermyelination leading to peripheral neuropathy has been reported in PTEN-deficient mice. CONCLUSION: We describe a novel phenotype, PTEN-associated multifocal demyelinating motor neuropathy with a skin hamartoma syndrome. A similar mechanism may potentially underlie other forms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease with involvement of the phosphatidylinositol pathway.
PXD008213	29720585	De novo activating mutations drive clonal evolution and enhance clonal fitness in KMT2A-rearranged leukemia. 	KMT2A-rearranged leukemia proteomics	TMT, leukemia	Activating signaling mutations are common in acute leukemia with KMT2A (previously MLL) rearrangements (KMT2A-R). These mutations are often subclonal and their biological impact remains unclear. Using a retroviral acute myeloid mouse leukemia model, we demonstrate that FLT3 (ITD) , FLT3 (N676K) , and NRAS (G12D) accelerate KMT2A-MLLT3 leukemia onset. Further, also subclonal FLT3 (N676K) mutations accelerate disease, possibly by providing stimulatory factors. Herein, we show that one such factor, MIF, promotes survival of mouse KMT2A-MLLT3 leukemia initiating cells. We identify acquired de novo mutations in Braf, Cbl, Kras, and Ptpn11 in KMT2A-MLLT3 leukemia cells that favored clonal expansion. During clonal evolution, we observe serial genetic changes at the Kras (G12D) locus, consistent with a strong selective advantage of additional Kras (G12D) . KMT2A-MLLT3 leukemias with signaling mutations enforce Myc and Myb transcriptional modules. Our results provide new insight into the biology of KMT2A-R leukemia with subclonal signaling mutations and highlight the importance of activated signaling as a contributing driver.
PXD007726	29721084	A novel USP9X substrate TTK contributes to tumorigenesis in non-small-cell lung cancer. 	A novel USP9X substrate TTK contributes to tumorigenesis in non-small cell lung cancer	TTK, USP9X, deubiquitinase, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), quantitative proteomics	The X-linked deubiquitinase, USP9X, is implicated in multiple cancers by targeting various substrates. Increased expression of USP9X is observed in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and is correlated with poor prognosis. However, the molecular mechanism for USP9X regulation of tumor cell survival and tumorigenesis in NSCLC is less defined. Methods: In this study, chemical labeling, quantitative proteomic screening was applied to analyze A549 cells with or without USP9X RNA interference. Functional in vitro and in vivo experiments were performed to confirm the oncogenic effects of USP9X in NSCLC and to investigate the underlying mechanisms. Results: The resulting data suggested that dual specificity protein kinase TTK is a potential substrate of USP9X. Further experimental evidences confirmed that USP9X stabilized TTK via direct interaction and efficient deubiquitination of TTK on K48 ubiquitin chain. Moreover, knockdown of USP9X or TTK inhibited cell proliferation, migration and tumorigenesis, and the immunohistochemical analysis of clinical NSCLC samples showed that the protein expression levels of USP9X and TTK were significantly elevated and positively correlated in tumor tissues. Conclusions: In summary, our data demonstrated that the USP9X-TTK axis may play a critical role in NSCLC, and could be considered as a potential therapeutic target.
PXD007867	29721183	Delineating the HMGB1 and HMGB2 interactome in prostate and ovary epithelial cells and its relationship with cancer. 	Characterisation of HMGB1 interactome in PNT2 prostate cells	Affinity Purification, Cancer, ovary, prostate	High Mobility Group B (HMGB) proteins are involved in cancer progression and in cellular responses to platinum compounds used in the chemotherapy of prostate and ovary cancer. Here we use affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry (MS) and yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) screening to carry out an exhaustive study of HMGB1 and HMGB2 protein interactions in the context of prostate and ovary epithelia. We present a proteomic study of HMGB1 partners based on immunoprecipitation of HMGB1 from a non-cancerous prostate epithelial cell line. In addition, HMGB1 and HMGB2 were used as baits in yeast two-hybrid screening of libraries from prostate and ovary epithelial cell lines as well as from healthy ovary tissue. HMGB1 interacts with many nuclear proteins that control gene expression, but also with proteins that form part of the cytoskeleton, cell-adhesion structures and others involved in intracellular protein translocation, cellular migration, secretion, apoptosis and cell survival. HMGB2 interacts with proteins involved in apoptosis, cell motility and cellular proliferation. High confidence interactors, based on repeated identification in different cell types or in both MS and Y2H approaches, are discussed in relation to cancer. This study represents a useful resource for detailed investigation of the role of HMGB1 in cancer of epithelial origins, as well as potential alternative avenues of therapeutic intervention.
PXD008240	29721529	Mosquito-Derived Anophelin Sulfoproteins Are Potent Antithrombotics. 	Mosquito-Derived Anophelin Sulfoproteins are Potent Anti-Thrombotics	anophelin, protein tyrosine sulfation	The anophelins are small protein thrombin inhibitors that are produced in the salivary glands of the Anopheles mosquito to fulfill a vital role in blood feeding. A bioinformatic analysis of anophelin sequences revealed the presence of conserved tyrosine residues in an acidic environment that were predicted to be post-translationally sulfated in vivo. To test this prediction, insect cell expression of two anophelin proteins, from Anopheles albimanus and Anopheles gambiae, was performed, followed by analysis by mass spectrometry, which showed heterogeneous sulfation at the predicted sites. Homogeneously sulfated variants of the two proteins were subsequently generated by chemical synthesis via a one-pot ligation-desulfurization strategy. Tyrosine sulfation of the anophelins was shown to significantly enhance the thrombin inhibitory activity, with a doubly sulfated variant of the anophelin from A. albimanus exhibiting a 100-fold increase in potency compared with the unmodified homologue. Sulfated anophelins were also shown to exhibit potent in vivo anticoagulant and antithrombotic activity.
PXD007127	29723088	Molecular alterations associated with chronic exposure to cigarette smoke and chewing tobacco in normal oral keratinocytes. 	Molecular alterations elicited by chronic exposure to cigarette smoke and chewing tobacco in oral keratinocytes	Orbitrap Fusion, carcinogenesis, chronic exposure, high-throughput, smoking	Tobacco usage is a known risk factor associated with development of oral cancer. It is mainly consumed in two different forms (smoking and chewing) that vary in their composition and methods of intake. Despite being the leading cause of oral cancer, molecular alterations induced by tobacco are poorly understood. We therefore sought to investigate the adverse effects of cigarette smoke/chewing tobacco exposure in oral keratinocytes (OKF6/TERT1). OKF6/TERT1 cells acquired oncogenic phenotype after treating with cigarette smoke/chewing tobacco for a period of 8 months. We employed whole exome sequencing (WES) and quantitative proteomics to investigate the molecular alterations in oral keratinocytes chronically exposed to smoke/ chewing tobacco. Exome sequencing revealed distinct mutational spectrum and copy number alterations in smoke/ chewing tobacco treated cells. We also observed differences in proteomic alterations. Proteins downstream of MAPK1 and EGFR were dysregulated in smoke and chewing tobacco exposed cells, respectively. This study can serve as a reference for fundamental damages on oral cells as a consequence of exposure to different forms of tobacco.
PXD009033	29725099	The scaffold proteins of lignin biosynthetic cytochrome P450 enzymes. 	Identifying the interacting proteins of lignin biosynthetic P450 enzymes by affinity purification coupled with LC-MS/MS analysis	C3H, C4H, F5H, Lignin, affinity purification	Lignin is a complex and irregular biopolymer of crosslinked phenylpropanoid units in plant secondary cell walls. Its biosynthesis requires three endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident cytochrome P450 monooxygenases, C4H, C3'H and F5H, to establish the structural characteristics of its monomeric precursors. These P450 enzymes were reported to associate with each other or potentially with other soluble monolignol biosynthetic enzymes to form an enzyme complex or a metabolon. However, the molecular basis governing such enzyme or pathway organization remains elusive. Here, we show that Arabidopsis membrane steroid-binding proteins (MSBPs) serve as a scaffold to physically organize monolignol P450 monooxygenases, thereby regulating the lignin biosynthetic process. We find that although C4H, C3'H and F5H are in spatial proximity to each other on the ER membrane in vivo, they do not appear to directly interact with each other. Instead, two MSBP proteins physically interact with all three P450 enzymes and, moreover, MSBPs themselves associate as homomers and heteromers on the ER membrane, thereby organizing P450 clusters. Downregulation of MSBP genes does not affect the transcription levels of monolignol biosynthetic P450 genes but substantially impairs the stability and activity of the MSBP-interacting P450 enzymes and, consequently, lignin deposition, and the accumulation of soluble phenolics in the monolignol branch but not in the flavonoid pathway. Our study suggests that MSBP proteins are essential structural components in the ER membrane that physically organize and stabilize the monolignol biosynthetic P450 enzyme complex, thereby specifically controlling phenylpropanoid-monolignol branch biosynthesis.
PXD009393	29725820	CADASIL brain vessels show a HTRA1 loss-of-function profile. 	Proteome analysis of microvessels from CADASIL patients	CADASIL, microvessels, small vessel disease	Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) and a phenotypically similar recessive condition (CARASIL) have emerged as important genetic model diseases for studying the molecular pathomechanisms of cerebral small vessel disease (SVD). CADASIL, the most frequent and intensely explored monogenic SVD, is characterized by a severe pathology in the cerebral vasculature including the mutation-induced aggregation of the Notch3 extracellular domain (Notch3(ECD)) and the formation of protein deposits of insufficiently determined composition in vessel walls. To identify key molecules and pathways involved in this process, we quantitatively determined the brain vessel proteome from CADASIL patient and control autopsy samples (n = 6 for each group), obtaining 95 proteins with significantly increased abundance. Intriguingly, high-temperature requirement protein A1 (HTRA1), the extracellular protease mutated in CARASIL, was found to be strongly enriched (4.9-fold, p = 1.6 x 10(-3)) and to colocalize with Notch3(ECD) deposits in patient vessels suggesting a sequestration process. Furthermore, the presence of increased levels of several HTRA1 substrates in the CADASIL proteome was compatible with their reduced degradation as consequence of a loss of HTRA1 activity. Indeed, a comparison with the brain vessel proteome of HTRA1 knockout mice (n = 5) revealed a highly significant overlap of 18 enriched proteins (p = 2.2 x 10(-16)), primarily representing secreted and extracellular matrix factors. Several of them were shown to be processed by HTRA1 in an in vitro proteolysis assay identifying them as novel substrates. Our study provides evidence for a loss of HTRA1 function as a critical step in the development of CADASIL pathology linking the molecular mechanisms of two distinct SVD forms.
PXD009376	29726681	Identification of Poly(ethylene glycol) and Poly(ethylene glycol)-Based Detergents Using Peptide Search Engines. 	Identification of Poly Ethylene Glycol (PEG) and PEG-based Detergents Using Peptide Search Engines	Automated, PEG, Peptide search engine, Poly Ethylene Glycol, Polymer	Poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) is one of the most common polymer contaminations in mass spectrometry (MS) samples. At present, the detection of PEG and other polymers relies largely on manual inspection of raw data, which is laborious and frequently difficult due to sample complexity and retention characteristics of polymer species in reversed-phase chromatography. We developed a new strategy for the automated identification of PEG molecules from tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) data using protein identification algorithms in combination with a database containing "PEG-proteins". Through definition of variable modifications, we extend the approach for the identification of commonly used PEG-based detergents. We exemplify the identification of different types of polymers by static nanoelectrospray tandem mass spectrometry (nanoESI-MS/MS) analysis of pure detergent solutions and data analysis using Mascot. Analysis of liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) runs of a PEG-contaminated sample by Mascot identified 806 PEG spectra originating from four PEG species using a defined set of modifications covering PEG and common PEG-based detergents. Further characterization of the sample for unidentified PEG species using error-tolerant and mass-tolerant searches resulted in identification of 3409 and 3187 PEG-related MS/MS spectra, respectively. We further demonstrate the applicability of the strategy for Protein Pilot and MaxQuant.
PXD007892	29728462	Systematic approach for dissecting the molecular mechanisms of transcriptional regulation in bacteria. 	A systematic and scalable approach for dissecting the molecular 2 mechanisms of transcriptional regulation in bacteria	DNA affinity, SILAC, e coli, transcription factors	Gene regulation is one of the most ubiquitous processes in biology. However, while the catalog of bacterial genomes continues to expand rapidly, we remain ignorant about how almost all of the genes in these genomes are regulated. At present, characterizing the molecular mechanisms by which individual regulatory sequences operate requires focused efforts using low-throughput methods. Here, we take a first step toward multipromoter dissection and show how a combination of massively parallel reporter assays, mass spectrometry, and information-theoretic modeling can be used to dissect multiple bacterial promoters in a systematic way. We show this approach on both well-studied and previously uncharacterized promoters in the enteric bacterium Escherichia coli In all cases, we recover nucleotide-resolution models of promoter mechanism. For some promoters, including previously unannotated ones, the approach allowed us to further extract quantitative biophysical models describing input-output relationships. Given the generality of the approach presented here, it opens up the possibility of quantitatively dissecting the mechanisms of promoter function in E. coli and a wide range of other bacteria.
PXD008835	29728570	Identification of brain antigens recognized by autoantibodies in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis-induced animals treated with etomoxir or interferon-beta. 	Data in support of Identification of brain antigens recognized by autoantibodies in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis-induced animals treated with Etomoxir or Interferon-beta	Autoantibodies, Autoantigens, Etomoxir, Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, Inflammation, Multiple Sclerosis, rat model	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neurodegenerative autoimmune disease, where chronic inflammation plays an essential role in its pathology. A feature of MS is the production of autoantibodies stimulated by an altered-peptide-ligand response and epitope spreading, resulting in loss of tolerance for self-proteins. The involvement of autoantibodies in MS pathogenesis has been suggested to initiate and drive progression of inflammation; however, the etiology of MS remains unknown. The effect of etomoxir and interferon-beta (IFN-beta) was examined in an experimental-autoimmune-encephalomyelitis (EAE) model of MS. Moreover, the impact of etomoxir and IFN-beta on recognition of brain proteins in serum from EAE rats was examined with the purpose of identifying the autoantibody reactivities involved in MS. Animals treated with etomoxir on day 1 exhibited a statistically significantly lower disease score than animals treated with IFN-beta (on day 1 or 5) or placebo. Etomoxir treatment on day 5 resulted in a significantly lower disease score than IFN-beta treatment on day 1. After disease induction antibodies was induced to a broad pallet of antigens in the brain. Surprisingly, by blocking CPT1 and therewith lipid metabolism several alterations in the antibody response was observed suggesting that autoantibodies play a role in the EAE animal model.
PXD009078	29729432	Quantitative proteomics and biochemical analyses reveal the role of endoplasmin in the regulation of the expression and secretion of A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase 12. 	Identification of ADAM12S-interacting proteins in HeLa cells	ADAM12S, HeLa, interacting proteins, label free quantification	A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase 12 (ADAM12) is highly expressed in multiple cancers such as breast and cervical cancers and its high expression reduces the overall patient survival rate. ADAM12 has two major splicing variants, the long membrane-anchored form ADAM12L and the short secreted form ADAM12S. However, how they are regulated and whether they are modulated similarly or differently in cells are not clear. Here, we use affinity purification and mass spectrometry to identify the ADAM12S-interacting proteins. Spectral counting and MaxQuant label-free quantification reveal that ADAM12S but not ADAM12L specifically interacts with a subset of endoplasmic reticulum proteins, such as endoplasmin (GRP94), 78 kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP78), and UDP-glucose:glycoprotein glucosyltransferase I (UGGT1), that regulate the folding and processing of secreted proteins. Further biochemical experiments validate the interaction between ADAM12S and several of its interacting proteins. Computational docking analysis demonstrates that GRP94 preferentially interacts with ADAM12S over ADAM12L. The data also suggest that both the protein expression level and the secretion of ADAM12S are regulated by GRP94 expression and knockdown. Our results reveal a link between these two proteins that are highly expressed in cancer cells. Furthermore, our studies define a new ADAM12S-specific regulator that may contribute to the cancer development. SIGNIFICANCE: A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase 12 (ADAM12) is highly expressed in many cancers such as lung, breast, and cervical cancers. ADAM12 has two major splicing variants, the long membrane-anchored form ADAM12L and the short secreted form ADAM12S. However, how they are regulated and whether they are modulated similarly or differently are not completely understood. We use affinity purification and label-free quantitative proteomics to identify the ADAM12S-interacting proteins. Our results reveal that ADAM12S specifically interacts with a subset of endoplasmic reticulum proteins, including endoplasmin (GRP94), UDP-glucose:glycoprotein glucosyltransferase I (UGGT1), and neutral alpha-glucosidase AB (GANAB). Computer modeling reveals that ADAM12S interacts with the surface amino acids of GRP94 more strongly than ADAM12L. Biochemical experiments further reveal that GRP94 regulates both the protein level and the secretion of ADAM12S. Database mining finds that both GRP94 and ADAM12 are highly expressed in multiple cancers and their high expression is correlated with poor patient survival rate. Taken together, our work discovers a new upstream regulator for ADAM12S, which may contribute to its distinct functions in the regulation of the migration and invasion of cancer cells.
PXD005703	29730990	Time-resolved transcriptome and proteome landscape of human regulatory T cell (Treg) differentiation reveals novel regulators of FOXP3. 	Time-course proteomics analysis of human regulatory T cell (Treg) differentiation	CD4+ T cells, IL-2, TGF-b, TMT, Treg, rapamycin, retinoic acid, time-course	BACKGROUND: Regulatory T cells (Tregs) expressing the transcription factor FOXP3 are crucial mediators of self-tolerance, preventing autoimmune diseases but possibly hampering tumor rejection. Clinical manipulation of Tregs is of great interest, and first-in-man trials of Treg transfer have achieved promising outcomes. Yet, the mechanisms governing induced Treg (iTreg) differentiation and the regulation of FOXP3 are incompletely understood. RESULTS: To gain a comprehensive and unbiased molecular understanding of FOXP3 induction, we performed time-series RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and proteomics profiling on the same samples during human iTreg differentiation. To enable the broad analysis of universal FOXP3-inducing pathways, we used five differentiation protocols in parallel. Integrative analysis of the transcriptome and proteome confirmed involvement of specific molecular processes, as well as overlap of a novel iTreg subnetwork with known Treg regulators and autoimmunity-associated genes. Importantly, we propose 37 novel molecules putatively involved in iTreg differentiation. Their relevance was validated by a targeted shRNA screen confirming a functional role in FOXP3 induction, discriminant analyses classifying iTregs accordingly, and comparable expression in an independent novel iTreg RNA-Seq dataset. CONCLUSION: The data generated by this novel approach facilitates understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying iTreg generation as well as of the concomitant changes in the transcriptome and proteome. Our results provide a reference map exploitable for future discovery of markers and drug candidates governing control of Tregs, which has important implications for the treatment of cancer, autoimmune, and inflammatory diseases.
PXD006285	29731745	Autophosphorylation Mechanism of the Ser/Thr Kinase Stk1 From Staphylococcus aureus. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of Staphylococcus aureus	Staphylococcus aureus, Stk1, Stp1, phosphoproteomic	The eukaryotic-like Ser/Thr kinase Stk1 is crucial for virulence, cell wall biosynthesis, and drug susceptibility in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) (MRSA). Importantly, MRSA lacking Stk1 become sensitive to beta-lactam antibiotics, implying that Stk1 could be an alternative target for combination therapy. However, the autophosphorylation mechanism of Stk1 remains elusive. Using a phosphoproteomic study, we identified six in vivo phosphorylated activation loop residues (Ser159, Thr161, Ser162, Thr164, Thr166, and Thr172) of Stk1, which are also phosphorylated in vitro. We further showed that cis autophosphorylation of Thr172 in the GT/S motif is essential for self-activation and kinase activity of Stk1 kinase domain (Stk1-KD), whereas the trans autophosphorylation of other activation loop serines/threonines are required for the optimal kinase activity of Stk1-KD. Moreover, substitution of the activation loop serines/threonines impaired in vivo autophosphorylation activity of kinase variants, while T172A and T172D variants were unable to autophosphorylate in the cellular content, underlining the essential role of Thr172 for Stk1 activity in vivo. This study provides insights into molecular basis for regulation of Stk1 activity from S. aureus.
PXD056640	29732068	Chemical proteomic profiling of protein N-homocysteinylation with a thioester probe. 	Chemical proteomic profiling of protein N-homocysteinylation with a thioester probe	Chemical proteomic profiling, N-homocysteinylation, thioester probe	Hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy) refers to a medical condition of abnormally high level of homocysteine (Hcy) in blood (>15 mumol L(-1)) and has been clinically implicated with cardiovascular diseases and neurodegenerative disorders. Excessive Hcy can be converted to a reactive thioester intermediate, Hcy thiolactone (HTL), which selectively reacts with protein lysine residues ("N-homocysteinylation") and this non-enzymatic modification largely contributes to manifestations of HHcy. However, the proteome-wide detection of protein N-homocysteinylation remains a challenge to date. In this work, we report a chemoselective reaction to label and enrich N-homocysteinylation from complex proteome samples as inspired by native chemical ligation for protein synthesis. Alkynyl thioester probes are synthesized and the reaction is validated with small molecule and purified protein models successfully. We performed quantitative chemical proteomics to identify more than 800 N-homocysteinylated proteins as well as 304 N-homocysteinylated sites directly from HTL-treated HeLa cells. The chemical proteomics strategies will facilitate functional study of protein N-homocysteinylations in the HHcy-implicated diseases.
PXD008726	29733654	Identification of Immune-Responsive Gene 1 (IRG1) as a Target of A20. 	Mouse WT vs. A20 KO BMDM differential proteomics	A20, BMDM	A20 is a negative regulator of NF-kappaB signaling; it controls inflammatory responses and ensures tissue homeostasis. A20 is thought to restrict NF-kappaB activation both by its ubiquitin-editing activity as well as by its nonenzymatic activities. Besides its role in NF-kappaB signaling, A20 also acts as a protective factor inhibiting apoptosis and necroptosis. Because of the ability of A20 to both ubiquitinate and deubiquitinate substrates, and its involvement in many cellular processes, we hypothesized that deletion of A20 might generally impact on protein levels, thereby disrupting cellular signaling. We performed a differential proteomics study on bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) from control and myeloid-specific A20 knockout mice, both in untreated conditions and after LPS or TNF treatment, and demonstrated A20-dependent changes in protein expression. Several inflammatory proteins were found up-regulated in the absence of A20, even without an inflammatory stimulus, but, depending on the treatment and the treatment time, more proteins were found regulated. Together these protein changes may affect normal signaling events, which may disturb tissue homeostasis and induce (autoimmune) inflammation, in agreement with A20s proposed identity as a susceptibility gene for inflammatory disease. We further verify that immune-responsive gene 1 (IRG1) is up-regulated in the absence of A20 and that its levels are transcriptionally regulated.
PXD009528	29735524	Identification of Novel Acinetobacter baumannii Type VI Secretion System Antibacterial Effector and Immunity Pairs. 	Identification of Acinetobacter baumannii AB307-0294 type VI secretion system secreted proteins	Acinetobacter baumannii, TssM, bacteria, secretome, type VI secretion system	The type VI secretion system (T6SS) is a macromolecular machine that delivers protein effectors into host cells and/or competing bacteria. The effectors may be delivered as noncovalently bound cargo of T6SS needle proteins (VgrG/Hcp/PAAR) or as C-terminal extensions of these proteins. Many Acinetobacter baumannii strains produce a T6SS, but little is known about the specific effectors or how they are delivered. In this study, we show that A. baumannii AB307-0294 encodes three vgrG loci, each containing a vgrG gene, a T6SS toxic effector gene, and an antitoxin/immunity gene. Each of the T6SS toxic effectors could kill Escherichia coli when produced in trans unless the cognate immunity protein was coproduced. To determine the role of each VgrG in effector delivery, we performed interbacterial competitive killing assays using A. baumannii AB307-0294 vgrG mutants, together with Acinetobacter baylyi prey cells expressing pairs of immunity genes that protected against two toxic effectors but not a third. Using this approach, we showed that AB307-0294 produces only three T6SS toxic effectors capable of killing A. baylyi and that each VgrG protein is specific for the carriage of one effector. Finally, we analyzed a number of A. baumannii genomes and identified significant diversity in the range of encoded T6SS VgrG and effector proteins, with correlations between effector types and A. baumannii global clone lineages.
PXD009379	29735761	Metabolic Reprogramming of Vibrio cholerae Impaired in Respiratory NADH Oxidation Is Accompanied by Increased Copper Sensitivity. 	Metabolic reprogramming of Vibrio cholerae impaired in respiratory NADH oxidation is accompanied with increased copper sensitivity	Comparative Proteomics, Copper Tolerance, LC-MS, NQR, Na+- translocating NADH:quinone oxidoreductase, Sodium Bioenergetics, Vibrio cholerae	The electrogenic, sodium ion-translocating NADH:quinone oxidoreductase (NQR) from Vibrio cholerae is frequent in pathogenic bacteria and a potential target for antibiotics. NQR couples the oxidation of NADH to the formation of a sodium motive force (SMF) and therefore drives important processes, such as flagellar rotation, substrate uptake, and energy-dissipating cation-proton antiport. We performed a quantitative proteome analysis of V. cholerae O395N1 compared to its variant lacking the NQR using minimal medium with glucose as the carbon source. We found 84 proteins (regulation factor of >=2) to be changed in abundance. The loss of NQR resulted in a decrease in the abundance of enzymes of the oxidative branch of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and an increase in abundance of virulence factors AcfC and TcpA. Most unexpected, the copper resistance proteins CopA, CopG, and CueR were decreased in the nqr deletion strain. As a consequence, the mutant exhibited diminished resistance to copper compared to the reference strain, as confirmed in growth studies using either glucose or mixed amino acids as carbon sources. We propose that the observed adaptations of the nqr deletion strain represent a coordinated response which counteracts a drop in transmembrane voltage that challenges V. cholerae in its different habitats.IMPORTANCE The importance of the central metabolism for bacterial virulence has raised interest in studying catabolic enzymes not present in the host, such as NQR, as putative targets for antibiotics. Vibrio cholerae lacking the NQR, which is studied here, is a model to estimate the impact of specific NQR inhibitors on the phenotype of a pathogen. Our comparative proteomic study provides a framework to evaluate the chances of success of compounds directed against NQR with respect to their bacteriostatic or bactericidal action.
PXD009216	29735996	C-BERST: defining subnuclear proteomic landscapes at genomic elements with dCas9-APEX2. 	C-BERST: Defining subnuclear proteomic landscapes at genomic elements with dCas9-APEX2	APEX2, Biotinylation, Cas9, Centromere, Proteomes, Subnuclear, Telomere	Mapping proteomic composition at distinct genomic loci in living cells has been a long-standing challenge. Here we report that dCas9-APEX2 biotinylation at genomic elements by restricted spatial tagging (C-BERST) allows the rapid, unbiased mapping of proteomes near defined genomic loci, as demonstrated for telomeres and centromeres. C-BERST enables the high-throughput identification of proteins associated with specific sequences, thereby facilitating annotation of these factors and their roles.
PXD005011	29736013	UTX-mediated enhancer and chromatin remodeling suppresses myeloid leukemogenesis through noncatalytic inverse regulation of ETS and GATA programs. 	Utx interactome in mouse myeloid progenitor cells	Utx, affinity purification, immunoprecipitation, interactome, protein interactions	The histone H3 Lys27-specific demethylase UTX (or KDM6A) is targeted by loss-of-function mutations in multiple cancers. Here, we demonstrate that UTX suppresses myeloid leukemogenesis through noncatalytic functions, a property shared with its catalytically inactive Y-chromosome paralog, UTY (or KDM6C). In keeping with this, we demonstrate concomitant loss/mutation of KDM6A (UTX) and UTY in multiple human cancers. Mechanistically, global genomic profiling showed only minor changes in H3K27me3 but significant and bidirectional alterations in H3K27ac and chromatin accessibility; a predominant loss of H3K4me1 modifications; alterations in ETS and GATA-factor binding; and altered gene expression after Utx loss. By integrating proteomic and genomic analyses, we link these changes to UTX regulation of ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling, coordination of the COMPASS complex and enhanced pioneering activity of ETS factors during evolution to AML. Collectively, our findings identify a dual role for UTX in suppressing acute myeloid leukemia via repression of oncogenic ETS and upregulation of tumor-suppressive GATA programs.
PXD006192	29738528	Network inference reveals novel connections in pathways regulating growth and defense in the yeast salt response. 	Salt stress phosphorylation network	Phosphorylation, environmental stress response, stress signaling	Cells respond to stressful conditions by coordinating a complex, multi-faceted response that spans many levels of physiology. Much of the response is coordinated by changes in protein phosphorylation. Although the regulators of transcriptome changes during stress are well characterized in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the upstream regulatory network controlling protein phosphorylation is less well dissected. Here, we developed a computational approach to infer the signaling network that regulates phosphorylation changes in response to salt stress. We developed an approach to link predicted regulators to groups of likely co-regulated phospho-peptides responding to stress, thereby creating new edges in a background protein interaction network. We then use integer linear programming (ILP) to integrate wild type and mutant phospho-proteomic data and predict the network controlling stress-activated phospho-proteomic changes. The network we inferred predicted new regulatory connections between stress-activated and growth-regulating pathways and suggested mechanisms coordinating metabolism, cell-cycle progression, and growth during stress. We confirmed several network predictions with co-immunoprecipitations coupled with mass-spectrometry protein identification and mutant phospho-proteomic analysis. Results show that the cAMP-phosphodiesterase Pde2 physically interacts with many stress-regulated transcription factors targeted by PKA, and that reduced phosphorylation of those factors during stress requires the Rck2 kinase that we show physically interacts with Pde2. Together, our work shows how a high-quality computational network model can facilitate discovery of new pathway interactions during osmotic stress.
PXD006561	29739788	MAPK Reliance via Acquired CDK4/6 Inhibitor Resistance in Cancer. 	CDK4/6 inhibitor resistance in prostate cancer	CDK4/6, LAPC4, LNCaP, Prostate cancer, palbociclib, ribociclib	Purpose: Loss of cell-cycle control is a hallmark of cancer, which can be targeted with agents, including cyclin-dependent kinase-4/6 (CDK4/6) kinase inhibitors that impinge upon the G1-S cell-cycle checkpoint via maintaining activity of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor (RB). This class of drugs is under clinical investigation for various solid tumor types and has recently been FDA-approved for treatment of breast cancer. However, development of therapeutic resistance is not uncommon.Experimental Design: In this study, palbociclib (a CDK4/6 inhibitor) resistance was established in models of early stage, RB-positive cancer.Results: This study demonstrates that acquired palbociclib resistance renders cancer cells broadly resistant to CDK4/6 inhibitors. Acquired resistance was associated with aggressive in vitro and in vivo phenotypes, including proliferation, migration, and invasion. Integration of RNA sequencing analysis and phosphoproteomics profiling revealed rewiring of the kinome, with a strong enrichment for enhanced MAPK signaling across all resistance models, which resulted in aggressive in vitro and in vivo phenotypes and prometastatic signaling. However, CDK4/6 inhibitor-resistant models were sensitized to MEK inhibitors, revealing reliance on active MAPK signaling to promote tumor cell growth and invasion.Conclusions: In sum, these studies identify MAPK reliance in acquired CDK4/6 inhibitor resistance that promotes aggressive disease, while nominating MEK inhibition as putative novel therapeutic strategy to treat or prevent CDK4/6 inhibitor resistance in cancer. Clin Cancer Res; 24(17); 4201-14. (c)2018 AACR.
PXD009652	29739851	LC-MS/MS characterization of xyloside-primed glycosaminoglycans with cytotoxic properties reveals structural diversity and novel glycan modifications. 	LC-MS/MS characterization of xyloside-primed glycosaminoglycans with cell-specific cytotoxic properties reveals structural diversity and novel glycan modifications	Glycosaminoglycan, HCD, glycomics, ion-pairing chromatography, negative mode electrospray, reversed-phase chromatography	Structural characterization of glycosaminoglycans remains a challenge but is essential for determining structure-function relationships between glycosaminoglycans and the biomolecules with which they interact and for gaining insight into the biosynthesis of glycosaminoglycans. We have recently reported that xyloside-primed chondroitin/dermatan sulfate derived from a human breast carcinoma cell line, HCC70, has cytotoxic effects and shown that it differs in disaccharide composition from nontoxic chondroitin/dermatan sulfate derived from a human breast fibroblast cell line, CCD-1095Sk. To further investigate the structural requirements for the cytotoxic effect, we developed a novel LC-MS/MS approach based on reversed-phase dibutylamine ion-pairing chromatography and negative-mode higher-energy collision dissociation and used it in combination with cell growth studies and disaccharide fingerprinting. This strategy enabled detailed structural characterization of linkage regions, internal oligosaccharides, and nonreducing ends, revealing not only differences between xyloside-primed chondroitin/dermatan sulfate from HCC70 cells and CCD-1095Sk cells, but also sialylation of the linkage region and previously undescribed methylation and sulfation of the nonreducing ends. Although the xyloside-primed chondroitin/dermatan sulfate from HCC70 cells was less complex in terms of presence and distribution of iduronic acid than that from CCD-1095Sk cells, both glucuronic acid and iduronic acid appeared to be essential for the cytotoxic effect. Our data have moved us one step closer to understanding the structure of the cytotoxic chondroitin/dermatan sulfate from HCC70 cells primed on xylosides and demonstrate the suitability of the LC-MS/MS approach for structural characterization of glycosaminoglycans.
PXD005898	29739896	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis of Sporadic Medullary Thyroid Cancer Reveals FN1 as a Potential Novel Candidate Prognostic Biomarker. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of medullary thyroid carcinoma	ECM remolding, medullary thyroid carcinoma, syt1	BACKGROUND: Sporadic medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) is a rare neuroendocrine tumor. Currently, although the diagnosis of sporadic MTC is relatively simple, the need to discover novel candidate prognostic biomarkers for sporadic MTC and investigate the underlying mechanism involved in this rare disease is urgent. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We employed tandem mass tag-based liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to identify and analyze differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in sporadic MTC. Western blotting was used to validate the DEPs. Immunohistochemistry was performed to investigate FN1 and RPS6KA3 in an independent set of sporadic MTC tissues. Immunohistochemical data were analyzed by different statistical methods. RESULTS: Three hundred eighty-eight DEPs were identified in mass spectrometry, mainly involved in the extracellular matrix, cytoskeletal remodeling, or oxidoreductase activity. Among them, THBS1, MMP9, FN1, RPS6KA3, SYT1, and carcinoembryonic antigen were successfully validated by Western blot. In addition, FN1 and RPS6KA3, enriched in extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, respectively, were investigated in an independent set of sporadic MTC tissues. Receiver-operator characteristic curve analysis showed that FN1 and RPS6KA3 can be used for discriminating sporadic MTC tumorous tissues from paired normal thyroid tissues, and the clinical biomarker calcitonin was positively correlated with FN1 and RPS6KA3 in tumorous tissues. Furthermore, the immunohistochemical scores of FN1 in tumorous tissue showed an inverse relationship with tumor classification, lymph node classification, and American Joint Committee on Cancer stage. Through univariate and multivariate analysis for progression-free survival, we also found that low FN1 expression in tumorous tissues was an independent worse prognostic factor for progression-free survival. CONCLUSION: We identified that the pathophysiology of sporadic MTC involve numerous pathways, including the synaptic vesicle pathway, the MAPK signaling pathway, and the ECM remodeling pathway. Furthermore, our study also identified FN1 as novel prognostic biomarkers related to the pathophysiologic changes in sporadic MTC. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Proteomic dissection and prognostic biomarkers are scarce in sporadic medullary thyroid cancer (MTC). This article reports the use of proteomics technology to comprehensively investigate the molecular mechanisms of sporadic MTC, which resulted in the identification of FN1 as a novel candidate prognostic biomarker.
PXD008840	29739932	Author Correction: A proteomic landscape of diffuse-type gastric cancer. 	A proteomic landscape of diffuse-type gastric cancer	gastric cancer	The original version of this Article contained an error in the email address of the corresponding author Jun Qin. The correct email is jqin1965@126.com. The error has been corrected in the HTML and PDF versions of the Article.
PXD006673	29741735	Widespread epigenomic, transcriptomic and proteomic differences between hip osteophytic and articular chondrocytes in osteoarthritis. 	Hip Osteoarthritis Functional Genomics	Hip, Osteoarthritis, Proteogenomics	Objectives: To identify molecular differences between chondrocytes from osteophytic and articular cartilage tissue from OA patients. Methods: We investigated genes and pathways by combining genome-wide DNA methylation, RNA sequencing and quantitative proteomics in isolated primary chondrocytes from the cartilaginous layer of osteophytes and matched areas of low- and high-grade articular cartilage across nine patients with OA undergoing hip replacement surgery. Results: Chondrocytes from osteophytic cartilage showed widespread differences to low-grade articular cartilage chondrocytes. These differences were similar to, but more pronounced than, differences between chondrocytes from osteophytic and high-grade articular cartilage, and more pronounced than differences between high- and low-grade articular cartilage. We identified 56 genes with significant differences between osteophytic chondrocytes and low-grade articular cartilage chondrocytes on all three omics levels. Several of these genes have known roles in OA, including ALDH1A2 and cartilage oligomeric matrix protein, which have functional genetic variants associated with OA from genome-wide association studies. An integrative gene ontology enrichment analysis showed that differences between osteophytic and low-grade articular cartilage chondrocytes are associated with extracellular matrix organization, skeletal system development, platelet aggregation and regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade. Conclusion: We present a first comprehensive view of the molecular landscape of chondrocytes from osteophytic cartilage as compared with articular cartilage chondrocytes from the same joints in OA. We found robust changes at genes relevant to chondrocyte function, providing insight into biological processes involved in osteophyte development and thus OA progression.
PXD002960	29742442	RNA/DNA Hybrid Interactome Identifies DXH9 as a Molecular Player in Transcriptional Termination and R-Loop-Associated DNA Damage. 	Interactome -  RNA/DNA Hybrid Interactome Identifies DXH9 as a Molecular Player in Transcriptional Termination and R-Loop-Associated DNA Damage	HeLa	R-loops comprise an RNA/DNA hybrid and displaced single-stranded DNA. They play important biological roles and are implicated in pathology. Even so, proteins recognizing these structures are largely undefined. Using affinity purification with the S9.6 antibody coupled to mass spectrometry, we defined the RNA/DNA hybrid interactome in HeLa cells. This consists of known R-loop-associated factors SRSF1, FACT, and Top1, and yet uncharacterized interactors, including helicases, RNA processing, DNA repair, and chromatin factors. We validate specific examples of these interactors and characterize their involvement in R-loop biology. A top candidate DHX9 helicase promotes R-loop suppression and transcriptional termination. DHX9 interacts with PARP1, and both proteins prevent R-loop-associated DNA damage. DHX9 and other interactome helicases are overexpressed in cancer, linking R-loop-mediated DNA damage and disease. Our RNA/DNA hybrid interactome provides a powerful resource to study R-loop biology in health and disease.
PXD003881	29743190	IonStar enables high-precision, low-missing-data proteomics quantification in large biological cohorts. 	Quantitative Proteomics Benchmark Dataset to evaluate label-free quantitative methods- LC/Orbitrap Fusion MS analysis of E coli proteomes spiked-in Human proteins at 5 different levels (N=20)	Benchmark, Ecoli, IonStar, Label-free, Orbitrap Fusion	Reproducible quantification of large biological cohorts is critical for clinical/pharmaceutical proteomics yet remains challenging because most prevalent methods suffer from drastically declined commonly quantified proteins and substantially deteriorated quantitative quality as cohort size expands. MS2-based data-independent acquisition approaches represent tremendous advancements in reproducible protein measurement, but often with limited depth. We developed IonStar, an MS1-based quantitative approach enabling in-depth, high-quality quantification of large cohorts by combining efficient/reproducible experimental procedures with unique data-processing components, such as efficient 3D chromatographic alignment, sensitive and selective direct ion current extraction, and stringent postfeature generation quality control. Compared with several popular label-free methods, IonStar exhibited far lower missing data (0.1%), superior quantitative accuracy/precision [~5% intragroup coefficient of variation (CV)], the widest protein abundance range, and the highest sensitivity/specificity for identifying protein changes (<5% false altered-protein discovery) in a benchmark sample set (n = 20). We demonstrated the usage of IonStar by a large-scale investigation of traumatic injuries and pharmacological treatments in rat brains (n = 100), quantifying >7,000 unique protein groups (>99.8% without missing data across the 100 samples) with a low false discovery rate (FDR), two or more unique peptides per protein, and high quantitative precision. IonStar represents a reliable and robust solution for precise and reproducible protein measurement in large cohorts.
PXD006935	29743191	Ciliary dynein motor preassembly is regulated by Wdr92 in association with HSP90 co-chaperone, R2TP. 	Ciliary motility and axonemal dynein pre-assembly in Drosophila require Wdr92 in association with the HSP90 co-chaperone, R2TP	Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia	The massive dynein motor complexes that drive ciliary and flagellar motility require cytoplasmic preassembly, a process requiring dedicated dynein assembly factors (DNAAFs). How DNAAFs interact with molecular chaperones to control dynein assembly is not clear. By analogy with the well-known multifunctional HSP90-associated cochaperone, R2TP, several DNAAFs have been suggested to perform novel R2TP-like functions. However, the involvement of R2TP itself (canonical R2TP) in dynein assembly remains unclear. Here we show that in Drosophila melanogaster, the R2TP-associated factor, Wdr92, is required exclusively for axonemal dynein assembly, likely in association with canonical R2TP. Proteomic analyses suggest that in addition to being a regulator of R2TP chaperoning activity, Wdr92 works with the DNAAF Spag1 at a distinct stage in dynein preassembly. Wdr92/R2TP function is likely distinct from that of the DNAAFs proposed to form dynein-specific R2TP-like complexes. Our findings thus establish a connection between dynein assembly and a core multifunctional cochaperone.
PXD008687	29745666	Enhanced Quantitative LC-MS/MS Analysis of N-linked Glycans Derived from Glycoproteins Using Sodium Deoxycholate Detergent. 	Enhanced Quantitative LC-MS/MS Analysis of N-linked Glycans Derived from Glycoproteins Using Sodium Deoxycholate Detergent	LC-MS/MS sample preparation, N-glycomics, acidic labile detergent, detergent removal, sodium deoxycholate	Protein glycosylation is a common protein post-translational modification (PTM) in living organisms and has been shown to associate with multiple diseases, and thus may potentially be a biomarker of such diseases. Efficient protein/glycoprotein extraction is a crucial step in the preparation of N-glycans derived from glycoproteins prior to LC-MS analysis. Convenient, efficient and unbiased sample preparation protocols are needed. Herein, we evaluated the use of sodium deoxycholate (SDC) acidic labile detergent to release N-glycans of glycoproteins derived from biological samples such as cancer cell lines. Compared to the filter-aided sample preparation approach, the sodium deoxycholate (SDC) assisted approach was determined to be more efficient and unbiased. SDC removal was determined to be more efficient when using acidic precipitation rather than ethyl acetate phase transfer. Efficient extraction of proteins/glycoproteins from biological samples was achieved by combining SDC lysis buffer and beads beating cell disruption. This was suggested by a significant overall increase in the intensities of N-glycans released from cancer cell lines. Additionally, the use of SDC approach was also shown to be more reproducible than those methods that do not use SDC.
PXD008608	29746256	Glucocorticoid receptor dimers control intestinal STAT1 and TNF-induced inflammation in mice. 	A new life-saving role for Glucocorticoid Receptor dimers: repressing STAT1-induced IFN response in the gut	ISG, SIRS, inflammatory response, murine ileum, shotgun proteomics	TNF is an important mediator in numerous inflammatory diseases, e.g., in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs). In IBD, acute increases in TNF production can lead to disease flares. Glucocorticoids (GCs), which are steroids that bind and activate the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), are able to protect animals and humans against acute TNF-induced inflammatory symptoms. Mice with a poor transcriptional response of GR dimer-dependent target genes were studied in a model of TNF-induced lethal inflammation. In contrast to the GRWT/WT mice, these GRdim/dim mice displayed a substantial increase in TNF sensitivity and a lack of protection by the GC dexamethasone (DEX). Unchallenged GRdim/dim mice had a strong IFN-stimulated gene (ISG) signature, along with STAT1 upregulation and phosphorylation. This ISG signature was gut specific and, based on our studies with antibiotics, depended on the gut microbiota. GR dimers directly bound to short DNA sequences in the STAT1 promoter known as inverted repeat negative GRE (IR-nGRE) elements. Poor control of STAT1 in GRdim/dim mice led to failure to repress ISG genes, resulting in excessive necroptosis induction by TNF. Our findings support a critical interplay among gut microbiota, IFNs, necroptosis, and GR in both the basal response to acute inflammatory challenges and pharmacological intervention by GCs.
PXD006053	29747501	Multiproteomic and Transcriptomic Analysis of Oncogenic beta-Catenin Molecular Networks. 	Multi-omics analysis of beta-catenin oncogenic networks	HCT116, colorectal cancer	The dysregulation of Wnt signaling is a frequent occurrence in many different cancers. Oncogenic mutations of CTNNB1/beta-catenin, the key nuclear effector of canonical Wnt signaling, lead to the accumulation and stabilization of beta-catenin protein with diverse effects in cancer cells. Although the transcriptional response to Wnt/beta-catenin signaling activation has been widely studied, an integrated understanding of the effects of oncogenic beta-catenin on molecular networks is lacking. We used affinity-purification mass spectrometry (AP-MS), label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, and RNA-Seq to compare protein-protein interactions, protein expression, and gene expression in colorectal cancer cells expressing mutant (oncogenic) or wild-type beta-catenin. We generate an integrated molecular network and use it to identify novel protein modules that are associated with mutant or wild-type beta-catenin. We identify a DNA methyltransferase I associated subnetwork that is enriched in cells with mutant beta-catenin and a subnetwork enriched in wild-type cells associated with the CDKN2A tumor suppressor, linking these processes to the transformation of colorectal cancer cells through oncogenic beta-catenin signaling. In summary, multiomics analysis of a defined colorectal cancer cell model provides a significantly more comprehensive identification of functional molecular networks associated with oncogenic beta-catenin signaling.
PXD006250	29747589	Additional oxidative stress reroutes the global response of Aspergillus fumigatus to iron depletion. 	Surviving oxidative stress under iron starvation: an important lesson eminently learned by Aspergillus fumigatus in the human body	Aspergillus fumigatus, LC-MS, iron starvation, oxidative stress, stress response, tandem mass tags	BACKGROUND: Aspergillus fumigatus has to cope with a combination of several stress types while colonizing the human body. A functional interplay between these different stress responses can increase the chances of survival for this opportunistic human pathogen during the invasion of its host. In this study, we shed light on how the H2O2-induced oxidative stress response depends on the iron available to this filamentous fungus, using transcriptomic analysis, proteomic profiles, and growth assays. RESULTS: The applied H2O2 treatment, which induced only a negligible stress response in iron-replete cultures, deleteriously affected the fungus under iron deprivation. The majority of stress-induced changes in gene and protein expression was not predictable from data coming from individual stress exposure and was only characteristic for the combination of oxidative stress plus iron deprivation. Our experimental data suggest that the physiological effects of combined stresses and the survival of the fungus highly depend on fragile balances between economization of iron and production of essential iron-containing proteins. One observed strategy was the overproduction of iron-independent antioxidant proteins to combat oxidative stress during iron deprivation, e.g. the upregulation of superoxide dismutase Sod1, the thioredoxin reductase Trr1, and the thioredoxin orthologue Afu5g11320. On the other hand, oxidative stress induction overruled iron deprivation-mediated repression of several genes. In agreement with the gene expression data, growth studies underlined that in A. fumigatus iron deprivation aggravates oxidative stress susceptibility. CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that studying stress responses under separate single stress conditions is not sufficient to understand how A. fumigatus adapts in a complex and hostile habitat like the human body. The combinatorial stress of iron depletion and hydrogen peroxide caused clear non-additive effects upon the stress response of A. fumigatus. Our data further supported the view that the ability of A. fumigatus to cause diseases in humans strongly depends on its fitness attributes and less on specific virulence factors. In summary, A. fumigatus is able to mount and coordinate complex and efficient responses to combined stresses like iron deprivation plus H2O2-induced oxidative stress, which are exploited by immune cells to kill fungal pathogens.
PXD005887	29748621	Proteomic profiling identifies key coactivators utilized by mutant ERalpha proteins as potential new therapeutic targets. 	Estrogen Receptor Mutant Coregulator 	ER-a mutant, ESR1-YAP1 fusion protein pull down, Estrogen receptor - alpha	Approximately 75% of breast cancers are estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha)-positive and are treatable with endocrine therapies, but often patients develop lethal resistant disease. Frequent mutations (10-40%) in the ligand-binding domain (LBD) codons in the gene encoding ERalpha (ESR1) have been identified, resulting in ligand-independent, constitutively active receptors. In addition, ESR1 chromosomal translocations can occur, resulting in fusion proteins that lack the LBD and are entirely unresponsive to all endocrine treatments. Thus, identifying coactivators that bind to these mutant ERalpha proteins may offer new therapeutic targets for endocrine-resistant cancer. To define coactivator candidate targets, a proteomics approach was performed profiling proteins recruited to the two most common ERalpha LBD mutants, Y537S and D538G, and an ESR1-YAP1 fusion protein. These mutants displayed enhanced coactivator interactions as compared to unliganded wild-type ERalpha. Inhibition of these coactivators decreased the ability of ESR1 mutants to activate transcription and promote breast cancer growth in vitro and in vivo. Thus, we have identified specific coactivators that may be useful as targets for endocrine-resistant breast cancers.
PXD008719	29751106	Curcumin exerts its antitumor effects in a context dependent fashion. 	Curcumin exerts its potential antitumor effects in a context dependent fashion	Curcumin, anti-cancer drug, breast cancer, cancer-associated fibroblast, co-culture, proteome profiling	Proteome profiling profoundly contributes to the understanding of cell response mechanisms to drug actions. Such knowledge may become a key to improve personalized medicine. In the present study, the effects of the natural remedy curcumin on breast cancer model systems were investigated. MCF-7, ZR-75-1 and TGF-beta1 pretreated fibroblasts, mimicking cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), were treated independently as well as in tumor cell/CAF co-cultures. Remarkably, co-culturing with CAF-like cells (CLCs) induced different proteome alterations in MCF-7 and ZR-75-1 cells, respectively. Curcumin significantly induced HMOX1 in single cell type models and co-cultures. However, other curcumin effects differed. In the MCF-7/CLC co-culture, curcumin significantly down-regulated RC3H1, a repressor of inflammatory signaling. In the ZR-75-1/CLC co-culture, curcumin significantly down-regulated PEG10, an anti-apoptotic protein, and induced RRAGA, a pro-apoptotic protein involved in TNF-alpha signaling. Furthermore, curcumin induced AKR1C2, an important enzyme for progesterone metabolism. None of these specific curcumin effects were observed in single cell type cultures. All high-resolution mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD008719. The present data demonstrate that curcumin induces proteome alterations, potentially accounting for its known antitumor effects, in a strongly context-dependent fashion. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Better means to understand and potentially predict individual variations of drug effects are urgently required. The present proteome profiling study of curcumin effects demonstrates the massive impact of the cell microenvironment on cell responses to drug action. Co-culture models apparently provide more biologically relevant information regarding curcumin effects than single cell type cultures.
PXD007744	29752063	Proteomic Analyses of Human Regulatory T Cells Reveal Adaptations in Signaling Pathways that Protect Cellular Identity. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Specialized Wiring of Signaling Pathways that Protects Human Regulatory T Cell Identity - 6 populations ex vivo	Blood, CD4+ T lymphocyte	To obtain a molecular definition of regulatory T (Treg) cell identity, we performed proteomics and transcriptomics on various populations of human regulatory and conventional CD4(+) T (Tconv) cells. A protein expression signature was identified that defines all Treg cells, and another signature that defines effector Treg cells. These signatures could not be extrapolated from transcriptome data. Unique cell-biological and metabolic features in Treg cells were defined, as well as specific adaptations in cytokine, TCR, and costimulatory receptor signaling pathways. One such adaptation-selective STAT4 deficiency-prevented destabilization of Treg cell identity and function by inflammatory cytokines, while these signals could still induce critical transcription factors and homing receptors via other pathways. Furthermore, our study revealed surface markers that identify FOXP3(+)CD4(+) T cells with distinct functional properties. Our findings suggest that adaptation in signaling pathways protect Treg cell identity and present a resource for further research into Treg cell biology.
PXD009339	29752379	Rapid Remodeling of the Host Epithelial Cell Proteome by the Listeriolysin O (LLO) Pore-forming Toxin. 	Short-term remodeling of the host epithelial cell proteome by the listeriolysin O pore-forming toxin	bacterial infection, listeria, listeriolysin O, pore-forming toxin	Bacterial pathogens use various strategies to interfere with host cell functions. Among these strategies, bacteria modulate host gene transcription, thereby modifying the set of proteins synthetized by the infected cell. Bacteria can also target pre-existing host proteins and modulate their post-translational modifications or trigger their degradation. Analysis of protein levels variations in host cells during infection allows to integrate both transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulations induced by pathogens. Here, we focused on host proteome alterations induced by the toxin Listeriolysin O (LLO), secreted by the bacterial pathogen Listeria monocytogenes. We showed that a short-term treatment with LLO remodels the host cell proteome by specifically decreasing the abundance of 149 proteins. The same decrease in host protein levels was observed in different epithelial cell lines but not in macrophages. We show in particular that this proteome remodeling affects several ubiquitin and ubiquitin-like ligases and that LLO leads to major changes in the host ubiquitylome. Strikingly, this toxin-induced proteome remodeling involves only post-transcriptional regulations, as no modification in the transcription levels of the corresponding genes was observed. In addition, we could show that Perfringolysin O, another bacterial pore-forming toxin similar to LLO, also induces host proteome changes. Taken together, our data reveal that different bacterial pore-forming toxins induce important host proteome remodeling, that may impair epithelial cell functions.
PXD070833	29753740	2-Deoxy-d-glucose increases GFAT1 phosphorylation resulting in endoplasmic reticulum-related apoptosis via disruption of protein N-glycosylation in pancreatic cancer cells. 	Label-free proteome analysis of pancreatic cancer cells exposed to 2DG	Pancreas, Pancreatic cancer, cell line, label-free	The glycolytic inhibitor 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2DG) causes energy starvation, affecting cell viability in a wide range of cancer cell lines. To determine the action of 2DG in pancreatic cancer, we performed proteomic analysis of pancreatic cancer cell line after 2DG treatment. Eighty proteins showed differential expression and among these, proteins involved in phosphohexose metabolism were upregulated. Up-regulation of glutamine: fructose 6-phosphate aminotransferase 1 (GFAT1), which belongs to the hexosamine biosynthesis pathway (HBP) that produces uridine diphosphate N-acetylglucosamine (UDP-GlcNAc) to maintain glycoprotein, was validated by evaluation of mRNA and protein levels. Therefore, we assessed the amounts of total N-glycoproteins. Unexpectedly, we found a reduction of total N-glycoproteins and phosphorylation of GFAT1 by AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). These data may shed light on HBP dysfunction. Furthermore, we found endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress accompanied by increased expression of ER stress markers, such as glucose response protein 78 (GRP78) and C/EBP-homologous protein (CHOP), in 2DG-treated cells. Moreover, the additive activation of AMPK by metformin (Met) synergistically enhanced the reduction of protein N-glycosylation and cell growth inhibition in the presence of 2DG. These results suggest that 2DG reduces N-glycosylation of proteins following the increase of phosphorylation of GFAT1 and results in the inhibition of cell growth mediated by ER stress in pancreatic cancer cells.
PXD006701	29755367	The Transcription Factor Hif-1 Enhances the Radio-Resistance of Mouse MSCs. 	The role of HIF1 in enhancing radio resistance of mouse MSCs	DNA damage response, Mesenchymal stromal cells, hypoxia, ionizing radiation, label-free proteomics	Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) are multipotent progenitors supporting bone marrow hematopoiesis. MSCs have an efficient DNA damage response (DDR) and are consequently relatively radio-resistant cells. Therefore, MSCs are key to hematopoietic reconstitution following total body irradiation (TBI) and bone marrow transplantation (BMT). The bone marrow niche is hypoxic and via the heterodimeric transcription factor Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (Hif-1), hypoxia enhances the DDR. Using gene knock-down, we have previously shown that the Hif-1alpha subunit of Hif-1 is involved in mouse MSC radio-resistance, however its exact mechanism of action remains unknown. In order to dissect the involvement of Hif-1alpha in the DDR, we used CRISPR/Cas9 technology to generate a stable mutant of the mouse MSC cell line MS5 lacking Hif-1alpha expression. Herein, we show that it is the whole Hif-1 transcription factor, and not only the Hif-1alpha subunit, that modulates the DDR of mouse MSCs. This effect is dependent upon the presence of a Hif-1alpha protein capable of binding to both DNA and its heterodimeric partner Arnt (Hif-1beta). Detailed transcriptomic and proteomic analysis of Hif1a KO MS5 cells leads us to conclude that Hif-1alpha may be acting indirectly on the DNA repair process. These findings have important implications for the modulation of MSC radio-resistance in the context of BMT and cancer.
PXD009083	29755490	Quantitative Tandem Affinity Purification, an Effective Tool to Investigate Protein Complex Composition in Plant Hormone Signaling: Strigolactones in the Spotlight. 	Quantitative tandem affinity purification, an effective tool to investigate protein complex composition in plant hormone signaling: strigolactones in the spotlight	SMXL7, plant hormone signaling, qTAP, strigolactones	Phytohormones tightly regulate plant growth by integrating changing environmental and developmental cues. Although the key players have been identified in many plant hormonal pathways, the molecular mechanisms and mode of action of perception and signaling remain incompletely resolved. Characterization of protein partners of known signaling components provides insight into the formed protein complexes, but, unless quantification is involved, does not deliver much, if any, information about the dynamics of the induced or disrupted protein complexes. Therefore, in proteomics research, the discovery of what actually triggers, regulates or interrupts the composition of protein complexes is gaining importance. Here, tandem affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry (TAP-MS) is combined with label-free quantification (LFQ) to a highly valuable tool to detect physiologically relevant, dynamic protein-protein interactions in Arabidopsis thaliana cell cultures. To demonstrate its potential, we focus on the signaling pathway of one of the most recently discovered phytohormones, strigolactones.
PXD009104	29755492	Common Features Between the Proteomes of Floral and Extrafloral Nectar From the Castor Plant (Ricinus Communis) and the Proteomes of Exudates From Carnivorous Plants. 	Proteomes of Floral and Extrafloral Nectar from the Castor Plant (Ricinus communis)	Nectar, Ricinus communis, plant proteomics	Label-free quantitative proteome analysis of extrafloral (EFN) and floral nectar (FN) from castor (Ricinus communis) plants resulted in the identification of 72 and 37 proteins, respectively. Thirty proteins were differentially accumulated between EFN and FN, and 24 of these were more abundant in the EFN. In addition to proteins involved in maintaining the nectar pathogen free such as chitinases and glucan 1,3-beta-glucosidase, both proteomes share an array of peptidases, lipases, carbohydrases, and nucleases. A total of 39 of the identified proteins, comprising different classes of hydrolases, were found to have biochemical matching partners in the exudates of at least five genera of carnivorous plants, indicating the EFN and FN possess a potential to digest biological material from microbial, animal or plant origin equivalent to the exudates of carnivorous plants.
PXD009860	29756217	Comparative two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) of human milk to identify dysregulated proteins in breast cancer. 	Comparative Two-Dimensional Polyacrylamide Gel Electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) of Human Milk to Identify Dysregulated Proteins in Breast Cancer	2D-PAGE, Biomarkers, Breast cancer, Breast milk, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	Breast cancer (BC) remains a major cause of mortality, and early detection is considered important for reducing BC-associated deaths. Early detection of BC is challenging in young women, due to the limitations of mammography on the dense breast tissue of young women. We recently reported results of a pilot proteomics study, using one-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (1D-PAGE) and mass spectrometry (MS) to investigate differences in milk proteins from women with and without BC. Here, we applied two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) and MS to compare the protein pattern in milk from the breasts of a single woman who was diagnosed with BC in one breast 24 months after donating her milk. Statistically different gel spots were picked for protein digestion followed by nanoliquid chromatography tandem MS (nanoLC-MS/MS) analysis. The upregulated proteins in BC versus control are alpha-amylase, gelsolin isoform a precursor, alpha-2-glycoprotein 1 zinc isoform CRA_b partial, apoptosis-inducing factor 2 and vitronectin. Several proteins were downregulated in the milk of the breast later diagnosed with cancer as compared to the milk from the healthy breast, including different isoforms of albumin, cholesterol esterase, different isoforms of lactoferrin, different proteins from the casein family and different isoforms of lysozyme. Results warrant further studies to determine the usefulness of these milk proteins for assessing risk and detecting occult disease. MS data is available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009860.
PXD009436	29758068	Differentially abundant proteins associated with heterosis in the primary roots of popcorn. 	Differentially abundant proteins associated with heterosis in the primary roots of popcorn	Heterosis, Nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS, Non-additive effect, Popcorn, Progenesis, Shotgun proteomics, Synapt G2 Si	Although heterosis has significantly contributed to increases in worldwide crop production, the molecular mechanisms regulating this phenomenon are still unknown. In the present study, we used a comparative proteomic approach to explore hybrid vigor via the proteome of both the popcorn L54 female and P8 male genotypes and the resultant UENF/UEM01 hybrid cross. To analyze the differentially abundant proteins involved in heterosis, we used the primary roots of these genotypes to analyze growth parameters and extract proteins. The results of the growth parameter analysis showed that the mid- and best-parent heterosis were positive for root length and root dry matter but negative for root fresh matter, seedling fresh matter, and protein content. The comparative proteomic analysis identified 1343 proteins in the primary roots of hybrid UENF/UEM01 and its parental lines; 220 proteins were differentially regulated in terms of protein abundance. The mass spectrometry proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier "PXD009436". A total of 62 regulated proteins were classified as nonadditive, of which 53.2% were classified as high parent abundance (+), 17.8% as above-high parent abundance (+ +), 16.1% as below-low parent abundance (- -), and 12.9% as low parent abundance (-). A total of 22 biological processes were associated with nonadditive proteins; processes involving translation, ribosome biogenesis, and energy-related metabolism represented 45.2% of the nonadditive proteins. Our results suggest that heterosis in the popcorn hybrid UENF/UEM01 at an early stage of plant development is associated with an up-regulation of proteins related to synthesis and energy metabolism.
PXD006476	29758262	S-adenosylhomocysteine Hydrolase Participates in DNA Methylation Inheritance. 	S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase participates in DNA methylation inheritance	Cell cycle, DNMT1, SAHH	DNA (cytosine-5) methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) is essential for mammalian development and maintenance of DNA methylation following DNA replication in cells. The DNA methylation process generates S-adenosyl-l-homocysteine, a strong inhibitor of DNMT1. Here we report that S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase (SAHH/AHCY), the only mammalian enzyme capable of hydrolyzing S-adenosyl-l-homocysteine binds to DNMT1 during DNA replication. SAHH enhances DNMT1 activity in vitro, and its overexpression in mammalian cells led to hypermethylation of the genome, whereas its inhibition by adenosine periodate or siRNA-mediated knockdown resulted in hypomethylation of the genome. Hypermethylation was consistent in both gene bodies and repetitive DNA elements leading to aberrant gene regulation. Cells overexpressing SAHH specifically up-regulated metabolic pathway genes and down-regulated PPAR and MAPK signaling pathways genes. Therefore, we suggest that alteration of SAHH level affects global DNA methylation levels and gene expression.
PXD009647	29759483	Induction of the Immunoproteasome Subunit Lmp7 Links Proteostasis and Immunity in alpha-Synuclein Aggregation Disorders. 	Induction of the immunoproteasome subunit Lmp7 links proteostasis and immunity in alpha-synuclein aggregation disorders	immunoproteasome, phosphoproteomics, alpha-synuclein	Accumulation of aggregated alpha-synuclein into Lewy bodies is thought to contribute to the onset and progression of dopaminergic neuron degeneration in Parkinson's disease (PD) and related disorders. Although protein aggregation is associated with perturbation of proteostasis, how alpha-synuclein aggregation affects the brain proteome and signaling remains uncertain. In a mouse model of alpha-synuclein aggregation, 6% of 6215 proteins and 1.6% of 8183 phosphopeptides changed in abundance, indicating conservation of proteostasis and phosphorylation signaling. The proteomic analysis confirmed changes in abundance of proteins that regulate dopamine synthesis and transport, synaptic activity and integrity, and unearthed changes in mRNA binding, processing and protein translation. Phosphorylation signaling changes centered on axonal and synaptic cytoskeletal organization and structural integrity. Proteostatic responses included a significant increase in the levels of Lmp7, a component of the immunoproteasome. Increased Lmp7 levels and activity were also quantified in postmortem human brains with PD and dementia with Lewy bodies. Functionally, the immunoproteasome degrades alpha-synuclein aggregates and generates potentially antigenic peptides. Expression and activity of the immunoproteasome may represent testable targets to induce adaptive responses that maintain proteome integrity and modulate immune responses in protein aggregation disorders.
PXD005798	29760414	Fragment-derived inhibitors of human N-myristoyltransferase block capsid assembly and replication of the common cold virus. 	Quantitative chemical proteomic analysis of YnMyr-tagged proteins in HeLa cells infected with RV16	HeLa, NMT inhibition, RV16, myristoylation	Rhinoviruses (RVs) are the pathogens most often responsible for the common cold, and are a frequent cause of exacerbations in asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cystic fibrosis. Here we report the discovery of IMP-1088, a picomolar dual inhibitor of the human N-myristoyltransferases NMT1 and NMT2, and use it to demonstrate that pharmacological inhibition of host-cell N-myristoylation rapidly and completely prevents rhinoviral replication without inducing cytotoxicity. The identification of cooperative binding between weak-binding fragments led to rapid inhibitor optimization through fragment reconstruction, structure-guided fragment linking and conformational control over linker geometry. We show that inhibition of the co-translational myristoylation of a specific virus-encoded protein (VP0) by IMP-1088 potently blocks a key step in viral capsid assembly, to deliver a low nanomolar antiviral activity against multiple RV strains, poliovirus and foot and-mouth disease virus, and protection of cells against virus-induced killing, highlighting the potential of host myristoylation as a drug target in picornaviral infections.
PXD008827	29760453	Evolutionary instability of CUG-Leu in the genetic code of budding yeasts. 	Evolutionary Instability of CUG-Leu in the Genetic Code of Budding Yeasts	genetic code yeast cug	The genetic code used in nuclear genes is almost universal, but here we report that it changed three times in parallel during the evolution of budding yeasts. All three changes were reassignments of the codon CUG, which is translated as serine (in 2 yeast clades), alanine (1 clade), or the 'universal' leucine (2 clades). The newly discovered Ser2 clade is in the final stages of a genetic code transition. Most species in this clade have genes for both a novel tRNA(Ser)(CAG) and an ancestral tRNA(Leu)(CAG) to read CUG, but only tRNA(Ser)(CAG) is used in standard growth conditions. The coexistence of these alloacceptor tRNA genes indicates that the genetic code transition occurred via an ambiguous translation phase. We propose that the three parallel reassignments of CUG were not driven by natural selection in favor of their effects on the proteome, but by selection to eliminate the ancestral tRNA(Leu)(CAG).
PXD009165	29760697	Hookworm Secreted Extracellular Vesicles Interact With Host Cells and Prevent Inducible Colitis in Mice. 	Extracellular vesicles from Nippostrongylus brasiliensis	EV, Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, exosomes, helminth	Gastrointestinal (GI) parasites, hookworms in particular, have evolved to cause minimal harm to their hosts, allowing them to establish chronic infections. This is mediated by creating an immunoregulatory environment. Indeed, hookworms are such potent suppressors of inflammation that they have been used in clinical trials to treat inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) and celiac disease. Since the recent description of helminths (worms) secreting extracellular vesicles (EVs), exosome-like EVs from different helminths have been characterized and their salient roles in parasite-host interactions have been highlighted. Here, we analyze EVs from the rodent parasite Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, which has been used as a model for human hookworm infection. N. brasiliensis EVs (Nb-EVs) are actively internalized by mouse gut organoids, indicating a role in driving parasitism. We used proteomics and RNA-Seq to profile the molecular composition of Nb-EVs. We identified 81 proteins, including proteins frequently present in exosomes (like tetraspanin, enolase, 14-3-3 protein, and heat shock proteins), and 27 sperm-coating protein-like extracellular proteins. RNA-Seq analysis revealed 52 miRNA species, many of which putatively map to mouse genes involved in regulation of inflammation. To determine whether GI nematode EVs had immunomodulatory properties, we assessed their potential to suppress GI inflammation in a mouse model of inducible chemical colitis. EVs from N. brasiliensis but not those from the whipworm Trichuris muris or control vesicles from grapes protected against colitic inflammation in the gut of mice that received a single intraperitoneal injection of EVs. Key cytokines associated with colitic pathology (IL-6, IL-1beta, IFNgamma, and IL-17a) were significantly suppressed in colon tissues from EV-treated mice. By contrast, high levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 were detected in Nb-EV-treated mice. Proteins and miRNAs contained within helminth EVs hold great potential application in development of drugs to treat helminth infections as well as chronic non-infectious diseases resulting from a dysregulated immune system, such as IBD.
PXD009369	29764992	Aurora B opposes PP1 function in mitosis by phosphorylating the conserved PP1-binding RVxF motif in PP1 regulatory proteins. 	Aurora B opposes PP1 function in mitosis through phosphorylation of the conserved RVxF binding motif in PP1 regulatory proteins	ASPM, Aurora B, CDCA2, ELYS, KNL1, PP1, Protein phosphatase 1, RIF1, RVxF, SEH1, UBR5, mitosis, motif, phosphorylation, protein kinases	Protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) is a highly conserved protein phosphatase that performs most of the serine- and threonine-dephosphorylation reactions in eukaryotes and opposes the actions of a diverse set of serine and threonine (Ser-Thr) protein kinases. PP1 gains substrate specificity through binding to a large number (>200) of regulatory proteins that control PP1 localization, activity, and interactions with substrates. PP1 recognizes the well-characterized RVxF binding motif that is present in many of these regulatory proteins, thus generating a multitude of distinct PP1 holoenzymes. We showed that a subset of the RVxF binding motifs, in which x is a phosphorylatable amino acid (RV[S/T]F), was phosphorylated specifically during mitosis and that this phosphorylation event abrogated the interaction of PP1 with the regulatory protein. We determined that this phosphorylation was primarily governed by the mitotic protein kinase Aurora B and that high phosphorylation site stoichiometry of these sites maintained the phosphorylation of PP1 substrates during mitosis by disrupting the assembly of PP1 holoenzymes. We generated an antibody that recognizes the phosphorylated form of the RV[S/T]F motif (RVp[S/T]F) and used it to identify known PP1 regulatory proteins (KNL1, CDCA2, and RIF1) and multiple proteins that could potentially act as PP1 binding partners (UBR5, ASPM, SEH1, and ELYS) governed by this mechanism. Together, these data suggest a general regulatory mechanism by which the coordinated activities of Aurora B and PP1 control mitotic progression.
PXD009730	29766714	Outer Membrane Vesicle Proteome of Porphyromonas gingivalis Is Differentially Modulated Relative to the Outer Membrane in Response to Heme Availability. 	Porphyromonas gingivalis Outer Membrane Vesicle and cell Proteome in heme excess and heme limited	MaxQuant, Outer Membrane Vesicles, Porphyromonas gingivalis, heme	Porphyromonas gingivalis is an anaerobic, Gram-negative oral pathogen associated with chronic periodontitis. P. gingivalis has an obligate requirement for heme, which it obtains from the host. Heme availability has been linked to disease initiation and progression. In this study we used continuous culture of the bacterium to determine the effect of heme limitation and excess on the P. gingivalis proteome. Four biological replicates of whole cell lysate (WCL) and outer membrane vesicle (OMV) samples were digested with trypsin and analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry and MaxQuant label-free quantification. In total, 1211 proteins were quantified, with 108 and 49 proteins significantly changing in abundance more than 1.5-fold ( p < 0.05) in the WCLs and OMVs, respectively. The proteins most upregulated in response to heme limitation were those involved in binding and transporting heme, whereas the four proteins most upregulated under the heme-excess condition constitute a putative heme efflux system. In general, the protein abundance ratios obtained for OMVs and WCLs agreed, indicating that changes to the OM protein composition are passed onto OMVs; however, 16 proteins were preferentially packaged into OMVs under one condition more than the other. In particular, moonlighting cytoplasmic proteins were preferentially associated with OMVs under heme excess.
PXD008099	29768217	Integrative Characterization of the R6/2 Mouse Model of Huntington's Disease Reveals Dysfunctional Astrocyte Metabolism. 	Integrative Characterization of the R6/2 Mouse Brain Model of Huntington Disease Reveals Dysfunctional Neurotransmitter Metabolism	GS-MS, Glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons, High resolution LC-MS, Huntington disease, glutamine and glutamate metabolism	Huntington's disease is a fatal neurodegenerative disease, where dysfunction and loss of striatal and cortical neurons are central to the pathogenesis of the disease. Here, we integrated quantitative studies to investigate the underlying mechanisms behind HD pathology in a systems-wide manner. To this end, we used state-of-the-art mass spectrometry to establish a spatial brain proteome from late-stage R6/2 mice and compared this with wild-type littermates. We observed altered expression of proteins in pathways related to energy metabolism, synapse function, and neurotransmitter homeostasis. To support these findings, metabolic (13)C labeling studies confirmed a compromised astrocytic metabolism and regulation of glutamate-GABA-glutamine cycling, resulting in impaired release of glutamine and GABA synthesis. In recent years, increasing attention has been focused on the role of astrocytes in HD, and our data support that therapeutic strategies to improve astrocytic glutamine homeostasis may help ameliorate symptoms in HD.
PXD008728	29769314	Ablation of Sirtuin5 in the postnatal mouse heart results in protein succinylation and normal survival in response to chronic pressure overload. 	Ablation of Sirtuin5 in the postnatal mouse heart results in persistent accumulation of protein succinylation and normal survival in response to chronic pressure overload	Sirt5, heart function, protein succinylation	Mitochondrial Sirtuin 5 (SIRT5) is an NAD(+)-dependent demalonylase, desuccinylase, and deglutarylase that controls several metabolic pathways. A number of recent studies point to SIRT5 desuccinylase activity being important in maintaining cardiac function and metabolism under stress. Previously, we described a phenotype of increased mortality in whole-body SIRT5KO mice exposed to chronic pressure overload compared with their littermate WT controls. To determine whether the survival phenotype we reported was due to a cardiac-intrinsic or cardiac-extrinsic effect of SIRT5, we developed a tamoxifen-inducible, heart-specific SIRT5 knockout (SIRT5KO) mouse model. Using our new animal model, we discovered that postnatal cardiac ablation of Sirt5 resulted in persistent accumulation of protein succinylation up to 30 weeks after SIRT5 depletion. Succinyl proteomics revealed that succinylation increased on proteins of oxidative metabolism between 15 and 31 weeks after ablation. Heart-specific SIRT5KO mice were exposed to chronic pressure overload to induce cardiac hypertrophy. We found that, in contrast to whole-body SIRT5KO mice, there was no difference in survival between heart-specific SIRT5KO mice and their littermate controls. Overall, the data presented here suggest that survival of SIRT5KO mice may be dictated by a multitissue or prenatal effect of SIRT5.
PXD007679	29769354	Allele-specific Alterations in the Peptidome Underlie the Joint Association of HLA-A*29:02 and Endoplasmic Reticulum Aminopeptidase 2 (ERAP2) with Birdshot Chorioretinopathy. 	Allele-specific alterations in the peptidome underlie the joint association of HLA-A*29:02 and Endoplasmic Reticulum Aminopeptidase 2 (ERAP2) with Birdshot Chorioretinopathy	Birdshot Chorioretinopathy, Endoplasmic Reticulum Aminopeptidase 2 (ERAP2), HLA-A*29:02	Virtually all patients of the rare inflammatory eye disease birdshot chorioretinopathy (BSCR) carry the HLA-A*29:02 allele. BSCR is also associated with endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2 (ERAP2), an enzyme involved in processing HLA class I ligands, thus implicating the A*29:02 peptidome in this disease. To investigate the relationship between both risk factors we employed label-free quantitative mass spectrometry to characterize the effects of ERAP2 on the A*29:02-bound peptidome. An ERAP2-negative cell line was transduced with lentiviral constructs containing GFP-ERAP2 or GFP alone, and the A*29:02 peptidomes from both transduced cells were compared. A similar analysis was performed with two additional A*29:02-positive, ERAP1-concordant, cell lines expressing or not ERAP2. In both comparisons the presence of ERAP2 affected the following features of the A*29:02 peptidome: 1) Length, with increased amounts of peptides >9-mers, and 2) N-terminal residues, with less ERAP2-susceptible and more hydrophobic ones. The paradoxical effects on peptide length suggest that unproductive binding to ERAP2 might protect some peptides from ERAP1 over-trimming. The influence on N-terminal residues can be explained by a direct effect of ERAP2 on trimming, without ruling out and improved processing in concert with ERAP1. The alterations in the A*29:02 peptidome suggest that the association of ERAP2 with BSCR is through its effects on peptide processing. These differ from those on the ankylosing spondylitis-associated HLA-B*27. Thus, ERAP2 alters the peptidome of distinct HLA molecules as a function of their specific binding preferences, influencing different pathological outcomes in an allele-dependent way.
PXD009210	29769740	Identification of a S. aureus virulence factor by activity-based protein profiling (ABPP). 	Identification of a S. aureus virulence factor by activity-based protein profiling (ABPP)	ABPP, S. aureus, serine hydrolase	Serine hydrolases play diverse roles in regulating host-pathogen interactions in a number of organisms, yet few have been characterized in the human pathogen Staphylococcus aureus. Here we describe a chemical proteomic screen that identified ten previously uncharacterized S. aureus serine hydrolases that mostly lack human homologs. We termed these enzymes fluorophosphonate-binding hydrolases (FphA-J). One hydrolase, FphB, can process short fatty acid esters, exhibits increased activity in response to host cell factors, is located predominantly on the bacterial cell surface in a subset of cells, and is concentrated in the division septum. Genetic disruption of fphB confirmed that the enzyme is dispensable for bacterial growth in culture but crucial for establishing infection in distinct sites in vivo. A selective small molecule inhibitor of FphB effectively reduced infectivity in vivo, suggesting that it may be a viable therapeutic target for the treatment or management of Staphylococcus infections.
PXD006115	29770421	Quantitative proteomics and systems analysis of cultured H9C2 cardiomyoblasts during differentiation over time supports a 'function follows form' model of differentiation. 	Proteomics identification of regulated proteins during cardyomyocyte differentiation	H9C2 cells, Rattus norvegicus, cardiac development, labelfree shotgun proteomics	The rat cardiomyoblast cell line H9C2 has emerged as a valuable tool for studying cardiac development, mechanisms of disease and toxicology. We present here a rigorous proteomic analysis that monitored the changes in protein expression during differentiation of H9C2 cells into cardiomyocyte-like cells over time. Quantitative mass spectrometry followed by gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis revealed that early changes in H9C2 differentiation are related to protein pathways of cardiac muscle morphogenesis and sphingolipid synthesis. These changes in the proteome were followed later in the differentiation time-course by alterations in the expression of proteins involved in cation transport and beta-oxidation. Studying the temporal profile of the H9C2 proteome during differentiation in further detail revealed eight clusters of co-regulated proteins that can be associated with early, late, continuous and transient up- and downregulation. Subsequent reactome pathway analysis based on these eight clusters further corroborated and detailed the results of the GO analysis. Specifically, this analysis confirmed that proteins related to pathways in muscle contraction are upregulated early and transiently, and proteins relevant to extracellular matrix organization are downregulated early. In contrast, upregulation of proteins related to cardiac metabolism occurs at later time points. Finally, independent validation of the proteomics results by immunoblotting confirmed hereto unknown regulators of cardiac structure and ionic metabolism. Our results are consistent with a 'function follows form' model of differentiation, whereby early and transient alterations of structural proteins enable subsequent changes that are relevant to the characteristic physiology of cardiomyocytes.
PXD008662	29770699	Lysine Succinylation and Acetylation in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	Lysine succinylation and acetylation in Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, bacteria, lysine acetylation, lysine succinylation	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a multi-drug-resistant human opportunistic pathogen largely involved in nosocomial infections. Unfortunately, effective antibacterial agents are lacking. Exploring its physiology at the post-translational modifications (PTMs) level may contribute to the renewal of combat tactics. Recently, lysine succinylation was discovered in bacteria and seems to be an interesting PTM. We present the first succinylome and acetylome of P. aeruginosa PA14 cultured in the presence of four different carbon sources using a 2D immunoaffinity approach coupled to nanoliquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. A total of 1520 succinylated (612 proteins) and 1102 acetylated (522 proteins) lysine residues were characterized. Citrate was the carbon source in which we identified the higher number of modified proteins. Interestingly, 622 lysine residues (312 proteins) were observed either acetylated or succinylated. Some of these proteins, were involved in virulence, adaptation, resistance, and so on. A label-free quantification points out the existence of different protein forms for a same protein (unmodified, succinylated or acetylated) and suggests different abundance as a function of the carbon sources. This work is a promising starting point for further investigations on the biological role of lysine succinylation in P. aeruginosa.
PXD008855	29773674	Deep Sequencing of Complex Proteoglycans: A Novel Strategy for High Coverage and Site-specific Identification of Glycosaminoglycan-linked Peptides. 	Proteoglycan sequencing -  Deep sequencing of complex proteoglycans: a novel strategy for high coverage and site-specific identification of glycosaminoglycan-linked peptides	LC-MS, aggrecan, brevican, decorin, neurocan	Proteoglycans are distributed in all animal tissues and play critical, multifaceted, physiological roles. Expressed in a spatially and temporally regulated manner, these molecules regulate interactions among growth factors and cell surface receptors and play key roles in basement membranes and other extracellular matrices. Because of the high degree of glycosylation by glycosaminoglycan (GAG), N-glycan and mucin-type O-glycan classes, the peptide sequence coverage of complex proteoglycans is revealed poorly by standard mass spectrometry-based proteomics methods. As a result, there is little information concerning how proteoglycan site specific glycosylation changes during normal and pathological processes. Here, we developed a workflow to improve sequence coverage and identification of glycosylated peptides in proteoglycans. We applied this workflow to the small leucine-rich proteoglycan decorin and three hyalectan proteoglycans: neurocan, brevican, and aggrecan.We characterized glycosylation of these proteoglycans using LC-MS methods easily implemented on instruments widely used in proteomics laboratories. For decorin, we assigned the linker-glycosite and three N-glycosylation sites. For neurocan and brevican, we identified densely glycosylated mucin-like regions in the extended domains. For aggrecan, we identified 50 linker-glycosites and mucin-type O-glycosites in the extended region and N-glycosites in the globular domains, many of which are novel and have not been observed previously. Most importantly, we demonstrate an LC-MS and bioinformatics approach that will enable routine analysis of proteoglycan glycosylation from biological samples to assess their role in pathophysiology.
PXD008775	29774024	Quantification of HLA-DM-Dependent Major Histocompatibility Complex of Class II Immunopeptidomes by the Peptide Landscape Antigenic Epitope Alignment Utility. 	HLA-DM-mediated HLA-DR3 Immunopeptidome	HLA-DM, HLA-DR, Immunopeptidome	The major histocompatibility complex of class II (MHCII) immunopeptidome represents the repertoire of antigenic peptides with the potential to activate CD4(+) T cells. An understanding of how the relative abundance of specific antigenic epitopes affects the outcome of T cell responses is an important aspect of adaptive immunity and offers a venue to more rationally tailor T cell activation in the context of disease. Recent advances in mass spectrometric instrumentation, computational power, labeling strategies, and software analysis have enabled an increasing number of stratified studies on HLA ligandomes, in the context of both basic and translational research. A key challenge in the case of MHCII immunopeptidomes, often determined for different samples at distinct conditions, is to derive quantitative information on consensus epitopes from antigenic peptides of variable lengths. Here, we present the design and benchmarking of a new algorithm [peptide landscape antigenic epitope alignment utility (PLAtEAU)] allowing the identification and label-free quantification (LFQ) of shared consensus epitopes arising from series of nested peptides. The algorithm simplifies the complexity of the dataset while allowing the identification of nested peptides within relatively short segments of protein sequences. Moreover, we apply this algorithm to the comparison of the ligandomes of cell lines with two different expression levels of the peptide-exchange catalyst HLA-DM. Direct comparison of LFQ intensities determined at the peptide level is inconclusive, as most of the peptides are not significantly enriched due to poor sampling. Applying the PLAtEAU algorithm for grouping of the peptides into consensus epitopes shows that more than half of the total number of epitopes is preferentially and significantly enriched for each condition. This simplification and deconvolution of the complex and ambiguous peptide-level dataset highlights the value of the PLAtEAU algorithm in facilitating robust and accessible quantitative analysis of immunopeptidomes across cellular contexts. In silico analysis of the peptides enriched for each HLA-DM expression conditions suggests a higher affinity of the pool of peptides isolated from the high DM expression samples. Interestingly, our analysis reveals that while for certain autoimmune-relevant epitopes their presentation increases upon DM expression others are clearly edited out from the peptidome.
PXD009303	29774096	GSTM3 and GSTP1: novel players driving tumor progression in cervical cancer. 	Urinary proteome in diabetic nephropathy	diabetes, quantitative proteomics, urinary proteome	The molecular processes and proteomic markers leading to tumor progression (TP) in cervical cancer (CC) are either unknown or only partially understood. TP affects metabolic and regulatory mechanisms that can be identified as proteomic changes. To identify which proteins are differentially expressed and to understand the mechanisms of cancer progression, we analyzed the dynamics of the tumor proteome in CC cell lines. This analysis revealed two proteins that are up-regulated during TP, GSTM3 and GSTP1. These proteins are involved in cell maintenance, cell survival and the cellular stress response via the NF-kappaB and MAP kinase pathways during TP. Furthermore, GSTM3 and GSTP1 knockdown showed that evasion of apoptosis was affected, and tumor proliferation was significantly reduced. Our data indicate the critical role of GST proteins in the regulation and progression of cervical cancer cells. Hence, we suggest GSTM3 and GSTP1 as novel biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for treating cervical cancer. SIGNIFICANCE: CC is particularly hazardous in the advanced stages, and there are few therapeutic strategies specifically targeting these stages. We performed analyses on CC tumor proteome dynamics and identified GSTM3 and GSTP1 as novel potential therapeutic targets. Knockdown of these proteins showed that they are involved in cell survival, cell proliferation and cellular evasion of apoptosis.
PXD009439	29774127	PAF1 complex interactions with SETDB1 mediate promoter H3K9 methylation and transcriptional repression of Hoxa9 and Meis1 in acute myeloid leukemia. 	Mouse CDC73 AP-MS in AML	AP-MS, CDC73, mutation study	The Polymerase Associated Factor 1 complex (PAF1c) is an epigenetic co-modifying complex that directly contacts RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) and several epigenetic regulating proteins. Mutations, overexpression and loss of expression of subunits of the PAF1c are observed in various forms of cancer suggesting proper regulation is needed for cellular development. However, the biochemical interactions with the PAF1c that allow dynamic gene regulation are unclear. We and others have shown that the PAF1c makes a direct interaction with MLL fusion proteins, which are potent oncogenic drivers of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). This interaction is critical for the maintenance of MLL translocation driven AML by targeting MLL fusion proteins to the target genes Meis1 and Hoxa9. Here, we use a proteomics approach to identify protein-protein interactions with the PAF1c subunit CDC73 that regulate the function of the PAF1c. We identified a novel interaction with a histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9) methyltransferase protein, SETDB1. This interaction is stabilized with a mutant CDC73 that is incapable of supporting AML cell growth. Importantly, transcription of Meis1 and Hoxa9 is reduced and promoter H3K9 trimethylation (H3K9me3) increased by overexpression of SETDB1 or stabilization of the PAF1c-SETDB1 interaction in AML cells. These findings were corroborated in human AML patients where increased SETDB1 expression was associated with reduced HOXA9 and MEIS1. To our knowledge, this is the first proteomics approach to search for CDC73 protein-protein interactions in AML, and demonstrates that the PAF1c may play a role in H3K9me3-mediated transcriptional repression in AML.
PXD009503	29777099	Targeting G protein-coupled receptor signaling at the G protein level with a selective nanobody inhibitor. 	Targeting G protein-coupled receptor signaling at the G protein level with a selective nanobody inhibitor	LC-MS	G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) activate heterotrimeric G proteins by mediating a GDP to GTP exchange in the Galpha subunit. This leads to dissociation of the heterotrimer into Galpha-GTP and Gbetagamma dimer. The Galpha-GTP and Gbetagamma dimer each regulate a variety of downstream pathways to control various aspects of human physiology. Dysregulated Gbetagamma-signaling is a central element of various neurological and cancer-related anomalies. However, Gbetagamma also serves as a negative regulator of Galpha that is essential for G protein inactivation, and thus has the potential for numerous side effects when targeted therapeutically. Here we report a llama-derived nanobody (Nb5) that binds tightly to the Gbetagamma dimer. Nb5 responds to all combinations of beta-subtypes and gamma-subtypes and competes with other Gbetagamma-regulatory proteins for a common binding site on the Gbetagamma dimer. Despite its inhibitory effect on Gbetagamma-mediated signaling, Nb5 has no effect on Galphaq-mediated and Galphas-mediated signaling events in living cells.
PXD009450	29777136	Functional Proteomic Profiling of Secreted Serine Proteases in Health and Inflammatory Bowel Disease. 	Functional Proteomic Profiling of Secreted Serine Proteases in Health and Inflammatory Bowel Disease	activity-based probe, functional proteomics, inflammation, inflammatory bowel disease, serine protease	While proteases are essential in gastrointestinal physiology, accumulating evidence indicates that dysregulated proteolysis plays a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Nonetheless, the identity of overactive proteases released by human colonic mucosa remains largely unknown. Studies of protease abundance have primarily investigated expression profiles, not taking into account their enzymatic activity. Herein we have used serine protease-targeted activity-based probes (ABPs) coupled with mass spectral analysis to identify active forms of proteases secreted by the colonic mucosa of healthy controls and IBD patients. Profiling of (Pro-Lys)-ABP bound proteases revealed that most of hyperactive proteases from IBD secretome are clustered at 28-kDa. We identified seven active proteases: the serine proteases cathepsin G, plasma kallikrein, plasmin, tryptase, chymotrypsin-like elastase 3 A, and thrombin and the aminopeptidase B. Only cathepsin G and thrombin were overactive in supernatants from IBD patient tissues compared to healthy controls. Gene expression analysis highlighted the transcription of genes encoding these proteases into intestinal mucosae. The functional ABP-targeted proteomic approach that we have used to identify active proteases in human colonic samples bears directly on the understanding of the role these enzymes may play in the pathophysiology of IBD.
PXD009338	29777171	MLL-fusion-driven leukemia requires SETD2 to safeguard genomic integrity. 	Protein Interactions of 7 MLL-fusion Proteins	MLL-fusion, leukemia	MLL-fusions represent a large group of leukemia drivers, whose diversity originates from the vast molecular heterogeneity of C-terminal fusion partners of MLL. While studies of selected MLL-fusions have revealed critical molecular pathways, unifying mechanisms across all MLL-fusions remain poorly understood. We present the first comprehensive survey of protein-protein interactions of seven distantly related MLL-fusion proteins. Functional investigation of 128 conserved MLL-fusion-interactors identifies a specific role for the lysine methyltransferase SETD2 in MLL-leukemia. SETD2 loss causes growth arrest and differentiation of AML cells, and leads to increased DNA damage. In addition to its role in H3K36 tri-methylation, SETD2 is required to maintain high H3K79 di-methylation and MLL-AF9-binding to critical target genes, such as Hoxa9. SETD2 loss synergizes with pharmacologic inhibition of the H3K79 methyltransferase DOT1L to induce DNA damage, growth arrest, differentiation, and apoptosis. These results uncover a dependency for SETD2 during MLL-leukemogenesis, revealing a novel actionable vulnerability in this disease.
PXD009122	29779826	The BCKDH Kinase and Phosphatase Integrate BCAA and Lipid Metabolism via Regulation of ATP-Citrate Lyase. 	The BCKDH kinase and phosphatase integrate BCAA and lipid metabolism via regulation of ATP-citrate lyase	ACL, BCAA, BDK, PPM1K, Protein Phosphorylation	Branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) are strongly associated with dysregulated glucose and lipid metabolism, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. We report that inhibition of the kinase (BDK) or overexpression of the phosphatase (PPM1K) that regulates branched-chain ketoacid dehydrogenase (BCKDH), the committed step of BCAA catabolism, lowers circulating BCAA, reduces hepatic steatosis, and improves glucose tolerance in the absence of weight loss in Zucker fatty rats. Phosphoproteomics analysis identified ATP-citrate lyase (ACL) as an alternate substrate of BDK and PPM1K. Hepatic overexpression of BDK increased ACL phosphorylation and activated de novo lipogenesis. BDK and PPM1K transcript levels were increased and repressed, respectively, in response to fructose feeding or expression of the ChREBP-beta transcription factor. These studies identify BDK and PPM1K as a ChREBP-regulated node that integrates BCAA and lipid metabolism. Moreover, manipulation of the BDK:PPM1K ratio relieves key metabolic disease phenotypes in a genetic model of severe obesity.
PXD009738	29786170	Immunopeptidomic Profiling of HLA-A2-Positive Triple Negative Breast Cancer Identifies Potential Immunotherapy Target Antigens. 	Immunopeptidomic profiling of HLA-A2-positive triple negative breast cancer	Breast Cancer, HLA-A2, Immunopeptidomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), TNBC	The recent development in immune checkpoint inhibitors and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells in the treatment of cancer has not only demonstrated the potency of utilizing T-cell reactivity for cancer therapy, but has also highlighted the need for developing new approaches to discover targets suitable for such novel therapeutics. Here we analyzed the immunopeptidomes of six HLA-A2-positive triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) samples by nano-ultra performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (nUPLC-MS(2) ). Immunopeptidomic profiling identified a total of 19 675 peptides from tumor and adjacent normal tissue and 130 of the peptides were found to have higher abundance in tumor than in normal tissues. To determine potential therapeutic target proteins, we calculated the average tumor-associated cohort coverage (aTaCC) that represents the percentage coverage of each protein in this cohort by peptides that had higher tumoral abundance. Cofilin-1 (CFL-1), interleukin-32 (IL-32), proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), syntenin-1 (SDCBP), and ribophorin-2 (RPN-2) were found to have the highest aTaCC scores. We propose that these antigens could be evaluated further for their potential as targets in breast cancer immunotherapy and the small cohort immunopeptidomics analysis technique could be used in a wide spectrum of target discovery. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009738.
PXD009452	29788311	Adipose tissue proteomic analyses to study puberty in Brahman heifers. 	Bovine adipose tissue LC-MS/MS	abdominal adipose tissue, bos indicus, puberty	The adipose tissue has been recognized as an active endocrine organ which can modulate numerous physiological processes such as metabolism, appetite, immunity, and reproduction. The aim of this study was to look for differentially abundant proteins and their biological functions in the abdominal adipose tissue between pre- and postpubertal Brahman heifers. Twelve Brahman heifers were divided into 2 groups and paired on slaughter day. Prepubertal heifers had never ovulated and postpubertal heifers were slaughtered on the luteal phase of their second estrous cycle. After ensuring the occurrence of puberty in postpubertal heifers, abdominal adipose tissue samples were collected. Mass spectrometry proteomic analysis identified 646 proteins and revealed that 171 proteins showed differential abundance in adipose tissue between the pre- and postpuberty groups (adjusted P-value < 0.05). Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009452. Using a list of 51 highly differentially abundant proteins as the target (adjusted P-value < 10-5), we found 14 enriched pathways. The results indicated that gluconeogenesis was enhanced when puberty approached. The metabolism of glucose, lipids, and AA in the adipose tissue mainly participated in oxidation and energy supply for heifers when puberty occurred. Our study also revealed the differentially abundant proteins were enriched for estrogen signaling and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways, which are known integrators of metabolism and reproduction. These results suggest new candidate proteins that may contribute to a better understanding of the signaling mechanisms that relate adipose tissue function to puberty. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified 4 hub proteins that had the highest degrees of connection: PGK1, ALDH5A1, EEF2, and LDHB. Highly connected proteins are likely to influence the functions of all differentially abundant proteins identified, directly or indirectly.
PXD006909	29789389	LRRK2 is a negative regulator of Mycobacterium tuberculosis phagosome maturation in macrophages. 	LRRK2 signalling pathway in Mycobacterium tuberculosis	BMDMs, LAbel-free, LC-MS, LRRK2, Raw 264.1, dimethyl labelling, phosphoproteomic	Mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are associated with Parkinson's disease, chronic inflammation and mycobacterial infections. Although there is evidence supporting the idea that LRRK2 has an immune function, the cellular function of this kinase is still largely unknown. By using genetic, pharmacological and proteomics approaches, we show that LRRK2 kinase activity negatively regulates phagosome maturation via the recruitment of the Class III phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase complex and Rubicon to the phagosome in macrophages. Moreover, inhibition of LRRK2 kinase activity in mouse and human macrophages enhanced Mycobacterium tuberculosis phagosome maturation and mycobacterial control independently of autophagy. In vivo, LRRK2 deficiency in mice resulted in a significant decrease in M. tuberculosis burdens early during the infection. Collectively, our findings provide a molecular mechanism explaining genetic evidence linking LRRK2 to mycobacterial diseases and establish an LRRK2-dependent cellular pathway that controls M. tuberculosis replication by regulating phagosome maturation.
PXD009602	29789417	Mapping the HLA Ligandome of Colorectal Cancer Reveals an Imprint of Malignant Cell Transformation. 	Mapping the HLA ligandome of Colorectal Cancer Reveals an Imprint of Malignant Cell Transformation	Colorectal adenocarcinoma, HLA, HLA-ligand, HLA-ligandomics, HLA-restricted peptide, cancer, colon, colon cancer, neoplasia, peptide	Immune cell infiltrates have proven highly relevant for colorectal carcinoma prognosis, making colorectal cancer a promising candidate for immunotherapy. Because tumors interact with the immune system via HLA-presented peptide ligands, exact knowledge of the peptidome constitution is fundamental for understanding this relationship. Here, we comprehensively describe the naturally presented HLA ligandome of colorectal carcinoma and corresponding nonmalignant colon (NMC) tissue. Mass spectrometry identified 35,367 and 28,132 HLA class I ligands on colorectal carcinoma and NMC, attributable to 7,684 and 6,312 distinct source proteins, respectively. Cancer-exclusive peptides were assessed on source protein level using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and protein analysis through evolutionary relationships (PANTHER), revealing pathognomonic colorectal carcinoma-associated pathways, including Wnt, TGFbeta, PI3K, p53, and RTK-RAS. Relative quantitation of peptide presentation on paired colorectal carcinoma and NMC tissue further identified source proteins from cancer- and infection-associated pathways to be overrepresented merely within the colorectal carcinoma ligandome. From the pool of tumor-exclusive peptides, a selected HLA-ligand subset was assessed for immunogenicity, with the majority exhibiting an existing T-cell repertoire. Overall, these data show that the HLA ligandome reflects cancer-associated pathways implicated in colorectal carcinoma oncogenesis, suggesting that alterations in tumor cell metabolism could result in cancer-specific, albeit not mutation-derived, tumor antigens. Hence, a defined pool of unique tumor peptides, attributable to complex cellular alterations that are exclusive to malignant cells, might comprise promising candidates for immunotherapeutic applications.Significance: Cancer-associated pathways are reflected in the antigenic landscape of colorectal cancer, suggesting that tumor-specific antigens do not necessarily have to be mutation-derived but may also originate from other alterations in cancer cells. Cancer Res; 78(16); 4627-41. (c)2018 AACR.
PXD004166	29790754	EpiProfile 2.0: A Computational Platform for Processing Epi-Proteomics Mass Spectrometry Data. 	EpiProfile 2.0: a proteomics tool to quantify histone modifications by mass spectrometry	histone, post-translational modification, quantification	Epigenetics has become a fundamental scientific discipline with various implications for biology and medicine. Epigenetic marks, mostly DNA methylation and histone post-translational modifications (PTMs), play important roles in chromatin structure and function. Accurate quantification of these marks is an ongoing challenge due to the variety of modifications and their wide dynamic range of abundance. Here we present EpiProfile 2.0, an extended version of our 2015 software (v1.0), for accurate quantification of histone peptides based on liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. EpiProfile 2.0 is now optimized for data-independent acquisition through the use of precursor and fragment extracted ion chromatography to accurately determine the chromatographic profile and to discriminate isobaric forms of peptides. The software uses an intelligent retention time prediction trained on the analyzed samples to enable accurate peak detection. EpiProfile 2.0 supports label-free and isotopic labeling, different organisms, known sequence mutations in diseases, different derivatization strategies, and unusual PTMs (such as acyl-derived modifications). In summary, EpiProfile 2.0 is a universal and accurate platform for the quantification of histone marks via LC-MS/MS. Being the first software of its kind, we anticipate that EpiProfile 2.0 will play a fundamental role in epigenetic studies relevant to biology and translational medicine. EpiProfile is freely available at https://github.com/zfyuan/EpiProfile2.0_Family .
PXD009466	29791854	Nup133 Is Required for Proper Nuclear Pore Basket Assembly and Dynamics in Embryonic Stem Cells. 	Nup133 is required for proper nuclear pore basket assembly and dynamics in embryonic stem cells	Mus musculus, Pulldown, embryonic stem cells, nucleoporins	Nup133 belongs to the Y-complex, a key component of the nuclear pore complex (NPC) scaffold. Studies on a null mutation in mice previously revealed that Nup133 is essential for embryonic development but not for mouse embryonic stem cell (mESC) proliferation. Using single-pore detection and average NE-fluorescence intensity, we find that Nup133 is dispensable for interphase and postmitotic NPC scaffold assembly in pluripotent mESCs. However, loss of Nup133 specifically perturbs the formation of the nuclear basket as manifested by the absence of Tpr in about half of the NPCs combined with altered dynamics of Nup153. We further demonstrate that its central domain mediates Nup133's role in assembling Tpr and Nup153 into a properly configured nuclear basket. Our findings thus revisit the role of the Y-complex in pore biogenesis and provide insights into the interplay between NPC scaffold architecture, nuclear basket assembly, and the generation of heterogeneity among NPCs.
PXD007743	29794131	Multi-omic molecular profiling of lung cancer in COPD. 	Two cancer-promoting stromal gene expression programs depend on lung function	COPD, Emphysema, Lung Cancer, Lung Tissue, Transcriptomics, Translatomics	Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a known risk factor for developing lung cancer but the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. We hypothesise that the COPD stroma contains molecular mechanisms supporting tumourigenesis.We conducted an unbiased multi-omic analysis to identify gene expression patterns that distinguish COPD stroma in patients with or without lung cancer. We obtained lung tissue from patients with COPD and lung cancer (tumour and adjacent non-malignant tissue) and those with COPD without lung cancer for profiling of proteomic and mRNA (both cytoplasmic and polyribosomal). We used the Joint and Individual Variation Explained (JIVE) method to integrate and analyse across the three datasets.JIVE identified eight latent patterns that robustly distinguished and separated the three groups of tissue samples (tumour, adjacent and control). Predictive variables that associated with the tumour, compared to adjacent stroma, were mainly represented in the transcriptomic data, whereas predictive variables associated with adjacent tissue, compared to controls, were represented at the translatomic level. Pathway analysis revealed extracellular matrix and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase-protein kinase B signalling pathways as important signals in the tumour adjacent stroma.The multi-omic approach distinguishes tumour adjacent stroma in lung cancer and reveals two stromal expression patterns associated with cancer.
PXD009390	29795195	Combining laser capture microdissection and proteomics reveals an active translation machinery controlling invadosome formation. 	Combining laser capture micro-dissection and proteomics reveals an active translation machinery controlling invadosome formation	invadosome, laser micro-dissection, translation	Invadosomes are F-actin-based structures involved in extracellular matrix degradation, cell invasion, and metastasis formation. Analyzing their proteome is crucial to decipher their molecular composition, to understand their mechanisms, and to find specific elements to target them. However, the specific analysis of invadosomes is challenging, because it is difficult to maintain their integrity during isolation. In addition, classical purification methods often suffer from contaminations, which may impair data validation. To ensure the specific identification of invadosome components, we here develop a method that combines laser microdissection and mass spectrometry, enabling the analysis of subcellular structures in their native state based on low amounts of input material. Using this combinatorial method, we show that invadosomes contain specific components of the translational machinery, in addition to known marker proteins. Moreover, functional validation reveals that protein translation activity is an inherent property of invadosomes, which is required to maintain invadosome structure and activity.
PXD006226	29795351	Activity-dependent neuroprotective protein recruits HP1 and CHD4 to control lineage-specifying genes. 	The HP1 protein interactome of mouse embryonic stem cells	Adnp, Cbx1, Cbx3, Cbx5, Chd4, FLAG-Avi-tag, HP1, Hp1beta, Hp1, LC-Orbitrap Fusion, MaxQuant., mouse ES-cells, tandem purification	De novo mutations in ADNP, which encodes activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP), have recently been found to underlie Helsmoortel-Van der Aa syndrome, a complex neurological developmental disorder that also affects several other organ functions (1) . ADNP is a putative transcription factor that is essential for embryonic development (2) . However, its precise roles in transcriptional regulation and development are not understood. Here we show that ADNP interacts with the chromatin remodeller CHD4 and the chromatin architectural protein HP1 to form a stable complex, which we refer to as ChAHP. Besides mediating complex assembly, ADNP recognizes DNA motifs that specify binding of ChAHP to euchromatin. Genetic ablation of ChAHP components in mouse embryonic stem cells results in spontaneous differentiation concomitant with premature activation of lineage-specific genes and in a failure to differentiate towards the neuronal lineage. Molecularly, ChAHP-mediated repression is fundamentally different from canonical HP1-mediated silencing: HP1 proteins, in conjunction with histone H3 lysine 9 trimethylation (H3K9me3), are thought to assemble broad heterochromatin domains that are refractory to transcription. ChAHP-mediated repression, however, acts in a locally restricted manner by establishing inaccessible chromatin around its DNA-binding sites and does not depend on H3K9me3-modified nucleosomes. Together, our results reveal that ADNP, via the recruitment of HP1 and CHD4, regulates the expression of genes that are crucial for maintaining distinct cellular states and assures accurate cell fate decisions upon external cues. Such a general role of ChAHP in governing cell fate plasticity may explain why ADNP mutations affect several organs and body functions and contribute to cancer progression(1,3,4). Notably, we found that the integrity of the ChAHP complex is disrupted by nonsense mutations identified in patients with Helsmoortel-Van der Aa syndrome, and this could be rescued by aminoglycosides that suppress translation termination (5) . Therefore, patients might benefit from therapeutic agents that are being developed to promote ribosomal read-through of premature stop codons(6,7).
PXD006290	29800472	Mutant LRRK2 mediates peripheral and central immune responses leading to neurodegeneration in vivo. 	Cross talks between mutant Leucine Rich Repeat Kinase 2 in the peripheral immune system and the CNS regulate neurodegeneration after environmental insult - part 1	LPS, LRRK2, Parkinson's disease, cytokines., inflammation, microglia	Missense mutations in the leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene result in late-onset Parkinson's disease. The incomplete penetrance of LRRK2 mutations in humans and LRRK2 murine models of Parkinson's disease suggests that the disease may result from a complex interplay of genetic predispositions and persistent exogenous insults. Since neuroinflammation is commonly associated with the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, we examine a potential role of mutant LRRK2 in regulation of the immune response and inflammatory signalling in vivo. Here, we show that mice overexpressing human pathogenic LRRK2 mutations, but not wild-type mice or mice overexpressing human wild-type LRRK2 exhibit long-term lipopolysaccharide-induced nigral neuronal loss. This neurodegeneration is accompanied by an exacerbated neuroinflammation in the brain. The increased immune response in the brain of mutant mice subsequently has an effect on neurons by inducing intraneuronal LRRK2 upregulation. However, the enhanced neuroinflammation is unlikely to be triggered by dysfunctional microglia or infiltrated T cells and/or monocytes, but by peripheral circulating inflammatory molecules. Analysis of cytokine kinetics and inflammatory pathways in the peripheral immune cells demonstrates that LRRK2 mutation alters type II interferon immune response, suggesting that this increased neuroinflammatory response may arise outside the central nervous system. Overall, this study suggests that peripheral immune signalling plays an unexpected-but important-role in the regulation of neurodegeneration in LRRK2-associated Parkinson's disease, and provides new targets for interfering with the onset and progression of the disease.
PXD008260	29802200	RNA-binding proteins with basic-acidic dipeptide (BAD) domains self-assemble and aggregate in Alzheimer's disease. 	A U1-70K Protein Interaction Network Reveals a Functional Class of RNA Binding Proteins with Mixed Charge Domains	U1-70K	The U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein 70 kDa (U1-70K) and other RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are mislocalized to cytoplasmic neurofibrillary Tau aggregates in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the co-aggregation mechanisms are incompletely understood. U1-70K harbors two disordered low-complexity domains (LC1 and LC2) that are necessary for aggregation in AD brain extracts. The LC1 domain contains highly repetitive basic (Arg/Lys) and acidic (Asp/Glu) residues, referred to as a basic-acidic dipeptide (BAD) domain. We report here that this domain shares many of the properties of the Gln/Asn-rich LC domains in RBPs that also aggregate in neurodegenerative disease. These properties included self-assembly into oligomers and localization to nuclear granules. Co-immunoprecipitations of recombinant U1-70K and deletions lacking the LC domain(s) followed by quantitative proteomic analyses were used to resolve functional classes of U1-70K-interacting proteins that depend on the BAD domain for their interaction. Within this interaction network, we identified a class of RBPs with BAD domains nearly identical to that found in U1-70K. Two members of this class, LUC7L3 and RBM25, required their respective BAD domains for reciprocal interactions with U1-70K and nuclear granule localization. Strikingly, a significant proportion of RBPs with BAD domains had elevated insolubility in the AD brain proteome. Furthermore, we show that the BAD domain of U1-70K can interact with Tau from AD brains but not from other tauopathies. These findings highlight a mechanistic role for BAD domains in stabilizing RBP interactions and in potentially mediating co-aggregation with the pathological AD-specific Tau isoforms.
PXD005252	29804834	Time-Resolved Analysis Reveals Rapid Dynamics and Broad Scope of the CBP/p300 Acetylome. 	Time-resolved analysis reveals rapid dynamics and broad scope of the CBP/p300 acetylome	CBP, acetylation, acetyltransferase, p300	The acetyltransferases CBP and p300 are multifunctional transcriptional co-activators. Here, we combined quantitative proteomics with CBP/p300-specific catalytic inhibitors, bromodomain inhibitor, and gene knockout to reveal a comprehensive map of regulated acetylation sites and their dynamic turnover rates. CBP/p300 acetylates thousands of sites, including signature histone sites and a multitude of sites on signaling effectors and enhancer-associated transcriptional regulators. Time-resolved acetylome analyses identified a subset of CBP/p300-regulated sites with very rapid (<30 min) acetylation turnover, revealing a dynamic balance between acetylation and deacetylation. Quantification of acetylation, mRNA, and protein abundance after CBP/p300 inhibition reveals a kinetically competent network of gene expression that strictly depends on CBP/p300-catalyzed rapid acetylation. Collectively, our in-depth acetylome analyses reveal systems attributes of CBP/p300 targets, and the resource dataset provides a framework for investigating CBP/p300 functions and for understanding the impact of small-molecule inhibitors targeting its catalytic and bromodomain activities.
PXD007257	29807594	Insight into cellular proteome of Lolium multiflorum/Festuca arundinacea introgression forms to decipher crucial mechanisms of cold acclimation in forage grasses. 	Insight into cellular proteome of Lolium multiflorum/Festuca arundinacea introgression forms to decipher crucial mechanisms of cold acclimation in forage grasses	2D gel, grass, leaf	Frost tolerance is the main component of winter-hardiness. To express this trait, plants sense low temperature, and respond by activating the process of cold acclimation. The molecular mechanisms of this acclimation have not been fully understood in the agronomically important group of forage grasses, including Lolium-Festuca species. Herein, the introgression forms of L. multiflorum/F. arundinacea distinct with respect to their frost tolerance, were used as models for the comprehensive, proteomic and physiological, research to recognize the crucial components of cold acclimation in forage grasses. The obtained results stressed the importance of photosynthetic performance under acclimation to low temperature. The stable level of photochemical processes after three weeks of cold acclimation in the introgression form with a higher level of frost tolerance, combined simultaneously with only slightly (but not significantly) decreased level of CO2 assimilation after that period, despite significantly lower stomatal conductance, indicated the capacity for that form to acclimate its photosynthesis to low temperature. This phenomenon was driven by the Calvin cycle efficiency, associated with revealed here accumulation profiles and activities of chloroplastic aldolase. The capacity to acclimate the photosynthetic machinery to cold could be one of the most crucial components of forage grass metabolism to improve frost tolerance.
PXD005236	29807996	A bacteriophage enzyme induces bacterial metabolic perturbation that confers a novel promiscuous function. 	A bacteriophage enzyme induces bacterial metabolic perturbation that confers a novel promiscuous function	Escherichia coli, Orbitrap Fusion, TMT, antibiotic resistance	One key concept in the evolution of new functions is the ability of enzymes to perform promiscuous side-reactions that serve as a source of novelty that may become beneficial under certain conditions. Here, we identify a mechanism where a bacteriophage-encoded enzyme introduces novelty by inducing expression of a promiscuous bacterial enzyme. By screening for bacteriophage DNA that rescued an auxotrophic Escherichia coli mutant carrying a deletion of the ilvA gene, we show that bacteriophage-encoded S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) hydrolases reduce SAM levels. Through this perturbation of bacterial metabolism, expression of the promiscuous bacterial enzyme MetB is increased, which in turn complements the absence of IlvA. These results demonstrate how foreign DNA can increase the metabolic capacity of bacteria, not only by transfer of bona fide new genes, but also by bringing cryptic bacterial functions to light via perturbations of cellular physiology.
PXD006602	29808012	Switching off IMMP2L signaling drives senescence via simultaneous metabolic alteration and blockage of cell death. 	proteome profiling -  Switching off IMMP2L signaling drives senescence via simultaneous metabolic alteration and blockage of cell death	quantification	Cellular senescence is a fundamental cell fate playing a significant role throughout the natural aging process. However, the molecular determinants distinguishing senescence from other cell-cycle arrest states such as quiescence and post-mitotic state, and the specified mechanisms underlying cell-fate decisions towards senescence versus cell death in response to cellular stress stimuli remain less understood. Employing multi-omics approaches, we revealed that switching off the specific mitochondrial processing machinery involving the peptidase IMMP2L serves as the foundation of the senescence program, which was also observed during the mammalian aging process. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that IMMP2L processes and thus activates at least two substrates, mitochondrial metabolic enzyme glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPD2) and cell death regulator apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF). For cells destined to senesce, concerted shutdown of the IMMP2L-GPD2 and IMMP2L-AIF signaling axes collaboratively drives the senescent process by reprogramming mitochondria-associated redox status, phospholipid metabolism and signaling network, and simultaneously blocking cell death under oxidative stress conditions.
PXD005821	29808031	MTF2 recruits Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 by helical-shape-selective DNA binding. 	Mtf2 is a methylation-sensitive DNA-binding recruiter of Polycomb	Embryonic Stem Cells, Mtf2, PRC2, Polycomb	ABSTACT: Polycomb-mediated repression of gene expression is essential for development, with a pivotal role played by trimethylation of histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27me3), which is deposited by Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2). The mechanism by which PRC2 is recruited to target genes has remained largely elusive, particularly in vertebrates. Here we demonstrate that MTF2, one of the three vertebrate homologs of Drosophila melanogaster Polycomblike, is a DNA-binding, methylation-sensitive PRC2 recruiter in mouse embryonic stem cells. MTF2 directly binds to DNA and is essential for recruitment of PRC2 both in vitro and in vivo. Genome-wide recruitment of the PRC2 catalytic subunit EZH2 is abrogated in Mtf2 knockout cells, resulting in greatly reduced H3K27me3 deposition. MTF2 selectively binds regions with a high density of unmethylated CpGs in a context of reduced helix twist, which distinguishes target from non-target CpG islands. These results demonstrate instructive recruitment of PRC2 to genomic targets by MTF2.
PXD009302	29812912	Proximity Labeling by a Recombinant APEX2-FGF1 Fusion Protein Reveals Interaction of FGF1 with the Proteoglycans CD44 and CSPG4. 	Proximity labeling by a recombinant APEX2-FGF1 fusion protein reveals interaction of FGF1 with the proteoglycans CD44 and CSPG4	FGF1, Proximity labeling	Fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) binds to specific FGF receptors (FGFRs) at the surface of target cells to initiate intracellular signaling. While heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) are well-described coreceptors, it is uncertain whether there are additional binding sites for FGF1 at the cell surface. To address this, we devised and tested a method to identify novel binding sites for FGF1 at the cell surface, which may also be applicable for other protein ligands. We constructed an APEX2-FGF1 fusion protein to perform proximal biotin labeling of proteins following binding of the fusion protein to the cell surface. After functional validation of the fusion protein by a signaling assay, we used this method to identify binding sites for FGF1 on cell surfaces of living cells. We confirmed the feasibility of our approach by detection of FGFR4, a well-known and specific receptor for FGF1. We subsequently screened for novel interactors using RPE1 cells and identified the proteoglycans CSPG4 (NG2) and CD44. We found that FGF1 binds CD44 through its heparin-binding moiety. Moreover, we found that FGF1 was colocalized with both CSPG4 and CD44 at the cell surface, suggesting that these receptors act as storage molecules that create a reservoir of FGF1. Importantly, our data demonstrate that recombinant ligand-APEX2 fusion proteins can be used to identify novel receptor interactions on the cell surface.
PXD009426	29812944	Quantitative Assessment of Urea In-Solution Lys-C/Trypsin Digestions Reveals Superior Performance at Room Temperature over Traditional Proteolysis at 37 degreesC. 	Sample preparation for proteomics	Lys-C/trypsin, urea	Urea-containing buffer solutions are generally used in proteomic studies to aid protein denaturation and solubilization during cell and tissue lysis. It is well-known, however, that urea can lead to carbamylation of peptides and proteins and, subsequently, incomplete digestion of proteins. By the use of cells and tissues that had been lysed with urea, different solution digestion strategies were quantitatively assessed. In comparison with traditional proteolysis at 37 degreesC, urea in-solution digestion performed at room temperature improved peptide and protein identification and quantitation and had a minimum impact on miscleavage rates. Furthermore, the signal intensities and the number of carbamylated and pyroglutamic acid-modified peptides decreased. Overall, this led to a reduction in the negative effects often observed for such modifications. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009426.
PXD009389	29812950	Shotgun Proteomics and Quantitative Pathway Analysis of the Mechanisms of Action of Dehydroeffusol, a Bioactive Phytochemical with Anticancer Activity from Juncus effusus. 	Shotgun Proteomics and Quantitative Pathway Analysis Study of the Mechanisms of Action of Dehydroeffusol, a Bioactive Phyto-chemical in Medulla Junci with Anti-cancer Activity	Shotgun proteomics, TMT-labeling, phytoestrogen, signaling pathway analysis	Dehydroeffusol (DHE) is a phenanthrene isolated from the Chinese medicinal plant Juncus effusus. Biological evaluation of DHE reveals in vitro and in vivo anticancer effects. We performed a shotgun proteomic analysis using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to investigate the changes in the protein profiles in cancer cells upon DHE treatment. DHE affected cancer-associated signaling pathways, including NF-kappaB, beta-catenin, and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Through quantitative pathway and key node analysis of the proteomics data, activating transcription factor 2 (ATF-2) and c-Jun kinase (JNK) were found to be the key components in DHE's modulated biological pathways. Based on the pathway analysis as well as chemical similarity to estradiol, DHE is proposed to be a phytoestrogen. The proteomic, bioinformatic, and chemoinformatic analyses were further verified with individual cell-based experiments. Our study demonstrates a workflow for identifying the mechanisms of action of DHE through shotgun proteomic analysis.
PXD007128	29813090	The poly-gamma-glutamate of Bacillus subtilis interacts specifically with silver nanoparticles. 	Analysis of Bacillus subtilis intracellular proteome under exposition to silver nanoparticles	Bacillus subtilis, nanoLC-MS/MS, silver nanoparticles	For many years, silver nanoparticles, as with other antibacterial nanoparticles, have been extensively used in manufactured products. However, their fate in the environment is unclear and raises questions. We studied the fate of silver nanoparticles in the presence of bacteria under growth conditions that are similar to those found naturally in the environment (that is, bacteria in a stationary phase with low nutrient concentrations). We demonstrated that the viability and the metabolism of a gram-positive bacteria, Bacillus subtilis, exposed during the stationary phase is unaffected by 1 mg/L of silver nanoparticles. These results can be partly explained by a physical interaction of the poly-gamma-glutamate (PGA) secreted by Bacillus subtilis with the silver nanoparticles. The coating of the silver nanoparticles by the secreted PGA likely results in a loss of the bioavailability of nanoparticles and, consequently, a decrease of their biocidal effect.
PXD032118	29843746	miR-519a enhances chemosensitivity and promotes autophagy in glioblastoma by targeting STAT3/Bcl2 signaling pathway. 	Mass spectrometry with DIA quantification of cerebrospinal fluid in 20 subarachnoid hemorrhage patients	biomarker, cerebrospinal fluid, subarachnoid hemorrhage	BACKGROUND: Chemoresistance to temozolomide (TMZ) is a major challenge in the treatment of glioblastoma (GBM). We previously found that miR-519a functions as a tumor suppressor in glioma by targeting the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3)-mediated autophagy oncogenic pathway. Here, we investigated the effects of miR-519a on TMZ chemosensitivity and autophagy in GBM cells. Furthermore, the underlying molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways were explored. METHODS: In the present study, two stable TMZ-resistant GBM cell lines were successfully generated by exposure of parental cells to a gradually increasing TMZ concentration. After transfecting U87-MG/TMZ and U87-MG cells with miR-519a mimic or inhibitor, a series of biochemical assays such as MTT, apoptosis, and colony formation were performed to determine the chemosensitive response to TMZ. The autophagy levels in GBM cells were detected by transmission electron microscopy, LC3B protein immunofluorescence, and Western blotting analysis. Stable knockdown and overexpression of miR-519a in GBM cells were established using lentivirus. A xenograft nude mouse model and in situ brain model were used to examine the in vivo effects of miR-519a. Tumor tissue samples were collected from 48 patients with GBM and were used to assess the relationship between miR-519a and STAT3 expression. RESULTS: TMZ treatment significantly upregulated miR-519a in U87-MG cells but not in U87-MG/TMZ cells. Moreover, the expression of miR-519a and baseline autophagy levels was lower in U87-MG/TMZ cells as compared to U87-MG cells. miR-519a dramatically enhanced TMZ-induced autophagy and apoptotic cell death in U87-MG/TMZ cells, while inhibition of miR-519a promoted TMZ resistance and reduced TMZ-induced autophagy in U87-MG cells. Furthermore, miR-519a induced autophagy through modification of STAT3 expression. The in vivo results showed that miR-519a can enhance apoptosis and sensitized GBM to TMZ treatment by promoting autophagy and targeting the STAT3/Bcl-2/Beclin-1 pathway. In human GBM tissues, we found an inverse correlation between miR-519a and STAT3 expression. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggested that miR-519a increased the sensitivity of GBM cells to TMZ therapy. The positive effects of miR-519a may be mediated through autophagy. In addition, miR-519a overexpression can induce autophagy by inhibiting STAT3/Bcl-2 pathway. Therefore, a combination of miR-519a and TMZ may represent an effective therapeutic strategy in GBM.
PXD007510	29844191	Metaproteomics method to determine carbon sources and assimilation pathways of species in microbial communities. 	Metaproteomics of the marine gutless oligochaete Olavius algarvensis and its symbionts to determine stable isotope fingerprints using Direct Protein-SIF	Metaproteomics, P-SIF, Protein-SIF, metaproteome, stable carbon isotope fingerprinting, stable isotopes, symbiont, symbiosis	Measurements of stable carbon isotope ratios (delta(13)C) are widely used in biology to address questions regarding food sources and metabolic pathways used by organisms. The analysis of these so-called stable isotope fingerprints (SIFs) for microbes involved in biogeochemical cycling and microbiota of plants and animals has led to major discoveries in environmental microbiology. Currently, obtaining SIFs for microbial communities is challenging as the available methods either only provide low taxonomic resolution, such as the use of lipid biomarkers, or are limited in throughput, such as nanoscale secondary ion MS imaging of single cells. Here we present "direct protein-SIF" and the Calis-p software package (https://sourceforge.net/projects/calis-p/), which enable high-throughput measurements of accurate delta(13)C values for individual species within a microbial community. We benchmark the method using 20 pure culture microorganisms and show that the method reproducibly provides SIF values consistent with gold-standard bulk measurements performed with an isotope ratio mass spectrometer. Using mock community samples, we demonstrate that SIF values can also be obtained for individual species within a microbial community. Finally, a case study of an obligate bacteria-animal symbiosis shows that direct protein-SIF confirms previous physiological hypotheses and can provide unexpected insights into the symbionts' metabolism. This confirms the usefulness of this approach to accurately determine delta(13)C values for different species in microbial community samples.
PXD009549	29844232	Biochemical Characterization of Isoniazid-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis: Can the Analysis of Clonal Strains Reveal Novel Targetable Pathways? 	Comprehensive biochemical characterization of Mycobacterium tuberculosis clonal strains after isoniazid resistance	Mycobacterium tuberculosis, isoniazid resistance	Tuberculosis (TB) continues to be an important public health threat worldwide, due in part to drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) strains. The United States recently reported a shortage of isoniazid (INH), which could drive higher INH resistance rates. Changes in the Mtb proteome before and after acquisition of INH resistance in a clean genetic background remain understudied and may elucidate alternate drug targets. Here, we focused on Mtb clonal strains to characterize the consequences of INH resistance on mycobacterial metabolism. Proteomic analysis was conducted by liquid-chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) of cellular and secreted fractions, followed by a normalized spectral counting (NSAF) analysis (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009549). Two different Mtb clonal pairs representing a specific genetic lineage (one clinical and one generated in the laboratory) but sharing a katG mutation associated with INH resistance, were used in our analysis. Overall, we found 26 Mtb proteins with altered abundances after acquisition of INH resistance across both Mtb genetic lineages studied. These proteins were involved in ATP synthesis, lipid metabolism, regulatory events, and virulence, detoxification, and adaptation processes. Proteomic findings were validated by Western blotting analyses whenever possible. Mycolic acid (MA) analysis through LC/MS in the clonal Mtb pairs did not reveal a common trend in the alteration of these fatty acids across both INHr strains but revealed a significant reduction in levels of the two more abundant alpha-MA features in the clinical INHr strain. Interestingly, the clinical clonal pair demonstrated more variation in the abundance of the proteins involved in the FAS II pathway. Together, the proteomic and lipidomic data highlight the identification of potential drug targets such as alternative lipid biosynthetic pathways that may be exploited to combat clinically relevant Mtb INHr strains.
PXD009499	29844425	The RPAP3-Cterminal domain identifies R2TP-like quaternary chaperones. 	SILAC APMS analysis of Pih1D3 interactome	APMS, Hela cells, LTQ-Orbitrap, SILAC	R2TP is an HSP90 co-chaperone that assembles important macro-molecular machineries. It is composed of an RPAP3-PIH1D1 heterodimer, which binds the two essential AAA+ATPases RUVBL1/RUVBL2. Here, we resolve the structure of the conserved C-terminal domain of RPAP3, and we show that it directly binds RUVBL1/RUVBL2 hexamers. The human genome encodes two other proteins bearing RPAP3-C-terminal-like domains and three containing PIH-like domains. Systematic interaction analyses show that one RPAP3-like protein, SPAG1, binds PIH1D2 and RUVBL1/2 to form an R2TP-like complex termed R2SP. This co-chaperone is enriched in testis and among 68 of the potential clients identified, some are expressed in testis and others are ubiquitous. One substrate is liprin-alpha2, which organizes large signaling complexes. Remarkably, R2SP is required for liprin-alpha2 expression and for the assembly of liprin-alpha2 complexes, indicating that R2SP functions in quaternary protein folding. Effects are stronger at 32 degreesC, suggesting that R2SP could help compensating the lower temperate of testis.
PXD008656	29844437	Extended investigation of tube-gel sample preparation: a versatile and simple choice for high throughput quantitative proteomics. 	Extended investigation of tube-gel sample preparation: a versatile and simple choice for high throughput quantitative proteomics	Tube-Gel, quantitative proteomics, sample preparation	Sample preparation for quantitative proteomics is a crucial step to ensure the repeatability and the accuracy of the results. However, there is no universal method compatible with the wide variety of protein extraction buffers currently used. We have recently demonstrated the compatibility of tube-gel with SDS-based buffers and its efficiency for label-free quantitative proteomics by comparing it to stacking gel and liquid digestion. Here, we investigated the compatibility of tube-gel with alternatives to SDS-based buffers allowing notably the extraction of proteins in various pH conditions. We also explored the use of photopolymerization to extend the number of possibilities, as it is compatible with a wide range of pH and is non-oxidative. To achieve this goal, we compared six extraction buffers in combination with two polymerization conditions to further optimize the tube-gel protocol and evaluate its versatility. Identification and quantitative results demonstrated the compatibility of tube-gel with all tested conditions by overall raising quite comparable results. In conclusion, tube-gel is a versatile and simple sample preparation method for large-scale quantitative proteomics applications. Complete datasets are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008656.
PXD008166	29844531	A qualitative proteome-wide lysine crotonylation profiling of papaya (Carica papaya L.). 	A comprehensive proteome-wide lysine crotonylation profiling of papaya (Carica papaya L.)	Amino acid metabolism, PTM, cell wall, crotonylation, fruit ripening, papaya	Lysine crotonylation of histone proteins is a recently-identified post-translational modification with multiple cellular functions. However, no information about lysine crotonylation of non-histone proteins in fruit cells is available. Using high-resolution LC-MS/MS coupled with highly sensitive immune-affinity antibody analysis, a global crotonylation proteome analysis of papaya fruit (Carica papaya L.) was performed. In total, 2,120 proteins with 5,995 lysine crotonylation sites were discovered, among which eight conserved motifs were identified. Bioinformatic analysis linked crotonylated proteins to multiple metabolic pathways, including biosynthesis of antibiotics, carbon metabolism, biosynthesis of amino acids, and glycolysis. particularly, 40 crotonylated enzymes involved in various pathways of amino acid metabolism were identified, suggesting a potential conserved function for crotonylation in the regulation of amino acid metabolism. Numerous crotonylation sites were identified in proteins involved in the hormone signaling and cell wall-related pathways. Our comprehensive crotonylation proteome indicated diverse functions for lysine crotonylation in papaya.
PXD008444	29844920	Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans H-NS promotes biofilm formation and alters protein dynamics of other species within a polymicrobial oral biofilm. 	Histone-like family of nucleoid structuring protein of A. actinomycetemcomitans promotes biofilm formation and alters protein dynamics of other species within multi-species biofilm	A. actinomycetemcomitans, HNS, label-free quantification, multi-species biofilm	Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans is a Gram-negative organism, strongly associated with aggressive forms of periodontitis. An important virulence property of A. actinomycetemcomitans is its ability to form tenacious biofilms that can attach to abiotic as well as biotic surfaces. The histone-like (H-NS) family of nucleoid-structuring proteins act as transcriptional silencers in many Gram-negative bacteria. To evaluate the role of H-NS in A. actinomycetemcomitans, hns mutant derivatives of serotype a strain D7S were generated. Characteristics of the hns mutant phenotype included shorter and fewer pili, and substantially lower monospecies biofilm formation relative to the wild type. Furthermore, the D7S hns mutant exhibited significantly reduced growth within a seven-species oral biofilm model. However, no apparent difference was observed regarding the numbers and proportions of the remaining six species regardless of being co-cultivated with D7S hns or its parental strain. Proteomics analysis of the strains grown in monocultures confirmed the role of H-NS as a repressor of gene expression in A. actinomycetemcomitans. Interestingly, proteomics analysis of the multispecies biofilms indicated that the A. actinomycetemcomitans wild type and hns mutant imposed different regulatory effects on the pattern of protein expression in the other species, i.e., mainly Streptococcus spp., Fusobacterium nucleatum, and Veillonella dispar. Gene ontology analysis revealed that a large portion of the differentially regulated proteins was related to translational activity. Taken together, our data suggest that, apart from being a negative regulator of protein expression in A. actinomycetemcomitans, H-NS promotes biofilm formation and may be an important factor for survival of this species within a multispecies biofilm.
PXD009394	29846669	Characterization of a non-human primate model for the study of testicular peritubular cells-comparison with human testicular peritubular cells. 	Characterization of a nonhuman primate model for the study of testicular peritubular cells - comparison with human testicular cells	DDA, HTPC, MKTPC, MaxQuant, marmoset monkey, peritubular testicular cells, testis	STUDY QUESTION: Are monkey testicular peritubular cells (MKTPCs) from the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) a suitable translational model for the study of human testicular peritubular cells (HTPCs)? SUMMARY ANSWER: MKTPCs can be isolated and propagated in vitro, retain characteristic markers for testicular peritubular cells and their proteome strongly (correlation coefficient of 0.78) overlaps with the proteome of HTPCs. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Smooth-muscle-like peritubular cells form the wall of seminiferous tubules, transport sperm, are immunologically active, secrete a plethora of factors and may contribute to the spermatogonial stem cell niche. Mechanistic studies are hampered by heterogeneity of human samples. STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: We established a culture method for MKTPCs and characterized these cells from six young adult animals (2-3 years). To examine whether they qualify as a translational model we also examined HTPCs from seven men and compared the proteomes of both groups. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: We used explant cultures to obtain MKTPCs, which express smooth muscle markers (calponin (CNN1), smooth muscle actin (ACTA2)), lack FSH-receptors (FSHR) and LH-receptors (LHCGR), but possess androgen receptors (AR). MKTPCs can be passaged at least up to eight times, without discernable phenotypic changes. Mass-spectrometry-based analyses of the MKTPC and HTPC proteomes were performed. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: We established a method for isolation and cultivation of MKTPCs, and provide a comprehensive analysis of their protein repertoire. The results let us conclude that MKTPCs are suitable as a non-human primate model to study peritubular cell functions. LARGE SCALE DATA: List of identified proteins in MKTPCs by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry is accessible at the ProteomeXchange (identifier PXD009394). LIMITATIONS, REASON FOR CAUTION: This is an in vitro cellular non-human primate model used to provide a window into the role of these cells in the human testis. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: Previous studies with HTPCs from patients revealed a degree of heterogeneity, possibly due to age, lifestyle and medical history of the individual human donors. We anticipate that the new translational model, derived from young healthy non-human primates, may allow us to circumvent these issues and may lead to a better understanding of the role of peritubular cells. STUDY FUNDING AND COMPETION OF INTEREST(S): This work was supported by grants from the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (MA 1080/27-1; AR 362/9-1; BE 2296/8-1). The authors declare no competing financial interests.
PXD008644	29846688	The archaeal ATPase PINA interacts with the helicase Hjm via its carboxyl terminal KH domain remodeling and processing replication fork and Holliday junction. 	The archaeal ATPase PINA interacts with the helicase Hjm via its carboxyl terminal KH domain remodeling and processing replication fork and Holliday junction	Holliday junction, Sulfolobus islandicus, The archaeal ATPase PINA, replication fork	PINA is a novel ATPase and DNA helicase highly conserved in Archaea, the third domain of life. The PINA from Sulfolobus islandicus (SisPINA) forms a hexameric ring in crystal and solution. The protein is able to promote Holliday junction (HJ) migration and physically and functionally interacts with Hjc, the HJ specific endonuclease. Here, we show that SisPINA has direct physical interaction with Hjm (Hel308a), a helicase presumably targeting replication forks. In vitro biochemical analysis revealed that Hjm, Hjc, and SisPINA are able to coordinate HJ migration and cleavage in a concerted way. Deletion of the carboxyl 13 amino acid residues impaired the interaction between SisPINA and Hjm. Crystal structure analysis showed that the carboxyl 70 amino acid residues fold into a type II KH domain which, in other proteins, functions in binding RNA or ssDNA. The KH domain not only mediates the interactions of PINA with Hjm and Hjc but also regulates the hexameric assembly of PINA. Our results collectively suggest that SisPINA, Hjm and Hjc work together to function in replication fork regression, HJ formation and HJ cleavage.
PXD008773	29846695	Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C1 may control miR-30d levels in endometrial exosomes affecting early embryo implantation. 	Heterogenous ribonucleoprotein C1 participates in the internalization of Hsa-miR-30d in endometrial exosomes	crosstalk, extracellular vesicles, implantation, miRNAs	STUDY QUESTION: Is there a specific mechanism to load the microRNA (miRNA), hsa-miR-30d, into exosomes to facilitate maternal communication with preimplantation embryos? SUMMARY ANSWER: The heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C1 (hnRNPC1) is involved in the internalization of endometrial miR-30d into exosomes to prepare for its subsequent incorporation into trophectoderm cells. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Our group previously described a novel cell-to-cell communication mechanism involving the delivery of endometrial miRNAs from the maternal endometrium to the trophectoderm cells of preimplantation embryos. Specifically, human endometrial miR-30d is taken up by murine blastocysts causing the overexpression of certain genes involved in embryonic adhesion (Itb3, Itga7 and Cdh5) increasing embryo adhesion rates. STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: Transfer of maternal miR-30d to preimplantation embryos was confirmed by co-culture of wild-type (WT) and miR-30d knockout (KO) murine embryos with primary cultures of human endometrial epithelial cells (hEECs) in which mir-30d was labeled with specific Molecular Beacon (MB) or SmartFlare probes. Potential molecules responsible for the miR-30d loading into exosomes were purified by pull-down analysis with a biotinylated form of miR-30d on protein lysates from human endometrial exosomes, identified using mass spectrometry and assessed by flow cytometry, western blotting and co-localization studies. The role of hnRNPC1 in the miR-30d loading and transportation was interrogated by quantification of this miRNA in exosomes isolated from endometrial cells in which hnRNPC1 was transiently silenced using small interference RNA. Finally, the transfer of miR-30d to WT and KO embryos was assessed upon co-culture with sihnRNPC1 transfected cells. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Murine embryos from miR-30d WT and KO mice, (strain MirC26tm1Mtm/Mmjax), were obtained by oviduct flushing of superovulated females. Endometrial Exosomes were purified by ultracentrifugation of supernatants from primary cultures of hEECs or Ishikawa cells. MB and Smartflare miR-30d probes were detected by confocal and/or transmission electron microscopy (TEM). hEECs and exosomes derived from them were subjected to pull-down with a biotinylated form of miR-30d. Captured proteins were identified by mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Western blotting was performed to detect hnRNPC1 and CYR61 in whole lysates, subcellular fractions and secreted vesicles from hEECs. Co-localization studies of the selected proteins with the exosomal marker CD63 were performed. FACS analysis was carried out to determine the presence of hnRNPC1 inside exosomes. Silencing of hnRNPC1 was conducted in the Ishikawa Cell Line with the Smart Pool Accell HNRNPC siRNA at a final concentration of 50 nM. RT-qPCRs were done to determine the messenger levels of miR-30d in cells and exosomes. Co-cultures of WT and KO embryos were established with Ishikawa cells double-transfected with sihnRPNC1 and MB probes. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: MS/MS analysis allowed us to identify hnRNPC1 as a possible protein to influence miR-30d loading into exosomes. Co-localization studies of hnRNPC1 with CD63 and FACS analyses suggested the presence of hnRNPC1 inside exosomes. Silencing of hnRNPC1 in Ishikawa cells resulted in a sharp decrease of the levels of miR-30d in both epithelial-like cells (P = 0.0001) and exosomes (P = 0.0152), suggesting its potential role in miR-30d biogenesis and transfer. Co-culture assays of miR-30d KO embryos with sihnRNPC1 hEECs revealed a decrease in embryo-miR-30d acquisition during the adhesion and invasion stages. In turn, transient silencing of hnRNPC1 results in a significant decrease of blastocyst adhesion compared to mock transfection conditions using Block-it, in both WT [Mean +/- SD; 67 +/- 10.0% vs. 38 +/- 8.5%(P = 0.0006)] and miR-30d KO embryos [Mean +/- SD; 50 +/- 11.5% vs. 26 +/- 8.8% (P = 0.0029) (n = 2); 14 embryos transferred per condition tested]. LARGE-SCALE DATA: MS/MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008773. LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: The Ishikawa Cell Line was used as a model of hEECs in silencing experiments due to the low survival rates of primary hEECs after transfection. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: The data show that hnRNPC1 may be involved in the internalization of miR-30d inside exosomes. The decreased rates of embryo adhesion in endometrial epithelial-like cells transiently silenced with sihnRNPC1evidence that hnRNPC1 could be an important player in the maternal-embryo communication established in the early stages of implantation. STUDY FUNDING AND COMPETING INTEREST(S): This work was supported by the Miguel Servet Program Type I of Instituto de Salud Carlos III [CP13/00038]; FIS project [PI14/00545] to F.V.; the 'Atraccio de Talent' Program from VLC-CAMPUS [UV-INV-PREDOC14-178329 to NB]; a Torres-Quevedo grant (PTQ-13-06133) by the Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness to IM and MINECO/FEDER Grant [SAF2015-67154-R] to C.S. The authors declare there is no conflict of interest.
PXD009555	29847139	Proteomics of the Rat Myocardium during Development of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Reveals Progressive Alterations in Major Metabolic Pathways. 	Major metabolic pathway alterations in the rat myocardium during development of Type 2 diabetes mellitus, part 2	Heart, Rattus, Type 2 diabetes mellitus	Congestive heart failure and poor clinical outcome after myocardial infarction are known complications in patients with type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Protein alterations may be involved in the mechanisms underlying these disarrays in the diabetic heart. Here we map proteins involved in intracellular metabolic pathways in the Zucker diabetic fatty rat heart as T2DM develops using MS based proteomics. The prediabetic state only induced minor pathway changes, whereas onset and late T2DM caused pronounced perturbations. Two actin-associated proteins, ARPC2 and TPM3, were up-regulated at the prediabetic state indicating increased actin dynamics. All differentially regulated proteins involved in fatty acid metabolism, both peroxisomal and mitochondrial, were up-regulated at late T2DM, whereas enzymes of branched chain amino acid degradation were all down-regulated. At both onset and late T2DM, two members of the serine protease inhibitor superfamily, SERPINA3K and SERPINA3L, were down-regulated. Furthermore, we found alterations in proteins involved in clearance of advanced glycation end-products and lipotoxicity, DCXR and CBR1, at both onset and late T2DM. These proteins deserve elucidation with regard to their role in T2DM pathogenesis and their respective role in the deterioration of the diabetic heart. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD009538, PXD009554, and PXD009555.
PXD009142	29847650	Generation and Proteome Profiling of PBMC-Originated, iPSC-Derived Corneal Endothelial Cells. 	Generation and Proteome Profiling of PBMC-originated, iPSCs-derived Corneal Endothelial Cells	Mass-spectrometry, PBMC, iPSCs-derived Corneal Endothelial Cells	Purpose: Corneal endothelial cells (CECs) are critical in maintaining clarity of the cornea. This study was initiated to develop peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC)-originated, induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived CECs. Methods: We isolated PBMCs and programmed the mononuclear cells to generate iPSCs, which were differentiated to CECs through the neural crest cells (NCCs). The morphology of differentiating iPSCs was examined at regular intervals by phase contrast microscopy. In parallel, the expression of pluripotent and corneal endothelium (CE)-associated markers was investigated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The molecular architecture of the iPSC-derived CECs and human corneal endothelium (hCE) was examined by mass spectrometry-based proteome sequencing. Results: The PBMC-originated, iPSC-derived CECs were tightly adherent, exhibiting a hexagonal-like shape, one of the cardinal characteristics of CECs. The CE-associated markers expressed at significantly higher levels in iPSC-derived CECs at days 13, 20, and 30 compared with their respective levels in iPSCs. It is of importance that only residual expression levels of pluripotency markers were detected in iPSC-derived CECs. Cryopreservation of iPSC-derived CECs did not affect the tight adherence of CECs and their hexagonal-like shape while expressing high levels of CE-associated markers. Mass spectrometry-based proteome sequencing identified 10,575 proteins in the iPSC-derived CEC proteome. In parallel, we completed proteome profiling of the hCE identifying 6345 proteins. Of these, 5763 proteins were identified in the iPSC-derived CECs, suggesting that 90.82% of the hCE proteome overlaps with the iPSC-derived CEC proteome. Conclusions: We have successfully developed a personalized approach to generate CECs that closely mimic the molecular architecture of the hCE. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report describing the development of PBMC-originated, iPSC-derived CECs.
PXD008027	29848780	Chlorosis as a Developmental Program in Cyanobacteria: The Proteomic Fundament for Survival and Awakening. 	Chlorosis as developmental program in cyanobacteria: The proteomic fundament for surviving and awakening	Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 phosphoproteome dynamics during resuscitation form nitrogen-chlorosis	Cyanobacteria that do not fix atmospheric nitrogen gas survive prolonged periods of nitrogen starvation in a chlorotic, dormant state where cell growth and metabolism are arrested. Upon nutrient availability, these dormant cells return to vegetative growth within 2-3 days. This resuscitation process is highly orchestrated and relies on the stepwise reinstallation and activation of essential cellular structures and functions. We have been investigating the transition to chlorosis and the return to vegetative growth as a simple model of a cellular developmental process and a fundamental survival strategy in biology. In the present study, we used quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics to describe the proteomic landscape of a dormant cyanobacterium and its dynamics during the transition to vegetative growth. We identified intriguing alterations in the set of ribosomal proteins, in RuBisCO components, in the abundance of central regulators and predicted metabolic enzymes. We found O-phosphorylation as an abundant protein modification in the chlorotic state, specifically of metabolic enzymes and proteins involved in photosynthesis. Nondegraded phycobiliproteins were hyperphosphorylated in the chlorotic state. We provide evidence that hyperphosphorylation of the terminal rod linker CpcD increases the lifespan of phycobiliproteins during chlorosis.
PXD007837	29848781	Discovery of Novel Cell Surface Markers for Purification of Embryonic Dopamine Progenitors for Transplantation in Parkinson's Disease Animal Models. 	Enrichment, proteome analysis and transplantation of human embryonic stem cell derived dopaminergic progenitors expressing LMX1a	Parkinson Disease, hESC, pluripotent stem cells, quantitative proteomics	Despite the progress in safety and efficacy of cell replacement therapy with pluripotent stem cells (PSCs), the presence of residual undifferentiated stem cells or proliferating neural progenitor cells with rostral identity remains a major challenge. Here we report the generation of a LIM homeobox transcription factor 1 alpha (LMX1A) knock-in GFP reporter human embryonic stem cell (hESC) line that marks the early dopaminergic progenitors during neural differentiation to find reliable membrane protein markers for isolation of midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Purified GFP positive cells in vitro exhibited expression of mRNA and proteins that characterized and matched the midbrain dopaminergic identity. Further quantitative proteomics analysis of enriched LMX1A(+) cells identified several membrane-associated proteins including a polysialylated embryonic form of neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) and contactin 2 (CNTN2), enabling prospective isolation of LMX1A(+) progenitor cells. Transplantation of human-PSC-derived purified CNTN2(+) progenitors enhanced dopamine release from transplanted cells in the host brain and alleviated Parkinson's disease-related phenotypes in animal models. This study establishes an efficient approach for purification of large numbers of human-PSC-derived dopaminergic progenitors for therapeutic applications.
PXD009449	29848782	ProteomeTools: Systematic Characterization of 21 Post-translational Protein Modifications by Liquid Chromatography Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) Using Synthetic Peptides. 	Systematic characterization of 21 post-translational modification using synthetic peptides	PTM, Pro, ProteomeTools, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, acetylation, benchmarking, immonium ion, immunopeptidomics, machine learning, post-translational modification, proteometools, retention time	The analysis of the post-translational modification (PTM) state of proteins using mass spectrometry-based bottom-up proteomic workflows has evolved into a powerful tool for the study of cellular regulatory events that are not directly encoded at the genome level. Besides frequently detected modifications such as phosphorylation, acetylation and ubiquitination, many low abundant or less frequently detected PTMs are known or postulated to serve important regulatory functions. To more broadly understand the LC-MS/MS characteristics of PTMs, we synthesized and analyzed ~5,000 peptides representing 21 different naturally occurring modifications of lysine, arginine, proline and tyrosine side chains and their unmodified counterparts. The analysis identified changes in retention times, shifts of precursor charge states and differences in search engine scores between modifications. PTM-dependent changes in the fragmentation behavior were evaluated using eleven different fragmentation modes or collision energies. We also systematically investigated the formation of diagnostic ions or neutral losses for all PTMs, confirming 10 known and identifying 5 novel diagnostic ions for lysine modifications. To demonstrate the value of including diagnostic ions in database searching, we reprocessed a public data set of lysine crotonylation and showed that considering the diagnostic ions increases confidence in the identification of the modified peptides. To our knowledge, this constitutes the first broad and systematic analysis of the LC-MS/MS properties of common and rare PTMs using synthetic peptides, leading to direct applicable utility for bottom-up proteomic experiments.
PXD006875	29849151	Hippo/Mst signalling couples metabolic state and immune function of CD8alpha(+) dendritic cells. 	Whole proteome and phosphoproteome profiling of CD8+ and CD8- dendritic cells	dendritic cells, phosphoproteomics	Dendritic cells orchestrate the crosstalk between innate and adaptive immunity. CD8alpha(+) dendritic cells present antigens to CD8(+) T cells and elicit cytotoxic T cell responses to viruses, bacteria and tumours (1) . Although lineage-specific transcriptional regulators of CD8alpha(+) dendritic cell development have been identified (2) , the molecular pathways that selectively orchestrate CD8alpha(+) dendritic cell function remain elusive. Moreover, metabolic reprogramming is important for dendritic cell development and activation(3,4), but metabolic dependence and regulation of dendritic cell subsets are largely uncharacterized. Here we use a data-driven systems biology algorithm (NetBID) to identify a role of the Hippo pathway kinases Mst1 and Mst2 (Mst1/2) in selectively programming CD8alpha(+) dendritic cell function and metabolism. Our NetBID analysis reveals a marked enrichment of the activities of Hippo pathway kinases in CD8alpha(+) dendritic cells relative to CD8alpha(-) dendritic cells. Dendritic cell-specific deletion of Mst1/2-but not Lats1 and Lats2 (Lats1/2) or Yap and Taz (Yap/Taz), which mediate canonical Hippo signalling-disrupts homeostasis and function of CD8(+) T cells and anti-tumour immunity. Mst1/2-deficient CD8alpha(+) dendritic cells are impaired in presentation of extracellular proteins and cognate peptides to prime CD8(+) T cells, while CD8alpha(-) dendritic cells that lack Mst1/2 have largely normal function. Mechanistically, compared to CD8alpha(-) dendritic cells, CD8alpha(+) dendritic cells exhibit much stronger oxidative metabolism and critically depend on Mst1/2 signalling to maintain bioenergetic activities and mitochondrial dynamics for their functional capacities. Further, selective expression of IL-12 by CD8alpha(+) dendritic cells depends on Mst1/2 and the crosstalk with non-canonical NF-kappaB signalling. Our findings identify Mst1/2 as selective drivers of CD8alpha(+) dendritic cell function by integrating metabolic activity and cytokine signalling, and highlight that the interplay between immune signalling and metabolic reprogramming underlies the unique functions of dendritic cell subsets.
PXD005624	29849169	Fermentative Spirochaetes mediate necromass recycling in anoxic hydrocarbon-contaminated habitats. 	Fermentative Spirochaetes drive nutrient cycling by a subsurface microbial loop in hydrocarbon-contaminated habitats	Desulfobacterium naphthalenivorans, Rectinema cohabitans, label free quantification MS	Spirochaetes are frequently detected in anoxic hydrocarbon- and organohalide-polluted groundwater, but their role in such ecosystems has remained unclear. To address this, we studied a sulfate-reducing, naphthalene-degrading enrichment culture, mainly comprising the sulfate reducer Desulfobacterium N47 and the rod-shaped Spirochete Rectinema cohabitans HM. Genome sequencing and proteome analysis suggested that the Spirochete is an obligate fermenter that catabolizes proteins and carbohydrates, resulting in acetate, ethanol, and molecular hydrogen (H2) production. Physiological experiments inferred that hydrogen is an important link between the two bacteria in the enrichment culture, with H2 derived from fermentation by R. cohabitans used as reductant for sulfate reduction by Desulfobacterium N47. Differential proteomics and physiological experiments showed that R. cohabitans utilizes biomass (proteins and carbohydrates) released from dead cells of Desulfobacterium N47. Further comparative and community genome analyses indicated that other Rectinema phylotypes are widespread in contaminated environments and may perform a hydrogenogenic fermentative lifestyle similar to R. cohabitans. Together, these findings indicate that environmental Spirochaetes scavenge detrital biomass and in turn drive necromass recycling at anoxic hydrocarbon-contaminated sites and potentially other habitats.
PXD008544	29850960	Characterization of the caprolactam degradation pathway in Pseudomonas jessenii using mass spectrometry-based proteomics. 	Proteomic analyses of Pseudomonas jessenii GO3 cells	Pseudomonas jessenii GO3, nano LC-MS/MS	Some bacterial cultures are capable of growth on caprolactam as sole carbon and nitrogen source, but the enzymes of the catabolic pathway have not been described. We isolated a caprolactam-degrading strain of Pseudomonas jessenii from soil and identified proteins and genes putatively involved in caprolactam metabolism using quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics. This led to the discovery of a caprolactamase and an aminotransferase that are involved in the initial steps of caprolactam conversion. Additionally, various proteins were identified that likely are involved in later steps of the pathway. The caprolactamase consists of two subunits and demonstrated high sequence identity to the 5-oxoprolinases. Escherichia coli cells expressing this caprolactamase did not convert 5-oxoproline but were able to hydrolyze caprolactam to form 6-aminocaproic acid in an ATP-dependent manner. Characterization of the aminotransferase revealed that the enzyme deaminates 6-aminocaproic acid to produce 6-oxohexanoate with pyruvate as amino acceptor. The amino acid sequence of the aminotransferase showed high similarity to subgroup II omega-aminotransferases of the PLP-fold type I proteins. Finally, analyses of the genome sequence revealed the presence of a caprolactam catabolism gene cluster comprising a set of genes involved in the conversion of caprolactam to adipate.
PXD007826	29851958	Quantitative proteomic characterization and comparison of T helper 17 and induced regulatory T cells. 	Quantitative proteomic characterization and comparison of T helper 17 and iTreg cells in mouse	T cell subsets, T lymphocytes, Th17, iTreg	The transcriptional network and protein regulators that govern T helper 17 (Th17) cell differentiation have been studied extensively using advanced genomic approaches. For a better understanding of these biological processes, we have moved a step forward, from gene- to protein-level characterization of Th17 cells. Mass spectrometry-based label-free quantitative (LFQ) proteomics analysis were made of in vitro differentiated murine Th17 and induced regulatory T (iTreg) cells. More than 4,000 proteins, covering almost all subcellular compartments, were detected. Quantitative comparison of the protein expression profiles resulted in the identification of proteins specifically expressed in the Th17 and iTreg cells. Importantly, our combined analysis of proteome and gene expression data revealed protein expression changes that were not associated with changes at the transcriptional level. Our dataset provides a valuable resource, with new insights into the proteomic characteristics of Th17 and iTreg cells, which may prove useful in developing treatment of autoimmune diseases and developing tumor immunotherapy.
PXD009773	29852443	Climate shapes the protein abundance of dominant soil bacteria. 	Soil Metaproteomics LC-MS     .	Climate Change, LC-MS, Metaproteomics, Shotgun, Soil	Sensitive models of climate change impacts would require a better integration of multi-omics approaches that connect the abundance and activity of microbial populations. Here, we show that climate is a fundamental driver of the protein abundance of Actinobacteria, Planctomycetes and Proteobacteria, supporting the hypothesis that metabolic activity of some dominant phyla may be closely linked to climate. These results may improve our capacity to construct microbial models that better predict the impact of climate change in ecosystem processes.
PXD009714	29853640	PROMIS, global analysis of PROtein-metabolite interactions using size separation in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	PROMIS, global analysis of PROtein-Metabolite Interactions using Size separation in Arabidopsis thaliana	Interactions, correlation, deconvolution, protein-metabolite, size exclusion chromatografy	Small molecules not only represent cellular building blocks and metabolic intermediates, but also regulatory ligands and signaling molecules that interact with proteins. Although these interactions affect cellular metabolism, growth, and development, they have been largely understudied. Herein, we describe a method, which we named PROtein-Metabolite Interactions using Size separation (PROMIS), that allows simultaneous, global analysis of endogenous protein-small molecule and of protein-protein complexes. To this end, a cell-free native lysate from Arabidopsis thaliana cell cultures was fractionated by size-exclusion chromatography, followed by quantitative metabolomic and proteomic analyses. Proteins and small molecules showing similar elution behavior, across protein-containing fractions, constituted putative interactors. Applying PROMIS to an A. thaliana extract, we ascertained known protein-protein (PPIs) and protein-metabolite (PMIs) interactions and reproduced binding between small-molecule protease inhibitors and their respective proteases. More importantly, we present examples of two experimental strategies that exploit the PROMIS dataset to identify novel PMIs. By looking for similar elution behavior of metabolites and enzymes belonging to the same biochemical pathways, we identified putative feedback and feed-forward regulations in pantothenate biosynthesis and the methionine salvage cycle, respectively. By combining PROMIS with an orthogonal affinity purification approach, we identified an interaction between the dipeptide Tyr-Asp and the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. In summary, we present proof of concept for a powerful experimental tool that enables system-wide analysis of PMIs and PPIs across all biological systems. The dataset obtained here comprises nearly 140 metabolites and 5000 proteins, which can be mined for putative interactors.
PXD005749	29854898	Extensive mass spectrometry proteomics data of Persicaria minor herb upon methyl jasmonate treatment. 	SWATH-MS Proteomics Analysis of Persicaria minor herb upon Methyl Jasmonate elicitation	Kesum, Polygonum minus, methyl jasmonate	Proteomics is often hindered by the lack of protein sequence database particularly for non-model species such as Persicaria minor herbs. An integrative approach called proteomics informed by transcriptomics is possible [1], in which translated transcriptome sequence database is used as the protein sequence database. In this current study, the proteome profile were profiled using SWATH-MS technology complemented with documented transcriptome profiling [2], the first such report in this tropical herb. The plant was also elicited using a phytohormone, methyl jasmonate (MeJA) and protein changes were elucidated using label-free quantification of SWATH-MS to understand the role of such signal molecule in this herbal species. The mass spectrometry proteomics data was deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD005749. This data article refers to the article entitled "Proteomics (SWATH-MS)-informed by transcriptomics approach of Persicaria minor leaves upon methyl jasmonate elicitation" [3].
PXD008801	29857065	Enterococcus faecium produces membrane vesicles containing virulence factors and antimicrobial resistance related proteins. 	Proteomic profile of membrane vesicles of E. faecium	E. faecium, membrane vesicles	Enterococcus faecium is a commensal but also a bacteremia causing pathogen, which is inherently resistant to several antimicrobials and has a great ability to acquire new traits. Bacterial membrane vesicles (MVs) are increasingly recognized as a mode of cell-free communication and a way to deliver virulence factors and/or antimicrobial resistance determinants. These features make MVs interesting research targets in research on critical hospital pathogens. This study describes for the first time that E. faecium strains produce MVs. It presents a morphological as well as a proteomic analysis of MVs isolated from four different, clinically relevant E. faecium strains grown under two different conditions and identifies MV-associated proteins in all of them. Interestingly, 11 virulence factors are found among the MV-associated proteins, including biofilm-promoting proteins and extracellular matrix-binding proteins, which may aid in enterococcal colonization. Additionally, 11 antimicrobial resistance-related proteins were MV-associated. Among those, all proteins encoded by the vanA-cluster of a vancomycin resistant strain were found to be MV-associated. This implies that E. faecium MVs may be utilized by the bacterium to release proteins promoting virulence, pathogenicity and antimicrobial resistance. SIGNIFICANCE: Enterococcal infections, especially bacteremia and endocarditis, are challenging to treat because E. faecium have acquired resistance to multiple classes of antimicrobials, including ampicillin, aminoglycosides, and glycopeptides. Thus, research on different modes of enterococcal pathogenicity is warranted. This study utilized a proteomic approach to identify MV-associated proteins of different nosocomial E. faecium strains representing four clinically relevant sequence types (STs), namely ST17, ST18, ST78, and ST192. The presented data suggest that E. faecium MVs are involved in virulence and antimicrobial resistance.
PXD008465	29857350	Peptidomic analysis of endogenous plasma peptides from patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours. 	Peptidomic analysis of pancreatic neurodendocrine tumours (Glucagonoma)	Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumour, glucagonoma, plasma peptidomics	RATIONALE: Diagnosis of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours requires the study of patient plasma with multiple immunoassays, using multiple aliquots of plasma. The application of mass spectrometry based techniques could reduce the cost and amount of plasma required for diagnosis. METHODS: Plasma samples from two patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours were extracted using an established acetonitrile-based plasma peptide enrichment strategy. The circulating peptidome was characterised using nano and high flow rate liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) analyses. To assess the diagnostic potential of the analytical approach, a large sample batch (68 plasmas) from control subjects, and aliquots from subjects harbouring two different types of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumour (insulinoma and glucagonoma), were analysed using a 10-min LC/MS peptide screen. RESULTS: The untargeted plasma peptidomics approach identified peptides derived from the glucagon prohormone, chromogranin A, chromogranin B and other peptide hormones and proteins related to control of peptide secretion. The glucagon prohormone derived peptides that were detected were compared against putative peptides that were identified using multiple antibody pairs against glucagon peptides. Comparison of the plasma samples for relative levels of selected peptides showed clear separation between the glucagonoma and the insulinoma and control samples. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of the organic solvent extraction methodology with high flow rate analysis could potentially be used to aid diagnosis and monitor treatment of patients with functioning pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours. However, significant validation will be required before this approach can be clinically applied.
PXD006743	29857962	Proteome-wide changes in primary skin keratinocytes exposed to diesel particulate extract-A role for antioxidants in skin health. 	Proteome-wide changes in primary skin keratinocytes exposed to diesel particulate extract - a role for antioxidants in skin health	Skin keratinocytes, pollution, quantitative proteomics, tocopherol	BACKGROUND: Skin acts as a protective barrier against direct contact with pollutants but inhalation and systemic exposure have indirect effect on keratinocytes. Exposure to diesel exhaust has been linked to increased oxidative stress. OBJECTIVE: To investigate global proteomic alterations in diesel particulate extract (DPE)/its vapor exposed skin keratinocytes. METHODS: We employed Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)-based proteomics to study effect of DPE/DPE vapor on primary skin keratinocytes. RESULTS: We observed an increased expression of oxidative stress response protein NRF2, upon chronic exposure of primary keratinocytes to DPE/its vapor which includes volatile components such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). Mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics led to identification 4490 proteins of which 201 and 374 proteins were significantly dysregulated (>=1.5 fold, p<=0.05) in each condition, respectively. Proteins involved in cellular processes such as cornification (cornifin A), wound healing (antileukoproteinase) and differentiation (suprabasin) were significantly downregulated in primary keratinocytes exposed to DPE/DPE vapor. These results were corroborated in 3D skin models chronically exposed to DPE/DPE vapor. Bioinformatics analyses indicate that DPE and its vapor affect distinct molecular processes in skin keratinocytes. Components of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation machinery were seen to be exclusively overexpressed upon chronic DPE vapor exposure. In addition, treatment with an antioxidant like vitamin E partially restores expression of proteins altered upon exposure to DPE/DPE vapor. CONCLUSIONS: Our study highlights distinct adverse effects of chronic exposure to DPE/DPE vapor on skin keratinocytes and the potential role of vitamin E in alleviating adverse effects of environmental pollution.
PXD009747	29858227	Centrosomal ALIX regulates mitotic spindle orientation by modulating astral microtubule dynamics. 	Centrosomal ALIX regulates mitotic spindle orientation by modulating astral microtubule dynamics	ALIX, MAP1S, g-tubulin, microtubule, mitotic spindle orientation	The orientation of the mitotic spindle (MS) is tightly regulated, but the molecular mechanisms are incompletely understood. Here we report a novel role for the multifunctional adaptor protein ALG-2-interacting protein X (ALIX) in regulating MS orientation in addition to its well-established role in cytokinesis. We show that ALIX is recruited to the pericentriolar material (PCM) of the centrosomes and promotes correct orientation of the MS in asymmetrically dividing Drosophila stem cells and epithelial cells, and symmetrically dividing Drosophila and human epithelial cells. ALIX-deprived cells display defective formation of astral microtubules (MTs), which results in abnormal MS orientation. Specifically, ALIX is recruited to the PCM via Drosophila Spindle defective 2 (DSpd-2)/Cep192, where ALIX promotes accumulation of gamma-tubulin and thus facilitates efficient nucleation of astral MTs. In addition, ALIX promotes MT stability by recruiting microtubule-associated protein 1S (MAP1S), which stabilizes newly formed MTs. Altogether, our results demonstrate a novel evolutionarily conserved role of ALIX in providing robustness to the orientation of the MS by promoting astral MT formation during asymmetric and symmetric cell division.
PXD009333	29858230	Secretory kinase Fam20C tunes endoplasmic reticulum redox state via phosphorylation of Ero1alpha. 	Fam20C-LCMSMS -  Secretory kinase Fam20C tunes endoplasmic reticulum redox state via phosphorylation of Ero1alpha	Fam20C Ero1 LCMSMS	Family with sequence similarity 20C (Fam20C), the physiological Golgi casein kinase, phosphorylates numerous secreted proteins that are involved in a wide variety of biological processes. However, the role of Fam20C in regulating proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) lumen is largely unknown. Here, we report that Fam20C interacts with various luminal proteins and that its depletion results in a more reduced ER lumen. We further show that ER oxidoreductin 1alpha (Ero1alpha), the pivotal sulfhydryl oxidase that catalyzes disulfide formation in the ER, is phosphorylated by Fam20C in the Golgi apparatus and retrograde-transported to the ER mediated by ERp44. The phosphorylation of Ser145 greatly enhances Ero1alpha oxidase activity and is critical for maintaining ER redox homeostasis and promoting oxidative protein folding. Notably, phosphorylation of Ero1alpha is induced under hypoxia, reductive stress, and secretion-demanding conditions such as mammalian lactation. Collectively, our findings open a door to uncover how oxidative protein folding is regulated by phosphorylation in the secretory pathway.
PXD009575	29858488	Identification of MOSPD2, a novel scaffold for endoplasmic reticulum membrane contact sites. 	Identification of MOSPD2, a novel scaffold for endoplasmic reticulum membrane contact sites	FFAT motif, MOSPD2, endoplasmic reticulum	Membrane contact sites are cellular structures that mediate interorganelle exchange and communication. The two major tether proteins of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), VAP-A and VAP-B, interact with proteins from other organelles that possess a small VAP-interacting motif, named FFAT [two phenylalanines (FF) in an acidic track (AT)]. In this study, using an unbiased proteomic approach, we identify a novel ER tether named motile sperm domain-containing protein 2 (MOSPD2). We show that MOSPD2 possesses a Major Sperm Protein (MSP) domain which binds FFAT motifs and consequently allows membrane tethering in vitro MOSPD2 is an ER-anchored protein, and it interacts with several FFAT-containing tether proteins from endosomes, mitochondria, or Golgi. Consequently, MOSPD2 and these organelle-bound proteins mediate the formation of contact sites between the ER and endosomes, mitochondria, or Golgi. Thus, we characterized here MOSPD2, a novel tethering component related to VAP proteins, bridging the ER with a variety of distinct organelles.
PXD009732	29858573	Dynamic structural states of ClpB involved in its disaggregation function. 	Native mass spectrometry of ClpB	ClpB, Native mass spectrometry	The ATP-dependent bacterial protein disaggregation machine, ClpB belonging to the AAA+ superfamily, refolds toxic protein aggregates into the native state in cooperation with the cognate Hsp70 partner. The ring-shaped hexamers of ClpB unfold and thread its protein substrate through the central pore. However, their function-related structural dynamics has remained elusive. Here we directly visualize ClpB using high-speed atomic force microscopy (HS-AFM) to gain a mechanistic insight into its disaggregation function. The HS-AFM movies demonstrate massive conformational changes of the hexameric ring during ATP hydrolysis, from a round ring to a spiral and even to a pair of twisted half-spirals. HS-AFM observations of Walker-motif mutants unveil crucial roles of ATP binding and hydrolysis in the oligomer formation and structural dynamics. Furthermore, repressed and hyperactive mutations result in significantly different oligomeric forms. These results provide a comprehensive view for the ATP-driven oligomeric-state transitions that enable ClpB to disentangle protein aggregates.
PXD009345	29860209	Determining the glycation site specificity of human holo-transferrin. 	Human holo-transferrin glycation	Glycation, ProteomeXchange project tag: Diabetes (B/D-HPP), blood serum, holo-transferrin, post-translational modification	Understanding the effect of glycation on the function of transferrin, the systemic iron transporter, is fundamental to fully grasp the mechanisms leading to the loss of iron homeostasis observed in diabetes mellitus (DM). The spontaneous reaction with protein amino groups is one of the main causes of glucose toxicity, but the site specificity of this reaction is still poorly understood. Here in, an in vitro approach was used to study human holo-transferrin glycation in detail. Lysine residues 103, 312 and 380 proved to be the most reactive sites, and overall glycation specificity was found to be remarkably different from that described for apo-transferrin. A computational biochemistry approach was subsequently applied to rationalize lysine reactivity. Even though pKa values, solvent accessible surface area, hydrogen bonds or the presence of nearby charged/polar residues could be related to lysine reactivity, these parameters do not suffice to describe glycation site specificity in holo-transferrin. Furthermore, analysis of the most reactive residues suggests that the correct lysine side chain orientation may play a fundamental role in reactivity. Nevertheless, in holo-transferrin, glycation occurs away from the iron-binding sites and, despite the observed iron release, the modification of apo-transferrin should play a more relevant role for the loss of iron-binding capacity observed in the blood serum of DM patients.
PXD008998	29860357	Base-excision repair deficiency alone or combined with increased oxidative stress does not increase mtDNA point mutations in mice. 	Mitochondria enriched proteome from heart of heart Sod2 knockout mice LC MS/MS	C57BL/6N, MnSOD2, SOD2, heart, mitochondria, superoxide dismutase 2	Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations become more prevalent with age and are postulated to contribute to the ageing process. Point mutations of mtDNA have been suggested to originate from two main sources, i.e. replicative errors and oxidative damage, but the contribution of each of these processes is much discussed. To elucidate the origin of mtDNA mutations, we measured point mutation load in mice with deficient mitochondrial base-excision repair (BER) caused by knockout alleles preventing mitochondrial import of the DNA repair glycosylases OGG1 and MUTYH (Ogg1 dMTS, Mutyh dMTS). Surprisingly, we detected no increase in the mtDNA mutation load in old Ogg1 dMTS mice. As DNA repair is especially important in the germ line, we bred the BER deficient mice for five consecutive generations but found no increase in the mtDNA mutation load in these maternal lineages. To increase reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and oxidative damage, we bred the Ogg1 dMTS mice with tissue specific Sod2 knockout mice. Although increased superoxide levels caused a plethora of changes in mitochondrial function, we did not detect any changes in the mutation load of mtDNA or mtRNA. Our results show that the importance of oxidative damage as a contributor of mtDNA mutations should be re-evaluated.
PXD008962	29861160	SHRED Is a Regulatory Cascade that Reprograms Ubr1 Substrate Specificity for Enhanced Protein Quality Control during Stress. 	A regulatory cascade reprograms the ubiquitin ligase Ubr1 to enhance protein quality control during stress	Orbitrap, Qexactive HF	When faced with proteotoxic stress, cells mount adaptive responses to eliminate aberrant proteins. Adaptive responses increase the expression of protein folding and degradation factors to enhance the cellular quality control machinery. However, it is unclear whether and how this augmented machinery acquires new activities during stress. Here, we uncover a regulatory cascade in budding yeast that consists of the hydrophilin protein Roq1/Yjl144w, the HtrA-type protease Ynm3/Nma111, and the ubiquitin ligase Ubr1. Various stresses stimulate ROQ1 transcription. The Roq1 protein is cleaved by Ynm3. Cleaved Roq1 interacts with Ubr1, transforming its substrate specificity. Altered substrate recognition by Ubr1 accelerates proteasomal degradation of misfolded as well as native proteins at the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and in the cytosol. We term this pathway stress-induced homeostatically regulated protein degradation (SHRED) and propose that it promotes physiological adaptation by reprogramming a key component of the quality control machinery.
PXD007750	29863353	CharmeRT: Boosting Peptide Identifications by Chimeric Spectra Identification and Retention Time Prediction. 	CharmeRT -  CharmeRT: Boosting peptide identifications by chimeric spectra identification and retention time prediction	HeLa, chimeric spectra	Coeluting peptides are still a major challenge for the identification and validation of MS/MS spectra, but carry great potential. To tackle these problems, we have developed the here presented CharmeRT workflow, combining a chimeric spectra identification strategy implemented as part of the MS Amanda algorithm with the validation system Elutator, which incorporates a highly accurate retention time prediction algorithm. For high-resolution data sets this workflow identifies 38-64% chimeric spectra, which results in up to 63% more unique peptides compared to a conventional single search strategy.
PXD003749	29863873	Quantitative Proteomics of TRAMP Mice Combined with Bioinformatics Analysis Reveals That PDGF-B Regulatory Network Plays a Key Role in Prostate Cancer Progression. 	Quantitative Proteomics analysis of Prostate Cancer Mice Model	Prostate, Prostate Cancer	Transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (TRAMP) mice is a widely used transgenic animal model of prostate cancer (PCa). We performed a label-free quantitative proteomics analysis combined with a bioinformatics analysis on the entire prostate protein extraction from TRAMP mice and compared it with WT littermates. From 2379 total identified proteins, we presented a modest mice prostate reference proteome containing 919 proteins. 61 proteins presented a significant expression difference between two groups. The integrative bioinformatics analysis predicted the overexpression of platelet-derived growth factor B (PDGF-B) in tumor tissues and supports the hypothesis of the PDGF-B signaling network as a key upstream regulator in PCa progression. Furthermore, we demonstrated that Crenolanib, a novel PDGF receptor inhibitor, inhibited PCa cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. Finally, we revealed the importance of PDGF-B regulatory network in PCa progression, which will assist us in understanding the role and mechanisms of PDGF-B in promoting cancer growth and provide valuable knowledge for future research on anti-PDGF therapy.
PXD007079	29863874	HTRA1-Dependent Cell Cycle Proteomics. 	HTRA1 dependent cell cycle proteomics	HtrA1, cell cycle, label-free quantification	The HTRA1 gene encoding an evolutionary conserved protein quality-control factor can be epigenetically silenced or inactivated by mutation under pathologic conditions such as cancer. Recent evidence suggests that the loss of HTRA1 function causes multiple phenotypes, including the acceleration of cell growth, delayed onset of senescence, centrosome amplification, and polyploidy, suggesting an implication in the regulation of the cell cycle. To address this model, we performed a large-scale proteomics study to correlate the abundance of proteins and HTRA1 levels in various cell cycle phases using label-free-quantification mass spectrometry. These data indicate that the levels of 4723 proteins fluctuated in a cell-cycle-dependent manner, 2872 in a HTRA1-dependent manner, and 1530 in a cell-cycle- and HTRA1-dependent manner. The large number of proteins affected by the modulation of HTRA1 levels supports its general role in protein homeostasis. Moreover, the detected changes in protein abundance, in combination with pull-down data, implicate HTRA1 in various cell cycle events such as DNA replication, chromosome segregation, and cell-cycle-dependent apoptosis. These results highlight the wide implications of HTRA1 in cellular physiology.
PXD008919	29866041	Distinct sperm nucleus behaviors between genotypic and temperature-dependent sex determination males are associated with replication and expression-related pathways in a gynogenetic fish. 	Semen of gibel carp	GSD, Gibel carp, TSD, iTRAQ, semen proteomics	BACKGROUND: Coexistence and transition of diverse sex determination strategies have been revealed in some ectothermic species, but the variation between males caused by different sex determination strategies and the underlying mechanism remain unclear. Here, we used the gynogenetic gibel carp (Carassius gibelio) with both genotypic sex determination (GSD) and temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) strategies to illustrate this issue. RESULTS: We found out that males of GSD and TSD in gibel carp had similar morphology, testicular histology, sperm structure and sperm vitality. However, when maternal individuals were mated with males of GSD, sperm nucleus swelling and fusing with the female pronucleus were observed in the fertilized eggs. On the contrary, when maternal individuals were mated with males of TSD, sperm nucleus remained in the condensed status throughout the whole process. Subsequently, semen proteomics analysis unveiled that DNA replication and gene expression-related pathways were inhibited in the sperm from males of TSD compared to males of GSD, and most differentially expressed proteins associated with DNA replication, transcription and translation were down-regulated. Moreover, via BrdU incorporation and immunofluorescence detection, male nucleus replication was revealed to be present in the fertilized eggs by the sperm from males of GSD, but absent in the fertilized eggs by the sperm from males of TSD. CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that DNA replication and gene expression-related pathways are associated with the distinct sperm nucleus development behaviors in fertilized eggs in response to the sperm from males of GSD and TSD. And this study is the first attempt to screen the differences between males determined via GSD and TSD in gynogenetic species, which might give a hint for understanding evolutionary adaption of diverse sex determination mechanisms in unisexual vertebrates.
PXD005101	29867102	Proteo-metabolomics reveals compensation between ischemic and non-injured contralateral kidneys after reperfusion. 	Lipid metabolism modulation is associated with molecular injury and kidney dysfunction in a rat ischemia model	Fatty Acids, GCXGC-MS, Ischaemia Reperfusion Injury (IRI), Kidney Transplantation, Lipid Metabolism, Metabolomics, beta-oxidation	Ischaemia and reperfusion injury (IRI) is the leading cause of acute kidney injury (AKI), which contributes to high morbidity and mortality rates in a wide range of injuries as well as the development of chronic kidney disease. The cellular and molecular responses of the kidney to IRI are complex and not fully understood. Here, we used an integrated proteomic and metabolomic approach to investigate the effects of IRI on protein abundance and metabolite levels. Rat kidneys were subjected to 45 min of warm ischaemia followed by 4 h and 24 h reperfusion, with contralateral and separate healthy kidneys serving as controls. Kidney tissue proteomics after IRI revealed elevated proteins belonging to the acute phase response, coagulation and complement pathways, and fatty acid (FA) signalling. Metabolic changes were already evident after 4 h reperfusion and showed increased level of glycolysis, lipids and FAs, whilst mitochondrial function and ATP production was impaired after 24 h. This deficit was partially compensated for by the contralateral kidney. Such a metabolic balance counteracts for the developing energy deficit due to reduced mitochondrial function in the injured kidney.
PXD008954	29867847	Comparative Proteomics of Three Species of Ammonia-Oxidizing Bacteria. 	Comparative proteomics of three species of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria under ammonia starved and ammonia replete conditions	1D-LC, Nitrosomonas, Nitrosospira, ammonia, ammonia oxidizing bacteria, comparative proteomics, nitrification, nitrogen cycle, proteomes	Ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) are important members of terrestrial, marine, and industrial microbial communities and play a fundamental role in the Nitrogen cycle within these systems. They are responsible for the first step of nitrification, ammonia oxidation to nitrite. Although AOB are widespread and essential to environmental and industrial systems, where they regularly experience fluctuations in ammonia availability, no comparative studies of the physiological response of diverse AOB species at the protein level exist. In the present study, we used 1D-LC-MS/MS proteomics to compare the metabolism and physiology of three species of ammonia AOB, Nitrosomonas europaea, Nitrosospira multiformis, and Nitrosomonas ureae, under ammonia replete and ammonia starved conditions. Additionally, we compared the expression of orthologous genes to determine the major differences in the proteome composition of the three species. We found that approximately one-third of the predicted proteome was expressed in each species and that proteins for the key metabolic processes, ammonia oxidation and carbon fixation, were among the most abundant. The red copper protein, nitrosocyanin was highly abundant in all three species hinting toward its possible role as a central metabolic enzyme in AOB. The proteomic data also allowed us to identify pyrophosphate-dependent 6-phosphofructokinase as the potential enzyme replacing the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle enzyme Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase missing in N. multiformis and N. ureae. Additionally, between species, there were statistically significant differences in the expression of many abundant proteins, including those related to nitrogen metabolism (nitrite reductase), motility (flagellin), cell growth and division (FtsH), and stress response (rubrerythrin). The three species did not exhibit a starvation response at the proteome level after 24 h of ammonia starvation, however, the levels of the RuBisCO enzyme were consistently reduced after the starvation period, suggesting a decrease in capacity for biomass accumulation. This study presents the first published proteomes of N. ureae and N. multiformis, and the first comparative proteomics study of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria, which gives new insights into consistent metabolic features and differences between members of this environmentally and industrially important group.
PXD003192	29867878	Unraveling Gardnerella vaginalis Surface Proteins Using Cell Shaving Proteomics. 	Gardnerella vaginalis cell surface shaving	Gardnerella vaginalis surface proteome	Gardnerella vaginalis is one of the main etiologic agents of bacterial vaginosis (BV). This infection is responsible for a wide range of public health costs and is associated with several adverse outcomes during pregnancy. Improving our understanding of G. vaginalis protein cell surface will assist in BV diagnosis. This study represents the first proteomic approach that has analyzed the exposed proteins on G. vaginalis cell surface using a shaving approach. The 261 G. vaginalis proteins identified using this approach were analyzed with bioinformatic tools to detect characteristic motifs from surface-exposed proteins, such as signal peptides (36 proteins), lipobox domains (17 proteins), LPXTG motifs (5 proteins) and transmembrane alpha-helices (66 proteins). One third of the identified proteins were found to have at least one typical motif of surface-exposed proteins. Furthermore, the subcellular location was examined using two predictors (PSORT and Gpos-mPLoc). These bioinformatic tools classified 17% of the identified proteins as surface-associated proteins. Interestingly, we identified 13 members of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) superfamily, which were mainly involved in the translocation of various substrates across membranes. To validate the location of the G. vaginalis surface-exposed proteins, an immunofluorescence assay with antibodies against Escherichia coli GroEL was performed to reveal the extracellular location of the moonlighting GroEL. In addition, monoclonal antibodies (mAb) against G. vaginalis Cna protein were produced and used to validate the location of Cna on the surface of the G. vaginalis. These high affinity anti-Cna mAb represent a useful tool for the study of this pathogenic microorganism and the BV.
PXD007623	29867883	Synergy of Sodium Nitroprusside and Nitrate in Inhibiting the Activity of Sulfate Reducing Bacteria in Oil-Containing Bioreactors. 	Effect of nitroprusside on the proteomic expression of Desulfovibrio vulgaris Hildenborough	growth inhibition, nitroprusside, souring, sulfate reduction, sulfide	Sodium nitroprusside (SNP) disrupts microbial biofilms through the release of nitric oxide (NO). The actions of SNP on bacteria have been mostly limited to the genera Pseudomonas, Clostridium, and Bacillus. There are no reports of its biocidal action on sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB), which couple the reduction of sulfate to sulfide with the oxidation of organic electron donors. Here, we report the inhibition and kill of SRB by low SNP concentrations [0.05 mM (15 ppm)] depending on biomass concentration. Chemical reaction of SNP with sulfide did not compromise its efficacy. SNP was more effective than five biocides commonly used to control SRB. Souring, the SRB activity in oil reservoirs, is often controlled by injection of nitrate. Control of SRB-mediated souring in oil-containing bioreactors was inhibited by 4 mM (340 ppm) of sodium nitrate, but required only 0.05 mM (15 ppm) of SNP. Interestingly, nitrate and SNP were found to be highly synergistic with 0.003 mM (1 ppm) of SNP and 1 mM (85 ppm) of sodium nitrate being sufficient in inhibiting souring. Hence, using SNP as an additive may greatly increase the efficacy of nitrate injection in oil reservoirs.
PXD009568	29871910	Lgl reduces endosomal vesicle acidification and Notch signaling by promoting the interaction between Vap33 and the V-ATPase complex. 	Lgl protein interactome -  Lgl reduces endosomal vesicle acidification and Notch signaling by promoting the interaction between Vap33 and the V-ATPase complex	Drosophila, Lgl, S2 cells	Epithelial cell polarity is linked to the control of tissue growth and tumorigenesis. The tumor suppressor and cell polarity protein lethal-2-giant larvae (Lgl) promotes Hippo signaling and inhibits Notch signaling to restrict tissue growth in Drosophila melanogaster Notch signaling is greater in lgl mutant tissue than in wild-type tissue because of increased acidification of endosomal vesicles, which promotes the proteolytic processing and activation of Notch by gamma-secretase. We showed that the increased Notch signaling and tissue growth defects of lgl mutant tissue depended on endosomal vesicle acidification mediated by the vacuolar adenosine triphosphatase (V-ATPase). Lgl promoted the activity of the V-ATPase by interacting with Vap33 (VAMP-associated protein of 33 kDa). Vap33 physically and genetically interacted with Lgl and V-ATPase subunits and repressed V-ATPase-mediated endosomal vesicle acidification and Notch signaling. Vap33 overexpression reduced the abundance of the V-ATPase component Vha44, whereas Lgl knockdown reduced the binding of Vap33 to the V-ATPase component Vha68-3. Our data indicate that Lgl promotes the binding of Vap33 to the V-ATPase, thus inhibiting V-ATPase-mediated endosomal vesicle acidification and thereby reducing gamma-secretase activity, Notch signaling, and tissue growth. Our findings implicate the deregulation of Vap33 and V-ATPase activity in polarity-impaired epithelial cancers.
PXD009485	29872109	Hit-Gel: Streamlining in-gel protein digestion for high-throughput proteomics experiments. 	Hit-Gel: Streamlining in-gel protein digestion for high-throughput proteomics experiments.	fractionation, high-throughput, in-gel digestion, large-scale, native protein complex, sample preparation, tryptic digest	In-gel digestion has been used as a standard method for the preparation of protein samples for mass spectrometry analysis for over 25 years. Traditional in gel-digestion procedures require extensive sample handling, are prone to contamination and not compatible with high-throughput sample preparation. To address these shortcomings, we have modified the conventional in-gel digestion procedure for high-throughput proteomics studies. The modified method, termed "High Throughput in Gel digestion" (HiT-Gel), is based on a 96-well plate format which results in a drastic reduction in labour intensity and sample handling. Direct comparison revealed that HiT-Gel reduces technical variation and significantly decreases sample contamination over the conventional in-gel digestion method. HiT-Gel also produced superior results when a single protein band was excised from a gel and processed by in-gel digestion. Moreover, we applied Hit-Gel for a mass spectrometry analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana protein complexes separated by native PAGE in 24 fractions and four biological replicates. We show that the high throughput capacity of HiT-Gel facilitates large scale studies with high sample replication or detailed fractionation. Our method can easily be implemented as it does not require specialised laboratory equipment.
PXD008781	29872131	The prion protein is embedded in a molecular environment that modulates transforming growth factor beta and integrin signaling. 	The prion protein interactome in four mouse cell lines of distinct lineages	interactome, orbitrap fusion, prion	At times, it can be difficult to discern if a lack of overlap in reported interactions for a protein-of-interest reflects differences in methodology or biology. In such instances, systematic analyses of protein-protein networks across diverse paradigms can provide valuable insights. Here, we interrogated the interactome of the prion protein (PrP), best known for its central role in prion diseases, in four mouse cell lines. Analyses made use of identical affinity capture and sample processing workflows. Negative controls were generated from PrP knockout lines of the respective cell models, and the relative levels of peptides were quantified using isobaric labels. The study uncovered 26 proteins that reside in proximity to PrP. All of these proteins are predicted to have access to the outer face of the plasma membrane, and approximately half of them were not reported to interact with PrP before. Strikingly, although several proteins exhibited profound co-enrichment with PrP in a given model, except for the neural cell adhesion molecule 1, no protein was highly enriched in all PrP-specific interactomes. However, Gene Ontology analyses revealed a shared association of the majority of PrP candidate interactors with cellular events at the intersection of transforming growth factor beta and integrin signaling.
PXD008035	29872504	Mesenchymal stem cells enhance tumorigenic properties of human glioblastoma through independent cell-cell communication mechanisms. 	Mesenchymal stem cells enhance tumorigenic properties of human glioblastoma cells through independent cell-cell communication mechanisms	Glioblastoma, aggressiveness, mesenchymal stem cells, tumor microenvironment	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) display tumor tropism and have been addressed as vehicles for delivery of anti-cancer agents. As cellular components of the tumor microenvironment, MSC also influence tumor progression. However, the contribution of MSC in brain cancer is not well understood since either oncogenic or tumor suppressor effects have been reported for these cells. Here, MSC were found capable of stimulating human Glioblastoma (GBM) cell proliferation through a paracrine effect mediated by TGFB1. Moreover, when in direct cell-cell contact with GBM cells, MSC elicited an increased proliferative and invasive tumor cell behavior under 3D conditions, as well as accelerated tumor development in nude mice, independently of paracrine TGFB1. A secretome profiling of MSC-GBM co-cultures identified 126 differentially expressed proteins and 10 proteins exclusively detected under direct cell-cell contact conditions. Most of these proteins are exosome cargos and are involved in cell motility and tissue development. These results indicate a dynamic interaction between MSC and GBM cells, favoring aggressive tumor cell traits through alternative and independent mechanisms. Overall, these findings indicate that MSC may exert pro-tumorigenic effects when in close contact with tumor cells, which must be carefully considered when employing MSC in targeted cell therapy protocols against cancer.
PXD005426	29872565	Choice of costimulatory domains and of cytokines determines CAR T-cell activity in neuroblastoma. 	Concert between cytokines and costimulatory domains to optimize chimeric antigen receptor immunotherapy in neuroblastoma model	CAR, Phosphoproteomics	Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has been shown to be dramatically effective in the treatment of B-cell malignancies. However, there are still substantial obstacles to overcome, before similar responses can be achieved in patients with solid tumors. We evaluated both in vitro and in a preclinical murine model the efficacy of different 2nd and 3rd generation CAR constructs targeting GD2, a disial-ganglioside expressed on the surface of neuroblastoma (NB) tumor cells. In order to address potential safety concerns regarding clinical application, an inducible safety switch, namely inducible Caspase-9 (iC9), was also included in the vector constructs. Our data indicate that a 3rd generation CAR incorporating CD28.4-1BB costimulatory domains is associated with improved anti-tumor efficacy as compared with a CAR incorporating the combination of CD28.OX40 domains. We demonstrate that the choice of 4-1BB signaling results into significant amelioration of several CAR T-cell characteristics, including: 1) T-cell exhaustion, 2) basal T-cell activation, 3) in vivo tumor control and 4) T-cell persistence. The fine-tuning of T-cell culture conditions obtained using IL7 and IL15 was found to be synergic with the CAR.GD2 design in increasing the anti-tumor activity of CAR T cells. We also demonstrate that activation of the suicide gene iC9, included in our construct without significantly impairing neither CAR expression nor anti-tumor activity, leads to a prompt induction of apoptosis of GD2.CAR T cells. Altogether, these findings are instrumental in optimizing the function of CAR T-cell products to be employed in the treatment of children with NB.
PXD009392	29875377	Control of seed dormancy and germination by DOG1-AHG1 PP2C phosphatase complex via binding to heme. 	Control of seed dormancy and germination by DOG1-AHG1 PP2C Phosphatase complex via binding to heme	Abscisic acid, seed	Abscisic acid (ABA) regulates abiotic stress and developmental responses including regulation of seed dormancy to prevent seeds from germinating under unfavorable environmental conditions. ABA HYPERSENSITIVE GERMINATION1 (AHG1) encoding a type 2C protein phosphatase (PP2C) is a central negative regulator of ABA response in germination; however, the molecular function and regulation of AHG1 remain elusive. Here we report that AHG1 interacts with DELAY OF GERMINATION1 (DOG1), which is a pivotal positive regulator in seed dormancy. DOG1 acts upstream of AHG1 and impairs the PP2C activity of AHG1 in vitro. Furthermore, DOG1 has the ability to bind heme. Binding of DOG1 to AHG1 and heme are independent processes, but both are essential for DOG1 function in vivo. Our study demonstrates that AHG1 and DOG1 constitute an important regulatory system for seed dormancy and germination by integrating multiple environmental signals, in parallel with the PYL/RCAR ABA receptor-mediated regulatory system.
PXD007251	29876422	Proteomic analysis of pitcher fluid from Nepenthes x ventrata. 	Pitcher fluid protein profiling of Nepenthes x ventrata	Nepenthes, carnivorous, chitinase, enzymes, pithcer fluid	The carnivorous plants of genus Nepenthes produce unique pitchers containing secretory glands, which secrete proteins into the digestive fluid. We investigated protein profile in the pitcher fluid during the first three days of opening to understand carnivory trait of Nepenthes x ventrata. The proteome analysis of pitcher fluid from N. x ventrata was performed by label-free quantitative liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (nLC-MS/MS(ALL)). Raw MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007251. This dataset allows the identification and quantification of proteins from pitcher fluids to elucidate proteins involved in carnivory physiology of Nepenthes species.
PXD009308	29879467	Thermal proteome profiling allows quantitative assessment of interactions between tetrachloroethene reductive dehalogenase and trichloroethene. 	Identification of protein-trichloroethene interactions during organohalide respiration revealed by thermal proteome profiling	Dehalococcoides mccartyi, Interaction proteome, Sulfurospirillum multivorans, Thermal proteome profiling (TPP), organohalide respiration, quantitative proteomics, reductive dehalogenases	Thermal proteome profiling (TPP) is increasingly applied in eukaryotes to investigate protein-ligand binding through protein melting curve shifts induced by the presence of a ligand. In anaerobic bacteria, identification of protein-substrate interactions is a major challenge. We applied TPP to Sulfurospirillum multivorans, which is able to use trichloroethene as electron acceptor for growth, to investigate the interaction of its tetrachloroethene reductive dehalogenase PceA with trichloroethene. Several modifications in the protocol (e.g., incubation under anaerobic conditions; increasing the temperature range up to 97 degreesC) extended the protein detection range and allowed the investigation of oxygen-sensitive proteins. Enzymatic reductive dehalogenation was prevented by omitting the electron donor during incubations. This enabled detecting the interaction of PceA with trichloroethene and confirmed that trichloroethene is a substrate of this enzyme. Interestingly, a putative response regulator showed a similar trend, which is the first biochemical hint for its proposed role in trichloroethene respiration. We proved that our TPP approach facilitates the identification of protein-substrate interactions of strictly anaerobic reductive dehalogenases and probably their regulators. This strategy can be used to identify yet unknown substrate specificities and possible signal-sensing proteins, and therefore has the potential to elucidate one of the unresolved fields in research on organohalide-respiring bacteria. SIGNIFICANCE: The assessment of enzyme-substrate or protein-ligand interactions in organohalide-respiring bacteria is a fundamental challenge. Thermal proteome profiling (TPP) allows elucidating proteome-wide thermal stability changes relying on the sensitivity of modern mass spectrometry. This gives access to the identification of interactions not detectable with other methods. In this TPP study, we demonstrate the interactions of a chlorinated substrate with a reductive dehalogenase and potentially with a response regulator, thereby supporting the response regulator's function in organohalide respiration. The strategy might also be applied to identify yet unknown substrates of other enzymes in bacteria which are difficult to investigate or for which only low amounts of biomass are available. The assessment of enzyme-substrate interactions, which might enable conclusions about enzyme specificities, represents a new application for TPP.
PXD006176	29880488	Weibel-Palade Body Localized Syntaxin-3 Modulates Von Willebrand Factor Secretion From Endothelial Cells. 	Syntaxin-3 is a Weibel-Palade body localized SNARE protein that regulates Von Willebrand factor secretion from endothelial cells	SNARE machinery, Von Willebrand factor, Weibel-Palade body, endothelial cells, syntaxin-3	OBJECTIVE: Endothelial cells store VWF (von Willebrand factor) in rod-shaped secretory organelles, called Weibel-Palade bodies (WPBs). WPB exocytosis is coordinated by a complex network of Rab GTPases, Rab effectors, and SNARE (soluble NSF attachment protein receptor) proteins. We have previously identified STXBP1 as the link between the Rab27A-Slp4-a complex on WPBs and the SNARE proteins syntaxin-2 and -3. In this study, we investigate the function of syntaxin-3 in VWF secretion. APPROACH AND RESULTS: In human umbilical vein endothelial cells and in blood outgrowth endothelial cells (BOECs) from healthy controls, endogenous syntaxin-3 immunolocalized to WPBs. A detailed analysis of BOECs isolated from a patient with variant microvillus inclusion disease, carrying a homozygous mutation in STX3(STX3(-/-)), showed a loss of syntaxin-3 protein and absence of WPB-associated syntaxin-3 immunoreactivity. Ultrastructural analysis revealed no detectable differences in morphology or prevalence of immature or mature WPBs in control versus STX3(-/-) BOECs. VWF multimer analysis showed normal patterns in plasma of the microvillus inclusion disease patient, and media from STX3(-/-) BOECs, together indicating WPB formation and maturation are unaffected by absence of syntaxin-3. However, a defect in basal as well as Ca(2+)- and cAMP-mediated VWF secretion was found in the STX3(-/-) BOECs. We also show that syntaxin-3 interacts with the WPB-associated SNARE protein VAMP8 (vesicle-associated membrane protein-8). CONCLUSIONS: Our data reveal syntaxin-3 as a novel WPB-associated SNARE protein that controls WPB exocytosis.
PXD009656	29880867	Alternative assembly of respiratory complex II connects energy stress to metabolic checkpoints. 	Respiratory complex II -  Alternative assembly of respiratory complex II connects energy stress to metabolic checkpoints	Mitochondria, SDHA, energy utilization	Cell growth and survival depend on a delicate balance between energy production and synthesis of metabolites. Here, we provide evidence that an alternative mitochondrial complex II (CII) assembly, designated as CIIlow, serves as a checkpoint for metabolite biosynthesis under bioenergetic stress, with cells suppressing their energy utilization by modulating DNA synthesis and cell cycle progression. Depletion of CIIlow leads to an imbalance in energy utilization and metabolite synthesis, as evidenced by recovery of the de novo pyrimidine pathway and unlocking cell cycle arrest from the S-phase. In vitro experiments are further corroborated by analysis of paraganglioma tissues from patients with sporadic, SDHA and SDHB mutations. These findings suggest that CIIlow is a core complex inside mitochondria that provides homeostatic control of cellular metabolism depending on the availability of energy.
PXD006386	29880886	The natural compound GL22, isolated from Ganoderma mushrooms, suppresses tumor growth by altering lipid metabolism and triggering cell death. 	Quantitative Analysis of Global Proteome in human cell line	Q-Exactive	Cancer cells rewire their metabolism to satisfy the demands of uncontrolled proliferation and survival. The reprogramming of lipid metabolism supports tumor growth, metastasis, and therapy-resistance. Therefore, targeting lipid metabolic reprogramming is a potential cancer treatment strategy. We recently isolated the novel natural triterpene GL22 from Ganoderma leucocontextum, a traditional Chinese medicine. Here, we show that GL22 significantly inhibits the growth of the liver cancer cell line Huh7.5 in vitro and of Huh7.5-derived tumor xenografts in vivo. We further find that GL22 induces mitochondrial dysfunction and cell death in Huh7.5 cells, in part due to fatty acid immobilization and loss of the mitochondrial lipid cardiolipin, which has vital structural and metabolic functions. Importantly, we demonstrate that GL22 treatment decreases the expression of fatty acid-binding proteins (FABPs), which likely underlies the loss of cardiolipin, mitochondrial dysfunction, and cell death. The over-expressions of FABPs prevented the GL22-induced cell death, loss of cardiolipin, decrease of ATP production, and reduction of oxygen consumption rate in Huh7.5 cells. Our results support targeting lipid metabolism via manipulating FABPs as a cancer treatment strategy, and promote Chinese medicine as an important source of novel anticancer drugs.
PXD013569	29881665	Differential protein expression in a marine-derived Staphylococcus sp. NIOSBK35 in response to arsenic(III). 	Proteomic response of Staphylococcus sp. NIOSBK35 to varying arsenic (III) concentrations	LC-MS QToF, Marine-derived, arsenic (III), peptide mass fingerprinting	Peptide mass fingerprinting of Gram-positive marine-derived Staphylococcus cohnii #NIOSBK35 gave us an insight into the proteins involved in conferring arsenic resistance as well as the probable metabolic pathways affected under metal stress. Analysis of the protein profiles obtained from LC/MS QToF (Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry-Quadrupole Time of Flight) resulted in the identification of 689 proteins. Further grouping of these proteins based on the arsenic concentration (0, 250, 500 and 850 ppm) and the time points (6, 9, 12, 18, 24 and 36 h) in growth phase showed that a total of 13 proteins were up-regulated, while 178 proteins were down-regulated across all the concentrations and time points. Arsenic specific proteins like arsenical pump-driving ATPase, ArsR family transcriptional regulator and arsenic operon resistance repressor were found to be highly up-regulated throughout all the conditions indicating their possible involvement in the tolerance to arsenic. MBL fold metallo-hydrolase, a known stress protein, was the only protein that was up-regulated at all time points across all arsenic concentrations. Metabolic pathways like translation, carbohydrate metabolism, amino acid metabolism, membrane transport, metabolism of cofactors and vitamins, replication and repair, nucleotide metabolism along with stress proteins and hypothetical proteins were found to be significantly expressed. Our results also suggest that arsenic stress at higher levels is negatively affecting the expression of many normal functional proteins required for cell survival.
PXD009480	29884760	Coupling Secretomics with Enzyme Activities To Compare the Temporal Processes of Wood Metabolism among White and Brown Rot Fungi. 	Spatial connectomics to identify agents relevant to lignocellulose deconstruction in fungi	fungi, lignocellulose	Wood-degrading fungi use a sequence of oxidative and hydrolytic mechanisms to loosen lignocellulose and then release and metabolize embedded sugars. These temporal sequences have recently been mapped at high resolution using directional growth on wood wafers, revealing previously obscured dynamics as fungi progressively colonize wood. Here, we applied secretomics in the same wafer design to track temporal trends on aspen decayed by fungi with distinct nutritional modes: two brown rot (BR) fungi (Postia placenta and Gloeophyllum trabeum) and two white rot (WR) fungi (Stereum hirsutum and Trametes versicolor). We matched secretomic data from three zones of decay (early, middle, and late) with enzyme activities in these zones, and we included measures of total protein and ergosterol as measures of fungal biomass. In line with previous transcriptomics data, the fungi tested showed an initial investment in pectinases and a delayed investment in glycoside hydrolases (GHs). Brown rot fungi also staggered the abundance of some oxidoreductases ahead of GHs to produce a familiar two-step mechanism. White rot fungi, however, showed late-stage investment in pectinases as well, unlike brown rot fungi. Ligninolytic enzyme activities and abundances were also different between the two white rot fungi. Specifically, S. hirsutum ligninolytic activity was delayed, which was explained almost entirely by the activity and abundance of five atypical manganese peroxidases, unlike more varied peroxidases and laccases in T. versicolor These secretomic analyses support brown rot patterns generated via transcriptomics, they reveal distinct patterns among and within rot types, and they link spectral counts with activities to help functionalize these multistrain secretomic data.IMPORTANCE Wood decay, driven primarily by wood-degrading basidiomycetes, is an essential component of global carbon cycles, and decay mechanisms are essential for understanding forest ecosystem function. These fungi efficiently consolidate pretreatment and saccharification of wood under mild conditions, making them promising templates for low-cost lignocellulose conversion. Species are categorized as ligninolytic white rots and polysaccharide-selective brown rots, with considerable undescribed variability in decay mechanism that may manifest in the sequential variation in protein secretion over the progression of decay. Here we resolved spatially a temporal progression of decay on intact wood wafers and compared secretome dynamics in two white and two brown rot fungi. We identified several universal mechanistic components among decay types, including early pectinolytic "pretreatment" and later-stage glycoside hydrolase-mediated saccharification. Interspecific comparisons also identified considerable mechanistic diversity within rot types, indicating that there are multiple avenues to facilitate white and brown rots.
PXD005815	29886190	Impact of diet-induced obesity on the mouse brain phosphoproteome. 	Phospho-proteome of obese mice brains	CNS development, Phospho-proteome, diet, mice brains, obesity	Obesity is closely associated to several diseases such as type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, hepatic steatosis, airway disease, neurodegeneration, biliary diseases and certain cancers. It is, therefore, of importance to assess the role of nutrition in disease prevention as well as its effect in the course of such pathologies. In the present study, we addressed the impact of the exposure to different obesogenic diets in the mice brains phosphoproteome. To analyze if the obesity could be able to modify the protein pattern expression of brain neurons, obesity was induced in two different groups of mice. One group of mice was fed with hyperglycemic diet (HGD) and the other one was fed with high-fat diet (HFD), both for 12 weeks. A control group of lean mice was fed with a standard diet (SD). Metabolic parameters were measured before sacrifice, and brains were harvested for label-free phosphoproteomic analysis. Mice brains were analyzed to find differences, if any, in protein phosphorylation. Interestingly, the changes were independent of the obesogenic diet as no changes were detected between the two obese groups. Dephosphorylation of proteins involved in neuronal development (among others SYNGAP1 and PPP1R9B), in vesicle trafficking (for example SNAP91 and AMPH) and in cytoskeletal functions (for example, CLASP2 and GSK3B) was identified, while increased phosphorylation was detected for microtubule proteins (such as MAP2 and MAPT). Phospho site analysis of the mouse brain proteome reveals important changes that point to a connection between diet-induced obesity and impairment of neuronal functions and signaling.
PXD008148	29888765	Cdc42 Regulates Neuronal Polarity during Cerebellar Axon Formation and Glial-Guided Migration. 	Cdc42 phosphorylation study	Phospho, brain	CNS cortical histogenesis depends on polarity signaling pathways that regulate cell adhesion and motility. Here we report that conditional deletion of the Rho GTPase Cdc42 in cerebellar granule cell precursors (GCPs) results in abnormalities in cerebellar foliation revealed by iDISCO clearing methodology, a loss of columnar organization of proliferating GCPs in the external germinal layer (EGL), disordered parallel fiber organization in the molecular layer (ML), and a failure to extend a leading process and form a neuron-glial junction during migration along Bergmann glia (BG). Notably, GCPs lacking Cdc42 had a multi-polar morphology and slowed migration rate. In addition, secondary defects occurred in BG development and organization, especially in the lateral cerebellar hemispheres. By phosphoproteomic analysis, affected Cdc42 targets included regulators of the cytoskeleton, cell adhesion and polarity. Thus, Cdc42 signaling pathways are critical regulators of GCP polarity and the formation of neuron-glial junctions during cerebellar development.
PXD008707	29889213	Encoding human serine phosphopeptides in bacteria for proteome-wide identification of phosphorylation-dependent interactions. 	Encoding the human serine phosphoproteome in an engineered bacterial system	phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation	Post-translational phosphorylation is essential to human cellular processes, but the transient, heterogeneous nature of this modification complicates its study in native systems. We developed an approach to interrogate phosphorylation and its role in protein-protein interactions on a proteome-wide scale. We genetically encoded phosphoserine in recoded E. coli and generated a peptide-based heterologous representation of the human serine phosphoproteome. We designed a single-plasmid library encoding >100,000 human phosphopeptides and confirmed the site-specific incorporation of phosphoserine in >36,000 of these peptides. We then integrated our phosphopeptide library into an approach known as Hi-P to enable proteome-level screens for serine-phosphorylation-dependent human protein interactions. Using Hi-P, we found hundreds of known and potentially new phosphoserine-dependent interactors with 14-3-3 proteins and WW domains. These phosphosites retained important binding characteristics of the native human phosphoproteome, as determined by motif analysis and pull-downs using full-length phosphoproteins. This technology can be used to interrogate user-defined phosphoproteomes in any organism, tissue, or disease of interest.
PXD008167	29891839	Diversity and evolution of the emerging Pandoraviridae family. 	Proteomic analyses of Pandoravirions	Pandoravirus, infectious particles, nanoLC-MS/MS	With DNA genomes reaching 2.5 Mb packed in particles of bacterium-like shape and dimension, the first two Acanthamoeba-infecting pandoraviruses remained up to now the most complex viruses since their discovery in 2013. Our isolation of three new strains from distant locations and environments is now used to perform the first comparative genomics analysis of the emerging worldwide-distributed Pandoraviridae family. Thorough annotation of the genomes combining transcriptomic, proteomic, and bioinformatic analyses reveals many non-coding transcripts and significantly reduces the former set of predicted protein-coding genes. Here we show that the pandoraviruses exhibit an open pan-genome, the enormous size of which is not adequately explained by gene duplications or horizontal transfers. As most of the strain-specific genes have no extant homolog and exhibit statistical features comparable to intergenic regions, we suggest that de novo gene creation could contribute to the evolution of the giant pandoravirus genomes.
PXD008956	29892069	STAT3 labels a subpopulation of reactive astrocytes required for brain metastasis. 	STAT3 labels a subpopulation of reactive astrocytes required for brain metastasis	astrocytes, brain metastasis, secretome, stat3	The brain microenvironment imposes a particularly intense selective pressure on metastasis-initiating cells, but successful metastases bypass this control through mechanisms that are poorly understood. Reactive astrocytes are key components of this microenvironment that confine brain metastasis without infiltrating the lesion. Here, we describe that brain metastatic cells induce and maintain the co-option of a pro-metastatic program driven by signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in a subpopulation of reactive astrocytes surrounding metastatic lesions. These reactive astrocytes benefit metastatic cells by their modulatory effect on the innate and acquired immune system. In patients, active STAT3 in reactive astrocytes correlates with reduced survival from diagnosis of intracranial metastases. Blocking STAT3 signaling in reactive astrocytes reduces experimental brain metastasis from different primary tumor sources, even at advanced stages of colonization. We also show that a safe and orally bioavailable treatment that inhibits STAT3 exhibits significant antitumor effects in patients with advanced systemic disease that included brain metastasis. Responses to this therapy were notable in the central nervous system, where several complete responses were achieved. Given that brain metastasis causes substantial morbidity and mortality, our results identify a novel treatment for increasing survival in patients with secondary brain tumors.
PXD008663	29892081	Structural and genomic decoding of human and plant myristoylomes reveals a definitive recognition pattern. 	Searching N-terminal modifications of proteins starting with Gly in Arabidopsis thaliana	Myristoylation, N-acetylation, N-myristoyltransferase, N-terminus, S-palmitoylation, methionine excision	An organism's entire protein modification repertoire has yet to be comprehensively mapped. N-myristoylation (MYR) is a crucial eukaryotic N-terminal protein modification. Here we mapped complete Homo sapiens and Arabidopsis thaliana myristoylomes. The crystal structures of human modifier NMT1 complexed with reactive and nonreactive target-mimicking peptide ligands revealed unexpected binding clefts and a modifier recognition pattern. This information allowed integrated mapping of myristoylomes using peptide macroarrays, dedicated prediction algorithms, and in vivo mass spectrometry. Global MYR profiling at the genomic scale identified over a thousand novel, heterogeneous targets in both organisms. Surprisingly, MYR involved a non-negligible set of overlapping targets with N-acetylation, and the sequence signature marks for a third proximal acylation-S-palmitoylation-were genomically imprinted, allowing recognition of sequences exhibiting both acylations. Together, the data extend the N-end rule concept for Gly-starting proteins to subcellular compartmentalization and reveal the main neighbors influencing protein modification profiles and consequent cell fate.
PXD009240	29892262	Drosophila Insulin-Like Peptides DILP2 and DILP5 Differentially Stimulate Cell Signaling and Glycogen Phosphorylase to Regulate Longevity. 	Drosophila insulin-like peptides DILP2 and DILP5 stimulation global phosphoproteome	DILP, Drosophila, insulin-like peptide, insulin/IGF signaling	Insulin and IGF signaling (IIS) is a complex system that controls diverse processes including growth, development, metabolism, stress responses, and aging. Drosophila melanogaster IIS is propagated by eight Drosophila insulin-like peptides (DILPs), homologs of both mammalian insulin and IGFs, with various spatiotemporal expression patterns and functions. DILPs 1-7 are thought to act through a single Drosophila insulin/IGF receptor, InR, but it is unclear how the DILPs thereby mediate a range of physiological phenotypes. We determined the distinct cell signaling effects of DILP2 and DILP5 stimulation upon Drosophila S2 cells. DILP2 and DILP5 induced similar transcriptional patterns but differed in signal transduction kinetics. DILP5 induced sustained phosphorylation of Akt, while DILP2 produced acute, transient Akt phosphorylation. Accordingly, we used phosphoproteomic analysis to identify distinct patterns of non-genomic signaling induced by DILP2 and DILP5. Across all treatments and replicates, 5,250 unique phosphopeptides were identified, representing 1,575 proteins. Among these peptides, DILP2, but not DILP5, dephosphorylated Ser15 on glycogen phosphorylase (GlyP), and DILP2, but not DILP5, was subsequently shown to repress enzymatic GlyP activity in S2 cells. The functional consequences of this difference were evaluated in adult Drosophila dilp mutants: dilp2 null adults have elevated GlyP enzymatic activity relative to wild type, while dilp5 mutants have reduced GlyP activity. In flies with intact insulin genes, GlyP overexpression extended lifespan in a Ser15 phosphorylation-dependent manner. In dilp2 mutants, that are otherwise long-lived, longevity was repressed by expression of phosphonull GlyP that is enzymatically inactive. Overall, DILP2, unlike DILP5, signals to affect longevity in part through its control of phosphorylation to deactivate glycogen phosphorylase, a central modulator of glycogen storage and gluconeogenesis.
PXD016726	29894293	Oncogenic BRAFV600E drives expression of MGL ligands in the colorectal cancer cell line HT29 through N-acetylgalactosamine-transferase 3. 	Characterization of Macrophage Galactose-type Lectin (MGL) ligands in colorectal cancer cell lines	: Glycoproteomics, C-type lectin, LacdiNAc, Tn antigen, colorectal cancer	Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer type worldwide. It is characterized by a high expression of aberrantly glycosylated ligands, such as the Tn antigen (GalNAcalpha1-Ser/Thr), which is a major ligand for the C-type lectin macrophage galactose-type lectin (MGL). We have previously determined that a high level of MGL ligands in colorectal tumors is associated with lower disease-free survival in patients with late stage disease, which we could attribute to the presence of oncogenic BRAFV600E mutations. Here we aimed to elucidate the downstream pathway of BRAFV600E governing high MGL ligand and Tn antigen expression. We focused on glycosylation-related enzymes involved in the synthesis or elongation of Tn antigen, N-acetylgalactosamine-transferases (GALNTs) and C1GalT1/COSMC, respectively. Both the activity and expression of C1GalT1 and COSMC were unrelated to the BRAF mutational status. In contrast, GALNT3, GALNT7 and GALNT12 were increased in colorectal cancer cells harboring the BRAFV600E mutation. Through CRISPR-Cas9 gene knockouts we could establish that GALNT3 increased MGL ligand synthesis in the HT29 cell line, while GALNT7 and GALNT12 appeared to have redundant roles. Together our results highlight a novel mechanistic pathway connecting BRAFV600E to aberrant glycosylation in colorectal cancer through GALNT3.
PXD006874	29895708	A Peptidomic Approach to Characterize Peptides Involved in Cerebellar Cortex Development Leads to the Identification of the Neurotrophic Effects of Nociceptin. 	A peptidomic approach to characterize peptides involved in cerebellar cortex development leads to the identification of the neurotrophic effects of nociceptin	cerebellum, development, nociceptin, peptidome, rat	The cerebellum is a brain structure involved in motor and cognitive functions. The development of the cerebellar cortex (the external part of the cerebellum) is under the control of numerous factors. Among these factors, neuropeptides including PACAP or somatostatin modulate the survival, migration and/or differentiation of cerebellar granule cells. Interestingly, such peptides contributing to cerebellar ontogenesis usually exhibit a specific transient expression profile with a low abundance at birth, a high expression level during the developmental processes, which take place within the first two postnatal weeks in rodents, and a gradual decline toward adulthood. Thus, to identify new peptides transiently expressed in the cerebellum during development, rat cerebella were sampled from birth to adulthood, and analyzed by a semi-quantitative peptidomic approach. A total of 33 peptides were found to be expressed in the cerebellum. Among these 33 peptides, 8 had a clear differential expression pattern during development, 4 of them i.e. cerebellin 2, nociceptin, somatostatin and VGF [353-372], exhibiting a high expression level during the first two postnatal weeks followed by a significative decrease at adulthood. A focus by a genomic approach on nociceptin, confirmed that its precursor mRNA is transiently expressed during the first week of life in granule neurons within the internal granule cell layer of the cerebellum, and showed that the nociceptin receptor is also actively expressed between P8 and P16 by the same neurons. Finally, functional studies revealed a new role for nociceptin, acting as a neurotrophic peptide able to promote the survival and differentiation of developing cerebellar granule neurons.
PXD003247	29895711	Negative feedback via RSK modulates Erk-dependent progression from naive pluripotency. 	RSK feedback modulates initiation of embryonic stem cell differentiation	Mouse embryonic stem cells, SILAC, phosphoproteome	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signalling is implicated in initiation of embryonic stem (ES) cell differentiation. The pathway is subject to complex feedback regulation. Here, we examined the ERK-responsive phosphoproteome in ES cells and identified the negative regulator RSK1 as a prominent target. We used CRISPR/Cas9 to create combinatorial mutations in RSK family genes. Genotypes that included homozygous null mutations in Rps6ka1, encoding RSK1, resulted in elevated ERK phosphorylation. These RSK-depleted ES cells exhibit altered kinetics of transition into differentiation, with accelerated downregulation of naive pluripotency factors, precocious expression of transitional epiblast markers and early onset of lineage specification. We further show that chemical inhibition of RSK increases ERK phosphorylation and expedites ES cell transition without compromising multilineage potential. These findings demonstrate that the ERK activation profile influences the dynamics of pluripotency progression and highlight the role of signalling feedback in temporal control of cell state transitions.
PXD009416	29895861	alpha-synuclein oligomers interact with ATP synthase and open the permeability transition pore in Parkinson's disease. 	ATP synthase nLC-MSMS -  alpha-synuclein oligomers interact with ATP synthase and open the permeability transition pore in Parkinson's disease	ATP synthase, nLC-MSMS	Protein aggregation causes alpha-synuclein to switch from its physiological role to a pathological toxic gain of function. Under physiological conditions, monomeric alpha-synuclein improves ATP synthase efficiency. Here, we report that aggregation of monomers generates beta sheet-rich oligomers that localise to the mitochondria in close proximity to several mitochondrial proteins including ATP synthase. Oligomeric alpha-synuclein impairs complex I-dependent respiration. Oligomers induce selective oxidation of the ATP synthase beta subunit and mitochondrial lipid peroxidation. These oxidation events increase the probability of permeability transition pore (PTP) opening, triggering mitochondrial swelling, and ultimately cell death. Notably, inhibition of oligomer-induced oxidation prevents the pathological induction of PTP. Inducible pluripotent stem cells (iPSC)-derived neurons bearing SNCA triplication, generate alpha-synuclein aggregates that interact with the ATP synthase and induce PTP opening, leading to neuronal death. This study shows how the transition of alpha-synuclein from its monomeric to oligomeric structure alters its functional consequences in Parkinson's disease.
PXD009863	29895970	TRPS1 regulates oestrogen receptor binding and histone acetylation at enhancers. 	RIME against TRPS1 in breast cancer cell lines	RIME, TRPS1, breast	The chromatin state is finely tuned to regulate function and specificity for transcription factors such as oestrogen receptor alpha (ER), which contributes to cell growth in breast cancer. ER transcriptional potential is mediated, in large part, by the specific associated proteins and co-factors that interact with it. Despite the identification and characterisation of several ER coregulators, a complete and systematic view of ER-regulating chromatin modifiers is lacking. By exploiting a focused siRNA screen that investigated the requirement for a library of 330 chromatin regulators in ER-mediated cell growth, we find that the NuRD and coREST histone deacetylation complexes are critical for breast cancer cell proliferation. Further, by proteomic and genomics approaches, we discover the transcription factor TRPS1 to be a key interactor of the NuRD and coREST complexes. Interestingly, TRPS1 gene amplification occurs in 28% of human breast tumours and is associated with poor prognosis. We propose that TRPS1 is required to repress spurious binding of ER, where it contributes to the removal of histone acetylation. Our data suggest that TRPS1 is an important ER-associated transcriptional repressor that regulates cell proliferation, chromatin acetylation and ER binding at the chromatin of cis-regulatory elements.
PXD006821	29896187	Exploring the Denitrification Proteome of Paracoccus denitrificans PD1222. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis by Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry/Mass Spectrometry of Paracoccus denitrificans PD1222 under denitrifying conditions	Denitrification, Liquid-Chromatography, Mass-Spectrometry, Paracoccus, nitrate, nitrate reductase, nitrous oxide, nitrous oxide reductase	Denitrification is a respiratory process that produces nitrous oxide as an intermediate, which may escape to the atmosphere before its reduction to dinitrogen through the nitrous oxide reductase NosZ. In this work, the denitrification process carried out by Paracoccus denitrificans PD1222 has been explored through a quantitative proteomic analysis. Under anaerobic conditions, with nitrate as sole nitrogen source, the synthesis of all the enzymes involved in denitrification, the respiratory nitrate, nitrite, nitric oxide, and nitrous oxide reductases, was increased. However, the periplasmic and assimilatory nitrate reductases decreased. Synthesis of transporters for alcohols, D-methionine, sulfate and copper, most of the enzymes involved in the tricarboxylic acid cycle, and proteins involved in other metabolic processes like lysine catabolism, fatty acids degradation and acetyl-CoA synthesis, was increased during denitrification in P. denitrificans PD1222. As consequence, an enhanced production of the central metabolite acetyl-CoA was observed. After establishing the key features of the denitrification proteome, its changes by the influence of a competitive electron acceptor, oxygen, or competitive nitrogen source, ammonium, were evaluated.
PXD006169	29896523	Time-course proteomics dataset to monitor protein-bound methionine oxidation in Bacillus cereus ATCC 14579. 	Bacillus cereus proteomics, extraproteome	Methionine sulfoxide reductase AB, exoproteome, shotgun proteomics	Aerobic respiratory growth generates endogenous reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS oxidize protein-bound methionine residues into methionine sulfoxide. Methionine sulfoxide reductases catalyze the reduction of methionine sulfoxide to methionine in proteins. Here, we use high-throughput nanoLC-MS/MS methodology to establish detailed maps of oxidized proteins from Bacillus cereus ATCC 14579 DeltapBClin15 and its mutant for which the methionine sulfoxide reductase AB gene (msrAB) has been inactivated (Madeira et al., 2017) [1]. Lists of oxidized peptides and proteins identified at early exponential, late exponential and stationary growth phases are supplied in this article as data files. Raw data are deposited at the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifiers, PXD006169 and PDX006205 (http://www.ebi.ac/uk). Given the importance of methionine oxidation in several key cellular processes and its impact in the field of medical and food microbiology, this paper should be useful for further insightful redox studies in B. cereus and its numerous relatives.
PXD009734	29899143	Separable roles for Mec1/ATR in genome maintenance, DNA replication, and checkpoint signaling. 	Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Mec1/ATR Signaling in Response to Different Manners of Kinase Activation	ATR, Ddc1, Dna2, Dpb11, Mec1, Phosphoproteomics	The Mec1/ATR kinase coordinates multiple cellular responses to replication stress. In addition to its canonical role in activating the checkpoint kinase Rad53, Mec1 also plays checkpoint-independent roles in genome maintenance that are not well understood. Here we used a combined genetic-phosphoproteomic approach to manipulate Mec1 activation and globally monitor Mec1 signaling, allowing us to delineate distinct checkpoint-independent modes of Mec1 action. Using cells in which endogenous Mec1 activators were genetically ablated, we found that expression of "free" Mec1 activation domains (MADs) can robustly activate Mec1 and rescue the severe DNA replication and growth defects of these cells back to wild-type levels. However, unlike the activation mediated by endogenous activator proteins, "free" MADs are unable to stimulate Mec1-mediated suppression of gross chromosomal rearrangements (GCRs), revealing that Mec1's role in genome maintenance is separable from a previously unappreciated proreplicative function. Both Mec1's functions in promoting replication and suppressing GCRs are independent of the downstream checkpoint kinases. Additionally, Mec1-dependent GCR suppression seems to require localized Mec1 action at DNA lesions, which correlates with the phosphorylation of activator-proximal substrates involved in homologous recombination-mediated DNA repair. These findings establish that Mec1 initiates checkpoint signaling, promotes DNA replication, and maintains genetic stability through distinct modes of action.
PXD009526	29899147	Conformational control and DNA-binding mechanism of the metazoan origin recognition complex. 	Conformational control and DNA binding mechanism of the metazoan origin recognition complex	Chemical cross-linking, DSS, autoinhibition, origin recognition complex, structural proteomics	In eukaryotes, the heterohexameric origin recognition complex (ORC) coordinates replication onset by facilitating the recruitment and loading of the minichromosome maintenance 2-7 (Mcm2-7) replicative helicase onto DNA to license origins. Drosophila ORC can adopt an autoinhibited configuration that is predicted to prevent Mcm2-7 loading; how the complex is activated and whether other ORC homologs can assume this state are not known. Using chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometry, biochemical assays, and electron microscopy (EM), we show that the autoinhibited state of Drosophila ORC is populated in solution, and that human ORC can also adopt this form. ATP binding to ORC supports a transition from the autoinhibited state to an active configuration, enabling the nucleotide-dependent association of ORC with both DNA and Cdc6. An unstructured N-terminal region adjacent to the conserved ATPase domain of Orc1 is shown to be required for high-affinity ORC-DNA interactions, but not for activation. ORC optimally binds DNA duplexes longer than the predicted footprint of the ORC ATPases associated with a variety of cellular activities (AAA(+)) and winged-helix (WH) folds; cryo-EM analysis of Drosophila ORC bound to DNA and Cdc6 indicates that ORC contacts DNA outside of its central core region, bending the DNA away from its central DNA-binding channel. Our findings indicate that ORC autoinhibition may be common to metazoans and that ORC-Cdc6 remodels origin DNA before Mcm2-7 recruitment and loading.
PXD007968	29899353	A quantitative mass spectrometry-based approach to monitor the dynamics of endogenous chromatin-associated protein complexes. 	A quantitative mass spectrometry-based approach to monitor the dynamics of endogenous chromatin-associated protein complexes	4-hydrotamoxifen, Estrogen Rece, Patient Derived Xenografts (PDX), ProteomeXchange project tag: Breast Cancer, RIME, TMT, breast cancer, clinical samples, isobaric labelling, qPLEX-RIME	Understanding the dynamics of endogenous protein-protein interactions in complex networks is pivotal in deciphering disease mechanisms. To enable the in-depth analysis of protein interactions in chromatin-associated protein complexes, we have previously developed a method termed RIME (Rapid Immunoprecipitation Mass spectrometry of Endogenous proteins). Here, we present a quantitative multiplexed method (qPLEX-RIME), which integrates RIME with isobaric labelling and tribrid mass spectrometry for the study of protein interactome dynamics in a quantitative fashion with increased sensitivity. Using the qPLEX-RIME method, we delineate the temporal changes of the Estrogen Receptor alpha (ERalpha) interactome in breast cancer cells treated with 4-hydroxytamoxifen. Furthermore, we identify endogenous ERalpha-associated proteins in human Patient-Derived Xenograft tumours and in primary human breast cancer clinical tissue. Our results demonstrate that the combination of RIME with isobaric labelling offers a powerful tool for the in-depth and quantitative characterisation of protein interactome dynamics, which is applicable to clinical samples.
PXD008141	29900295	Peptidomics dataset: Blood plasma and serum samples of healthy donors fractionated on a set of chromatography sorbents. 	Blood plasma and serum samples of healthy donors fractionated on different chromatography sorbents	Healthy donors, blood plasma and serum, mass-spectrometry, norm, peptidomics	Blood as connective tissue potentially contains evidence of all processes occurring within the organism, at least in trace amounts (Petricoin et al., 2006) [1]. Because of their small size, peptides penetrate cell membranes and epithelial barriers more freely than proteins. Among the peptides found in blood, there are both fragments of proteins secreted by various tissues and performing their function in plasma and receptor ligands: hormones, cytokines and mediators of cellular response (Anderson et al., 2002) [2]. In addition, in minor amounts, there are peptide disease markers (for example, oncomarkers) and even foreign peptides related to pathogenic organisms and infection agents. To propose an approach for detailed peptidome characterization, we carried out an LC-MS/MS analysis of blood serum and plasma samples taken from 20 healthy donors on a TripleTOF 5600+ mass-spectrometer. We prepared samples based on our previously developed method of peptide desorption from the surface of abundant blood plasma proteins followed by standard chromatographic steps (Ziganshin et al., 2011) [3]. The mass-spectrometry peptidomics data presented in this article have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium (Deutsch et al., 2017) [4] via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD008141 and 10.6019/PXD008141.
PXD004941	29901268	Integrative Analysis of Proteome and Ubiquitylome Reveals Unique Features of Lysosomal and Endocytic Pathways in Gefitinib-Resistant Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Cells. 	Integrative analysis of proteome and ubiquitylome reveals unique features of protein ubiquitylation and mitochondria in gefitinib resistant non-small cell lung cancer cells	LC_MSMS, lung, non-small cell lung cancer cells	Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients carrying EGFR activating mutations treated with gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, will develop drug resistance. Ubiquitylation is one of major posttranslational modifications of proteins affecting the stability or function of proteins. However, the role of protein ubiquitylation in gefitinib resistance is poorly understood. To systematically identify the global change in protein expression and ubiquitylation during gefitinib resistance, a quantitative global proteome and ubiquitylome study in a pair of gefitinib-resistant and sensitive NSCLC cells is carried out. Altogether, changes in expression of 3773 proteins are quantified, and changes in ubiquitylation of 2893 lysine sites in 1415 proteins are measured in both cells. Interestingly, lysosomal and endocytic pathways, which are involved in autophagy regulation, are enriched with upregulated proteins or ubiquitylated proteins in gefitinib-resistant cells. In addition, HMGA2 overexpression or ALOX5 knockdown suppresses gefitinib resistance in NSCLC cells by inhibiting autophagy. Overall, these results reveal the previously unknown global ubiquitylome and proteomic features associated with gefitinib resistance, uncover the opposing roles of HMGA2 or ALOX5 in regulating gefitinib resistance and autophagy, and will help to identify new therapeutic targets in overcoming gefitinib resistance.
PXD009460	29902373	Characterization of Disulfide Linkages in Proteins by 193 nm Ultraviolet Photodissociation (UVPD) Mass Spectrometry. 	Characterization of disulfide linkages in proteins by 193 nm ultraviolet photodissociation (UVPD)	Disulfide bond, HPLC, UVPD, ultraviolet photodissociation	Deciphering disulfide bond patterns in proteins remains a significant challenge. In the present study, interlinked disulfide bonds connecting peptide chains are homolytically cleaved with 193 nm ultraviolet photodissociation (UVPD). Analysis of insulin showcased the ability of UVPD to cleave multiple disulfide bonds and provide sequence coverage of the peptide chains in the same MS/MS event. For proteins containing more complex disulfide bonding patterns, an approach combining partial reduction and alkylation mitigated disulfide scrambling and allowed assignment of the array of disulfide bonds. The 4 disulfide bonds of lysozyme and the 19 disulfide bonds of serotransferrin were characterized through LC/UVPD-MS analysis of nonreduced and partially reduced protein digests.
PXD007982	29902475	Quantitative protein profiling and pathway analysis of spinal arteriovenous malformations. 	Quantitive protein profiling and pathway analysis for spinal arteriovenous malformations	Angiogenesis, Focal adhesion, Ribosome, Spinal arteriovenous malformation	Spinal arteriovenous malformations (sAVM) are rare and heterogeneous group of blood vessel disorders that affect spinal cord function directly or indirectly; however, the pathogenesis of sAVM is still unclear. In this study, we compared four sAVM specimens obtained during surgery and donated control samples in a Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)-labeled proteomic analysis. We identified 3101 proteins, 654 of which were differentially expressed in sAVM samples compared with the controls. Of these, 96 proteins were upregulated and 358 proteins were downregulated. Gene ontology (GO) analysis revealed that extracellular matrix organization in the biological process category and integrin-binding proteins in the molecular function category were the most enriched items. Two significant differentially expressed proteins (MYLK and MMP9) were verified by Western blot analysis. The pathway analysis indicated that the differentially expressed proteins in the pathways of angiogenesis, focal adhesion and cytoplasmic ribosome contributed to sAVM. The changes in protein profiles identified in this proteomic study provide an improved understanding of the pathogenesis of sAVM. The proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007982.
PXD008554	29905012	Quantitative Secretomics Reveals Extrinsic Signals Involved in Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Cardiomyogenesis. 	Quantitative secretomics during cardiomyogenic differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells	Cardiomyogenesis, Secretomics, hESCs, hiPSCs	Human pluripotent stem cells can be differentiated in vitro into cardiomyocytes (CMs) but the molecular mechanisms behind this process are still not fully understood. In particular, the identification of morphogens remained elusive because the mass spectrometry-based identification of secreted proteins from cell culture supernatants is impeded by high levels of albumin present in common differentiation media. An albumin-free cardiomyogenic differentiation medium is established in this study and applied for secretomics at seven different time points during in vitro differentiation. By this analysis 4832 proteins are identified with 1802 being significantly altered during differentiation and 431 of these are annotated as secreted. Numerous extrinsic components of Wnt, TGFbeta, Activin A, Nodal, BMP, or FGF signaling pathways are quantitatively assessed during differentiation. Notably, the abundance of pathway agonists is generally lower compared to the respective antagonists but their curves of progression over timer were rather similar. It is hypothesized that TGFbeta, Activin A, and Nodal signaling are turned down shortly upon the initiation of cardiac differentiation whereas BMP signaling is switched on. Wnt and FGF signaling peaks between d0 and d3 of differentiation, and interestingly, Activin A and TGFbeta signaling seem to be reactivated at the cardiac progenitor stages and/or in early CMs.
PXD008745	29906502	Evolutionarily conserved and species-specific glycoproteins in the N-glycoproteomes of diverse insect species. 	N-glycoproteomic analyses from different insect species reveal conserved and  unique glycoproteins	Drosophila  melanogaster, N-linked  glycosylation, glycoprotein, insect, lectin, mass  spectrometry  (MS), pest insect	N-glycosylation is one of the most abundant and conserved protein modifications in eukaryotes. The attachment of N-glycans to proteins can modulate their properties and influences numerous important biological processes, such as protein folding and cellular attachment. Recently, it has been shown that protein N-glycosylation plays a vital role in insect development and survival, which makes the glycans an interesting target for pest control. Despite the importance of protein N-glycosylation in insects, knowledge about insect N-glycoproteomes is scarce. To fill this gap, the N-glycosites were identified in proteins from three major pest insects, spanning different insect orders and diverging in post-embryonic development, feeding mechanism and evolutionary ancestry: Drosophila melanogaster (Diptera), Tribolium castaneum (Coleoptera) and Acyrthosiphon pisum (Hemiptera). The N-glyco-FASP method for isolation of N-glycopeptides was optimized to study the insect N-glycosites and allowed the identification of 889 N-glycosylation sites in T. castaneum, 941 in D. melanogaster and 1338 in A. pisum. Although a large set of the corresponding glycoproteins is shared among the three insects, species- and order-specific glycoproteins were also identified. The functionality of the insect glycoproteins together with the conservation of the N-glycosites throughout evolution is discussed. This information can help in the elaboration of novel pest insect control strategies based on interference in insect glycosylation.
PXD006439	29907695	Cancer cells copy migratory behavior and exchange signaling networks via extracellular vesicles. 	Signaling networks transported by EVs drive phenocopying of migratory behavior between tumor cells	EV, extracellular vesicle, label-free, tumor	Recent data showed that cancer cells from different tumor subtypes with distinct metastatic potential influence each other's metastatic behavior by exchanging biomolecules through extracellular vesicles (EVs). However, it is debated how small amounts of cargo can mediate this effect, especially in tumors where all cells are from one subtype, and only subtle molecular differences drive metastatic heterogeneity. To study this, we have characterized the content of EVs shed in vivo by two clones of melanoma (B16) tumors with distinct metastatic potential. Using the Cre-LoxP system and intravital microscopy, we show that cells from these distinct clones phenocopy their migratory behavior through EV exchange. By tandem mass spectrometry and RNA sequencing, we show that EVs shed by these clones into the tumor microenvironment contain thousands of different proteins and RNAs, and many of these biomolecules are from interconnected signaling networks involved in cellular processes such as migration. Thus, EVs contain numerous proteins and RNAs and act on recipient cells by invoking a multi-faceted biological response including cell migration.
PXD009113	29907748	Extracellular nanovesicles released from the commensal yeast Malassezia sympodialis are enriched in allergens and interact with cells in human skin. 	Proteome characterisation of Malassezia sympodialis microvesicles	MalaEx, Malassezia sympodialis, microvesicles	Malassezia sympodialis is a dominant commensal fungi in the human skin mycobiome but is also associated with common skin disorders including atopic eczema (AE). M. sympodialis releases extracellular vesicles, designated MalaEx, which are carriers of small RNAs and allergens, and they can induce inflammatory cytokine responses. Here we explored how MalaEx are involved in host-microbe interactions by comparing protein content of MalaEx with that of the parental yeast cells, and by investigating interactions of MalaEx with cells in the skin. Cryo-electron tomography revealed a heterogeneous population of MalaEx. iTRAQ based quantitative proteomics identified in total 2439 proteins in all replicates of which 110 were enriched in MalaEx compared to the yeast cells. Among the MalaEx enriched proteins were two of the M. sympodialis allergens, Mala s 1 and s 7. Functional experiments indicated an active binding and internalization of MalaEx into human keratinocytes and monocytes, and MalaEx were found in close proximity of the nuclei using super-resolution fluorescence 3D-SIM imaging. Our results provides new insights into host-microbe interactions, supporting that MalaEx may have a role in the sensitization and maintenance of inflammation in AE by containing enriched amounts of allergens and with their ability to interact with skin cells.
PXD008278	29907817	Serum Proteomic Profiling to Identify Biomarkers of Premature Carotid Atherosclerosis. 	Serum proteomics of Premature Carotid atherosclerosis: The Cardiovascular Risk in Young Finns Study	Atherosclerosis, Label free quantification, Protoemics, Serum	To evaluate the presence of serum protein biomarkers associated with the early phases of formation of carotid atherosclerotic plaques, label-free quantitative proteomics analyses were made for serum samples collected as part of The Cardiovascular Risk in Young Finns Study. Samples from subjects who had an asymptomatic carotid artery plaque detected by ultrasound examination (N = 43, Age = 30-45 years) were compared with plaque free controls (N = 43) (matched for age, sex, body weight and systolic blood pressure). Seven proteins (p < 0.05) that have been previously linked with atherosclerotic phenotypes were differentially abundant. Fibulin 1 proteoform C (FBLN1C), Beta-ala-his-dipeptidase (CNDP1), Cadherin-13 (CDH13), Gelsolin (GSN) and 72 kDa type IV collagenase (MMP2) were less abundant in cases, whereas Apolipoproteins C-III (APOC3) and apolipoprotein E (APOE) were more abundant. Using machine learning analysis, a biomarker panel of FBLN1C, APOE and CDH13 was identified, which classified cases from controls with an area under receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUROC) value of 0.79. Furthermore, using selected reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (SRM-MS) the decreased abundance of FBLN1C was verified. In relation to previous associations of FBLN1C with atherosclerotic lesions, the observation could reflect its involvement in the initiation of the plaque formation, or represent a particular risk phenotype.
PXD008682	29908990	Development and validation of response markers to predict survival and pleurodesis success in patients with malignant pleural effusion (PROMISE): a multicohort analysis. 	Survival and pleurodesis response markers in malignant pleural effusion - The PROMISE study	Lung cancer, TIMP1, biomarker, metastasis, mortality	BACKGROUND: The prevalence of malignant pleural effusion is increasing worldwide, but prognostic biomarkers to plan treatment and to understand the underlying mechanisms of disease progression remain unidentified. The PROMISE study was designed with the objectives to discover, validate, and prospectively assess biomarkers of survival and pleurodesis response in malignant pleural effusion and build a score that predicts survival. METHODS: In this multicohort study, we used five separate and independent datasets from randomised controlled trials to investigate potential biomarkers of survival and pleurodesis. Mass spectrometry-based discovery was used to investigate pleural fluid samples for differential protein expression in patients from the discovery group with different survival and pleurodesis outcomes. Clinical, radiological, and biological variables were entered into least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression to build a model that predicts 3-month mortality. We evaluated the model using internal and external validation. FINDINGS: 17 biomarker candidates of survival and seven of pleurodesis were identified in the discovery dataset. Three independent datasets (n=502) were used for biomarker validation. All pleurodesis biomarkers failed, and gelsolin, macrophage migration inhibitory factor, versican, and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1 (TIMP1) emerged as accurate predictors of survival. Eight variables (haemoglobin, C-reactive protein, white blood cell count, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, cancer type, pleural fluid TIMP1 concentrations, and previous chemotherapy or radiotherapy) were validated and used to develop a survival score. Internal validation with bootstrap resampling and external validation with 162 patients from two independent datasets showed good discrimination (C statistic values of 0.78 [95% CI 0.72-0.83] for internal validation and 0.89 [0.84-0.93] for external validation of the clinical PROMISE score). INTERPRETATION: To our knowledge, the PROMISE score is the first prospectively validated prognostic model for malignant pleural effusion that combines biological and clinical parameters to accurately estimate 3-month mortality. It is a robust, clinically relevant prognostic score that can be applied immediately, provide important information on patient prognosis, and guide the selection of appropriate management strategies. FUNDING: European Respiratory Society, Medical Research Funding-University of Oxford, Slater & Gordon Research Fund, and Oxfordshire Health Services Research Committee Research Grants.
PXD009494	29910077	Endogenous Stochastic Decoding of the CUG Codon by Competing Ser- and Leu-tRNAs in Ascoidea asiatica. 	Yeast genetic codes -  Endogenous Stochastic Decoding of the CUG Codon by Competing Ser- and Leu-tRNAs in Ascoidea asiatica	Ascoidea, Babjeviella, Clavispora, Nakazawaea, Saccharomycopsis	Although the "universal" genetic code is now known not to be universal, and stop codons can have multiple meanings, one regularity remains, namely that for a given sense codon there is a unique translation. Examining CUG usage in yeasts that have transferred CUG away from leucine, we here report the first example of dual coding: Ascoidea asiatica stochastically encodes CUG as both serine and leucine in approximately equal proportions. This is deleterious, as evidenced by CUG codons being rare, never at conserved serine or leucine residues, and predominantly in lowly expressed genes. Related yeasts solve the problem by loss of function of one of the two tRNAs. This dual coding is consistent with the tRNA-loss-driven codon reassignment hypothesis, and provides a unique example of a proteome that cannot be deterministically predicted. VIDEO ABSTRACT.
PXD009516	29910119	Secretagogin protects Pdx1 from proteasomal degradation to control a transcriptional program required for beta cell specification. 	Interactome of Ca2+-bound secretagogin in mouse embryonic (E13.5) pancreas	His6-tagged recombinant secretagogin, mouse embryonic (E13.5) pancreas, protein-protein interactions, pull down	OBJECTIVE: Specification of endocrine cell lineages in the developing pancreas relies on extrinsic signals from non-pancreatic tissues, which initiate a cell-autonomous sequence of transcription factor activation and repression switches. The steps in this pathway share reliance on activity-dependent Ca(2+) signals. However, the mechanisms by which phasic Ca(2+) surges become converted into a dynamic, cell-state-specific and physiologically meaningful code made up by transcription factors constellations remain essentially unknown. METHODS: We used high-resolution histochemistry to explore the coincident expression of secretagogin and transcription factors driving beta cell differentiation. Secretagogin promoter activity was tested in response to genetically manipulating Pax6 and Pax4 expression. Secretagogin null mice were produced with their pancreatic islets morphologically and functionally characterized during fetal development. A proteomic approach was utilized to identify the Ca(2+)-dependent interaction of secretagogin with subunits of the 26S proteasome and verified in vitro by focusing on Pdx1 retention. RESULTS: Here, we show that secretagogin, a Ca(2+) sensor protein that controls alpha and beta cell turnover in adult, is in fact expressed in endocrine pancreas from the inception of lineage segregation in a Pax4-and Pax6-dependent fashion. By genetically and pharmacologically manipulating secretagogin expression and interactome engagement in vitro, we find secretagogin to gate excitation-driven Ca(2+) signals for beta cell differentiation and insulin production. Accordingly, secretagogin(-)(/)(-) fetuses retain a non-committed pool of endocrine progenitors that co-express both insulin and glucagon. We identify the Ca(2+)-dependent interaction of secretagogin with subunits of the 26S proteasome complex to prevent Pdx1 degradation through proteasome inactivation. This coincides with retained Nkx6.1, Pax4 and insulin transcription in prospective beta cells. CONCLUSIONS: In sum, secretagogin scales the temporal availability of a Ca(2+)-dependent transcription factor network to define beta cell identity.
PXD009387	29911326	Improving Quality Control of Contagious Caprine Pleuropneumonia Vaccine with Tandem Mass Spectrometry. 	Contagious Caprine Pleuropneumonia vaccine	Contagious caprine pleuropneumonia, Mycoplasma, Quality control, Vaccines, metaproteomics	Vaccines to protect livestock against contagious caprine pleuropneumonia (CCPP) consist of inactivated, adjuvanted antigens. Quality control of these vaccines is challenging as total protein quantification provides no indication of protein identity or purity, and culture is not an option. Here, a tandem mass spectrometry approach is used to identify the mycoplasma antigen contained in reference samples and in commercial CCPP vaccines. By the same approach, the relative amounts of mycoplasma antigen and residual proteins originating from the production medium are determined. Mass spectrometry allows easy and rapid identification of the peptides present in the vaccine samples. Alongside the most probable mycoplasma species effectively present in the vaccines, a very high proportion of peptides from medium constituents are detected in the commercial vaccines tested.
PXD008652	29913266	The mechanism of iron-compensation for manganese deficiency of Streptococcus pneumoniae. 	Proteomic Analysis on the Mechanism of Iron-Compensation Substitute for Manganese Deficiency of Streptococcus pneumoniae	Iron-Compensation, Manganese Deficiency, Streptococcus pneumoniae	Given their involvement in catalysis, infection, and biofilm formation, Fe and Mn are essential for bacterial survival and virulence. In this study, we found that Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae) could grow in the Mn-deficient medium (MDCM). Furthermore, findings showed that the Fe concentration in the bacterium increased when the Mn concentration decreased. In addition, it was noted that supplementing MDCM with Fe resulted in the recovery of bacterial growth. Quantitative proteomics using stable-isotope dimethyl labeling was performed to investigate the adaptive growth mechanism of S. pneumoniae under Mn-deficient conditions. It was found that the expression levels of 25 proteins were downregulated, whereas those of 54 proteins were upregulated in S. pneumoniae grown in MDCM. It was also noted that several of the downregulated proteins were involved in cell energy metabolism, amino acid synthesis, and reduction of oxidation products. More importantly, several ATP-binding cassette transporters related to Fe uptake, such as PiuA, PiaA, PitA, and SPD_1609, were overexpressed for increased Fe uptake from the MDCM. The results suggest that Mn deficiency disturbs multiple metabolic processes in S. pneumoniae. Furthermore, it causes a compensatory effect of Fe for Mn, which is beneficial for the survival of the bacterium in extreme environments. SIGNIFICANCE: The relationship between manganese and iron metabolism in S. pneumoniae has not been clearly revealed. In this paper, we suggest that Mn limitation disturbs multiple metabolic processes and evidently decreases the ATP level in the bacterium. In order to survive in this extreme environment, bacteria upregulated three type of Fe ion transporters PiuABC (heme), PiaABC (ferrichrome) and PitABC (Fe(3+)) to uptake enough Fe ions to response to Mn deficiency. Therefore, this study reveals a bacterial mechanism of Fe compensation for Mn, and provides new insight for investigating the relativeness of Fe and Mn metabolism of bacteria.
PXD006103	29915147	Proteomics Reveals Scope of Mycolactone-mediated Sec61 Blockade and Distinctive Stress Signature. 	Effect of Sec61 inhibitor mycolactone on the proteome of the MutuDC dendritic cell line	Mouse MutuDC dendritic mycolactone Sec61 MS/MS LFQ	Mycolactone is a bacteria-derived macrolide that blocks the biogenesis of a large array of secretory and integral transmembrane proteins (TMP) through potent inhibition of the Sec61 translocon. Here, we used quantitative proteomics to delineate the direct and indirect effects of mycolactone-mediated Sec61 blockade in living cells. In T lymphocytes, dendritic cells and sensory neurons, Sec61 substrates downregulated by mycolactone were in order of incidence: secretory proteins (with a signal peptide but no transmembrane domain), TMPs with a signal peptide (Type I) and TMPs without signal peptide and a cytosolic N terminus (Type II). TMPs without a signal peptide and the opposite N terminus topology (Type III) were refractory to mycolactone inhibition. This rule applied comparably to single- and multi-pass TMPs, and extended to exogenous viral proteins. Parallel to its broad-spectrum inhibition of Sec61-mediated protein translocation, mycolactone rapidly induced cytosolic chaperones Hsp70/Hsp90. Moreover, it activated an atypical endoplasmic reticulum stress response, differing from conventional unfolded protein response by the down-regulation of Bip. In addition to refining our mechanistic understanding of Sec61 inhibition by mycolactone, our findings thus reveal that Sec61 blockade induces proteostatic stress in the cytosol and the endoplasmic reticulum.
PXD007231	29915148	Stable Isotope Dynamic Labeling of Secretomes (SIDLS) Identifies Authentic Secretory Proteins Released by Cancer and Stromal Cells. 	Stable isotope dynamic labelling of secretomes C4PR_LIV	Human Cancer Cells Secretome Dynamic Labelling	Analysis of secretomes critically underpins the capacity to understand the mechanisms determining interactions between cells and between cells and their environment. In the context of cancer cell micro-environments, the relevant interactions are recognized to be an important determinant of tumor progression. Global proteomic analyses of secretomes are often performed at a single time point and frequently identify both classical secreted proteins (possessing an N-terminal signal sequence), as well as many intracellular proteins, the release of which is of uncertain biological significance. Here, we describe a mass spectrometry-based method for stable isotope dynamic labeling of secretomes (SIDLS) that, by dynamic SILAC, discriminates the secretion kinetics of classical secretory proteins and intracellular proteins released from cancer and stromal cells in culture. SIDLS is a robust classifier of the different cellular origins of proteins within the secretome and should be broadly applicable to nonproliferating cells and cells grown in short term culture.
PXD008990	29915149	Glycomic and Proteomic Changes in Aging Brain Nigrostriatal Pathway. 	Glycomic and Proteomic changes in aging brain nigrostriatal pathway	N-glycans, Parkinson's di, adeno-associated virus, aging nigro-striatal pathway, gene therapy, heparan sulfate, hilic, hilic-wax, label-free proteomics, reverse phase	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurological disorder characterized by the progressive loss of functional dopaminergic neurons in the nigrostriatal pathway in the brain. Although current treatments provide only symptomatic relief, gene therapy has the potential to slow or halt the degeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons in PD patients. Adeno-associated viruses (AAV) are vectors of choice in gene therapy because of their well-characterized safety and efficacy profiles; however, although gene therapy has been successful in preclinical models of the disease, clinical trials in humans have failed to demonstrate efficacy. Significantly, all primary AAV receptors of the virus are glycans. We thus hypothesize that age related changes in glycan receptors of heparan sulfate (HS) proteoglycans (receptor for rAAV2), and/or N-glycans with terminal galactose (receptor for rAAV9) results in poor adeno-associated virus binding in either the striatum or substantia nigra, or both, affecting transduction and gene delivery. To test our hypothesis we analyzed the striatum and substantia nigra for changes in HS, N-glycans and proteomic signatures in young versus aged rat brain striatum and substantia nigra. We observed different brain region-specific HS disaccharide profiles in aged compared with young adult rats for brain region-specific profiles in striatum versus substantia nigra. We observed brain region- and age-specific N-glycan compositional profiles with respect to the terminal galactose units that serve as receptors for AAV9. We also observed brain region-specific changes in protein expression in the aging nigrostriatal pathway. These studies provide insight into age- and brain region-specific changes in glycan receptors and proteome that will inform design of improved viral vectors for Parkinson Disease (PD) gene therapy.
PXD007165	29915187	EASI-tag enables accurate multiplexed and interference-free MS2-based proteome quantification. 	EASI-tag enables accurate multiplexed and interference-free MS2-based proteome quantification	isobaric labeling	We developed EASI-tag (easily abstractable sulfoxide-based isobaric-tag), a new type of amine-derivatizing and sulfoxide-containing isobaric labeling reagents for highly accurate quantitative proteomics analysis using mass spectrometry. We observed that EASI-tag labels dissociate at low collision energy and generate peptide-coupled, interference-free reporter ions with high yield. Efficient isolation of (12)C precursors and quantification at the MS2 level allowed accurate determination of quantitative differences between up to six multiplexed samples.
PXD004758	29915279	MS analysis of a dilution series of bacteria:phytoplankton to improve detection of low abundance bacterial peptides. 	Detection of Low Abundance Ocean Bacterial Peptides DIA	DIA, Ruegeria pomeroyi, SRM, bacteria, ocean	Assigning links between microbial activity and biogeochemical cycles in the ocean is a primary objective for ecologists and oceanographers. Bacteria represent a small ecosystem component by mass, but act as the nexus for both nutrient transformation and organic matter recycling. There are limited methods to explore the full suite of active bacterial proteins largely responsible for degradation. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics now has the potential to document bacterial physiology within these complex systems. Global proteome profiling using MS, known as data dependent acquisition (DDA), is limited by the stochastic nature of ion selection, decreasing the detection of low abundance peptides. The suitability of MS-based proteomics methods in revealing bacterial signatures outnumbered by phytoplankton proteins was explored using a dilution series of pure bacteria (Ruegeria pomeroyi) and diatoms (Thalassiosira pseudonana). Two common acquisition strategies were utilized: DDA and selected reaction monitoring (SRM). SRM improved detection of bacterial peptides at low bacterial cellular abundance that were undetectable with DDA from a wide range of physiological processes (e.g. amino acid synthesis, lipid metabolism, and transport). We demonstrate the benefits and drawbacks of two different proteomic approaches for investigating species-specific physiological processes across relative abundances of bacteria that vary by orders of magnitude.
PXD008258	29915297	Lck promotes Zap70-dependent LAT phosphorylation by bridging Zap70 to LAT. 	Lck promotes Zap70-dependent LAT phosphorylation by bridging Zap70 to LAT	Human Proteome Project, Jurkat T cell line, LAT, Lck, Mice, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), TCR signaling, Zap70	T cell-antigen receptor (TCR) signaling requires the sequential activities of the kinases Lck and Zap70. Upon TCR stimulation, Lck phosphorylates the TCR, thus leading to the recruitment, phosphorylation, and activation of Zap70. Lck binds and stabilizes phosho-Zap70 by using its SH2 domain, and Zap70 phosphorylates the critical adaptors LAT and SLP76, which coordinate downstream signaling. It is unclear whether phosphorylation of these adaptors occurs through passive diffusion or active recruitment. We report the discovery of a conserved proline-rich motif in LAT that mediates efficient LAT phosphorylation. Lck associates with this motif via its SH3 domain, and with phospho-Zap70 via its SH2 domain, thereby acting as a molecular bridge that facilitates the colocalization of Zap70 and LAT. Elimination of this proline-rich motif compromises TCR signaling and T cell development. These results demonstrate the remarkable multifunctionality of Lck, wherein each of its domains has evolved to orchestrate a distinct step in TCR signaling.
PXD006819	29915569	Multi-Omics and Targeted Approaches to Determine the Role of Cellular Proteases in Streptomyces Protein Secretion. 	S.lividans TK24 protease deletions	S.lividans TK24, secretome	Gram-positive Streptomyces bacteria are profuse secretors of polypeptides using complex, yet unknown mechanisms. Many of their secretory proteins are proteases that play important roles in the acquisition of amino acids from the environment. Other proteases regulate cellular proteostasis. To begin dissecting the possible role of proteases in Streptomyces secretion, we applied a multi-omics approach. We probed the role of the 190 proteases of Streptomyces lividans strain TK24 in protein secretion in defined media at different stages of growth. Transcriptomics analysis revealed transcripts for 93% of these proteases and identified that 41 of them showed high abundance. Proteomics analysis identified 57 membrane-embedded or secreted proteases with variations in their abundance. We focused on 17 of these proteases and putative inhibitors and generated strains deleted of their genes. These were characterized in terms of their fitness, transcriptome and secretome changes. In addition, we performed a targeted analysis in deletion strains that also carried a secretion competent mRFP. One strain, carrying a deletion of the gene for the regulatory protease FtsH, showed significant global changes in overall transcription and enhanced secretome and secreted mRFP levels. These data provide a first multi-omics effort to characterize the complex regulatory mechanisms of protein secretion in Streptomyces lividans and lay the foundations for future rational manipulation of this process.
PXD008982	29915597	Effects of Experimental Terrestrialization on the Skin Mucus Proteome of African Lungfish (Protopterus dolloi). 	Effects of Experimental Terrestrialization on the Skin Mucus Proteome of African Lungfish (Protopterus dolloi), part 2	African lungfish, mucosal immunity, mucus, skin, terrestrialization	Animal mucosal barriers constantly interact with the external environment, and this interaction is markedly different in aquatic and terrestrial environments. Transitioning from water to land was a critical step in vertebrate evolution, but the immune adaptations that mucosal barriers such as the skin underwent during that process are essentially unknown. Vertebrate animals such as the African lungfish have a bimodal life, switching from freshwater to terrestrial habitats when environmental conditions are not favorable. African lungfish skin mucus secretions contribute to the terrestrialization process by forming a cocoon that surrounds and protects the lungfish body. The goal of this study was to characterize the skin mucus immunoproteome of African lungfish, Protopterus dolloi, before and during the induction phase of terrestrialization as well as the immunoproteome of the gill mucus during the terrestrialization induction phase. Using LC-MS/MS, we identified a total of 974 proteins using a lungfish Illumina RNA-seq database, 1,256 proteins from previously published lungfish sequence read archive and 880 proteins using a lungfish 454 RNA-seq database for annotation in the three samples analyzed (free-swimming skin mucus, terrestrialized skin mucus, and terrestrialized gill mucus). The terrestrialized skin mucus proteome was enriched in proteins with known antimicrobial functions such as histones and S100 proteins compared to free-swimming skin mucus. In support, gene ontology analyses showed that the terrestrialized skin mucus proteome has predicted functions in processes such as viral process, defense response to Gram-negative bacterium, and tumor necrosis factor-mediated signaling. Importantly, we observed a switch in immunoglobulin heavy chain secretion upon terrestrialization, with IgW1 long form (IgW1L) and IgM1 present in free-swimming skin mucus and IgW1L, IgM1, and IgM2 in terrestrialized skin mucus. Combined, these results indicate an increase in investment in the production of unique immune molecules in P. dolloi skin mucus in response to terrestrialization that likely better protects lungfish against external aggressors found in land.
PXD008292	29916714	Quantitative Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Analysis Revealed Different Regulatory Mechanisms of Halothane and Rendement Napole Genes in Porcine Muscle Metabolism. 	Quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics analysis revealed different regulatory mechanisms of Halothane and Rendement Napole genes in porcine muscle metabolism	CAMK2, Porcine muscle, RN and HAL mutation, glycogen metabolism, muscle metabolism, phosphoproteomics	Pigs with the Halothane (HAL) or Rendement Napole (RN) gene mutations demonstrate abnormal muscle energy metabolism patterns and produce meat with poor quality, classified as pale, soft, and exudative (PSE) meat, but it is not well understood how HAL and RN mutations regulate glucose and energy metabolism in porcine muscle. To investigate the potential signaling pathways and phosphorylation events related to these mutations, muscle samples were collected from four genotypes of pigs, wild type, RN, HAL, and RN-HAL double mutations, and subjected to quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis using the TiO2 enrichment strategy. The study led to the identification of 932 proteins from the nonmodified peptide fractions and 1885 phosphoproteins with 9619 phosphorylation sites from the enriched fractions. Among them, 128 proteins at total protein level and 323 phosphosites from 91 phosphoproteins were significantly regulated in mutant genotypes. The quantitative analysis revealed that the RN mutation mainly affected the protein expression abundance in muscle. Specifically, high expression was observed for proteins related to mitochondrial respiratory chain and energy metabolism, thereby enhancing the muscle oxidative capacity. The high content of UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase 2 (UGP2) in RN mutant animals may contribute to high glycogen storage. However, the HAL mutation mainly contributes to the up-regulation of phosphorylation in proteins related to calcium signaling, muscle contraction, glycogen, glucose, and energy metabolism, and cellular stress. The increased phosphorylation of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMK2) in HAL mutation may act as a key regulator in these processes of muscle. Our findings indicate the different regulatory mechanisms of RN and HAL mutations in relation to porcine muscle energy metabolism and meat quality.
PXD008531	29917075	Proteomic analysis reveals co-ordinated alterations in protein synthesis and degradation pathways in LRRK2 knockout mice. 	Proteomic analysis reveals co-ordinated alterations in protein synthesis and degradation pathways in LRRK2 knockout mice	LRRK2, Parkinson's disease, genetic mouse models, lysosomal function, membrane trafficking, protein translation	Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) segregate with familial Parkinson's disease (PD) and genetic variation around LRRK2 contributes to risk of sporadic disease. Although knockout (KO) of Lrrk2 or knock-in of pathogenic mutations into the mouse germline does not result in a PD phenotype, several defects have been reported in the kidneys of Lrrk2 KO mice. To understand LRRK2 function in vivo, we used an unbiased approach to determine which protein pathways are affected in LRRK2 KO kidneys. We nominated changes in cytoskeletal-associated proteins, lysosomal proteases, proteins involved in vesicular trafficking and in control of protein translation. Changes were not seen in mice expressing the pathogenic G2019S LRRK2 mutation. Using cultured epithelial kidney cells, we replicated the accumulation of lysosomal proteases and demonstrated changes in subcellular distribution of the cation-independent mannose-6-phosphate receptor. These results show that loss of LRRK2 leads to co-ordinated responses in protein translation and trafficking and argue against a dominant negative role for the G2019S mutation.
PXD009628	29921862	Single-walled carbon-nanohorns improve biocompatibility over nanotubes by triggering less protein-initiated pyroptosis and apoptosis in macrophages. 	Improved biocompatibility of single-walled-carbon-nanohorns over nanotubes by triggering less protein-initiated pyroptosis and apoptosis in macrophages (proteomics identification of total cellular proteins based on identical intracellular nanocarbons)	GPNMB, apoptosis, nanosafety, nanotubes, pyroptosis, single-walled-carbon-nanohorns	Single-walled carbon-nanohorns (SNH) exhibit huge application prospects. Notably, spherical SNH possess different morphology from conventional carbon nanotubes (CNT). However, there is a tremendous lack of studies on the nanotoxicity and mechanism of SNH, and their comparison with nanotubes. Here, the dissimilarity between SNH and CNT is found in many aspects including necrosis, pyroptosis, apoptosis, protein expression, hydrolases leakage, lysosome stress, membrane disturbance and the interaction with membrane proteins. The improved biocompatibility of SNH over four types of established CNT is clearly demonstrated in macrophages. Importantly, a key transmembrane protein, glycoprotein nonmetastatic melanoma protein B (GPNMB) is discovered to initiate the nanotoxicity. Compared to CNT, the weaker nano-GPNMB interaction in SNH group induces lower degree of cascade actions from nano/membrane interplay to final cell hypotoxicity. In conclusion, the geometry of single-construct unit, but not that of dispersive forms or intracellular levels of nanocarbons make the most difference.
PXD009681	29921876	Nuclear PTEN safeguards pre-mRNA splicing to link Golgi apparatus for its tumor suppressive role. 	Nuclear PTEN safeguards pre-mRNA splicing to link Golgi apparatus for its tumor suppressive role	GOLGA2, Golgi, PTEN, U2AF2, alternative splicing, protein-protein interaction, spliceosome, tumor suppressor	Dysregulation of pre-mRNA alternative splicing (AS) is closely associated with cancers. However, the relationships between the AS and classic oncogenes/tumor suppressors are largely unknown. Here we show that the deletion of tumor suppressor PTEN alters pre-mRNA splicing in a phosphatase-independent manner, and identify 262 PTEN-regulated AS events in 293T cells by RNA sequencing, which are associated with significant worse outcome of cancer patients. Based on these findings, we report that nuclear PTEN interacts with the splicing machinery, spliceosome, to regulate its assembly and pre-mRNA splicing. We also identify a new exon 2b in GOLGA2 transcript and the exon exclusion contributes to PTEN knockdown-induced tumorigenesis by promoting dramatic Golgi extension and secretion, and PTEN depletion significantly sensitizes cancer cells to secretion inhibitors brefeldin A and golgicide A. Our results suggest that Golgi secretion inhibitors alone or in combination with PI3K/Akt kinase inhibitors may be therapeutically useful for PTEN-deficient cancers.
PXD008263	29922265	Induction by Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens of Different Pathways for Growth in D-mannitol or L-arabinose Leading to Pronounced Differences in CO2 Fixation, O2 Consumption, and Lateral-Flagellum Production. 	Induction by Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens of different catabolic pathways for growth in D-mannitol or L-arabinose leading to pronounced differences in CO2 fixation, O2 consumption, and lateral-flagellum production	CBB pathway, L-KDA pathway, O2 consumption, PP pathway, flagella	Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens, a soybean N2-fixing symbiont, constitutes the basic input in one of the most prominent inoculant industries worldwide. This bacterium may be cultured with D-mannitol or L-arabinose as carbon-plus-energy source (C-source) with similar specific growth rates, but with higher biomass production with D-mannitol. To better understand the bacterium's carbon metabolism, we analyzed, by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (MS), the whole set of proteins obtained from cells grown on each C-source. Among 3,334 proteins identified, 266 were overproduced in D-mannitol and 237 in L-arabinose, but among these, only 22% from D-mannitol cultures and 35% from L-arabinose cultures were annotated with well defined functions. In the D-mannitol-differential pool we found 19 enzymes of the pentose-phosphate and Calvin-Benson-Bassham pathways and accordingly observed increased extracellular-polysaccharide production by D-mannitol grown bacteria in a CO2-enriched atmosphere. Moreover, poly-3-hydroxybutyrate biosynthesis was increased, suggesting a surplus of reducing power. In contrast, the L-arabinose-differential pool contained 11 enzymes of the L-2-keto-3-deoxyarabonate pathway, 4 enzymes for the synthesis of nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide from aspartate, with those cultures having a threefold higher O2-consumption rate than the D-mannitol cultures. The stoichiometric balances deduced from the modeled pathways, however, resulted in similar O2 consumptions and ATP productions per C-mole of substrate. These results suggested higher maintenance-energy demands in L-arabinose, which energy may be used partly for flagella-driven motility. Since B. diazoefficiens produces the lateral-flagella system in only L-arabinose, we calculated the O2-consumption rates of a lafR::Km mutant devoid of lateral flagella cultured in L-arabinose or D-mannitol. Contrary to that of the wild-type, the O2-consumption rate of this mutant was similar on both C-sources, and accordingly outcompeted the wild-type in coculture, suggesting that the lateral flagella behaved as parasitic structures under these conditions. Proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008263.
PXD008967	29923408	Surfactant and Chaotropic Agent Assisted Sequential Extraction/On-Pellet Digestion (SCAD) for Enhanced Proteomics. 	Surfactant and chaotropic agent assisted sequential extraction/on pellet digestion (SCAD) for enhanced proteomics	FASP, LFQ, Protein extraction, SCAD, Urea, iBAQ, peptide sequencing, protein detection, protein digestion	As a popular sample preparation approach, filter-aided sample preparation (FASP) has been widely used in proteomic analysis. However, several limitations have been noted, including sample loss during filtration, repetitive centrifugation steps, and the possibility of breakage of filtration membrane. Extraction bias among different sample preparation strategies presents another challenge. To overcome these limitations and address remaining challenges, we developed a novel surfactant and chaotropic agent assisted sequential extraction/on-pellet digestion (SCAD) protocol. The new strategy resulted in higher protein yield and improved peptide recovery and protein coverage compared to two conventional sample preparation methods (FASP and urea). In combination of three strategies, more than 10,000 distinct protein groups were identified with 1% FDR from MDA-MB-231 cells without any prefractionation. This in-depth proteome analysis was accomplished by optimization of protein extraction, enzymatic digestion, LC gradient, and peptide sequencing method. Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA) of proteins exclusively identified in SCAD revealed several crucial signaling pathways that regulate breast cancer progression. SCAD also enabled an unbiased extraction of different categories of proteins (membrane, intracellular, nuclear) associated with tumorigenesis, which integrates the advantages of FASP and urea extraction. This novel strategy expedites comprehensive protein identification, which is applicable for biomarker discovery in various types of cancers.
PXD008010	29925953	Codon-specific translation reprogramming promotes resistance to targeted therapy. 	Melanoma BRAFV600E induced proteome	BRAFV600E, melanoma	Reprogramming of mRNA translation has a key role in cancer development and drug resistance (1) . However, the molecular mechanisms that are involved in this process remain poorly understood. Wobble tRNA modifications are required for specific codon decoding during translation(2,3). Here we show, in humans, that the enzymes that catalyse modifications of wobble uridine 34 (U34) tRNA (U34 enzymes) are key players of the protein synthesis rewiring that is induced by the transformation driven by the BRAF (V600E) oncogene and by resistance to targeted therapy in melanoma. We show that BRAF (V600E) -expressing melanoma cells are dependent on U34 enzymes for survival, and that concurrent inhibition of MAPK signalling and ELP3 or CTU1 and/or CTU2 synergizes to kill melanoma cells. Activation of the PI3K signalling pathway, one of the most common mechanisms of acquired resistance to MAPK therapeutic agents, markedly increases the expression of U34 enzymes. Mechanistically, U34 enzymes promote glycolysis in melanoma cells through the direct, codon-dependent, regulation of the translation of HIF1A mRNA and the maintenance of high levels of HIF1alpha protein. Therefore, the acquired resistance to anti-BRAF therapy is associated with high levels of U34 enzymes and HIF1alpha. Together, these results demonstrate that U34 enzymes promote the survival and resistance to therapy of melanoma cells by regulating specific mRNA translation.
PXD009188	29928781	NVP-BHG712: Effects of Regioisomers on the Affinity and Selectivity toward the EPHrin Family. 	Single methyl group positioning opens new chemical space for EPH receptor kinase inhibition	EPH receptor, Kinobeads, kinase inhibitor, selectivity profiling	Erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular (EPH) receptors are transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinases. Their extracellular domains bind specifically to ephrin A/B ligands, and this binding modulates intracellular kinase activity. EPHs are key players in bidirectional intercellular signaling, controlling cell morphology, adhesion, and migration. They are increasingly recognized as cancer drug targets. We analyzed the binding of NVP-BHG712 (NVP) to EPHA2 and EPHB4. Unexpectedly, all tested commercially available NVP samples turned out to be a regioisomer (NVPiso) of the inhibitor, initially described in a Novartis patent application. They only differ by the localization of a single methyl group on either one of two adjacent nitrogen atoms. The two compounds of identical mass revealed different binding modes. Furthermore, both in vitro and in vivo experiments showed that the isomers differ in their kinase affinity and selectivity.
PXD006637	29930108	In vivo brain GPCR signaling elucidated by phosphoproteomics. 	In vivo Brain GPCR Signaling Elucidated by Phosphoproteomics	GPCR brain phosphoproteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, machine learning	A systems view of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling in its native environment is central to the development of GPCR therapeutics with fewer side effects. Using the kappa opioid receptor (KOR) as a model, we employed high-throughput phosphoproteomics to investigate signaling induced by structurally diverse agonists in five mouse brain regions. Quantification of 50,000 different phosphosites provided a systems view of KOR in vivo signaling, revealing novel mechanisms of drug action. Thus, we discovered enrichment of the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway by U-50,488H, an agonist causing aversion, which is a typical KOR-mediated side effect. Consequently, mTOR inhibition during KOR activation abolished aversion while preserving beneficial antinociceptive and anticonvulsant effects. Our results establish high-throughput phosphoproteomics as a general strategy to investigate GPCR in vivo signaling, enabling prediction and modulation of behavioral outcomes.
PXD009030	29930335	A novel bacterial sulfur oxidation pathway provides a new link between the cycles of organic and inorganic sulfur compounds. 	Proteome-based new insights into dimethyl sulfide metabolism of Hyphomicrobium denitrificans	Hyphomicrobium denitrificans, dimethyl sulfide, dissimilatory sulfur metabolism	Dimethylsulfide (DMS) plays a globally significant role in carbon and sulfur cycling and impacts Earth's climate because its oxidation products serve as nuclei for cloud formation. While the initial steps of aerobic DMS degradation and the fate of its carbon atoms are reasonably well documented, oxidation of the contained sulfur is largely unexplored. Here, we identified a novel pathway of sulfur compound oxidation in the ubiquitously occurring DMS-degrader Hyphomicrobium denitrificans X(T) that links the oxidation of the volatile organosulfur compound with that of the inorganic sulfur compound thiosulfate. DMS is first transformed to methanethiol from which sulfide is released and fully oxidized to sulfate. Comparative proteomics indicated thiosulfate as an intermediate of this pathway and pointed at a heterodisulfide reductase (Hdr)-like system acting as a sulfur-oxidizing entity. Indeed, marker exchange mutagenesis of hdr-like genes disrupted the ability of H. denitrificans to metabolize DMS and also prevented formation of sulfate from thiosulfate provided as an additional electron source during chemoorganoheterotrophic growth. Complementation with the hdr-like genes under a constitutive promoter rescued the phenotype on thiosulfate as well as on DMS. The production of sulfate from an organosulfur precursor via the Hdr-like system is previously undocumented and provides a new shunt in the biogeochemical sulfur cycle. Furthermore, our findings fill a long-standing knowledge gap in microbial dissimilatory sulfur metabolism because the Hdr-like pathway is abundant not only in chemoheterotrophs, but also in a wide range of chemo- and photolithoautotrophic sulfur oxidizers acting as key players in global sulfur cycling.
PXD006407	29932303	Quantitative Crotonylome Analysis Expands the Roles of p300 in the Regulation of Lysine Crotonylation Pathway. 	Kcr proteome in response to p300 KO	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, crotonylation, p300, quantitative proteomics	Lysine crotonylation (Kcr) is a recently identified post-translational modification (PTM) that is regulated by an acetyltransferase, p300. The p300-catalyzed histone Kcr is able to stimulate transcription to a greater degree than the well-studied histone lysine acetylation (Kac). Despite these progresses, the global Kcr substrates regulated by p300 remain largely unknown, hindering efforts to establish mechanistic links between Kcr and p300-mediated phenotypes. Here, a quantitative proteomics study to characterize the p300-regulated lysine crotonylome is reported. A total of 816 unique endogenous crotonylation sites are identified across 392 proteins, with 88 sites from 69 proteins being decreased by more than 0.7-fold (log2 < 0.5) and 31 sites from 17 proteins being increased by more than 1.4-fold (log2 > 0.5) in response to p300 knockout (KO). The most downregulated crotonylome alterations under p300 deficiency concern components of the nonsense-mediated decay, infectious disease, and viral/eukaryotic translation pathways. Moreover, some p300-targeted Kcr substrates are potentially linked to diseases such as cancer. Taken together, this study reveals the lysine crotonylome in response to p300, which sheds light on the role for lysine crotonylation in regulation of diverse cellular processes and provides new insights into mechanisms of p300 functions.
PXD009194	29934862	Label-free quantitative proteomics analysis reveals distinct molecular characteristics in endocardial endothelium. 	Label-free quantitative Proteomics Analysis Reveals Distinct Molecular characteristics in Endocardial Endothelium	Aorta, Endocardium, Endothelium, Label free proteomics	Endocardial endothelium, which lines the chambers of the heart, is distinct in its origin, structure, and function. Characterization studies using genomics and proteomics have reported molecular signatures supporting the structural and functional heterogeneity of various endothelial cells. However, though functionally very important, no studies at protein level have been conducted so far characterizing endocardial endothelium. In this study, we used endothelial cells from pig heart to investigate if endocardial endothelial cells are distinct at the proteome level. Using a high-throughput liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry for proteome profiling and expression, we identified sets of proteins that belong to specific biological processes and metabolic pathways in endocardial endothelial cells supporting its specific structural and functional roles. The study also identified several transcription factors and cell surface markers, which may have roles in the specificity of endocardial endothelium. The detection of sets proteins preferentially expressed in endocardial endothelium offers new insights into its role in the regulation of cardiac function. Data are made available through ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009194.
PXD008607	29938511	Proteomic Analysis and Immuno-Profiling of Eastern India Russell's Viper ( Daboia russelii) Venom: Correlation between RVV Composition and Clinical Manifestations Post RV Bite. 	Proteomic analysis of Daboia russelli venom samples from Burdwan and Nadia districts of West Bengal, eastern India	shotgun proteomics, snake venom	The proteomes of Russell's viper venom (RVV) from Burdwan (RVV B) and Nadia (RVV N), the two districts of West Bengal, eastern India (EI), were investigated by gel-filtration chromatography (GFC) followed by tandem mass spectrometry of tryptic fragments of the fractions. A total of 73 and 69 proteins belonging to 15 snake venom protein families were identified in RVV B and RVV N, respectively, by MS/MS search against Viperidae (taxid 8689) protein entries of the nonredundant NCBI database. The minor differences in venom composition of both the EI RV were established unequivocally by their biochemical and pharmacological properties and by SDS-PAGE, gel filtration chromatography, and LC-MS/MS analyses. The composition of EI RVVs was well correlated with published reports on the pathophysiology of RV-envenomed patients from this part of the country. Venom-antivenom cross-reactivity determined by ELISA, Western blotting, and antivenomics approaches demonstrated poor recognition of low molecular mass (<20 kDa) RVV proteins by commercial polyvalent antivenoms, which was substantiated by neutralization of RVV enzymes by antivenom.
PXD009061	29938851	Comparison of sample preparation techniques and data analysis for the LC-MS/MS-based identification of proteins in human follicular fluid. 	Comparison of proteomic sample preparation and data analysis methods by means of human follicular fluids	Follicular fluids, Sample preparation, data analysis	The proteomic analysis of complex body fluids by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis requires the selection of suitable sample preparation techniques and optimal parameter settings in data analysis software packages to obtain reliable results. Proteomic analysis of follicular fluid, as a representative of a complex body fluid similar to serum or plasma, is difficult as it contains a vast amount of high abundant proteins and a variety of proteins with different concentrations. However, the accessibility of this complex body fluid for LC-MS/MS analysis is an opportunity to gain insights into the status, the composition of fertility-relevant proteins including immunological factors or for the discovery of new diagnostic and prognostic markers for, for example, the treatment of infertility. In this study, we compared different sample preparation methods (FASP, eFASP and in-solution digestion) and three different data analysis software packages (Proteome Discoverer with SEQUEST, Mascot and MaxQuant with Andromeda) combined with semi- and full-tryptic databank search options to obtain a maximum coverage of the follicular fluid proteome. We found that the most comprehensive proteome coverage is achieved by the eFASP sample preparation method using SDS in the initial denaturing step and the SEQUEST-based semi-tryptic data analysis. In conclusion, we have developed a fractionation-free methodical workflow for in depth LC-MS/MS-based analysis for the standardized investigation of human follicle fluid as an important representative of a complex body fluid. Taken together, we were able to identify a total of 1392 proteins in follicular fluid.
PXD008703	29939309	Temperature-induced changes in the wheat phosphoproteome reveal temperature-regulated interconversion of phosphoforms. 	Temperature-induced changes in wheat leaf and flower phosphoproteome	Triticum aestivum, Wheat, heat, phosphoproteome	Wheat (Triticum ssp.) is one of the most important human food sources. However, this crop is very sensitive to temperature changes. Specifically, processes during wheat leaf, flower, and seed development and photosynthesis, which all contribute to the yield of this crop, are affected by high temperature. While this has to some extent been investigated on physiological, developmental, and molecular levels, very little is known about early signalling events associated with an increase in temperature. Phosphorylation-mediated signalling mechanisms, which are quick and dynamic, are associated with plant growth and development, also under abiotic stress conditions. Therefore, we probed the impact of a short-term and mild increase in temperature on the wheat leaf and spikelet phosphoproteome. In total, 3822 (containing 5178 phosphosites) and 5581 phosphopeptides (containing 7023 phosphosites) were identified in leaf and spikelet samples, respectively. Following statistical analysis, the resulting data set provides the scientific community with a first large-scale plant phosphoproteome under the control of higher ambient temperature. This community resource on the high temperature-mediated wheat phosphoproteome will be valuable for future studies. Our analyses also revealed a core set of common proteins between leaf and spikelet, suggesting some level of conserved regulatory mechanisms. Furthermore, we observed temperature-regulated interconversion of phosphoforms, which probably impacts protein activity.
PXD007885	29941384	Analysis of Staphylococcus aureus proteins secreted inside infected human epithelial cells. 	Analysis of secreted S. aureus proteins after isolation of phagosomes from infected human epithelial cells	Staphylococcus aureus, host-pathogen-interaction, phagosomes, quantitative proteomics, single reaction monitoring (SRM), virulence factors	Staphylococcus aureus, an opportunistic pathogen is able to invade into and persist inside non-professional phagocytic cells. To do so, this bacterium possesses a wide range of secreted virulence factors which enable attachment to the host as well as intracellular survival. Hence, a monitoring of virulence factors specifically produced upon internalization might reveal targets for prevention or therapy of S. aureus infections. However, previous proteome approaches enriching S. aureus from lysed host cells after infection did not cover secreted virulence factors. Therefore, we used density gradient centrifugation and mass spectrometry to identify S. aureus HG001 proteins which were secreted into compartments of infected human bronchial epithelial S9 cells. Because shotgun mass spectrometry revealed only few bacterial proteins amongst 1905 host proteins, we used highly sensitive and selective single reaction monitoring mass spectrometry as an alternative approach and quantified 37 bacterial proteins within the S. aureus containing host cell compartment 2.5 h and 6.5 h post infection. Among them were secreted bacterial virulence factors like lipases, pore forming toxins, and secreted adhesins which are usually hard to detect from infected sample material by proteomics approaches due to their low abundance. S. aureus adapted its proteome to improve its response to oxidative and cell wall stress occurring inside the host, but also, increased the amounts of some adhesins and pore-forming toxins, required for attachment and host cell lysis.
PXD008490	29941576	Coupled laboratory and field investigations resolve microbial interactions that underpin persistence in hydraulically fractured shales. 	Microbial Interactions Underpinning Persistence Across Hydraulically Fractured Shales	hydraulically fractured shale ecosystems, metaproteomics, microbial communities	Hydraulic fracturing is one of the industrial processes behind the surging natural gas output in the United States. This technology inadvertently creates an engineered microbial ecosystem thousands of meters below Earth's surface. Here, we used laboratory reactors to perform manipulations of persisting shale microbial communities that are currently not feasible in field scenarios. Metaproteomic and metabolite findings from the laboratory were then corroborated using regression-based modeling performed on metagenomic and metabolite data from more than 40 produced fluids from five hydraulically fractured shale wells. Collectively, our findings show that Halanaerobium, Geotoga, and Methanohalophilus strain abundances predict a significant fraction of nitrogen and carbon metabolites in the field. Our laboratory findings also exposed cryptic predatory, cooperative, and competitive interactions that impact microorganisms across fractured shales. Scaling these results from the laboratory to the field identified mechanisms underpinning biogeochemical reactions, yielding knowledge that can be harnessed to potentially increase energy yields and inform management practices in hydraulically fractured shales.
PXD008844	29941660	Spatially Resolved Proteome Mapping of Laser Capture Microdissected Tissue with Automated Sample Transfer to Nanodroplets. 	High-resolution spatially-resolved proteome mapping using automated, sacrificial liquid-mediated sample transfer from laser microdissection to nanodroplet sample preparation	laser capture microdissection, nanoPOTS	Current mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics approaches are ineffective for mapping protein expression in tissue sections with high spatial resolution because of the limited overall sensitivity of conventional workflows. Here we report an integrated and automated method to advance spatially resolved proteomics by seamlessly coupling laser capture microdissection (LCM) with a recently developed nanoliter-scale sample preparation system termed nanoPOTS (Nanodroplet Processing in One pot for Trace Samples). The workflow is enabled by prepopulating nanowells with DMSO, which serves as a sacrificial capture liquid for microdissected tissues. The DMSO droplets efficiently collect laser-pressure catapulted LCM tissues as small as 20 mum in diameter with success rates >87%. We also demonstrate that tissue treatment with DMSO can significantly improve proteome coverage, likely due to its ability to dissolve lipids from tissue and enhance protein extraction efficiency. The LCM-nanoPOTS platform was able to identify 180, 695, and 1827 protein groups on average from 12-mum-thick rat brain cortex tissue sections having diameters of 50, 100, and 200 mum, respectively. We also analyzed 100-mum-diameter sections corresponding to 10-18 cells from three different regions of rat brain and comparatively quantified ~1000 proteins, demonstrating the potential utility for high-resolution spatially resolved mapping of protein expression in tissues.
PXD008209	29941981	ADAM-like Decysin-1 (ADAMDEC1) is a positive regulator of Epithelial Defense Against Cancer (EDAC) that promotes apical extrusion of RasV12-transformed cells. 	MDCK Culture Medium	SILAC, cell culture medium	Recent studies have revealed that newly emerging transformed cells are often eliminated from epithelia via cell competition with the surrounding normal epithelial cells. However, it remains unknown whether and how soluble factors are involved in this cancer preventive phenomenon. By performing stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based quantitative mass spectrometric analyses, we have identified ADAM-like Decysin-1 (ADAMDEC1) as a soluble protein whose expression is upregulated in the mix culture of normal and RasV12-transformed epithelial cells. Expression of ADAMDEC1 is elevated in normal epithelial cells co-cultured with RasV12 cells. Knockdown of ADAMDEC1 in the surrounding normal cells substantially suppresses apical extrusion of RasV12 cells, suggesting that ADAMDEC1 secreted by normal cells positively regulate the elimination of the neighboring transformed cells. In addition, we show that the metalloproteinase activity of ADAMDEC1 is dispensable for the regulation of apical extrusion. Furthermore, ADAMDEC1 facilitates the accumulation of filamin, a crucial regulator of Epithelial Defense Against Cancer (EDAC), in normal cells at the interface with RasV12 cells. This is the first report demonstrating that an epithelial intrinsic soluble factor is involved in cell competition in mammals.
PXD009266	29942010	Mutually exclusive acetylation and ubiquitylation of the splicing factor SRSF5 control tumor growth. 	A549 overexpressing CCAR1 LC-MS/MS	A549, CCAR1, IP-MS	Most tumor cells take up more glucose than normal cells. Splicing dysregulation is one of the molecular hallmarks of cancer. However, the role of splicing factor in glucose metabolism and tumor development remains poorly defined. Here, we show that upon glucose intake, the splicing factor SRSF5 is specifically induced through Tip60-mediated acetylation on K125, which antagonizes Smurf1-mediated ubiquitylation. SRSF5 promotes the alternative splicing of CCAR1 to produce CCAR1S proteins, which promote tumor growth by enhancing glucose consumption and acetyl-CoA production. Conversely, upon glucose starvation, SRSF5 is deacetylated by HDAC1, and ubiquitylated by Smurf1 on the same lysine, resulting in proteasomal degradation of SRSF5. The CCAR1L proteins accumulate to promote apoptosis. Importantly, SRSF5 is hyperacetylated and upregulated in human lung cancers, which correlates with increased CCAR1S expression and tumor progression. Thus, SRSF5 responds to high glucose to promote cancer development, and SRSF5-CCAR1 axis may be valuable targets for cancer therapeutics.
PXD008003	29942033	Site-specific characterization of endogenous SUMOylation across species and organs. 	Endogenous, in vivo, and site-specific characterization of the SUMO architecture across species and organs	SUMO, cells, endogenous, in vivo, tissue	Small ubiquitin-like modifiers (SUMOs) are post-translational modifications that play crucial roles in most cellular processes. While methods exist to study exogenous SUMOylation, large-scale characterization of endogenous SUMO2/3 has remained technically daunting. Here, we describe a proteomics approach facilitating system-wide and in vivo identification of lysines modified by endogenous and native SUMO2. Using a peptide-level immunoprecipitation enrichment strategy, we identify 14,869 endogenous SUMO2/3 sites in human cells during heat stress and proteasomal inhibition, and quantitatively map 1963 SUMO sites across eight mouse tissues. Characterization of the SUMO equilibrium highlights striking differences in SUMO metabolism between cultured cancer cells and normal tissues. Targeting preferences of SUMO2/3 vary across different organ types, coinciding with markedly differential SUMOylation states of all enzymes involved in the SUMO conjugation cascade. Collectively, our systemic investigation details the SUMOylation architecture across species and organs and provides a resource of endogenous SUMOylation sites on factors important in organ-specific functions.
PXD038796	29945368	[Quantitative proteomic research of biological basis of Buyang Huanwu decoction therapy for cerebral infarction combined with Qi-deficiency and blood-stasis syndrome]. 	Quantitative Proteomics Revealed the Mechanism of the Buyanghuanwu Decoction used to Treat Cerebral Infarction	Qi deficiency and blood stasis syndrome, cerebral infarction	Chinese medicine Buyang Huanwu decoction (BYHW) is widely used in treating cerebral infarction combined with Qi-deficiency and blood-stasis syndrome, but the pharmacological basis is still not clear. This study aims to uncover the biological basis of BYHW therapy for cerebral infarction combined with Qi-deficiency and blood-stasis syndrome using label-free proteomic technology. Using Qi deficiency and blood stasis rat cerebral infarction model as the research object, the protein expression of rat brain tissue was compared among the sham operation group, the model group and the drug group. Quantitative analysis of the 3 groups of tissue samples detected 3 959, 3 996 and 4 055 proteins in the sham operation group, the model group and the drug group, respectively. Take model group as the control group, 391 proteins were identified to be upregulated or downregulated for more than 2 folds. Biological analysis and functional enrichment of the differentially expressed proteins revealed that BYHW may treat cerebral infarction combined with Qi-deficiency and blood-stasis syndrome through energy metabolism, nervous system and several signal pathways. This study preliminarily revealed the pharmacological mechanism of BYHW at the protein level, and provided a molecular basis for clinical treatment and traditional Chinese medicine research on cerebral infarction combined with Qi-deficiency and blood-stasis syndrome.
PXD009153	29945884	The plant cell wall integrity maintenance and immune signaling systems cooperate to control stress responses in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	PROPEP3-VENUS -  The plant cell wall integrity maintenance and immune signaling systems cooperate to control stress responses in Arabidopsis thaliana	Arabidopsis thaliana seeds, Gel-LC-MSMS	Cell walls surround all plant cells, and their composition and structure are modified in a tightly controlled, adaptive manner to meet sometimes opposing functional requirements during growth and development. The plant cell wall integrity (CWI) maintenance mechanism controls these functional modifications, as well as responses to cell wall damage (CWD). We investigated how the CWI system mediates responses to CWD in Arabidopsis thaliana CWD induced by cell wall-degrading enzymes or an inhibitor of cellulose biosynthesis elicited similar, turgor-sensitive stress responses. Phenotypic clustering with 27 genotypes identified a core group of receptor-like kinases (RLKs) and ion channels required for the activation of CWD responses. A genetic analysis showed that the RLK FEI2 and the plasma membrane-localized mechanosensitive Ca(2+) channel MCA1 functioned downstream of the RLK THE1 in CWD perception. In contrast, pattern-triggered immunity (PTI) signaling components, including the receptors for plant elicitor peptides (AtPeps) PEPR1 and PEPR2, repressed responses to CWD. CWD induced the expression of PROPEP1 and PROPEP3, which encode the precursors of AtPep1 and AtPep3, and the release of PROPEP3 into the growth medium. Application of AtPep1 and AtPep3 repressed CWD-induced phytohormone accumulation in a concentration-dependent manner. These results suggest that AtPep-mediated signaling suppresses CWD-induced defense responses controlled by the CWI mechanism. This suppression was alleviated when PTI signaling downstream of PEPR1 and PEPR2 was impaired. Defense responses controlled by the CWI maintenance mechanism might thus compensate to some extent for the loss of PTI signaling elements.
PXD009704	29945933	Modulation of caveolae by insulin/IGF-1 signaling regulates aging of Caenorhabditis elegans. 	IIS-mediated modulation of DIGs proteome in C. elegans.	Aging, C. elegans, Detergent Resistant Granules., Insulin/IGF signaling	Reducing insulin/IGF-1 signaling (IIS) extends lifespan, promotes protein homeostasis (proteostasis), and elevates stress resistance of worms, flies, and mammals. How these functions are orchestrated across the organism is only partially understood. Here, we report that in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, the IIS positively regulates the expression of caveolin-1 (cav-1), a gene which is primarily expressed in neurons of the adult worm and underlies the formation of caveolae, a subtype of lipid microdomains that serve as platforms for signaling complexes. Accordingly, IIS reduction lowers cav-1 expression and lessens the quantity of neuronal caveolae. Reduced cav-1 expression extends lifespan and mitigates toxic protein aggregation by modulating the expression of aging-regulating and signaling-promoting genes. Our findings define caveolae as aging-governing signaling centers and underscore the potential for cav-1 as a novel therapeutic target for the promotion of healthy aging.
PXD005044	29945935	Quantifying and Localizing the Mitochondrial Proteome Across Five Tissues in A Mouse Population. 	Variation in the Mitochondrial Proteome: Quantifying and Localizing Proteins Across Five Tissues in Mice. Mouse BXD, 8 Strains by 5 Metabolic Tissues (BAT, Liver, Heart, Quadriceps, Brain) by 2 fractions (Mitochondria and Total Cell)	BAT, BXD Mouse, Brain, Heart, Liver, Mitochondria, Quadriceps	We have used SWATH mass spectrometry to quantify 3648 proteins across 76 proteomes collected from genetically diverse BXD mouse strains in two fractions (mitochondria and total cell) from five tissues: liver, quadriceps, heart, brain, and brown adipose (BAT). Across tissues, expression covariation between genes' proteins and transcripts-measured in the same individuals-broadly aligned. Covariation was however far stronger in certain subsets than others: only 8% of transcripts in the lowest expression and variance quintile covaried with their protein, in contrast to 65% of transcripts in the highest quintiles. Key functional differences among the 3648 genes were also observed across tissues, with electron transport chain (ETC) genes particularly investigated. ETC complex proteins covary and form strong gene networks according to tissue, but their equivalent transcripts do not. Certain physiological consequences, such as the depletion of ATP synthase in BAT, are thus obscured in transcript data. Lastly, we compared the quantitative proteomic measurements between the total cell and mitochondrial fractions for the five tissues. The resulting enrichment score highlighted several hundred proteins which were strongly enriched in mitochondria, which included several dozen proteins were not reported in literature to be mitochondrially localized. Four of these candidates were selected for biochemical validation, where we found MTAP, SOAT2, and IMPDH2 to be localized inside the mitochondria, whereas ABCC6 was in the mitochondria-associated membrane. These findings demonstrate the synergies of a multi-omics approach to study complex metabolic processes, and this provides a resource for further discovery and analysis of proteoforms, modified proteins, and protein localization.
PXD009700	29945941	Integrative multi-omics analysis of intestinal organoid differentiation. 	Integrative multi-omics analysis of intestinal organoid differentiation	Hnf4g, adult intestinal stem cells, enterocytes, organoids, systems biology	Intestinal organoids accurately recapitulate epithelial homeostasis in vivo, thereby representing a powerful in vitro system to investigate lineage specification and cellular differentiation. Here, we applied a multi-omics framework on stem cell-enriched and stem cell-depleted mouse intestinal organoids to obtain a holistic view of the molecular mechanisms that drive differential gene expression during adult intestinal stem cell differentiation. Our data revealed a global rewiring of the transcriptome and proteome between intestinal stem cells and enterocytes, with the majority of dynamic protein expression being transcription-driven. Integrating absolute mRNA and protein copy numbers revealed post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. Probing the epigenetic landscape identified a large number of cell-type-specific regulatory elements, which revealed Hnf4g as a major driver of enterocyte differentiation. In summary, by applying an integrative systems biology approach, we uncovered multiple layers of gene expression regulation, which contribute to lineage specification and plasticity of the mouse small intestinal epithelium.
PXD009645	29946125	Revealing the immune perturbation of black phosphorus nanomaterials to macrophages by understanding the protein corona. 	Revealing the immune perturbation of black phosphorus nanomaterials to macrophages by understanding the protein corona	black phosphorus nanomaterials, corona, human plasma	The increasing number of biological applications for black phosphorus (BP) nanomaterials has precipitated considerable concern about their interactions with physiological systems. Here we demonstrate the adsorption of plasma protein onto BP nanomaterials and the subsequent immune perturbation effect on macrophages. Using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry, 75.8% of the proteins bound to BP quantum dots were immune relevant proteins, while that percentage for BP nanosheet-corona complexes is 69.9%. In particular, the protein corona dramatically reshapes BP nanomaterial-corona complexes, influenced cellular uptake, activated the NF-kappaB pathway and even increased cytokine secretion by 2-4-fold. BP nanomaterials induce immunotoxicity and immune perturbation in macrophages in the presence of a plasma corona. These findings offer important insights into the development of safe and effective BP nanomaterial-based therapies.
PXD003544	29946230	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis reveals reciprocal activation of receptor tyrosine kinases between cancer epithelial cells and stromal fibroblasts. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis reveals reciprocal activation of receptor tyrosine kinases between cancer epithelial cells and their interacting stromal fibroblast cells	LC/MS-MS, breast cancer, epithelial cell, fibroblast, kinase, phosphorylation, tumor	BACKGROUND: Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are one of the most important components of tumor stroma and play a key role in modulating tumor growth. However, a mechanistic understanding of how CAFs communicate with tumor cells to promote their proliferation and invasion is far from complete. A major reason for this is that most current techniques and model systems do not capture the complexity of signal transduction that occurs between CAFs and tumor cells. METHODS: In this study, we employed a stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) strategy to label invasive breast cancer cells, MDA-MB-231, and breast cancer patient-derived CAF this has already been defined above cells. We used an antibody-based phosphotyrosine peptide enrichment method coupled to LC-MS/MS to catalog and quantify tyrosine phosphorylation-mediated signal transduction events induced by the bidirectional communication between patient-derived CAFs and tumor cells. RESULTS: We discovered that distinct signaling events were activated in CAFs and in tumor epithelial cells during the crosstalk between these two cell types. We identified reciprocal activation of a number of receptor tyrosine kinases including EGFR, FGFR1 and EPHA2 induced by this bidirectional communication. CONCLUSIONS: Our study not only provides insights into the mechanisms of the interaction between CAFs and tumor cells, but the model system described here could be used as a prototype for analysis of intercellular communication in many different tumor microenvironments.
PXD009006	29947227	Cone Snail Glutaminyl Cyclase Sequences from Transcriptomic Analysis and Mass Spectrometric Characterization of Two Pyroglutamyl Conotoxins. 	Analysis of Conus venom peptides	Conus amadis, Conus frigidus, transcriptome	The post-translational modification of N-terminal glutamine (Q) to a pyroglutamyl (Z) residue is observed in the conotoxins produced by marine cone snails. This conversion requires the action of the enzyme glutaminyl cyclase (QC). Four complete QC sequences from the species C. araneosus, C. frigidus, C. litteratus, and C. monile and two partial sequences from C. amadis and C. miles have been obtained by analysis of transcriptomic data. Comparisons with mammalian enzyme sequences establish a high level of identity and complete conservation of functional active site residues, including a cluster of hydrogen-bonded acidic side chains. Mass spectrometric analysis of crude venom samples coupled to conotoxin precursor protein sequences obtained from transcriptomic data establishes the presence of pyroglutamyl conotoxins in the venom of C. frigidus and C. amadis. The C. frigidus peptide belongs to the M superfamily, with cysteine framework III, whereas the C. amadis peptide belongs to the divergent superfamily with cysteine framework VI/VII. Additionally, gamma carboxylation of glutamic acid and hydroxylation of proline are observed in the C. frigidus peptide. Mass spectral data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009006.
PXD006805	29950347	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Identifies AHNAK (Neuroblast Differentiation-associated Protein AHNAK) as a Novel Candidate Biomarker for Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma Diagnosis by Liquid-based Cytology. 	In-depth protein profiling of cytology samples in urothelial carcinoma	Cytology, Liquid biopsy, label free quantification, quantitative proteomics	Cytological examination of urine is the most widely used noninvasive pathologic screen for bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA); however, inadequate diagnostic accuracy remains a major challenge. We performed mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of urine samples of ten patients with BLCA and ten paired patients with benign urothelial lesion (BUL) to identify ancillary proteomic markers for use in liquid-based cytology (LBC). A total of 4,839 proteins were identified and 112 proteins were confirmed as expressed at significantly different levels between the two groups. We also performed an independent proteomic profiling of tumor tissue samples where we identified 7,916 proteins of which 758 were differentially expressed. Cross-platform comparisons of these data with comparative mRNA expression profiles from The Cancer Genome Atlas identified four putative candidate proteins, AHNAK, EPPK1, MYH14 and OLFM4. To determine their immunocytochemical expression levels in LBC, we examined protein expression data from The Human Protein Atlas and in-house FFPE samples. We further investigated the expression of the four candidate proteins in urine cytology samples from two independent validation cohorts. These analyses revealed AHNAK as a unique intracellular protein differing in immunohistochemical expression and subcellular localization between tumor and non-tumor cells. In conclusion, this study identified a new biomarker, AHNAK, applicable to discrimination between BLCA and BUL by LBC. To our knowledge, the present study provides the first identification of a clinical biomarker for LBC based on in-depth proteomics.
PXD008881	29950687	Dissecting ribosomal particles throughout the kingdoms of life using advanced hybrid mass spectrometry methods. 	Bottom-up and top-down LC-MS/MS of ribosomal purifications	bottom-up, ribosome, top-down	Biomolecular mass spectrometry has matured strongly over the past decades and has now reached a stage where it can provide deep insights into the structure and composition of large cellular assemblies. Here, we describe a three-tiered hybrid mass spectrometry approach that enables the dissection of macromolecular complexes in order to complement structural studies. To demonstrate the capabilities of the approach, we investigate ribosomes, large ribonucleoprotein particles consisting of a multitude of protein and RNA subunits. We identify sites of sequence processing, protein post-translational modifications, and the assembly and stoichiometry of individual ribosomal proteins in four distinct ribosomal particles of bacterial, plant and human origin. Amongst others, we report extensive cysteine methylation in the zinc finger domain of the human S27 protein, the heptameric stoichiometry of the chloroplastic stalk complex, the heterogeneous composition of human 40S ribosomal subunits and their association to the CrPV, and HCV internal ribosome entry site RNAs.
PXD009496	29950996	Exploring the Therapeutic Mechanism of Desmodium styracifolium on Oxalate Crystal-Induced Kidney Injuries Using Comprehensive Approaches Based on Proteomics and Network Pharmacology. 	rat kidney LC-MS -  Exploring the Therapeutic Mechanism of Desmodium styracifolium on Oxalate Crystal-Induced Kidney Injuries Using Comprehensive Approaches Based on Proteomics and Network Pharmacology	LC-MS, kidney, rat	Purpose: As a Chinese medicinal herb, Desmodium styracifolium (Osb.) Merr (DS) has been applied clinically to alleviate crystal-induced kidney injuries, but its effective components and their specific mechanisms still need further exploration. This research first combined the methods of network pharmacology and proteomics to explore the therapeutic protein targets of DS on oxalate crystal-induced kidney injuries to provide a reference for relevant clinical use. Methods: Oxalate-induced kidney injury mouse, rat, and HK-2 cell models were established. Proteins differentially expressed between the oxalate and control groups were respectively screened using iTRAQ combined with MALDI-TOF-MS. The common differential proteins of the three models were further analyzed by molecular docking with DS compounds to acquire differential targets. The inverse docking targets of DS were predicted through the platform of PharmMapper. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) relationship between the inverse docking targets and the differential proteins was established by STRING. Potential targets were further validated by western blot based on a mouse model with DS treatment. The effects of constituent compounds, including luteolin, apigenin, and genistein, were investigated based on an oxalate-stimulated HK-2 cell model. Results: Thirty-six common differentially expressed proteins were identified by proteomic analysis. According to previous research, the 3D structures of 15 major constituents of DS were acquired. Nineteen differential targets, including cathepsin D (CTSD), were found using molecular docking, and the component-differential target network was established. Inverse-docking targets including p38 MAPK and CDK-2 were found, and the network of component-reverse docking target was established. Through PPI analysis, 17 inverse-docking targets were linked to differential proteins. The combined network of component-inverse docking target-differential proteins was then constructed. The expressions of CTSD, p-p38 MAPK, and p-CDK-2 were shown to be increased in the oxalate group and decreased in kidney tissue by the DS treatment. Luteolin, apigenin, and genistein could protect oxalate-stimulated tubular cells as active components of DS. Conclusion: The potential targets including the CTSD, p38 MAPK, and CDK2 of DS in oxalate-induced kidney injuries and the active components (luteolin, apigenin, and genistein) of DS were successfully identified in this study by combining proteomics analysis, network pharmacology prediction, and experimental validation.
PXD056149	29951049	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomics Identifies Novel Plasma Biomarkers for Distinguishing Pulmonary Tuberculosis and Latent Infection. 	Label-free Quantitative Proteomics Identifies Novel Plasma Biomarkers for Distinguishing Pulmonary Tuberculosis and Latent Infection	Active tuberculosis, label-free quantitative proteomics, latent infection, plasma protein	The lack of effective differential diagnostic methods for active tuberculosis (TB) and latent infection (LTBI) is still an obstacle for TB control. Furthermore, the molecular mechanism behind the progression from LTBI to active TB has been not elucidated. Therefore, we performed label-free quantitative proteomics to identify plasma biomarkers for discriminating pulmonary TB (PTB) from LTBI. A total of 31 overlapping proteins with significant difference in expression level were identified in PTB patients (n = 15), compared with LTBI individuals (n = 15) and healthy controls (HCs, n = 15). Eight differentially expressed proteins were verified using western blot analysis, which was 100% consistent with the proteomics results. Statistically significant differences of six proteins were further validated in the PTB group compared with the LTBI and HC groups in the training set (n = 240), using ELISA. Classification and regression tree (CART) analysis was employed to determine the ideal protein combination for discriminating PTB from LTBI and HC. A diagnostic model consisting of alpha-1-antichymotrypsin (ACT), alpha-1-acid glycoprotein 1 (AGP1), and E-cadherin (CDH1) was established and presented a sensitivity of 81.2% (69/85) and a specificity of 95.2% (80/84) in discriminating PTB from LTBI, and a sensitivity of 81.2% (69/85) and a specificity of 90.1% (64/81) in discriminating PTB from HCs. Additional validation was performed by evaluating the diagnostic model in blind testing set (n = 113), which yielded a sensitivity of 75.0% (21/28) and specificity of 96.1% (25/26) in PTB vs. LTBI, 75.0% (21/28) and 92.3% (24/26) in PTB vs. HCs, and 75.0% (21/28) and 81.8% (27/33) in PTB vs. lung cancer (LC), respectively. This study obtained the plasma proteomic profiles of different M.TB infection statuses, which contribute to a better understanding of the pathogenesis involved in the transition from latent infection to TB activation and provide new potential diagnostic biomarkers for distinguishing PTB and LTBI.
PXD010804	29951053	Immunoregulatory Effects of Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cell Exosomes in Mouse Model of Autoimmune Alopecia Areata. 	Immunoregulatory Effects of Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cell Exosomes in Mouse Model of Autoimmune Alopecia Areata	exosomes, myeloid-derived suppressor cells	The treatment of autoimmune diseases still poses a major challenge, frequently relying on non-specific immunosuppressive drugs. Current efforts aim at reestablishing self tolerance using immune cells with suppressive activity like the regulatory T cells (Treg) or the myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC). We have demonstrated therapeutic efficacy of MDSC in mouse Alopecia Areata (AA). In the same AA model, we now asked whether MDSC exosomes (MDSC-Exo) can replace MDSC. MDSC-Exo from bone marrow cells (BMC) cultures of healthy donors could substantially facilitate treatment. With knowledge on MDSC-Exo being limited, their suitability needs to be verified in advance. Protein marker profiles suggest comparability of BMC- to ex vivo collected inflammatory MDSC/MDSC-Exo in mice with a chronic contact dermatitis, which is a therapeutic option in AA. Proteome analyses substantiated a large overlap of function-relevant molecules in MDSC and MDSC-Exo. Furthermore, MDSC-Exo are taken up by T cells, macrophages, NK, and most avidly by Treg and MDSC-Exo uptake exceeds binding of MDSC themselves. In AA mice, MDSC-Exo preferentially target skin-draining lymph nodes and cells in the vicinity of remnant hair follicles. MDSC-Exo uptake is accompanied by a strong increase in Treg, reduced T helper proliferation, mitigated cytotoxic activity, and a slight increase in lymphocyte apoptosis. Repeated MDSC-Exo application in florid AA prevented progression and sufficed for partial hair regrowth. Deep sequencing of lymphocyte mRNA from these mice revealed a significant increase in immunoregulatory mRNA, including FoxP3 and arginase 1. Downregulated mRNA was preferentially engaged in prohibiting T cell hyperreactivity. Taken together, proteome analysis provided important insights into potential MDSC-Exo activities, these Exo preferentially homing into AA-affected organs. Most importantly, changes in leukocyte mRNA seen after treatment of AA mice with MDSC-Exo sustainably supports the strong impact on the adaptive and the non-adaptive immune system, with Treg expansion being a dominant feature. Thus, MDSC-Exo could potentially serve as therapeutic agents in treating AA and other autoimmune diseases.
PXD005006	29952134	Proteomic Profiling of Enteroid Cultures Skewed toward Development of Specific Epithelial Lineages. 	Proteomic profiling of enteroid cultures skewed towards development of specific epithelial lineages	differentiation, gastrointestinal system, stem cells	Recently, 3D small intestinal organoids (enteroids) have been developed from cultures of intestinal stem cells which differentiate in vitro to generate all the differentiated epithelial cell types associated with the intestine and mimic the structural properties of the intestine observed in vivo. Small-molecule drug treatment can skew organoid epithelial cell differentiation toward particular lineages, and these skewed enteroids may provide useful tools to study specific epithelial cell populations, such as goblet and Paneth cells. However, the extent to which differentiated epithelial cell populations in these skewed enteroids represent their in vivo counterparts is not fully understood. This study utilises label-free quantitative proteomics to determine whether skewing murine enteroid cultures toward the goblet or Paneth cell lineages results in changes in abundance of proteins associated with these cell lineages in vivo. Here, proteomics data confirms that skewed enteroids recapitulate important features of the in vivo gut environment, demonstrating that they can serve as useful models for the investigation of normal and disease processes in the intestine. Furthermore, comparison of mass spectrometry data with histology data contained within the Human Protein Atlas identifies putative novel markers for goblet and Paneth cells.
PXD009948	29954836	Comprehensive ADP-ribosylome analysis identifies tyrosine as an ADP-ribose acceptor site. 	Comprehensive ADP-ribosylome analysis identifies tyrosine as an ADP-ribose acceptor site	ADP-ribosylation, ARTD1, Genotoxic stress, HPF1, PARP1, RSP3A, Tyrosine ADP-ribosylation	Despite recent mass spectrometry (MS)-based breakthroughs, comprehensive ADP-ribose (ADPr)-acceptor amino acid identification and ADPr-site localization remain challenging. Here, we report the establishment of an unbiased, multistep ADP-ribosylome data analysis workflow that led to the identification of tyrosine as a novel ARTD1/PARP1-dependent in vivo ADPr-acceptor amino acid. MS analyses of in vitro ADP-ribosylated proteins confirmed tyrosine as an ADPr-acceptor amino acid in RPS3A (Y155) and HPF1 (Y238) and demonstrated that trans-modification of RPS3A is dependent on HPF1. We provide an ADPr-site Localization Spectra Database (ADPr-LSD), which contains 288 high-quality ADPr-modified peptide spectra, to serve as ADPr spectral references for correct ADPr-site localizations.
PXD009095	29955062	Molecular basis of Tousled-Like Kinase 2 activation. 	Molecular basis of Tousled-Like-Kinase 2 (TLK2) activation - LC-MS/MS-based analysis of HEK293-expressed TLK2 phosphorylation state	HEK293, Phosphosites, TLK2	Tousled-like kinases (TLKs) are required for genome stability and normal development in numerous organisms and have been implicated in breast cancer and intellectual disability. In humans, the similar TLK1 and TLK2 interact with each other and TLK activity enhances ASF1 histone binding and is inhibited by the DNA damage response, although the molecular mechanisms of TLK regulation remain unclear. Here we describe the crystal structure of the TLK2 kinase domain. We show that the coiled-coil domains mediate dimerization and are essential for activation through ordered autophosphorylation that promotes higher order oligomers that locally increase TLK2 activity. We show that TLK2 mutations involved in intellectual disability impair kinase activity, and the docking of several small-molecule inhibitors of TLK activity suggest that the crystal structure will be useful for guiding the rationale design of new inhibition strategies. Together our results provide insights into the structure and molecular regulation of the TLKs.
PXD009792	29958836	Systematic analysis of GSK-3 signaling pathways in aging of cerebral tissue. 	Global quantitative proteomics of mouse brain structures reveals significant alterations in expression of proteins involved in neuronal plasticity during aging	Aging, FASP, cerebellum, cortex, hippocampus, mouse brain, total proteins approach (TPA)	Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) is a constitutively active kinase, involved in regulation of multiple physiological processes. In brain, changes in GSK-3 signaling are related to neurodegenerative issues, including Alzheimer's disease. Due to the wide range of GSK-3 cellular targets, a therapeutic use of the enzyme inhibitors entails significant risk of side effects. Thus, altering the ratio of specific pool of GSK-3 or specific substrates instead of changing the global activity of GSK-3 in brains might be a more appropriate strategy. This paper provides a comprehensive data on abundances of proteins involved in GSK-3 signaling in three regions of young and old mouse brains. It might help to identify novel protein targets with the highest therapeutic potential for treatment of age-related neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD007103	29961565	Endogenous Cell Type-Specific Disrupted in Schizophrenia 1 Interactomes Reveal Protein Networks Associated With Neurodevelopmental Disorders. 	Endogenous Cell Type-Specific DISC1 Interactomes Reveal Protein Networks Associated to Neurodevelopmental Disorders	disc1, neural, neural progenitor	BACKGROUND: Disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) has been implicated in a number of psychiatric diseases along with neurodevelopmental phenotypes such as the proliferation and differentiation of neural progenitor cells. While there has been significant effort directed toward understanding the function of DISC1 through the determination of its protein-protein interactions within an in vitro setting, endogenous interactions involving DISC1 within a cell type-specific setting relevant to neural development remain unclear. METHODS: Using CRISPR/Cas9 (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated protein 9) genome engineering technology, we inserted an endogenous 3X-FLAG tag at the C-terminus of the canonical DISC1 gene in human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). We further differentiated these cells and used affinity purification to determine protein-protein interactions involving DISC1 in iPSC-derived neural progenitor cells and astrocytes. RESULTS: We were able to determine 151 novel cell type-specific proteins present in DISC1 endogenous interactomes. The DISC1 interactomes can be clustered into several subcomplexes that suggest novel DISC1 cell-specific functions. In addition, the DISC1 interactome in iPSC-derived neural progenitor cells associates in a connected network containing proteins found to harbor de novo mutations in patients affected by schizophrenia and contains a subset of novel interactions that are known to harbor syndromic mutations in neurodevelopmental disorders. CONCLUSIONS: Endogenous DISC1 interactomes within iPSC-derived human neural progenitor cells and astrocytes are able to provide context to DISC1 function in a cell type-specific setting relevant to neural development and enables the integration of psychiatric disease risk factors within a set of defined molecular functions.
PXD008093	29963029	Microbial Community Structure-Function Relationships in Yaquina Bay Estuary Reveal Spatially Distinct Carbon and Nitrogen Cycling Capacities. 	Proteomics for Newport Estuary Samples	Estuarine Microorganisms, Metaproteomics	Linking microbial community structure to ecological processes requires understanding of the functional roles among individual populations and the factors that influence their distributions. These structure-function relationships are particularly difficult to disentangle in estuaries, due to highly variable physico-chemical conditions. Yet, examining microbe-mediated turnover of resources in these "bioreactor" ecosystems is critical for understanding estuarine ecology. In this study, a combined metagenomics and metaproteomics approach was used to show that the unequal distribution of microbial populations across the Yaquina Bay estuary led to a habitat-specific taxonomic and functional structure and a clear spatial distribution in microbe-mediated capacities for cycling of carbon and nitrogen. For example, size-fractionation revealed that communities inhabiting suspended particulate material encoded more diverse types of metabolisms (e.g., fermentation and denitrification) than those with a planktonic lifestyle, suggesting that the metabolic reactions can differ between size fractions of the same parcel of an estuarine water column. Similarly, communities inhabiting oligotrophic conditions in the lower estuary were enriched in genes involved in central carbon metabolism (e.g., TCA cycle), while communities in the upper estuary were enriched in genes typical of copiotrophic populations (e.g., cell growth, cell division). Integrating gene and protein data revealed that abundant populations of Flavobacteriales and Rhodobacterales encoded similar genomic functions, yet differed significantly in protein expression, dedicating a large proportion of their respective proteomes to rapid growth and division versus metabolic versatility and resource acquisition. This suggested potentially distinct life-strategies between these two co-occurring lineages and was concomitant with differing patterns of positive evolutionary selection on their encoded genes. Microbial communities and their functions across Yaquina Bay appear to be structured by population-level habitat preferences, resulting in spatially distinct elemental cycling, while within each community, forces such as competitive exclusion and evolutionary selection influence species life-strategies and may help maintain microbial diversity.
PXD006178	29963755	Soy-Derived Phytochemical Genistein Modifies Chromatome Topology to Restrict Cancer Cell Proliferation. 	A quantitative proteomic based approach to study the genistein induced epigenetic reprogramming in MDA-MB231 cells	DNA repair, Genistein, TMT, chromatin, chromatome, epigenetic reprogram, epigenetics, epigenome, euchromatin, heterochromatin, quantitative proteomics	Epidemiological data indicate that human cancer risk is significantly reduced by the consumption of soy-based foods containing the "phytoestrogen" genistein, which can signal via host cell estrogen receptors. While additional chemoprotective effects of genistein induced by epigenetic factors have also been reported, the key molecules and mechanisms involved are poorly defined. We therefore investigated genistein effects on chromatin-bound proteins in the estrogen receptor-deficient cell line MDA-MB-231 which is insensitive to phytoestrogen signaling. After exposure to low-dose genistein for >1 month, MDA-MB-231 cells exhibited stable epigenetic alterations that are analyzed via partial MNase digestion and TMT-based quantitative proteomics. 3177 chromatin-bound proteins are identified with high confidence, including 882 molecules that displayed altered binding topology after cell conditioning with genistein. Prolonged phytochemical exposure conferred heritable changes in the binding topology of key epigenetic regulators including ATRX, SUV39H1/H2, and HP1BP3 that are preserved in untreated progeny, resulting in sustained downregulation of proliferation genes and reduced cell growth. These data indicate that soy derivative genistein exerts complex estrogen receptor-independent effects on the epigenome likely to influence tumorigenesis by restricting cell growth.
PXD006579	29964200	The cancer matrisome: From comprehensive characterization to biomarker discovery. 	ISDoT: In Situ Decellularization of Tissues for proteomic analysis of native extracellular matrix	Cancer, Decellularisation, Extracellular Matrix, ISDoT, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	Tumor progression and dissemination critically depend on support from the tumor microenvironment, the ensemble of cellular and acellular components surrounding and interacting with tumor cells. The extracellular matrix (ECM), the complex scaffolding of hundreds of proteins organizing cells in tissues, is a major component of the tumor microenvironment. It orchestrates cellular processes including proliferation, migration, and invasion, that are highly dysregulated during cancer progression. Alterations in ECM abundance, integrity, and mechanical properties have been correlated with poorer prognosis for cancer patients. Yet the ECM proteome, or "matrisome," of tumors remained until recently largely unexplored. This review will present the recent developments in computational and proteomic technologies that have allowed the comprehensive characterization of the ECM of different tumor types and microenvironmental niches. These approaches have resulted in the definition of protein signatures distinguishing tumors from normal tissues, tumors of different stages, primary from secondary tumors, and tumors from other diseased states such as fibrosis. Moreover, recent studies have demonstrated that the levels of expression of certain genes encoding ECM and ECM-associated proteins is prognostic of cancer patient survival and can thus serve as biomarkers. Last, proteomic studies have permitted the identification of novel ECM proteins playing functional roles in cancer progression. Such proteins have the potential to be exploited as therapeutic targets.
PXD005923	29966935	Interrogation of the Gulf toadfish intestinal proteome response to hypersalinity exposure provides insights into osmoregulatory mechanisms and regulation of carbonate mineral precipitation. 	Analysis of the Gulf toadfish intestinal proteome response to chronic hypersalinity exposure	Gulf toadfish, Opsanus beta, TMT, hypersalinity, intestinal fluid, intestine, marine, teleost	Marine bony fish live in a hyperosmotic environment and maintain osmotic homeostasis by drinking seawater, and absorbing salt and water across their gastrointestinal tract. Although the ion and water transport mechanisms in the intestine have been the subject of much study, numerous questions remain unanswered. To address some of these questions, a shotgun proteomics methodology employing isobaric tandem mass tags (TMT) was used to interrogate the anterior intestine, posterior intestine, and intestinal fluid proteomes of Gulf toadfish (Opsanus beta) acclimated to normal (35 ppt) or hypersaline (60 ppt) seawater. Relative protein abundance between tissues was also investigated using label free quantitation. Protein products from nearly 3000 unique toadfish loci were identified and quantified between the tissues, and pathway analysis was performed to gain insight into biological significance. Numerous proteins potentially involved in ion transport, digestion, nutrient absorption, and intestinal CaCO3 precipitation were found to respond to changing salinity, providing additional insight into the molecular mechanisms behind these processes. Intestinal protein heterogeneity was also observed with proteins involved in ion transport responding to hypersalinity exposure primarily in the anterior intestine, and proteins involved in digestion and nutrient absorption showing higher abundance in the anterior intestine, regardless of salinity.
PXD007625	29967049	Chloroplast Acetyltransferase NSI Is Required for State Transitions in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Lysine acetylation of chloroplast proteins	acetylation, chloroplast, lysine	The amount of light energy received by the photosynthetic reaction centers photosystem II (PSII) and photosystem I (PSI) is balanced through state transitions. Reversible phosphorylation of a light-harvesting antenna trimer (L-LHCII) orchestrates the association between L-LHCII and the photosystems, thus adjusting the amount of excitation energy received by the reaction centers. In this study, we identified the enzyme NUCLEAR SHUTTLE INTERACTING (NSI; AT1G32070) as an active lysine acetyltransferase in the chloroplasts of Arabidopsis thaliana Intriguingly, nsi knockout mutant plants were defective in state transitions, even though they had a similar LHCII phosphorylation pattern as the wild type. Accordingly, nsi plants were not able to accumulate the PSI-LHCII state transition complex, even though the LHCII docking site of PSI and the overall amounts of photosynthetic protein complexes remained unchanged. Instead, the nsi mutants showed a decreased Lys acetylation status of specific photosynthetic proteins including PSI, PSII, and LHCII subunits. Our work demonstrates that the chloroplast acetyltransferase NSI is needed for the dynamic reorganization of thylakoid protein complexes during photosynthetic state transitions.
PXD008454	29967110	Adaptive Resistance to EGFR-Targeted Therapy by Calcium Signaling in NSCLC Cells. 	Adaptive resistance to Afatinib in non-small cell lung cancer cells in attenuated by Ca2+ depletion	Calcium Signaling, EGFR, Non-small lung Cancer, Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors, adaptive resistance	Targeted therapies against oncogenic receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK) show promising results in the clinic. Unfortunately, despite the initial positive response, most patients develop therapeutic resistance. Most research has focused on acquired resistance occurring after an extensive time of treatment; however, the question remains as to how cells can survive an initial treatment, as early resistance to apoptosis will enable cells to develop any growth-stimulating mechanism. Here, the non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) PC9 cell line was used to systematically profile, by mass spectrometry, changes in the proteome, kinome, and phosphoproteome during early treatment with the EGFR inhibitor afatinib. Regardless of the response, initial drug-sensitive cells rapidly adapt to targeted therapy, and within days, cells regained the capacity to proliferate, despite persisting target inhibition. These data reveal a rapid reactivation of mTOR and MAPK signaling pathways after initial inhibition and an increase in abundance and activity of cytoskeleton and calcium signaling-related proteins. Pharmacologic inhibition of reactivated pathways resulted in increased afatinib efficacy. However more strikingly, cells that were restricted from accessing extracellular calcium were extremely sensitive to afatinib treatment. These findings were validated using three additional inhibitors tested in four different NSCLC cell lines, and the data clearly indicated a role for Ca(2+) signaling during the development of adaptive resistance. From a therapeutic point of view, the increased inhibitor efficacy could limit or even prevent further resistance development.Implications: Combined targeting of calcium signaling and RTKs may limit drug resistance and improve treatment efficacy. Mol Cancer Res; 16(11); 1773-84. (c)2018 AACR.
PXD007569	29967323	Cluster-assembled zirconia substrates promote long-term differentiation and functioning of human islets of Langerhans. 	Human islet of Langerhans grown on nanosubstrates LC-MSMS	islet of Langerhans, nanosubstrates	Ex vivo expansion and differentiation of human pancreatic beta-cell are enabling steps of paramount importance for accelerating the development of therapies for diabetes. The success of regenerative strategies depends on their ability to reproduce the chemical and biophysical properties of the microenvironment in which beta-cells develop, proliferate and function. In this paper we focus on the biophysical properties of the extracellular environment and exploit the cluster-assembled zirconia substrates with tailored roughness to mimic the nanotopography of the extracellular matrix. We demonstrate that beta-cells can perceive nanoscale features of the substrate and can convert these stimuli into mechanotransductive processes which promote long-term in vitro human islet culture, thus preserving beta-cell differentiation and function. Proteomic and quantitative immunofluorescence analyses demonstrate that the process is driven by nanoscale topography, via remodelling of the actin cytoskeleton and nuclear architecture. These modifications activate a transcriptional program which stimulates an adaptive metabolic glucose response. Engineered cluster-assembled substrates coupled with proteomic approaches may provide a useful strategy for identifying novel molecular targets for treating diabetes mellitus and for enhancing tissue engineering in order to improve the efficacy of islet cell transplantation therapies.
PXD009826	29967381	Dedicated surveillance mechanism controls G-quadruplex forming non-coding RNAs in human mitochondria. 	Identification of proteins associated with the human mitochondrial degradosome	PNPT1, PNPase, SUPV3L1, SUV3, mitochondrial RNA, mitochondrial degradosome	The GC skew in vertebrate mitochondrial genomes results in synthesis of RNAs that are prone to form G-quadruplexes (G4s). Such RNAs, although mostly non-coding, are transcribed at high rates and are degraded by an unknown mechanism. Here we describe a dedicated mechanism of degradation of G4-containing RNAs, which is based on cooperation between mitochondrial degradosome and quasi-RNA recognition motif (qRRM) protein GRSF1. This cooperation prevents accumulation of G4-containing transcripts in human mitochondria. In vitro reconstitution experiments show that GRSF1 promotes G4 melting that facilitates degradosome-mediated decay. Among degradosome and GRSF1 regulated transcripts we identified one that undergoes post-transcriptional modification. We show that GRSF1 proteins form a distinct qRRM group found only in vertebrates. The appearance of GRSF1 coincided with changes in the mitochondrial genome, which allows the emergence of G4-containing RNAs. We propose that GRSF1 appearance is an evolutionary adaptation enabling control of G4 RNA.
PXD024169	29969236	Comprehensive Single-Shot Proteomics with FAIMS on a Hybrid Orbitrap Mass Spectrometer. 	Comparision of Nano and Micro-flow LC-MS/MS Based Single Shot Proteomics	Micro-flow LC, Nano-flow LC, Single Shot Proteomics	Liquid chromatography (LC) prefractionation is often implemented to increase proteomic coverage; however, while effective, this approach is laborious, requires considerable sample amount, and can be cumbersome. We describe how interfacing a recently described high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) device between a nanoelectrospray ionization (nanoESI) emitter and an Orbitrap hybrid mass spectrometer (MS) enables the collection of single-shot proteomic data with comparable depth to that of conventional two-dimensional LC approaches. This next generation FAIMS device incorporates improved ion sampling at the ESI-FAIMS interface, increased electric field strength, and a helium-free ion transport gas. With fast internal compensation voltage (CV) stepping (25 ms/transition), multiple unique gas-phase fractions may be analyzed simultaneously over the course of an MS analysis. We have comprehensively demonstrated how this device performs for bottom-up proteomics experiments as well as characterized the effects of peptide charge state, mass loading, analysis time, and additional variables. We also offer recommendations for the number of CVs and which CVs to use for different lengths of experiments. Internal CV stepping experiments increase protein identifications from a single-shot experiment to >8000, from over 100 000 peptide identifications in as little as 5 h. In single-shot 4 h label-free quantitation (LFQ) experiments of a human cell line, we quantified 7818 proteins with FAIMS using intra-analysis CV switching compared to 6809 without FAIMS. Single-shot FAIMS results also compare favorably with LC fractionation experiments. A 6 h single-shot FAIMS experiment generates 8007 protein identifications, while four fractions analyzed for 1.5 h each produce 7776 protein identifications.
PXD008306	29970457	Proteomic Profiling of Microtubule Self-organization in M-phase. 	ran asters proteomics -  Proteomic profiling of microtubule self-organization in M-phase	ran asters proteomics	Microtubules (MTs) and associated proteins can self-organize into complex structures such as the bipolar spindle, a process in which RanGTP plays a major role. Addition of RanGTP to M-phase Xenopus egg extracts promotes the nucleation and self-organization of MTs into asters and bipolar-like structures in the absence of centrosomes or chromosomes. We show here that the complex proteome of these RanGTP-induced MT assemblies is similar to that of mitotic spindles. Using proteomic profiling we show that MT self-organization in the M-phase cytoplasm involves the non-linear and non-stoichiometric recruitment of proteins from specific functional groups. Our study provides for the first time a temporal understanding of the protein dynamics driving MT self-organization in M-phase.
PXD007740	29970458	A System-wide Approach to Monitor Responses to Synergistic BRAF and EGFR Inhibition in Colorectal Cancer Cells. 	A system-wide approach to monitor responses to synergistic BRAF and EGFR inhibition in colorectal cancer cells	BRAF(V600E), EGFR, PTPN11, colorectal cancer, drug resistance, multi-omics, phosphoproteomics, transcriptomics	Intrinsic and/or acquired resistance represents one of the great challenges in targeted cancer therapy. A deeper understanding of the molecular biology of cancer has resulted in more efficient strategies, where one or multiple drugs are adopted in novel therapies to tackle resistance. This beneficial effect of using combination treatments has also been observed in colorectal cancer patients harboring the BRAF(V600E) mutation, whereby dual inhibition of BRAF(V600E) and EGFR increases antitumor activity. Notwithstanding this success, it is not clear whether this combination treatment is the only or most effective treatment to block intrinsic resistance to BRAF inhibitors. Here, we investigate molecular responses upon single and multi-target treatments, over time, using BRAF(V600E) mutant colorectal cancer cells as a model system. Through integration of transcriptomic, proteomic and phosphoproteomics data we obtain a comprehensive overview, revealing both known and novel responses. We primarily observe widespread up-regulation of receptor tyrosine kinases and metabolic pathways upon BRAF inhibition. These findings point to mechanisms by which the drug-treated cells switch energy sources and enter a quiescent-like state as a defensive response, while additionally compensating for the MAPK pathway inhibition.
PXD009071	29970601	Proteomic analysis of S-nitrosylated nuclear proteins in rat cortical neurons. 	Proteomic analysis of S-nitrosylated nuclear proteins in rat cortical neurons	S-nitrosylation, cortical neurons, q-exactive, rat	Neurons modulate gene expression in response to extrinsic signals to enable brain development, cognition, and learning and to process stimuli that regulate systemic physiological functions. This signal-to-gene communication is facilitated by posttranslational modifications such as S-nitrosylation, the covalent attachment of a nitric oxide (NO) moiety to cysteine thiols. In the cerebral cortex, S-nitrosylation of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) is required for gene transcription during neuronal development, but few other nuclear targets of S-nitrosylation have been identified to date. We used S-nitrosothiol resin-assisted capture on NO donor-treated nuclear extracts from rat cortical neurons and identified 614 S-nitrosylated nuclear proteins. Of these, 131 proteins have not previously been shown to be S-nitrosylated in any system, and 555 are previously unidentified targets of S-nitrosylation in neurons. The sites of S-nitrosylation were identified for 59% of the targets, and motifs containing single lysines were found at 33% of these sites. In addition, lysine motifs were necessary for promoting the S-nitrosylation of HDAC2 and methyl-CpG binding protein 3 (MBD3). Moreover, S-nitrosylation of the histone-binding protein RBBP7 was necessary for dendritogenesis of cortical neurons in culture. Together, our findings characterize S-nitrosylated nuclear proteins in neurons and identify S-nitrosylation motifs that may be shared with other targets of NO signaling.
PXD008836	29972024	Multifunctional Activity-Based Protein Profiling of the Developing Lung. 	Multifunctional Activity-Based Protein Profiling of the Developing Lung	ABPP, ATPase, P450, chemoproteomics, ontogeny, protease	Lung diseases and disorders are a leading cause of death among infants. Many of these diseases and disorders are caused by premature birth and underdeveloped lungs. In addition to developmentally related disorders, the lungs are exposed to a variety of environmental contaminants and xenobiotics upon birth that can cause breathing issues and are progenitors of cancer. In order to gain a deeper understanding of the developing lung, we applied an activity-based chemoproteomics approach for the functional characterization of the xenometabolizing cytochrome P450 enzymes, active ATP and nucleotide binding enzymes, and serine hydrolases using a suite of activity-based probes (ABPs). We detected P450 activity primarily in the postnatal lung; using our ATP-ABP, we characterized a wide range of ATPases and other active nucleotide- and nucleic acid-binding enzymes involved in multiple facets of cellular metabolism throughout development. ATP-ABP targets include kinases, phosphatases, NAD- and FAD-dependent enzymes, RNA/DNA helicases, and others. The serine hydrolase-targeting probe detected changes in the activities of several proteases during the course of lung development, yielding insights into protein turnover at different stages of development. Select activity-based probe targets were then correlated with RNA in situ hybridization analyses of lung tissue sections.
PXD009509	29972782	Remodeling of the Acetylproteome by SIRT3 Manipulation Fails to Affect Insulin Secretion or beta Cell Metabolism in the Absence of Overnutrition. 	Remodelling of the acetylproteome by SIRT3 manipulation fails to affect insulin secretion or beta-cell metabolism in the absence of over nutrition	SIRT3, beta cells, pancreas, protein acetylation	SIRT3 is a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+))-dependent mitochondrial protein deacetylase purported to influence metabolism through post-translational modification of metabolic enzymes. Fuel-stimulated insulin secretion, which involves mitochondrial metabolism, could be susceptible to SIRT3-mediated effects. We used CRISPR/Cas9 technology to manipulate SIRT3 expression in beta cells, resulting in widespread SIRT3-dependent changes in acetylation of key metabolic enzymes but no appreciable changes in glucose- or pyruvate-stimulated insulin secretion or metabolomic profile during glucose stimulation. Moreover, these broad changes in the SIRT3-targeted acetylproteome did not affect responses to nutritional or ER stress. We also studied mice with global SIRT3 knockout fed either standard chow (STD) or high-fat and high-sucrose (HFHS) diets. Only when chronically fed HFHS diet do SIRT3 KO animals exhibit a modest reduction in insulin secretion. We conclude that broad changes in mitochondrial protein acetylation in response to manipulation of SIRT3 are not sufficient to cause changes in islet function or metabolism.
PXD009758	29972788	Recognition and ER Quality Control of Misfolded Formylglycine-Generating Enzyme by Protein Disulfide Isomerase. 	MS analysis of an FGE-PDI complex	FGE, Multiple Sulfatase Deficiency, PDI	Multiple sulfatase deficiency (MSD) is a fatal, inherited lysosomal storage disorder characterized by reduced activities of all sulfatases in patients. Sulfatases require a unique post-translational modification of an active-site cysteine to formylglycine that is catalyzed by the formylglycine-generating enzyme (FGE). FGE mutations that affect intracellular protein stability determine residual enzyme activity and disease severity in MSD patients. Here, we show that protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) plays a pivotal role in the recognition and quality control of MSD-causing FGE variants. Overexpression of PDI reduces the residual activity of unstable FGE variants, whereas inhibition of PDI function rescues the residual activity of sulfatases in MSD fibroblasts. Mass spectrometric analysis of a PDI+FGE variant covalent complex allowed determination of the molecular signature for FGE recognition by PDI. Our findings highlight the role of PDI as a disease modifier in MSD, which may also be relevant for other ER-associated protein folding pathologies.
PXD008372	29973605	Processing and Structure of the Lantibiotic Peptide Nso From the Human Gut Bacterium Blautia obeum A2-162 analysed by Mass Spectrometry. 	Processing and Structure of the New Lantibiotic Peptide Nso From the Human GI Tract Bacterium Blautia obeum A2-162 analysed by Mass Spectrometry	antimicrobial peptide, dehydration, gut pathogens, lachnospiraceae, lantibiotic, methyllanthionine ring, modification, nisin, nso, structure	A previously reported gene cluster encoding four nisin-like peptides, three with the same sequence (NsoA1-3) and the unique NsoA4, produced antimicrobial activity in the presence of trypsin after heterologous expression in Lactococcus lactis. Protein extracts were separated by SDS gel electrophoresis or immunoprecipitation using an antibody to the NsoA2 leader. Tryptic peptides observed by LC-MS/MS covered the complete sequence of preNsoA1-3 and part of the leader sequence of preNsoA4 and confirmed the expression and the predicted sequences of the preNsoA peptides. Further, the data revealed that the preNsoA1-3 peptides were partly modified with dehydrations and formation of lanthionine rings. A certain amount of fully modified preNsoA1-3 was observed. Details of modifications of the core peptide and the C-terminal tryptic peptide TATCGCHITGK covering rings D and E indicated that 22% of these preNsoA1-3 peptides were completely modified. A lower amount of ring formation is estimated for rings A-C. Intact masses of immunoprecipitation-derived peptides determined by LC-MS accurately matched the expected preNsoA precursor peptides. The most abundant peptides detected were preNsoA2-3-8H2O followed by preNsoA1-8H2O and other states of dehydration. The results confirm incomplete processing of preNsoA peptides in the heterologous system, with the formation of a certain amount of fully modified peptides.
PXD007761	29973724	Kinase-controlled phase transition of membraneless organelles in mitosis. 	DYRK3 protein-protein interactions in human cells	AP-MS, DYRK3, SILAC, kinase inhibitor	Liquid-liquid phase separation has been shown to underlie the formation and disassembly of membraneless organelles in cells, but the cellular mechanisms that control this phenomenon are poorly understood. A prominent example of regulated and reversible segregation of liquid phases may occur during mitosis, when membraneless organelles disappear upon nuclear-envelope breakdown and reappear as mitosis is completed. Here we show that the dual-specificity kinase DYRK3 acts as a central dissolvase of several types of membraneless organelle during mitosis. DYRK3 kinase activity is essential to prevent the unmixing of the mitotic cytoplasm into aberrant liquid-like hybrid organelles and the over-nucleation of spindle bodies. Our work supports a mechanism in which the dilution of phase-separating proteins during nuclear-envelope breakdown and the DYRK3-dependent degree of their solubility combine to allow cells to dissolve and condense several membraneless organelles during mitosis.
PXD004634	29973918	Taxonomic and Functional Compositions Impacted by the Quality of Metatranscriptomic Assemblies. 	Deep Biosphere - Beatrix 326 BH2 (270712)	crustal fluid, deep subsurface ecosystem, ecological trophic structure, native microbial community, sample-derived metatranscripome database	Metatranscriptomics has recently been applied to investigate the active biogeochemical processes and elemental cycles, and in situ responses of microbiomes to environmental stimuli and stress factors. De novo assembly of RNA-Sequencing (RNA-Seq) data can reveal a more detailed description of the metabolic interactions amongst the active microbial communities. However, the quality of the assemblies and the depiction of the metabolic network provided by various de novo assemblers have not yet been thoroughly assessed. In this study, we compared 15 de novo metatranscriptomic assemblies for a fracture fluid sample collected from a borehole located at 1.34 km below land surface in a South African gold mine. These assemblies were constructed from total, non-coding, and coding reads using five de novo transcriptomic assemblers (Trans-ABySS, Trinity, Oases, IDBA-tran, and Rockhopper). They were evaluated based on the number of transcripts, transcript length, range of transcript coverage, continuity, percentage of transcripts with confident annotation assignments, as well as taxonomic and functional diversity patterns. The results showed that these parameters varied considerably among the assemblies, with Trans-ABySS and Trinity generating the best assemblies for non-coding and coding RNA reads, respectively, because the high number of transcripts assembled covered a wide expression range, and captured extensively the taxonomic and metabolic gene diversity, respectively. We concluded that the choice of de novo transcriptomic assemblers impacts substantially the taxonomic and functional compositions. Care should be taken to obtain high-quality assemblies for informing the in situ metabolic landscape.
PXD009893	29974749	Identification of the Missing Protein Hyaluronan Synthase 1 in Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells Derived from Adipose Tissue or Umbilical Cord. 	Proteomic profiling of human mesenchymal stem cells derived from umbilical cord or adipose tissue	Adipose Tissue, Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, Umbilical Cord, hMSCs	Currently, 14% of the human proteome is made up of proteins whose existence is not confirmed by mass spectrometry. We performed a proteomic profiling of human mesenchymal stem cells derived from adipose tissue or umbilical cord (PRIDE accession number: PXD009893) and identified peptides derived from 13 of such missing proteins. Remarkably, we found compelling evidence of the expression of hyaluronan synthase 1 (NX_Q92839-1) and confirmed its identification by the fragmentation of four heavy-labeled peptides that coeluted with their endogenous light counterparts. Our data also suggest that mesenchymal stem cells constitute a promising source for the detection of missing proteins.
PXD009586	29977868	Integration of Transcriptomic and Proteomic Approaches Reveals the Temperature-Dependent Virulence of Pseudomonas plecoglossicida. 	Analysis of the temperature-dependent virulence of Pseudomonas plecoglossicida with iTRAQ	Pseudomonas plecoglossicida, iTRAQ, temperature	Pseudomonas plecoglossicida is a facultative pathogen that is associated with diseases of multiple fish, mainly at 15-20degreesC. Although fish disease caused by P. plecoglossicida has led to significant economic losses, the mechanisms of the temperature-dependent virulence are unclear. Here, we identify potential pathogenicity mechanisms and demonstrate the direct regulation of several virulence factors by temperature with transcriptomic and proteomic analyses, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), RNAi, pyoverdine (PVD) quantification, the chrome azurol S (CAS) assay, growth curve measurements, a biofilm assay, and artificial infection. The principal component analysis, the heat map generation and hierarchical clustering, together with the functional annotations of the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) demonstrated that, under different growth temperatures, the animation and focus of P. plecoglossicida are quite different, which may be the key to pathogenicity. Genes involved in PVD synthesis and in the type VI secretion system (T6SS) are specifically upregulated at the virulent temperature of 18degreesC. Silencing of the PVD-synthesis-related genes reduces the iron acquisition, growth, biofilm formation, distribution in host organs and virulence of the bacteria. Silencing of the T6SS genes also leads to the reduction of biofilm formation, distribution in host organs and virulence. These findings reveal that temperature regulates multiple virulence mechanisms in P. plecoglossicida, especially through iron acquisition and T6SS secretion. Meanwhile, integration of transcriptomic and proteomic data provide us with a new perspective into the pathogenesis of P. plecoglossicida, which would not have been easy to catch at either the protein or mRNA differential analyses alone, thus illustrating the power of multi-omics analyses in microbiology.
PXD009920	29979964	Activity-Dependent Degradation of the Nascentome by the Neuronal Membrane Proteasome. 	Activity-dependent degradation of the nascentome by the neuronal membrane proteosome	Nascentome, Neuronal-specific 20S membrane proteosome complex, degradation, translation	Activity-dependent changes in neuronal function require coordinated regulation of the protein synthesis and protein degradation machinery to maintain protein homeostasis, critical for proper neuronal function. However, the biochemical evidence for this balance and coordination is largely lacking. Leveraging our recent discovery of a neuronal-specific 20S membrane proteasome complex (NMP), we began exploring how neuronal activity regulates its function. Here, we found that the NMP degrades exclusively a large fraction of ribosome-associated nascent polypeptides that are being newly synthesized during neuronal stimulation. Using deep-coverage and global mass spectrometry, we identified the nascent protein substrates of the NMP, which included products encoding immediate-early genes, such as c-Fos and Npas4. Intriguingly, we found that turnover of nascent polypeptides and not full-length proteins through the NMP occurred independent of canonical ubiquitylation pathways. We propose that these findings generally define a neuronal activity-induced protein homeostasis program of coordinated protein synthesis and degradation through the NMP.
PXD009495	29980614	Thermal proteome profiling in bacteria: probing protein state in vivo. 	Thermal proteome profiling in Escherichia coli	Escherichia coli, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, drugs, growth phase, machine learning, meltome, target engagement, thermal proteome profiling	Increasing antibiotic resistance urges for new technologies for studying microbes and antimicrobial mechanism of action. We adapted thermal proteome profiling (TPP) to probe the thermostability of Escherichia coli proteins in vivoE. coli had a more thermostable proteome than human cells, with protein thermostability depending on subcellular location-forming a high-to-low gradient from the cell surface to the cytoplasm. While subunits of protein complexes residing in one compartment melted similarly, protein complexes spanning compartments often had their subunits melting in a location-wise manner. Monitoring the E. coli meltome and proteome at different growth phases captured changes in metabolism. Cells lacking TolC, a component of multiple efflux pumps, exhibited major physiological changes, including differential thermostability and levels of its interaction partners, signaling cascades, and periplasmic quality control. Finally, we combined in vitro and in vivo TPP to identify targets of known antimicrobial drugs and to map their downstream effects. In conclusion, we demonstrate that TPP can be used in bacteria to probe protein complex architecture, metabolic pathways, and intracellular drug target engagement.
PXD007809	29980615	Influenza A Virus Induces Autophagosomal Targeting of Ribosomal Proteins. 	Influenza A virus induces autophagosomal targeting of ribosomal proteins	Autophagosome, Autophagy, Influenza, Organelle, Ribosome	Seasonal epidemics of influenza A virus are a major cause of severe illness and are of high socio-economic relevance. For the design of effective antiviral therapies, a detailed knowledge of pathways perturbed by virus infection is critical. We performed comprehensive expression and organellar proteomics experiments to study the cellular consequences of influenza A virus infection using three human epithelial cell lines derived from human lung carcinomas: A549, Calu-1 and NCI-H1299. As a common response, the type I interferon pathway was up-regulated upon infection. Interestingly, influenza A virus infection led to numerous cell line-specific responses affecting both protein abundance as well as subcellular localization. In A549 cells, the vesicular compartment appeared expanded after virus infection. The composition of autophagsomes was altered by targeting of ribosomes, viral mRNA and proteins to these double membrane vesicles. Thus, autophagy may support viral protein translation by promoting the clustering of the respective molecular machinery in autophagosomes in a cell line-dependent manner.
PXD007122	29980616	Decreased NAD Activates STAT3 and Integrin Pathways to Drive Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition. 	Human A549 CD38, part 1 -  Decreased NAD Activates STAT3 and Integrin Pathways to Drive Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition	CD38, lung	Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) plays an essential role in all aspects of human life. NAD levels decrease as humans age, and supplementation with NAD precursors plays a protective role against aging and associated disease. Less is known about the effects of decreased NAD on cellular processes, which is the basis for understanding the relationship between cellular NAD levels and aging-associated disease. In the present study, cellular NAD levels were decreased by overexpression of CD38, a NAD hydrolase, or by treating cells with FK866, an inhibitor of nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT). Quantitative proteomics revealed that declining NAD levels downregulated proteins associated with primary metabolism and suppressed cell growth in culture and nude mice. Decreased glutathione synthesis caused a 4-fold increase in cellular reactive oxygen species levels, and more importantly upregulated proteins related to movement and adhesion. In turn, this significantly changed cell morphology and caused cells to undergo epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). Secretomic analysis also showed that decreased NAD triggered interleukin-6 and transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) secretion, which activated integrin-beta-catenin, TGFbeta-MAPK, and inflammation signaling pathways to sustain the signaling required for EMT. We further revealed that decreased NAD inactivated sirtuin 1, resulting in increased signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) acetylation and phosphorylation, and STAT3 activation. Repletion of nicotinamide or nicotinic acid inactivated STAT3 and reversed EMT, as did STAT3 inhibition. Taken together, these results indicate that decreased NAD activates multiple signaling pathways to promote EMT and suggests that age-dependent decreases in NAD may contribute to tumor progression. Consequently, repletion of NAD precursors has potential benefits for inhibiting cancer progression.
PXD009320	29982075	Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals muscle contraction and metabolism proteins linked to ultimate pH in bovine skeletal muscle. 	Bovine Longissimus thoracis muscle HDMSE with differents ultimate pH	HDMSE, bovine, muscle, ultimate pH	The purpose of this research was to investigate the causes and consequences of pHu variations in beef cattle. A group of 176 Nellore beef cattle was evaluated and classified into two different pHu groups: High (>=6.0, N = 17) and Normal (<5.8, N = 159). Plasma concentrations of cortisol and adrenocorticotropic hormone, lactate and glycogen muscular content, meat color, shear force and Longissimus thoracis muscle proteomic profile were evaluated and compared between pHu groups. Muscle glycogen content, meat color and shear force statistically differed between pHu groups. Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis revealed ten differentially abundant proteins between pHu groups, involved in metabolic processes and muscle contraction, which also were significantly correlated with pHu. Thirty-six and 31 proteins were exclusively present in Normal and High pHu group, respectively, which were related to TCA cycle, cortisol production, calcium regulation, and antioxidant function. The MYH7, UGP2, H2AFJ and VDAC3 were identified as potential indicators of pHu variations. CALM and NNT appeared to be interesting proteins to understand the metabolic pathways behind pHu. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009320.
PXD006928	29983374	Architectural Features of Human Mitochondrial Cysteine Desulfurase Complexes from Crosslinking Mass Spectrometry and Small-Angle X-Ray Scattering. 	Human Mitochondrial NFS1-FXN XL LS-MS/MS	Iron-sulfur cluster, Mitochondria, XL	Cysteine desulfurase plays a central role in mitochondrial iron-sulfur cluster biogenesis by generating sulfur through the conversion of L-cysteine to L-alanine and by serving as the platform for assembling other components of the biosynthetic machinery, including ISCU, frataxin, and ferredoxin. The human mitochondrial cysteine desulfurase complex consists of two copies each of NFS1, ISD11, and acyl carrier protein. We describe results from chemical crosslinking coupled with tandem mass spectrometry and small-angle X-ray scattering studies that are consistent with a closed NFS1 dimer rather than an open one for both the cysteine desulfurase-ISCU and cysteine desulfurase-ISCU-frataxin complexes. We present a structural model for the cysteine desulfurase-ISCU-frataxin complex derived from chemical crosslinking restraints in conjunction with the recent crystal structure of the cysteine desulfurase-ISCU-zinc complex and distance constraints from nuclear magnetic resonance.
PXD009950	29984580	Porphyromonas gingivalis Gingipains Display Transpeptidation Activity. 	Gingipain transpeptidation -  Porphyromonas gingivalis Gingipains Display Transpeptidation Activity	gingipains, hemoglobin, porphyromonas gingivalis, transpeptidation	Porphyromonas gingivalis is a keystone periodontal pathogen that has been associated with autoimmune disorders. The cell surface proteases Lys-gingipain (Kgp) and Arg-gingipains (RgpA and RgpB) are major virulence factors, and their proteolytic activity is enhanced by small peptides such as glycylglycine (GlyGly). The reaction kinetics suggested that GlyGly may function as an acceptor molecule for gingipain-catalyzed transpeptidation. Purified gingipains and P. gingivalis whole cells were used to digest selected substrates including human hemoglobin in the presence or absence of peptide acceptors. Mass spectrometric analysis of the substrates digested with gingipains in the presence of GlyGly showed that transpeptidation outcompeted hydrolysis, whereas the trypsin-digested controls exhibited predominantly hydrolysis activity. The transpeptidation levels increased with increasing concentration of GlyGly. Purified gingipains and whole cells exhibited extensive transpeptidation activities on human hemoglobin. All hemoglobin cleavage sites were found to be suitable for GlyGly transpeptidation, and this transpeptidation enhanced hemoglobin digestion. The transpeptidation products were often more abundant than the corresponding hydrolysis products. In the absence of GlyGly, hemoglobin peptides produced during digestion were utilized as acceptors leading to the detection of up to 116 different transpeptidation products in a single reaction. P. gingivalis cells were able to digest hemoglobin faster when acceptor peptides derived from human serum albumin were included in the reaction, suggesting that gingipain-catalyzed transpeptidation may be relevant for substrates encountered in vivo. The transpeptidation of host proteins in vivo may potentially lead to the breakdown of immunological tolerance, culminating in autoimmune reactions.
PXD008747	29986055	Histone variant H2A.Z deposition and acetylation directs the canonical Notch signaling response. 	Histone variant H2A.Z deposition and acetylation directs the canonical Notch signaling response	AP-MS, CRISPR, H2A.Z, MaxQuant, Notch, Orbitrap MS, Tip60, histone variant, p400	A fundamental as yet incompletely understood feature of Notch signal transduction is a transcriptional shift from repression to activation that depends on chromatin regulation mediated by transcription factor RBP-J and associated cofactors. Incorporation of histone variants alter the functional properties of chromatin and are implicated in the regulation of gene expression. Here, we show that depletion of histone variant H2A.Z leads to upregulation of canonical Notch target genes and that the H2A.Z-chaperone TRRAP/p400/Tip60 complex physically associates with RBP-J at Notch-dependent enhancers. When targeted to RBP-J-bound enhancers, the acetyltransferase Tip60 acetylates H2A.Z and upregulates Notch target gene expression. Importantly, the Drosophila homologs of Tip60, p400 and H2A.Z modulate Notch signaling response and growth in vivo. Together, our data reveal that loading and acetylation of H2A.Z are required to assure tight control of canonical Notch activation.
PXD006907	29988084	Shank3 mutation in a mouse model of autism leads to changes in the S-nitroso-proteome and affects key proteins involved in vesicle release and synaptic function. 	S-nitrosylation in Shank3 mutated mice	ASD, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), S-nitrosylation, autism, neurotransmission, nitric oxide	Mutation in the SHANK3 human gene leads to different neuropsychiatric diseases including Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), intellectual disabilities and Phelan-McDermid syndrome. Shank3 disruption in mice leads to dysfunction of synaptic transmission, behavior, and development. Protein S-nitrosylation, the nitric oxide (NO(*))-mediated posttranslational modification (PTM) of cysteine thiols (SNO), modulates the activity of proteins that regulate key signaling pathways. We tested the hypothesis that Shank3 mutation would generate downstream effects on PTM of critical proteins that lead to modification of synaptic functions. SNO-proteins in two ASD-related brain regions, cortex and striatum of young and adult InsG3680(+/+) mice (a human mutation-based Shank3 mouse model), were identified by an innovative mass spectrometric method, SNOTRAP. We found changes of the SNO-proteome in the mutant compared to WT in both ages. Pathway analysis showed enrichment of processes affected in ASD. SNO-Calcineurin in mutant led to a significant increase of phosphorylated Synapsin1 and CREB, which affect synaptic vesicle mobilization and gene transcription, respectively. A significant increase of 3-nitrotyrosine was found in the cortical regions of the adult mutant, signaling both oxidative and nitrosative stress. Neuronal NO(*) Synthase (nNOS) was examined for levels and localization in neurons and no significant difference was found in WT vs. mutant. S-nitrosoglutathione concentrations were higher in mutant mice compared to WT. This is the first study on NO(*)-related molecular changes and SNO-signaling in the brain of an ASD mouse model that allows the characterization and identification of key proteins, cellular pathways, and neurobiological mechanisms that might be affected in ASD.
PXD008051	29988089	Translational repression of pre-formed cytokine-encoding mRNA prevents chronic activation of memory T cells. 	Translational repression of pre-formed cytokine mRNA prevents chronic activation of memory T cells	Orbitrap Fusion ETD, memory T cells	Memory T cells are critical for the immune response to recurring infections. Their instantaneous reactivity to pathogens is empowered by the persistent expression of cytokine-encoding mRNAs. How the translation of proteins from pre-formed cytokine-encoding mRNAs is prevented in the absence of infection has remained unclear. Here we found that protein production in memory T cells was blocked via a 3' untranslated region (3' UTR)-mediated process. Germline deletion of AU-rich elements (AREs) in the Ifng-3' UTR led to chronic cytokine production in memory T cells. This aberrant protein production did not result from increased expression and/or half-life of the mRNA. Instead, AREs blocked the recruitment of cytokine-encoding mRNA to ribosomes; this block depended on the ARE-binding protein ZFP36L2. Thus, AREs mediate repression of translation in mouse and human memory T cells by preventing undesirable protein production from pre-formed cytokine-encoding mRNAs in the absence of infection.
PXD015914	29988108	Reproducible workflow for multiplexed deep-scale proteome and phosphoproteome analysis of tumor tissues by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. 	Reproducible Workflow for Multiplexed Deep-Scale Proteome and Phosphoproteome Analysis of Tumor Tissues by Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry	CPTAC	Here we present an optimized workflow for global proteome and phosphoproteome analysis of tissues or cell lines that uses isobaric tags (TMT (tandem mass tags)-10) for multiplexed analysis and relative quantification, and provides 3x higher throughput than iTRAQ (isobaric tags for absolute and relative quantification)-4-based methods with high intra- and inter-laboratory reproducibility. The workflow was systematically characterized and benchmarked across three independent laboratories using two distinct breast cancer subtypes from patient-derived xenograft models to enable assessment of proteome and phosphoproteome depth and quantitative reproducibility. Each plex consisted of ten samples, each being 300 mug of peptide derived from <50 mg of wet-weight tissue. Of the 10,000 proteins quantified per sample, we could distinguish 7,700 human proteins derived from tumor cells and 3100 mouse proteins derived from the surrounding stroma and blood. The maximum deviation across replicates and laboratories was <7%, and the inter-laboratory correlation for TMT ratio-based comparison of the two breast cancer subtypes was r > 0.88. The maximum deviation for the phosphoproteome coverage was <24% across laboratories, with an average of >37,000 quantified phosphosites per sample and differential quantification correlations of r > 0.72. The full procedure, including sample processing and data generation, can be completed within 10 d for ten tissue samples, and 100 samples can be analyzed in ~4 months using a single LC-MS/MS instrument. The high quality, depth, and reproducibility of the data obtained both within and across laboratories should enable new biological insights to be obtained from mass spectrometry-based proteomics analyses of cells and tissues together with proteogenomic data integration.
PXD008945	29988527	Characterization of Plasmodium vivax Proteins in Plasma-Derived Exosomes From Malaria-Infected Liver-Chimeric Humanized Mice. 	Proteomic characterization of plasma-derived exosomes from P. vivax infected FRG huHep mice	exosomes, humanized liver chimeric mouse, plasmodium vivax	Exosomes are extracellular vesicles of endocytic origin containing molecular signatures implying the cell of origin; thus, they offer a unique opportunity to discover biomarkers of disease. Plasmodium vivax, responsible for more than half of all malaria cases outside Africa, is a major obstacle in the goal of malaria elimination due to the presence of dormant liver stages (hypnozoites), which after the initial infection may reactivate to cause disease. Hypnozoite infection is asymptomatic and there are currently no diagnostic tools to detect their presence. The human liver-chimeric (FRG huHep) mouse is a robust P. vivax infection model for exo-erythrocytic development of liver stages, including hypnozoites. We studied the proteome of plasma-derived exosomes isolated from P. vivax infected FRG huHep mice with the objective of identifying liver-stage expressed parasite proteins indicative of infection. Proteomic analysis of these exosomes showed the presence of 290 and 234 proteins from mouse and human origin, respectively, including canonical exosomal markers. Human proteins include proteins previously detected in liver-derived exosomes, highlighting the potential of this chimeric mouse model to study plasma exosomes derived unequivocally from human hepatocytes. Noticeably, we identified 17 parasite proteins including enzymes, surface proteins, components of the endocytic pathway and translation machinery, as well as uncharacterized proteins. Western blot analysis validated the presence of human arginase-I and an uncharacterized P. vivax protein in plasma-derived exosomes. This study represents a proof-of-principle that plasma-derived exosomes from P. vivax infected FRG-huHep mice contain human hepatocyte and P. vivax proteins with the potential to unveil biological features of liver infection and identify biomarkers of hypnozoite infection.
PXD007262	29988566	Suppressor of IKKepsilon forms direct interactions with cytoskeletal proteins, tubulin and alpha-actinin, linking innate immunity to the cytoskeleton. 	Suppressor of IKKepsilon forms direct interactions with cytoskeletal proteins, tubulin and alpha-actinin, linking innate immunity to the cytoskeleton	SIKE, alpha-actinin, cytoskeleton, innate immunity, tubulin	Suppressor of IKKepsilon (SIKE) is associated with the type I interferon response of the innate immune system through TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). Originally characterized as an endogenous inhibitor of TBK1 when overexpressed in viral infection and pathological cardiac hypertrophic models, a mechanistic study revealed that SIKE acts as a high-affinity substrate of TBK1, but its function remains unknown. In this work, we report that scratch assay analysis of parental and SIKE CRISPR/Cas9 knockout HAP1 cells showed an ~ 20% decrease in cell migration. Investigation of the SIKE interaction network through affinity purification/mass spectrometry showed that SIKE formed interactions with cytoskeletal proteins. In immunofluorescence assays, endogenous SIKE localized to cytosolic puncta in both epithelial and myeloid cells and to nuclear puncta in myeloid cells, while in epithelial cells additional staining occurred in stress fiber-like structures and adjacent to the plasma membrane. Using cellular markers, co-occurrence of SIKE fluorescence with actin, alpha-actinin, and ezrin was detected. Reciprocal immunoprecipitation revealed a SIKE:tubulin interaction sensitive to the phosphorylation state of SIKE, but a SIKE:alpha-actinin interaction was unchanged by SIKE phosphorylation. In vitro precipitation assays confirmed a direct SIKE interaction with tubulin and alpha-actinin. These results indicate that SIKE may promote cell migration by directly associating with the cytoskeleton. In this role, SIKE may mediate cytoskeletal rearrangement necessary in innate immunity, but also link a key catalytic hub, TBK1, to the cytoskeleton. DATABASE: The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE [1] partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD007262.
PXD009709	29988836	Ultrafiltration and size exclusion chromatography combined with asymmetrical-flow field-flow fractionation for the isolation and characterisation of extracellular vesicles from urine. 	Ultrafiltration and size exclusion chromatography combined with asymmetrical-flow field-flow fractionation for the isolation and characterisation of extracellular vesicles from urine	exosome, extracellular vesicle, orbitrap, urine	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have a great potential in clinical applications. However, their isolation from different bodily fluids and their characterisation are currently not optimal or standardised. Here, we report the results of examining the performance of ultrafiltration combined with size exclusion chromatography (UF-SEC) to isolate EVs from urine. The results reveal that UF-SEC is an efficient method and provides high purity. Furthermore, we introduce asymmetrical-flow field-flow fractionation coupled with a UV detector and multi-angle light-scattering detector (AF4/UV-MALS) as a characterisation method and compare it with current methods. We demonstrate that AF4/UV-MALS is a straightforward and reproducible method for determining size, amount and purity of isolated urinary EVs.
PXD009949	29989796	DIA-SIFT: A Precursor and Product Ion Filter for Accurate Stable Isotope Data-Independent Acquisition Proteomics. 	DIA-SIFT: A precursor and product ion filter for accurate stable isotope data-independent acquisition proteomics	293T, MSE, SILAC, Synapt	Quantitative mass spectrometry-based protein profiling is widely used to measure protein levels across different treatments or disease states, yet current mass spectrometry acquisition methods present distinct limitations. While data-independent acquisition (DIA) bypasses the stochastic nature of data-dependent acquisition (DDA), fragment spectra derived from DIA are often complex and challenging to deconvolve. In-line ion mobility separation (IMS) adds an additional dimension to increase peak capacity for more efficient product ion assignment. As a similar strategy to sequential window acquisition methods (SWATH), IMS-enabled DIA methods rival DDA methods for protein annotation. Here we evaluate IMS-DIA quantitative accuracy using stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC). Since SILAC analysis doubles the sample complexity, we find that IMS-DIA analysis is not sufficiently accurate for sensitive quantitation. However, SILAC precursor pairs share common retention and drift times, and both species cofragment to yield multiple quantifiable isotopic y-ion peak pairs. Since y-ion SILAC ratios are intrinsic for each quantified precursor, combined MS1 and y-ion ratio analysis significantly increases the total number of measurements. With increased sampling, we present DIA-SIFT ( SILAC Intrinsic Filtering Tool), a simple statistical algorithm to identify and eliminate poorly quantified MS1 and/or MS2 events. DIA-SIFT combines both MS1 and y-ion ratios, removes outliers, and provides more accurate and precise quantitation (<15% CV) without removing any proteins from the final analysis. Overall, pooled MS1 and MS2 quantitation increases sampling in IMS-DIA SILAC analyses for accurate and precise quantitation.
PXD009424	29989826	Three-Dimensional Cell Culture Conditions Affect the Proteome of Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts. 	Fibroblasts grown in 3D -  Three-Dimensional Cell Culture Conditions Affect the Proteome of Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts	LC-MS, cancer, fibroblasts, skin	In vitro cell culture systems are an invaluable tool for cell biological research to study molecular pathways and to characterize processes critical in human pathophysiology. However, the experimental conditions in two-dimensional (2D) cell cultures often differ substantially from the in vivo situation, which continuously raises concerns about the reliability and conferrability of the obtained results. Three-dimensional (3D) cell cultures have been shown to closer mimic in vivo conditions and are commonly employed, for example, in pharmacological screens. Here, we introduce a 3D cell culture system based on a mixture of collagen I and matrigel amenable to stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) and quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics analyses. We study the extra- and intracellular proteomic response of skin fibroblast isolated from healthy volunteers in comparison to cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) on 3D culture conditions. Both, control cells and CAF, change their proteomic composition based on the culture conditions. Critically, cell type differences observed in 2D are often not preserved in 3D, which commonly closer resemble phenotypes observed in vivo. Especially, extracellular matrix and plasma membrane proteins are differentially regulated in 2D versus 3D.
PXD017592	29990557	Mass spectrometry-assisted venom profiling of Hypnale hypnale found in the Western Ghats of India incorporating de novo sequencing approaches. 	Proteomics of Hypnale hypnale (Hump-nosed pit viper) venom from the Western Ghats of India	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Hypnale hypnale, ProteomeXchange project tag: Toxicoproteomics (B/D-HPP), Venom	Hypnale hypnale (hump-nosed pit viper) is considered to be one among the medically important venomous snake species of India and Sri Lanka. In the present study, venom proteome profiling of a single Hypnale hypnale from Western Ghats of India was achieved using SDS-PAGE based protein separation followed by LC-MS/MS analysis. The identities of the proteins that were not established using the Mascot search were determined through de novo sequencing tools such as Novor followed by MS-BLAST based sequence similarity search algorithm and PEAKS proteomics software. The combined proteomics analysis revealed a total of 37 proteins belonging to nine different snake venom families, in which 7 proteins were exclusively identified through de novo strategies. The enzymatic and non-enzymatic venom protein families identified include serine proteases, metalloproteases, phospholipase A2, thrombin-like enzymes, phospholipase B, C-type lectins/snaclecs, disintegrins, cysteine rich secretory proteins and nerve growth factor. Among these, disintegrins, nerve growth factor, phospholipase B and cysteine rich secretory protein families were identified for the first time in HPV venom. This could possibly explain the regiospecific venom variation seen across snake species. Taken together, the venom proteome profiling on Indian Hypnale hypnale venom correlates with the clinical manifestations often seen in the envenomed victims.
PXD007706	29990635	Insight into the global regulation of laeA in Aspergillus flavus based on proteomic profiling. 	Quantitative Analysis of Global Proteome in Aspergillus Flavus	Proteome Aspergilus Flavus TMT	In Aspergillus flavus, laeA affects cell morphology and contributes to the production of secondary metabolites (SMs) production including aflatoxin, cyclopiazonic acid, and aflatrem. Here, we investigated the function of this transcription factor by performing proteomics analysis of the wild-type (WT) and DeltalaeA mutant growing on corn. Notably, our proteomics profile confirmed the functions of extracellular hydrolases, conidial hydrophobin, and response to oxidative stress during the induction of aflatoxin biosynthesis regulated by laeA. Unexpectedly, deletion of laeA resulted in the significant upregulation of the NAD(+)-dependent histone deacetylase sirA involved in silencing SM clusters via chromatin remodeling. Accompanying the chromatin modification, enzymes participating in SM, including aflatoxin and cyclopiazonic acid biosynthesis, were drastically decreased. Another unexpected finding was that enzymes in the recently identified ustiloxin B biosynthesis pathway might be regulated by laeA. These data provided novel insights into the complex regulation of laeA and suggested a potential link between laeA deletion, NAD(+)-dependent histone deacetylation, and SM production in A. flavus.
PXD010008	29991506	A Versatile Lentiviral Delivery Toolkit for Proximity-dependent Biotinylation in Diverse Cell Types. 	SamavarchiTehrani_P112_VS4_Viral_BioID_Benchmark_mouse	AP-MS, Affinity purification, BioID, Lentivirus, Protein-protein interaction, Proximity-dependent biotinylation	Proximity-dependent biotinylation strategies have emerged as powerful tools to characterize the subcellular context of proteins in living cells. The popular BioID approach employs an abortive E. coli biotin ligase mutant (R118G; denoted as BirA*), which when fused to a bait protein enables the covalent biotinylation of endogenous proximal polypeptides. This approach has been mainly applied to the study of protein proximity in immortalized mammalian cell lines. To expand the application space of BioID, here we describe a set of lentiviral vectors that enable the inducible expression of BirA*-tagged bait fusion proteins for performing proximity-dependent biotinylation in diverse experimental systems. We benchmark this highly adaptable toolkit across immortalized and primary cell systems, demonstrating the ease, versatility and robustness of the system. We also provide guidelines to perform BioID using these reagents.
PXD008404	29991507	Comparison of Nuclear Matrix and Mitotic Chromosome Scaffold Proteins in Drosophila S2 Cells-Transmission of Hallmarks of Nuclear Organization Through Mitosis. 	Comparison of Nuclear Matrix and Mitotic Chromosome Scaffold proteins in Drosophila S2 cells - Transmission of hallmarks of nuclear organization through mitosis	Drosophila melanogastor, Mitosis, Mitotic chromosome scaffold, Nuclear Matrix, Nuclear architecture, S2 cells	Chromatin condenses several folds to form mitotic chromosomes during cell division and decondenses post-mitotically to reoccupy their nuclear territory and regain their specific transcriptional profile in a precisely lineage specific manner. This necessitates that the features of nuclear architecture and DNA topology persist through mitosis. We compared the proteome of nuclease and high salt resistant fraction of interphase nucleus known as nuclear matrix (NuMat) and an equivalent biochemical fraction in the mitotic chromosome known as mitotic chromosome scaffold (MiCS). Our study elucidates that as much as 67% of the NuMat proteins are retained in the MiCS indicating that the features of nuclear architecture in interphase nucleus are retained on the mitotic chromosomes. Proteins of the NuMat/MiCS have large dynamic range of MS signal and were detected in sub-femtomolar amounts. Chromatin/RNA binding proteins with hydrolase and helicase activity are highly enriched in NuMat as well as MiCS. Although several transcription factors involved in functioning of interphase nucleus are present exclusively in NuMat, protein components responsible for assembly of membrane-less nuclear bodies are uniquely retained in MiCS. Our study clearly indicates that the features of nuclear architecture, in the structural context of NuMat, are retained in MiCS and possibly play an important role in maintenance of cell lineage specific transcriptional status during cell division and thereby, serve as components of cellular memory.
PXD009897	29991651	IKK promotes cytokine-induced and cancer-associated AMPK activity and attenuates phenformin-induced cell death in LKB1-deficient cells. 	IKK Promotes Cytokine-Induced and Cancer-Associated AMPK Activity and Attenuates Phenformin-Induced Cell Death in LKB1-Deficient Cells	AMPK, IKK, IL-1, Inflammation, Phenformin	The 5' AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is an energy sensor that is activated upon phosphorylation of Thr(172) in its activation loop by the kinase LKB1, CAMKK2, or TAK1. TAK1-dependent AMPK phosphorylation of Thr(172) is less well characterized than phosphorylation of this site by LKB1 or CAMKK2. An important target of TAK1 is IkappaB kinase (IKK), which controls the activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB. We tested the hypothesis that IKK acted downstream of TAK1 to activate AMPK by phosphorylating Thr(172) IKK was required for the phosphorylation of Thr(172) in AMPK in response to treatment with the inflammatory cytokine IL-1beta or TNF-alpha or upon TAK1 overexpression. In addition, IKK regulated basal AMPK Thr(172) phosphorylation in several cancer cell types independently of TAK1, indicating that other modes of IKK activation could stimulate AMPK. We found that IKK directly phosphorylated AMPK at Thr(172) independently of the tumor suppressor LKB1 or energy stress. Accordingly, in LKB1-deficient cells, IKK inhibition reduced AMPK Thr(172) phosphorylation in response to the mitochondrial inhibitor phenformin. This response led to enhanced apoptosis and suggests that IKK inhibition in combination with phenformin could be used clinically to treat patients with LKB1-deficient cancers.
PXD005973	29992792	Plasma Proteome Profiles of Stable CAD Patients Stratified According to Total Apo C-III Levels. 	Plasma Proteome profiles of stable CAD patients stratified according to total Apo CIII levels	Apo C-III, Cardiovascular disease, apolipoproteins, coronary artery disease, plasma proteomics	PURPOSE: The present research reports the study the of plasma proteome profile of stable coronary artery disease (CAD) patients characterized by different levels of total Apolipoprotein-CIII (Apo C-III), a prognostic marker for cardiovascular risk. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Two subgroups of CAD patients (n = 52) with divergent concentrations of total circulating Apo C-III (<= and >=10 mg dL(-1) ) are examined using a shotgun proteomic approach. Validation experiments are also performed with immunochemistry methods including both the patients affected by CAD (n = 119) and the subjects without CAD (CAD-free; n = 58). Results are analyzed by bioinformatics tools and multivariate statistics. RESULTS: A total of 188 proteins are quantified among the patients. The fold change analysis and the partial least square discriminant analysis show a clear separation of the two groups. Lipoproteins (Apo C-II and Apo E), retinol-binding protein 4, and vitronectin are upregulated in patients with high Apo C-III, while alpha-1 antitrypsin is downregulated. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: In this pilot study, the differential expression of plasma proteins related to different concentrations of Apo C-III is defined, suggesting possible new players involved in the Apo C-III-associated process of arterial damage. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005973.
PXD009677	29992949	A TFEB nuclear export signal integrates amino acid supply and glucose availability. 	A TFEB nuclear export signal integrates amino acid supply  and glucose availability	GSK3beta, Glucose Lysosome biogenesis Running header: TFEB nuclear export, Nuclear Export Signal, TFEB, mTOR	How cells coordinate the response to fluctuating carbon and nitrogen availability required to maintain effective homeostasis is a key issue. Amino acid limitation that inactivates mTORC1 promotes de-phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of Transcription Factor EB (TFEB), a key transcriptional regulator of lysosome biogenesis and autophagy that is deregulated in cancer and neurodegeneration. Beyond its cytoplasmic sequestration, how TFEB phosphorylation regulates its nuclear-cytoplasmic shuttling, and whether TFEB can coordinate amino acid supply with glucose availability is poorly understood. Here we show that TFEB phosphorylation on S142 primes for GSK3beta phosphorylation on S138, and that phosphorylation of both sites but not either alone activates a previously unrecognized nuclear export signal (NES). Importantly, GSK3beta is inactivated by AKT in response to mTORC2 signaling triggered by glucose limitation. Remarkably therefore, the TFEB NES integrates carbon (glucose) and nitrogen (amino acid) availability by controlling TFEB flux through a nuclear import-export cycle.
PXD009939	29997178	Myc and the Tip60 chromatin remodeling complex control neuroblast maintenance and polarity in Drosophila. 	Myc and the Tip60 chromatin remodeling complex control neuroblast maintenance and polarity in Drosophila	asymmetric cell division, chromatin remodeling, neuroblast, polarity, stem cell	Stem cells establish cortical polarity and divide asymmetrically to simultaneously maintain themselves and generate differentiating offspring cells. Several chromatin modifiers have been identified as stemness factors in mammalian pluripotent stem cells, but whether these factors control stem cell polarity and asymmetric division has not been investigated so far. We addressed this question in Drosophila neural stem cells called neuroblasts. We identified the Tip60 chromatin remodeling complex and its interaction partner Myc as regulators of genes required for neuroblast maintenance. Knockdown of Tip60 complex members results in loss of cortical polarity, symmetric neuroblast division, and premature differentiation through nuclear entry of the transcription factor Prospero. We found that aPKC is the key target gene of Myc and the Tip60 complex subunit Domino in regulating neuroblast polarity. Our transcriptome analysis further showed that Domino regulates the expression of mitotic spindle genes previously identified as direct Myc targets. Our findings reveal an evolutionarily conserved functional link between Myc, the Tip60 complex, and the molecular network controlling cell polarity and asymmetric cell division.
PXD008925	30001349	Radio-sensitizing effects of VE-821 and beyond: Distinct phosphoproteomic and metabolomic changes after ATR inhibition in irradiated MOLT-4 cells. 	MOLT-4 radiosensitization by VE-821	ATR kinase, DNA damage response, M, SILAC, VE-821, ionizing radiation, leukemia, quantitative shotgun phosphoproteomics, radio-sensitization, small-molecule kinase inhibitors, titanium dioxide chromatography	Current anti-cancer strategy takes advantage of tumour specific abnormalities in DNA damage response to radio- or chemo-therapy. Inhibition of the ATR/Chk1 pathway has been shown to be synthetically lethal in cells with high levels of oncogene-induced replication stress and in p53- or ATM- deficient cells. In the presented study, we aimed to elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying radiosensitization of T-lymphocyte leukemic MOLT-4 cells by VE-821, a higly potent and specific inhibitor of ATR. We combined multiple approaches: cell biology techniques to reveal the inhibitor-induced phenotypes, and quantitative proteomics, phosphoproteomics, and metabolomics to comprehensively describe drug-induced changes in irradiated cells. VE-821 radiosensitized MOLT-4 cells, and furthermore 10 muM VE-821 significantly affected proliferation of sham-irradiated MOLT-4 cells. We detected 623 differentially regulated phosphorylation sites. We revealed changes not only in DDR-related pathways and kinases, but also in pathways and kinases involved in maintaining cellular metabolism. Notably, we found downregulation of mTOR, the main regulator of cellular metabolism, which was most likely caused by an off-target effect of the inhibitor, and we propose that mTOR inhibition could be one of the factors contributing to the phenotype observed after treating MOLT-4 cells with 10 muM VE-821. In the metabolomic analysis, 206 intermediary metabolites were detected. The data indicated that VE-821 potentiated metabolic disruption induced by irradiation and affected the response to irradiation-induced oxidative stress. Upon irradiation, recovery of damaged deoxynucleotides might be affected by VE-821, hampering DNA repair by their deficiency. Taken together, this is the first study describing a complex scenario of cellular events that might be ATR-dependent or triggered by ATR inhibition in irradiated MOLT-4 cells. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008925.
PXD008824	30002203	Proteomic Analysis of NCK1/2 Adaptors Uncovers Paralog-specific Interactions That Reveal a New Role for NCK2 in Cell Abscission During Cytokinesis. 	Identification of non-overlapping functions between adaptor proteins NCK1 and NCK2	NCK adaptors, Specificity	Signals from cell surface receptors are often relayed via adaptor proteins. NCK1 and NCK2 are Src-Homology (SH) 2 and 3 domain adaptors that regulate processes requiring a remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton. Evidence from gene inactivation in mouse suggests that NCK1 and NCK2 are functionally redundant, although recent reports support the idea of unique functions for NCK1 and NCK2. We sought to examine this question further by delineating NCK1- and NCK2-specific signaling networks. We used both affinity purification-mass spectrometry and BioID proximity labeling to identify NCK1/2 signaling networks comprised of 98 proteins. Strikingly, we found 30 proteins restricted to NCK1 and 28 proteins specifically associated with NCK2, suggesting differences in their function. We report that Nck2(-/-), but not Nck1(-/-) mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs) are multinucleated and display extended protrusions reminiscent of intercellular bridges, which correlate with an extended time spent in cytokinesis as well as a failure of a significant proportion of cells to complete abscission. Our data also show that the midbody of NCK2-deficient cells is not only increased in length, but also altered in composition, as judged by the mislocalization of AURKB, PLK1 and ECT2. Finally, we show that NCK2 function during cytokinesis requires its SH2 domain. Taken together, our data delineate the first high-confidence interactome for NCK1/2 adaptors and highlight several proteins specifically associated with either protein. Thus, contrary to what is generally accepted, we demonstrate that NCK1 and NCK2 are not completely redundant, and shed light on a previously uncharacterized function for the NCK2 adaptor protein in cell division.
PXD008348	30004689	Characterization of the Interaction between Arginine Methyltransferase Hmt1 and Its Substrate Npl3: Use of Multiple Cross-Linkers, Mass Spectrometric Approaches, and Software Platforms. 	Comprehensive identification of crosslinked peptides from methyltransferase Hmt1 and its substrate Npl3: use of multiple crosslinkers, mass spectrometry approaches and software platforms	Crosslinking-Mass Spectrometry, MS-Cleavable linkers	This study investigated the enzyme-substrate interaction between Saccharomyces cerevisiae arginine methyltransferase Hmt1p and nucleolar protein Npl3p, using chemical cross linking/mass spectrometry (XL/MS). We show that XL/MS can capture transient interprotein interactions that occur during the process of methylation, involving a disordered region in Npl3p with tandem SRGG repeats, and we confirm that Hmt1p and Npl3p exist as homomultimers. Additionally, the study investigated the interdependencies between variables of an XL/MS experiment that lead to the identification of identical or different cross-linked peptides. We report that there are substantial benefits, in terms of biologically relevant cross-links identified, that result from the use of two mass-spectrometry-cleavable cross-linkers [disuccinimido sulfoxide (DSSO) and disuccinimido dibutyric urea (DSBU)], two fragmentation approaches [collision-induced dissociation and electron-transfer dissociation (CID+ETD)] and stepped high-energy collision dissociation (HCD)], and two programs (MeroX and XlinkX). We also show that there are specific combinations of XL/MS methods that are more successful than others for the two proteins investigated here; these are explored in detail in the text. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008348.
PXD008595	30006406	A Cobalamin Activity-Based Probe Enables Microbial Cell Growth and Finds New Cobalamin-Protein Interactions across Domains. 	Investigating B12 binding proteins in bacteria using a B12-activity-based-probe, Hv_B12ABP addendum	B12, E. coli, activity-based-probe	Understanding the factors that regulate microbe function and microbial community assembly, function, and fitness is a grand challenge. A critical factor and an important enzyme cofactor and regulator of gene expression is cobalamin (vitamin B12). Our knowledge of the roles of vitamin B12 is limited, because technologies that enable in situ characterization of microbial metabolism and gene regulation with minimal impact on cell physiology are needed. To meet this need, we show that a synthetic probe mimic of B12 supports the growth of B12-auxotrophic bacteria and archaea. We demonstrate that a B12 activity-based probe (B12-ABP) is actively transported into Escherichia coli cells and converted to adenosyl-B12-ABP akin to native B12 Identification of the proteins that bind the B12-ABP in vivo in E. coli, a Rhodobacteraceae sp. and Haloferax volcanii, demonstrate the specificity for known and novel B12 protein targets. The B12-ABP also regulates the B12 dependent RNA riboswitch btuB and the transcription factor EutR. Our results demonstrate a new approach to gain knowledge about the role of B12 in microbe functions. Our approach provides a powerful nondisruptive tool to analyze B12 interactions in living cells and can be used to discover the role of B12 in diverse microbial systems.IMPORTANCE We demonstrate that a cobalamin chemical probe can be used to investigate in vivo roles of vitamin B12 in microbial growth and regulation by supporting the growth of B12 auxotrophic bacteria and archaea, enabling biological activity with three different cell macromolecules (RNA, DNA, and proteins), and facilitating functional proteomics to characterize B12-protein interactions. The B12-ABP is both transcriptionally and translationally able to regulate gene expression analogous to natural vitamin B12 The application of the B12-ABP at biologically relevant concentrations facilitates a unique way to measure B12 microbial dynamics and identify new B12 protein targets in bacteria and archaea. We demonstrate that the B12-ABP can be used to identify in vivo protein interactions across diverse microbes, from E. coli to microbes isolated from naturally occurring phototrophic biofilms to the salt-tolerant archaea Haloferax volcanii.
PXD008311	30006486	The Impact of Oncogenic EGFRvIII on the Proteome of Extracellular Vesicles Released from Glioblastoma Cells. 	The impact of oncogenic EGFRvIII on the proteome of extracellular vesicles (exosomes) released from glioblastoma cells	EGFRvIII, cancer, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, glioblastoma, glioma, heterogeneity, invasion, nano-flow cytometry, oncogene	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a highly aggressive and heterogeneous form of primary brain tumors, driven by a complex repertoire of oncogenic alterations, including the constitutively active epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFRvIII). EGFRvIII impacts both cell-intrinsic and non-cell autonomous aspects of GBM progression, including cell invasion, angiogenesis and modulation of the tumor microenvironment. This is, at least in part, attributable to the release and intercellular trafficking of extracellular vesicles (EVs), heterogeneous membrane structures containing multiple bioactive macromolecules. Here we analyzed the impact of EGFRvIII on the profile of glioma EVs using isogenic tumor cell lines, in which this oncogene exhibits a strong transforming activity. We observed that EGFRvIII expression alters the expression of EV-regulating genes (vesiculome) and EV properties, including their protein composition. Using mass spectrometry, quantitative proteomic analysis and Gene Ontology terms filters, we observed that EVs released by EGFRvIII-transformed cells were enriched for extracellular exosome and focal adhesion related proteins. Among them, we validated the association of pro-invasive proteins (CD44, BSG, CD151) with EVs of EGFRvIII expressing glioma cells, and downregulation of exosomal markers (CD81 and CD82) relative to EVs of EGFRvIII-negative cells. Nano-flow cytometry revealed that the EV output from individual glioma cell lines was highly heterogeneous, such that only a fraction of vesicles contained specific proteins (including EGFRvIII). Notably, cells expressing EGFRvIII released EVs double positive for CD44/BSG, and these proteins also colocalized in cellular filopodia. We also detected the expression of homophilic adhesion molecules and increased homologous EV uptake by EGFRvIII-positive glioma cells. These results suggest that oncogenic EGFRvIII reprograms the proteome and uptake of GBM-related EVs, a notion with considerable implications for their biological activity and properties relevant for the development of EV-based cancer biomarkers.
PXD009986	30006487	Reactive Metabolite-induced Protein Glutathionylation: A Potentially Novel Mechanism Underlying Acetaminophen Hepatotoxicity. 	Reactive Metabolite-induced Protein Glutathionylation Mechanistically Accounts for Acetaminophen Hepatotoxicity	Glutathionylation, HepaRG, drug induced toxicity, hepatotoxicity, post-translational modification, proteo-metabolomics	Although covalent protein binding is established as the pivotal event underpinning acetaminophen (APAP) toxicity, its mechanistic details remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that APAP induces widespread protein glutathionylation in a time-, dose- and bioactivation-dependent manner in HepaRG cells. Proteo-metabonomic mapping provided evidence that APAP-induced glutathionylation resulted in functional deficits in energy metabolism, elevations in oxidative stress and cytosolic calcium, as well as mitochondrial dysfunction that correlate strongly with the well-established toxicity features of APAP. We also provide novel evidence that APAP-induced glutathionylation of carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase 1 (CPT1) and voltage-dependent anion-selective channel protein 1 are respectively involved in inhibition of fatty acid beta-oxidation and opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. Importantly, we show that the inhibitory effect of CPT1 glutathionylation can be mitigated by PPARalpha induction, which provides a mechanistic explanation for the prophylactic effect of fibrates, which are PPARalpha ligands, against APAP toxicity. Finally, we propose that APAP-induced protein glutathionylation likely occurs secondary to covalent binding, which is a previously unknown mechanism of glutathionylation, suggesting that this post-translational modification could be functionally implicated in drug-induced toxicity.
PXD010310	30006488	Universal Plant Phosphoproteomics Workflow and Its Application to Tomato Signaling in Response to Cold Stress. 	Universal plant phosphoproteomics workflow and its application to tomato signaling in response to cold stress	Phosphorylation, cold stress, signal transduction, tomato phosphoproteome	Phosphorylation-mediated signaling transduction plays a crucial role in the regulation of plant defense mechanisms against environmental stresses. To address the high complexity and dynamic range of plant proteomes and phosphoproteomes, we present a universal sample preparation procedure that facilitates plant phosphoproteomic profiling. This advanced workflow significantly improves phosphopeptide identifications, enabling deep insight into plant phosphoproteomes. We then applied the workflow to study the phosphorylation events involved in tomato cold tolerance mechanisms. Phosphoproteomic changes of two tomato species (N135 Green Gage and Atacames) with distinct cold tolerance phenotypes were profiled under cold stress. In total, we identified more than 30,000 unique phosphopeptides from tomato leaves, representing about 5500 phosphoproteins, thereby creating the largest tomato phosphoproteomic resource to date. The data, along with the validation through in vitro kinase reactions, allowed us to identify kinases involved in cold tolerant signaling and discover distinctive kinase-substrate events in two tomato species in response to a cold environment. The activation of SnRK2s and their direct substrates may assist N135 Green Gage tomatoes in surviving long-term cold stress. Taken together, the streamlined approach and the resulting deep phosphoproteomic analyses revealed a global view of tomato cold-induced signaling mechanisms.
PXD005469	30008298	Rapid Cue-Specific Remodeling of the Nascent Axonal Proteome. 	pSILAC-SP3 of RGC axonal growth cones	axon, pSILAC	Axonal protein synthesis and degradation are rapidly regulated by extrinsic signals during neural wiring, but the full landscape of proteomic changes remains unknown due to limitations in axon sampling and sensitivity. By combining pulsed stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture with single-pot solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation, we characterized the nascent proteome of isolated retinal axons on an unparalleled rapid timescale (5 min). Our analysis detects 350 basally translated axonal proteins on average, including several linked to neurological disease. Axons stimulated by different cues (Netrin-1, BDNF, Sema3A) show distinct signatures with more than 100 different nascent protein species up- or downregulated within the first 5 min followed by further dynamic remodeling. Switching repulsion to attraction triggers opposite regulation of a subset of common nascent proteins. Our findings thus reveal the rapid remodeling of the axonal proteomic landscape by extrinsic cues and uncover a logic underlying attraction versus repulsion.
PXD009810	30008725	Sex-Dependent Variation of Pumpkin (Cucurbita maxima cv. Big Max) Nectar and Nectaries as Determined by Proteomics and Metabolomics. 	Sex-dependent variation of pumpkin (Cucurbita maxima cv Big Max) nectar and nectaries as determined by proteomics and metabolomics	Cucurbita, floral sex, nectar, nectary, pumpkin	Nectar is a floral reward that sustains mutualisms with pollinators, which in turn, improves fruit set. While it is known that nectar is a chemically complex solution, extensive identification and quantification of this complexity has been lacking. Cucurbita maxima cv. Big Max, like many cucurbits, is monoecious with separate male and female flowers. Attraction of bees to the flowers through the reward of nectar is essential for reproductive success in this economically valuable crop. In this study, the sex-dependent variation in composition of male and female nectar and the nectaries were defined using a combination of GC-MS based metabolomics and LC-MS/MS based proteomics. Metabolomics analysis of nectar detected 88 metabolites, of which 40 were positively identified, and includes sugars, sugar alcohols, aromatics, diols, organic acids, and amino acids. There are differences in 29 metabolites between male and female nectar. The nectar proteome consists of 45 proteins, of which 70% overlap between nectar types. Only two proteins are unique to female nectar, and 10 are specific to male nectar. The nectary proteome data, accessible at ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009810, contained 339 identifiable proteins, 71% of which were descriptively annotatable by homology to Plantae. The abundance of 45 proteins differs significantly between male and female nectaries, as determined by iTRAQ labeling. This rich dataset significantly expands the known complexity of nectar composition, supports the hypothesis of H+-driven nectar solute export, and provides genetic and chemical targets to understand plant-pollinator interactions.
PXD008466	30010922	Evolutionary insights into Trm112-methyltransferase holoenzymes involved in translation between archaea and eukaryotes. 	Evolutionary insights into Trm112-methytransferase holoenzymes involved in translation between archaea and eukaryotes	Trm112, interaction network, methyltransferases	Protein synthesis is a complex and highly coordinated process requiring many different protein factors as well as various types of nucleic acids. All translation machinery components require multiple maturation events to be functional. These include post-transcriptional and post-translational modification steps and methylations are the most frequent among these events. In eukaryotes, Trm112, a small protein (COG2835) conserved in all three domains of life, interacts and activates four methyltransferases (Bud23, Trm9, Trm11 and Mtq2) that target different components of the translation machinery (rRNA, tRNAs, release factors). To clarify the function of Trm112 in archaea, we have characterized functionally and structurally its interaction network using Haloferax volcanii as model system. This led us to unravel that methyltransferases are also privileged Trm112 partners in archaea and that this Trm112 network is much more complex than anticipated from eukaryotic studies. Interestingly, among the identified enzymes, some are functionally orthologous to eukaryotic Trm112 partners, emphasizing again the similarity between eukaryotic and archaeal translation machineries. Other partners display some similarities with bacterial methyltransferases, suggesting that Trm112 is a general partner for methyltransferases in all living organisms.
PXD010223	30010936	ATR-mediated proteome remodeling is a major determinant of homologous recombination capacity in cancer cells. 	ATR-mediated Proteome Remodeling is a Major Determinant of Homologous Recombination Capacity in Cancer Cells	ATR inhibitor	The ATR kinase is crucial for genome maintenance, but the mechanisms by which ATR controls the DNA repair machinery are not fully understood. Here, we find that long-term chronic inhibition of ATR signaling severely impairs the ability of cells to utilize homologous recombination (HR)-mediated DNA repair. Proteomic analysis shows that chronic ATR inhibition depletes the abundance of key HR factors, suggesting that spontaneous ATR signaling enhances the capacity of cells to use HR-mediated repair by controlling the abundance of the HR machinery. Notably, ATR controls the abundance of HR factors largely via CHK1-dependent transcription, and can also promote stabilization of specific HR proteins. Cancer cells exhibit a strong dependency on ATR signaling for maintaining elevated levels of HR factors, and we propose that increased constitutive ATR signaling caused by augmented replication stress in cancer cells drives the enhanced HR capacity observed in certain tumor types. Overall, these findings define a major pro-HR function for ATR and have important implications for therapy by providing rationale for sensitizing HR-proficient cancer cells to PARP inhibitors.
PXD008900	30010984	Early mannitol-triggered changes in the Arabidopsis leaf (phospho)proteome reveal growth regulators. 	Early mannitol-triggered changes  in the Arabidopsis leaf (phospho)proteome	Mild osmotic stress, Phosphoproteome, Signalling	Leaf growth is a complex, quantitative trait, controlled by a plethora of regulatory mechanisms. Diverse environmental stimuli inhibit leaf growth to cope with the perceived stress. In plant research, mannitol is often used to impose osmotic stress and study the underlying growth-repressing mechanisms. In growing leaf tissue of plants briefly exposed to mannitol-induced stress, a highly interconnected gene regulatory network is induced. However, early signalling and associated protein phosphorylation events that probably precede part of these transcriptional changes and that potentially act at the onset of mannitol-induced leaf size reduction are largely unknown. Here, we performed a proteome and phosphoproteome analysis on growing leaf tissue of Arabidopsis thaliana plants exposed to mild mannitol-induced stress and captured the fast (within the first half hour) events associated with this stress. Based on this in-depth data analysis, 167 and 172 differentially regulated proteins and phosphorylated sites were found. We provide these data sets as a community resource and we flag differentially phosphorylated proteins with described growth-regulatory functions, but we also illustrate potential novel regulators of shoot growth.
PXD009444	30011180	Chemical Probe To Monitor the Parkinsonism-Associated Protein DJ-1 in Live Cells. 	A chemical probe to monitor parkinsonism-associated protein DJ-1 in live cells		Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play an important role in the onset of Parkinson's disease (PD), and deciphering protective mechanisms is a major goal for therapeutic development. Here, DJ-1 (PARK7) gained major attention when a conserved cysteine residue with a putative role in oxidative stress sensing/protection was linked to PD. Inspired by previous studies with a bacterial homologue of DJ-1, several amino-epoxycylcohexenones were screened for enzyme inhibition, and a chemical probe with specificity for the human ortholog was selected for cellular studies. The probe selectively labeled the cysteine oxidation sensor and whole proteome analysis in HeLa, A549, and SHSY5Y cell lines confirmed strong enrichment of reduced DJ-1 as the most prominent target. Increasing levels of oxidative stress diminished this signal demonstrating the utility of our tool compound for selective in situ monitoring of this important biomarker in its reduced state.
PXD010606	30012605	Delineating the role of cooperativity in the design of potent PROTACs for BTK. 	Delineating the role of cooperativity in the design of potent PROTACs for BTK	Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK), Proteolysis targeting chimera (PROTAC), Tandem Mass Tag (TMT), quantitative proteomics	Proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) are heterobifunctional small molecules that simultaneously bind to a target protein and an E3 ligase, thereby leading to ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of the target. They present an exciting opportunity to modulate proteins in a manner independent of enzymatic or signaling activity. As such, they have recently emerged as an attractive mechanism to explore previously "undruggable" targets. Despite this interest, fundamental questions remain regarding the parameters most critical for achieving potency and selectivity. Here we employ a series of biochemical and cellular techniques to investigate requirements for efficient knockdown of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK), a nonreceptor tyrosine kinase essential for B cell maturation. Members of an 11-compound PROTAC library were investigated for their ability to form binary and ternary complexes with BTK and cereblon (CRBN, an E3 ligase component). Results were extended to measure effects on BTK-CRBN cooperative interactions as well as in vitro and in vivo BTK degradation. Our data show that alleviation of steric clashes between BTK and CRBN by modulating PROTAC linker length within this chemical series allows potent BTK degradation in the absence of thermodynamic cooperativity.
PXD010072	30012732	Coherent Feedforward Regulation of Gene Expression by Caulobacter sigma(T) and GsrN during Hyperosmotic Stress. 	Caulobacter crescentus GsrN overexpression proteome during hyperosmotic stress	Caulobacter crescentus, hyperosmotic stress, sRNA overexpression, sucrose	GsrN is a conserved small RNA that is under transcriptional control of the general stress sigma factor, sigma(T), and that functions as a posttranscriptional regulator of Caulobacter crescentus survival under multiple stress conditions. We have defined features of GsrN structure that determine survival under hyperosmotic stress, and we have applied transcriptomic and proteomic methods to identify regulatory targets of GsrN under hyperosmotic conditions. The 5' end of GsrN, which includes a conserved cytosine-rich stem-loop structure, is necessary for cell survival after osmotic upshock. GsrN both activates and represses gene expression in this stress condition. Expression of an uncharacterized open reading frame predicted to encode a glycine zipper protein, osrP, is strongly activated by GsrN. Our data support a model in which GsrN physically interacts with osrP mRNA through its 5' C-rich stem-loop to enhance OsrP protein expression. We conclude that sigT, gsrN, and osrP form a coherent feedforward loop in which sigma(T) activates gsrN and osrP transcription during stress and GsrN activates OsrP protein expression at the posttranscriptional level. This study delineates transcriptional and posttranscriptional layers of Caulobacter gene expression control during hyperosmotic stress, uncovers a new regulatory target of GsrN, and defines a coherent feedforward motif in the Caulobacter general stress response (GSR) regulatory network.IMPORTANCE Bacteria inhabit diverse niches and must adapt their physiology to constant environmental fluctuations. A major response to environmental perturbation is to change gene expression. Caulobacter and other alphaproteobacteria initiate a complex gene expression program known as the general stress response (GSR) under conditions including oxidative stress, osmotic stress, and nutrient limitation. The GSR enables cell survival in these environments. Understanding how bacteria survive stress requires that we dissect gene expression responses, such as the GSR, at the molecular level. This study is significant, as it defines transcriptional and posttranscriptional layers of gene expression regulation in response to hyperosmotic stress. We further provide evidence that a coherent feedforward motif influences the system properties of the Caulobacter GSR pathway.
PXD008415	30012885	Obesity-induced protein carbonylation in murine adipose tissue regulates the DNA-binding domain of nuclear zinc finger proteins. 	Global lip mod analysis -  Obesity-Induced Protein Carbonylation In Murine Adipose Tissue Regulates The DNA Binding Domain Of Nuclear Zinc-Finger Proteins	lipid PTM	In obesity-linked insulin resistance, oxidative stress in adipocytes leads to lipid peroxidation and subsequent carbonylation of proteins by diffusible lipid electrophiles. Reduction in oxidative stress attenuates protein carbonylation and insulin resistance, suggesting that lipid modification of proteins may play a role in metabolic disease, but the mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Herein, we show that in vivo, diet-induced obesity in mice surprisingly results in preferential carbonylation of nuclear proteins by 4-hydroxy-trans-2,3-nonenal (4-HNE) or 4-hydroxy-trans-2,3-hexenal (4-HHE). Proteomic and structural analyses revealed that residues in or around the sites of zinc coordination of zinc finger proteins, such as those containing the C2H2 or MATRIN, RING, C3H1, or N4-type DNA-binding domains, are particularly susceptible to carbonylation by lipid aldehydes. These observations strongly suggest that carbonylation functionally disrupts protein secondary structure supported by metal coordination. Analysis of one such target, the nuclear protein estrogen-related receptor gamma (ERR-gamma), showed that ERR-gamma is modified by 4-HHE in the obese state. In vitro carbonylation decreased the DNA-binding capacity of ERR-gamma and correlated with the obesity-linked down-regulation of many key genes promoting mitochondrial bioenergetics. Taken together, these findings reveal a novel mechanistic connection between oxidative stress and metabolic dysfunction arising from carbonylation of nuclear zinc finger proteins, such as the transcriptional regulator ERR-gamma.
PXD009096	30013118	Genome-centric view of carbon processing in thawing permafrost. 	IsoGenie Abisko Stordalenmire LC-MSMS	Metaproteomics, Peat, Permafrost	As global temperatures rise, large amounts of carbon sequestered in permafrost are becoming available for microbial degradation. Accurate prediction of carbon gas emissions from thawing permafrost is limited by our understanding of these microbial communities. Here we use metagenomic sequencing of 214 samples from a permafrost thaw gradient to recover 1,529 metagenome-assembled genomes, including many from phyla with poor genomic representation. These genomes reflect the diversity of this complex ecosystem, with genus-level representatives for more than sixty per cent of the community. Meta-omic analysis revealed key populations involved in the degradation of organic matter, including bacteria whose genomes encode a previously undescribed fungal pathway for xylose degradation. Microbial and geochemical data highlight lineages that correlate with the production of greenhouse gases and indicate novel syntrophic relationships. Our findings link changing biogeochemistry to specific microbial lineages involved in carbon processing, and provide key information for predicting the effects of climate change on permafrost systems.
PXD006884	30013126	Structural determinants of specificity and regulation of activity in the allosteric loop network of human KLK8/neuropsin. 	Structural determinants of specificity and antagonistic Ca2+ and Zn2+ regulation of peptidase activity in human KLK8/neuropsin	Protease, peptide library	Human KLK8/neuropsin, a kallikrein-related serine peptidase, is mostly expressed in skin and the hippocampus regions of the brain, where it regulates memory formation by synaptic remodeling. Substrate profiles of recombinant KLK8 were analyzed with positional scanning using fluorogenic tetrapeptides and the proteomic PICS approach, which revealed the prime side specificity. Enzyme kinetics with optimized substrates showed stimulation by Ca(2+) and inhibition by Zn(2+), which are physiological regulators. Crystal structures of KLK8 with a ligand-free active site and with the inhibitor leupeptin explain the subsite specificity and display Ca(2+) bound to the 75-loop. The variants D70K and H99A confirmed the antagonistic role of the cation binding sites. Molecular docking and dynamics calculations provided insights in substrate binding and the dual regulation of activity by Ca(2+) and Zn(2+), which are important in neuron and skin physiology. Both cations participate in the allosteric surface loop network present in related serine proteases. A comparison of the positional scanning data with substrates from brain suggests an adaptive recognition by KLK8, based on the tertiary structures of its targets. These combined findings provide a comprehensive picture of the molecular mechanisms underlying the enzyme activity of KLK8.
PXD009003	30014612	Exploring bioactive peptides from bacterial secretomes using PepSAVI-MS: identification and characterization of Bac-21 from Enterococcus faecalis pPD1. 	Exploring bioactive peptides from bacterial secretomes using PepSAVI-MS: identification and characterization of Bac-21 from Enterococcus faecalis pPD1	Bioactive peptides, Enterococcus faecalis, antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), bacterial secretome, natural products, peptidomics	As current methods for antibiotic drug discovery are being outpaced by the rise of antimicrobial resistance, new methods and innovative technologies are necessary to replenish our dwindling arsenal of antimicrobial agents. To this end, we developed the PepSAVI-MS pipeline to expedite the search for natural product bioactive peptides. Herein we demonstrate expansion of PepSAVI-MS for the discovery of bacterial-sourced bioactive peptides through identification of the bacteriocin Bac-21 from Enterococcus faecalis pPD1. Minor pipeline modifications including implementation of bacteria-infused agar diffusion assays and optional digestion of peptide libraries highlight the versatility and wide adaptability of the PepSAVI-MS pipeline. Additionally, we have experimentally validated the primary protein sequence of the active, mature Bac-21 peptide for the first time and have confirmed its identity with respect to primary sequence and post-translational processing. Successful application of PepSAVI-MS to bacterial secretomes as demonstrated herein establishes proof-of-principle for use in novel microbial bioactive peptide discovery.
PXD006765	30015195	Proteome profile analysis of boron-induced alleviation of aluminum-toxicity in Citrus grandis roots. 	Proteome profile analysis of boron-induced alleviation of aluminum-toxicity in Citrus grandis roots by 2-dimentional electrophoresis (2-DE) technique	2-DE, Alleviation, Aluminum, Boron, Citrus grandis	Aluminum (Al)-toxicity and boron (B)-deficiency are two major factors limiting crop production in tropical and subtropical areas. Elevating B supply can alleviate the Al-induced inhibition of growth in Citrus grandis. Seedlings of C. grandis were irrigated for 18 weeks with nutrient solutions containing two B levels (2.5 and 20 muM H3BO3) and two Al levels (0 and 1.2 mM AlCl3.6H2O). By using 2-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) based MALDI-TOF/TOF-MS method, this study successfully identified and quantified sixty-one differentially abundant proteins in Citrus roots in response to B-Al interactions. The mechanisms underlying the B-induced alleviation of Al-toxicity unveiled by 2-DE technique could be summarized as follows: a) remodeling of cell wall by reducing the synthesis of lignin (sugar ATP Binding Cassette (ABC) transporter ATPase and cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase) and increasing the modification of cell wall (UDP-forming); b) enhancing the abundances of proteasomes and turnover of dysfunctional proteins (proteasome or protease); c) increasing the abundance of stress response proteins, such as alcohol dehydrogenase, S-adenosylmethionine synthetase (SAMS) and glycosyl hydrolase; d) reinforcing cellular biological regulation and signal transduction (calreticulin-1). For the first time, some proteins, such as cell division protein 48 (CDC48), calreticulin and phospholipase, which might be involved in the downstream signaling of Al in Citrus plants, were successfully identified.
PXD007999	30016619	Nrf2-Mediated Fibroblast Reprogramming Drives Cellular Senescence by Targeting the Matrisome. 	NRF2-dependent ECM -  Nrf2-Mediated Fibroblast Reprogramming Drives Cellular Senescence by Targeting the Matrisome	ECM, NRF2, fibroblast, matrisome, senescence	Nrf2 is a key regulator of the antioxidant defense system, and pharmacological Nrf2 activation is a promising strategy for cancer prevention and promotion of tissue repair. Here we show, however, that activation of Nrf2 in fibroblasts induces cellular senescence. Using a combination of transcriptomics, matrix proteomics, chromatin immunoprecipitation and bioinformatics we demonstrate that fibroblasts with activated Nrf2 deposit a senescence-promoting matrix, with plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 being a key inducer of the senescence program. In vivo, activation of Nrf2 in fibroblasts promoted re-epithelialization of skin wounds, but also skin tumorigenesis. The pro-tumorigenic activity is of general relevance, since Nrf2 activation in skin fibroblasts induced the expression of genes characteristic for cancer-associated fibroblasts from different mouse and human tumors. Therefore, activated Nrf2 qualifies as a marker of the cancer-associated fibroblast phenotype. These data highlight the bright and the dark sides of Nrf2 and the need for time-controlled activation of this transcription factor.
PXD004860	30016717	O-GlcNAcylation site mapping by (azide-alkyne) click chemistry and mass spectrometry following intensive fractionation of skeletal muscle cells proteins. 	Identification of O-GlcNAcylated proteins and mapping of O-GlcNAc sites using Click Chemistry following extensive fractionation of extracted proteins	C2C12 muscle cells, LC_MSMS, Muscle, O-GlcNAcylation, Post-translational modifications, sites mapping	The O-linked-N-acetyl-d-glucosaminylation (O-GlcNAcylation) modulates numerous aspects of cellular processes. Akin to phosphorylation, O-GlcNAcylation is highly dynamic, reversible, and responds rapidly to extracellular demand. Despite the absolute necessity to determine post-translational sites to fully understand the role of O-GlcNAcylation, it remains a high challenge for the major reason that unmodified proteins are in excess comparing to the O-GlcNAcylated ones. Based on a click chemistry approach, O-GlcNAcylated proteins were labelled with azido-GalNAc and coupled to agarose beads. The proteome extracted from C2C12 myotubes was submitted to an intensive fractionation prior to azide-alkyne click chemistry. This combination of fractionation and click chemistry is a powerful methodology to map O-GlcNAc sites; indeed, 342 proteins were identified through the identification of 620 peptides containing one or more O-GlcNAc sites. We localized O-GlcNAc sites on proteins involved in signalling pathways or in protein modification, as well as structural proteins. Considering the recent role of O-GlcNAcylation in the modulation of sarcomere morphometry and interaction between key structural protein, we focused on proteins involved in the cytoarchitecture of skeletal muscle cells. In particular, several O-GlcNAc sites were located into protein-protein interaction domains, suggesting that O-GlcNAcylation could be strongly involved in the organization and reorganization of sarcomere and myofibrils. SIGNIFICANCE: O-GlcNAcylation is an atypical glycosylation involved in the regulation of almost all if not all cellular processes, but its precise role remains sometimes obscure because of the ignorance of the O-GlcNAc site localization; thus, it remains indispensable to precisely map the O-GlcNAcylated sites to fully understand the role of O-GlcNAcylation on a given protein. For this purpose, we combined extensive fractionation of skeletal muscle cells proteome with click chemistry to map O-GlcNAc sites without an a priori consideration. A total of 620 peptides containing one or more O-GlcNAc sites were identified; interestingly, several of them belong to low expressed proteins, in particular proteins involved in signalling pathways. We also focused on structural proteins in view of recent data supporting the role of O-GlcNAcylation in the modulation of sarcomere cytoarchitecture; importantly, some of the O-GlcNAc sites were mapped into protein-protein interaction domains, reinforcing the involvement of O-GlcNAcylation in the organization and reorganization of sarcomere, and in larger extent, of myofibrils.
PXD009739	30017246	Turbulence Activates Platelet Biogenesis to Enable Clinical Scale Ex Vivo Production. 	NRDC-IP	IP-MS, iTRAQ	The ex vivo generation of platelets from human-induced pluripotent cells (hiPSCs) is expected to compensate donor-dependent transfusion systems. However, manufacturing the clinically required number of platelets remains unachieved due to the low platelet release from hiPSC-derived megakaryocytes (hiPSC-MKs). Here, we report turbulence as a physical regulator in thrombopoiesis in vivo and its application to turbulence-controllable bioreactors. The identification of turbulent energy as a determinant parameter allowed scale-up to 8 L for the generation of 100 billion-order platelets from hiPSC-MKs, which satisfies clinical requirements. Turbulent flow promoted the release from megakaryocytes of IGFBP2, MIF, and Nardilysin to facilitate platelet shedding. hiPSC-platelets showed properties of bona fide human platelets, including circulation and hemostasis capacities upon transfusion in two animal models. This study provides a concept in which a coordinated physico-chemical mechanism promotes platelet biogenesis and an innovative strategy for ex vivo platelet manufacturing.
PXD009143	30018401	Proteomic Analysis and Functional Characterization of P4-ATPase Phospholipid Flippases from Murine Tissues. 	Proteomic Analysis and Functional Characterization of P4-ATPase Phospholipid Flippases from Murine Tissues	CDC50A, P4-ATPases, Phospholipid flippases, TMEM30A, affinity chromatography, mouse tissues	P4-ATPases are a subfamily of P-type ATPases that flip phospholipids across membranes to generate lipid asymmetry, a property vital to many cellular processes. Mutations in several P4-ATPases have been linked to severe neurodegenerative and metabolic disorders. Most P4-ATPases associate with one of three accessory subunit isoforms known as CDC50A (TMEM30A), CDC50B (TMEM30B), and CDC50C (TMEM30C). To identify P4-ATPases that associate with CDC50A, in vivo, and determine their tissue distribution, we isolated P4-ATPases-CDC50A complexes from retina, brain, liver, testes, and kidney on a CDC50A immunoaffinity column and identified and quantified P4-ATPases from their tryptic peptides by mass spectrometry. Of the 12 P4-ATPase that associate with CDC50 subunits, 10 P4-ATPases were detected. Four P4-ATPases (ATP8A1, ATP11A, ATP11B, ATP11C) were present in all five tissues. ATP10D was found in low amounts in liver, brain, testes, and kidney, and ATP8A2 was present in significant amounts in retina, brain, and testes. ATP8B1 was detected only in liver, ATP8B3 and ATP10A only in testes, and ATP8B2 primarily in brain. We also show that ATP11A, ATP11B and ATP11C, like ATP8A1 and ATP8A2, selectively flip phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylethanolamine across membranes. These studies provide new insight into the tissue distribution, relative abundance, subunit interactions and substrate specificity of P4-ATPase-CDC50A complexes.
PXD008979	30018533	Chemical Proteomic Analysis of Serine Hydrolase Activity in Niemann-Pick Type C Mouse Brain. 	CHEMICAL PROTEOMIC ANALYSIS OF ENDOCANNABINOID HYDROLASE ACTIVITY  IN NIEMANN-PICK TYPE C MOUSE BRAIN	activity-based protein profiling, brain, niemann-pick type C, orbitrap, synapt	The endocannabinoid system (ECS) is considered to be an endogenous protective system in various neurodegenerative diseases. Niemann-Pick type C (NPC) is a neurodegenerative disease in which the role of the ECS has not been studied yet. Most of the endocannabinoid enzymes are serine hydrolases, which can be studied using activity-based protein profiling (ABPP). Here, we report the serine hydrolase activity in brain proteomes of a NPC mouse model as measured by ABPP. Two ABPP methods are used: a gel-based method and a chemical proteomics method. The activities of the following endocannabinoid enzymes were quantified: diacylglycerol lipase (DAGL) alpha, alpha/beta-hydrolase domain-containing protein 4, alpha/beta-hydrolase domain-containing protein 6, alpha/beta-hydrolase domain-containing protein 12, fatty acid amide hydrolase, and monoacylglycerol lipase. Using the gel-based method, two bands were observed for DAGL alpha. Only the upper band corresponding to this enzyme was significantly decreased in the NPC mouse model. Chemical proteomics showed that three lysosomal serine hydrolase activities (retinoid-inducible serine carboxypeptidase, cathepsin A, and palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1) were increased in Niemann-Pick C1 protein knockout mouse brain compared to wild-type brain, whereas no difference in endocannabinoid hydrolase activity was observed. We conclude that these targets might be interesting therapeutic targets for future validation studies.
PXD009027	30019905	Crude-MS Strategy for in-Depth Proteome Analysis of the Methane-Oxidizing Methylocystis sp. strain SC2. 	A crude-MS strategy for in-depth proteome analysis of the methane-oxidizing Methylocystis sp. strain SC2	Bacterial proteomics, Label-free quantification, Methane Oxidation, Sample preparation	Methylocystis sp. strain SC2 is a representative of the alphaproteobacterial methane oxidizers or type IIa methanotrophs. These microorganisms play a crucial role in methane cycling. Here, we developed an efficient analytical proteomics workflow for strain SC2. It tackles the major challenges related to the high amount of integral membrane proteins that need to be efficiently solubilized and digested for downstream analysis. Each step of the workflow, including cell lysis, protein solubilization and digestion, and MS peptide quantification, was assessed and optimized. Our new crude-lysate-MS approach proved to increase protein quantification accuracy and proteome coverage of strain SC2. It captured 62% of the predicted SC2 proteome, with up to 10-fold increase in membrane-associated proteins relative to less effective conditions. The use of crude cell lysate for downstream analysis showed to be highly efficient for SC2 and other members of the family Methylocystaceae. Using two contrasting nitrogen conditions, we further validated our workflow efficiency by analyzing the SC2 proteome for differentially expressed proteins involved in methane and nitrogen metabolism. Our crude-MS approach may be applied to a variety of proteomic workflows incorporating cell types with challenging solubilization properties. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009027.
PXD009004	30019906	Triflic Acid Treatment Enables LC-MS/MS Analysis of Insoluble Bacterial Biomass. 	Triflic acid-treatment enables LC-MS/MS analysis of insoluble bacterial biomass	bacteria, microbiome, triflic acid	The lysis and extraction of soluble bacterial proteins from cells is a common practice for proteomics analyses, but insoluble bacterial biomasses are often left behind. Here, we show that with triflic acid treatment, the insoluble bacterial biomass of Gram(-) and Gram(+) bacteria can be rendered soluble. We use LC-MS/MS shotgun proteomics to show that bacterial proteins in the soluble and insoluble postlysis fractions differ significantly. Additionally, in the case of Gram(-) Pseudomonas aeruginosa, triflic acid treatment enables the enrichment of cell-envelope-associated proteins. Finally, we apply triflic acid to a human microbiome sample to show that this treatment is robust and enables the identification of a new, complementary subset of proteins from a complex microbial mixture.
PXD010048	30021155	ULK1 Phosphorylates and Regulates Mineralocorticoid Receptor. 	ULK1 phosphorylates and regulates mineralocorticoid receptor	ULK1, angiotensin II, mTOR, mineralocorticoid receptor	Mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) signaling regulates both renal Na-Cl reabsorption and K(+) excretion. We previously demonstrated that phosphorylation of S843 in the MR ligand-binding domain in renal intercalated cells is involved in the balance of these activities by regulating ligand binding and signaling. However, the kinase that phosphorylates MR(S843) is unknown. Using a high-throughput screen assay of 197 kinases, we found that ULK1 is the principal kinase that is responsible for the phosphorylation of MR(S843). The results were confirmed by in vitro kinase assay, mass spectrometry, and siRNA knockdown experiments. Notably, phosphorylation at MR(S843) was markedly reduced in ULK1/2 double knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Upstream, we show that ULK1 activity is inhibited by phosphorylation induced by angiotensin II via mTOR in cell culture and in vivo. These findings implicate mTOR and ULK1 as regulators of MR activity in intercalated cells, a pathway that is critical for maintaining electrolyte homeostasis.
PXD010080	30021165	Regulation of KIF1A-Driven Dense Core Vesicle Transport: Ca(2+)/CaM Controls DCV Binding and Liprin-alpha/TANC2 Recruits DCVs to Postsynaptic Sites. 	KIF1A, TANC2, liprin-a2 interactomes identified by AP-MS.	AP-MS, KIF1A, LC-MSMS., TANC2, liprin-a	Tight regulation of neuronal transport allows for cargo binding and release at specific cellular locations. The mechanisms by which motor proteins are loaded on vesicles and how cargoes are captured at appropriate sites remain unclear. To better understand how KIF1A-driven dense core vesicle (DCV) transport is regulated, we identified the KIF1A interactome and focused on three binding partners, the calcium binding protein calmodulin (CaM) and two synaptic scaffolding proteins: liprin-alpha and TANC2. We showed that calcium, acting via CaM, enhances KIF1A binding to DCVs and increases vesicle motility. In contrast, liprin-alpha and TANC2 are not part of the KIF1A-cargo complex but capture DCVs at dendritic spines. Furthermore, we found that specific TANC2 mutations-reported in patients with different neuropsychiatric disorders-abolish the interaction with KIF1A. We propose a model in which Ca(2+)/CaM regulates cargo binding and liprin-alpha and TANC2 recruit KIF1A-transported vesicles.
PXD010376	30021883	Global Involvement of Lysine Crotonylation in Protein Modification and Transcription Regulation in Rice. 	Global involvement of lysine crotonylation in protein modification and transcription regulation in rice	Oryza sativa, crotonyl lysine, histone lysine crotonylation, post-translational	Lysine crotonylation (Kcr) is a newly discovered posttranslational modification (PTM) existing in mammals. A global crotonylome analysis was undertaken in rice (Oryza sativa L. japonica) using high accuracy nano-LC-MS/MS in combination with crotonylated peptide enrichment. A total of 1,265 lysine crotonylation sites were identified on 690 proteins in rice seedlings. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that 51% of the crotonylated proteins identified were localized in chloroplasts. The photosynthesis-associated proteins were also mostly enriched in total crotonylated proteins. In addition, a genomic localization analysis of histone Kcr by ChIP-seq was performed to assess the relevance between histone Kcr and the genome. Of the 10,923 identified peak regions, the majority (86.7%) of the enriched peaks were located in gene body, especially exons. Furthermore, the degree of histone Kcr modification was positively correlated with gene expression in genic regions. Compared with other published histone modification data, the Kcr was co-located with the active histone modifications. Interestingly, histone Kcr-facilitated expression of genes with existing active histone modifications. In addition, 77% of histone Kcr modifications overlapped with DNase hypersensitive sites (DHSs) in intergenic regions of the rice genome and might mark other cis-regulatory DNA elements that are different from IPA1, a transcription activator in rice seedlings. Overall, our results provide a comprehensive understanding of the biological functions of the crotonylome and new active histone modification in transcriptional regulation in plants.
PXD007513	30021884	Histone Interaction Landscapes Visualized by Crosslinking Mass Spectrometry in Intact Cell Nuclei. 	Histone interaction landscapes visualized by crosslinking mass spectrometry in intact cell nuclei	Crosslinking Mass Spectrometry, Histone interaction network - PTM interplay, Histone variant specific interactions, Nuclear interactome, Nuclear protein-protein interactions	Cells organize their actions partly through tightly controlled protein-protein interactions-collectively termed the interactome. Here we use crosslinking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) to chart the protein-protein interactions in intact human nuclei. Overall, we identified ~8,700 crosslinks, of which 2/3 represent links connecting distinct proteins. From these data, we gain insights on interactions involving histone proteins. We observed that core histones on the nucleosomes expose well-defined interaction hot spots. For several nucleosome-interacting proteins, such as USF3 and Ran GTPase, the data allowed us to build low-resolution models of their binding mode to the nucleosome. For HMGN2, the data guided the construction of a refined model of the interaction with the nucleosome, based on complementary NMR, XL-MS, and modeling. Excitingly, the analysis of crosslinks carrying posttranslational modifications allowed us to extract how specific modifications influence nucleosome interactions. Overall, our data depository will support future structural and functional analysis of cell nuclei, including the nucleoprotein assemblies they harbor.
PXD009900	30021885	PP2A inhibition is a druggable MEK inhibitor resistance mechanism in KRAS-mutant lung cancer cells. 	PP2A  inhibition  is  a  druggable  MEK  inhibitor  resistance mechanism  in  KRAS-mutant  lung  cancer  cells	A549, PP2A, Phosphoproteomics, lung cancer	Kinase inhibitor resistance constitutes a major unresolved clinical challenge in cancer. Furthermore, the role of serine/threonine phosphatase deregulation as a potential cause for resistance to kinase inhibitors has not been thoroughly addressed. We characterize protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) activity as a global determinant of KRAS-mutant lung cancer cell resistance across a library of >200 kinase inhibitors. The results show that PP2A activity modulation alters cancer cell sensitivities to a large number of kinase inhibitors. Specifically, PP2A inhibition ablated mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor response through the collateral activation of AKT/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling. Combination of mTOR and MEK inhibitors induced cytotoxicity in PP2A-inhibited cells, but even this drug combination could not abrogate MYC up-regulation in PP2A-inhibited cells. Treatment with an orally bioavailable small-molecule activator of PP2A DT-061, in combination with the MEK inhibitor AZD6244, resulted in suppression of both p-AKT and MYC, as well as tumor regression in two KRAS-driven lung cancer mouse models. DT-061 therapy also abrogated MYC-driven tumorigenesis. These data demonstrate that PP2A deregulation drives MEK inhibitor resistance in KRAS-mutant cells. These results emphasize the need for better understanding of phosphatases as key modulators of cancer therapy responses.
PXD009596	30022083	Evaluating the potential of residual Pap test fluid as a resource for the metaproteomic analysis of the cervical-vaginal microbiome. 	Human Pap test LC-MS/MS metaproteomics	Metaproteomics, Pap test, metaproteomics, microbiome	The human cervical-vaginal area contains proteins derived from microorganisms that may prevent or predispose women to gynecological conditions. The liquid Pap test fixative is an unexplored resource for analysis of microbial communities and the microbe-host interaction. Previously, we showed that the residual cell-free fixative from discarded Pap tests of healthy women could be used for mass spectrometry (MS) based proteomic identification of cervical-vaginal proteins. In this study, we reprocessed these MS raw data files for metaproteomic analysis to characterize the microbial community composition and function of microbial proteins in the cervical-vaginal region. This was accomplished by developing a customized protein sequence database encompassing microbes likely present in the vagina. High-mass accuracy data were searched against the protein FASTA database using a two-step search method within the Galaxy for proteomics platform. Data was analyzed by MEGAN6 (MetaGenomeAnalyzer) for phylogenetic and functional characterization. We identified over 300 unique peptides from a variety of bacterial phyla and Candida. Peptides corresponding to proteins involved in carbohydrate metabolism, oxidation-reduction, and transport were identified. By identifying microbial peptides in Pap test supernatants it may be possible to acquire a functional signature of these microbes, as well as detect specific proteins associated with cervical health and disease.
PXD009830	30022119	Shieldin complex promotes DNA end-joining and counters homologous recombination in BRCA1-null cells. 	Shieldin complex promotes DNA end joining and counters homologous recombination in BRCA1-null cells	C20orf196, FAM35A, Shieldin	BRCA1 deficiencies cause breast, ovarian, prostate and other cancers, and render tumours hypersensitive to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors. To understand the resistance mechanisms, we conducted whole-genome CRISPR-Cas9 synthetic-viability/resistance screens in BRCA1-deficient breast cancer cells treated with PARP inhibitors. We identified two previously uncharacterized proteins, C20orf196 and FAM35A, whose inactivation confers strong PARP-inhibitor resistance. Mechanistically, we show that C20orf196 and FAM35A form a complex, 'Shieldin' (SHLD1/2), with FAM35A interacting with single-stranded DNA through its C-terminal oligonucleotide/oligosaccharide-binding fold region. We establish that Shieldin acts as the downstream effector of 53BP1/RIF1/MAD2L2 to promote DNA double-strand break (DSB) end-joining by restricting DSB resection and to counteract homologous recombination by antagonizing BRCA2/RAD51 loading in BRCA1-deficient cells. Notably, Shieldin inactivation further sensitizes BRCA1-deficient cells to cisplatin, suggesting how defining the SHLD1/2 status of BRCA1-deficient tumours might aid patient stratification and yield new treatment opportunities. Highlighting this potential, we document reduced SHLD1/2 expression in human breast cancers displaying intrinsic or acquired PARP-inhibitor resistance.
PXD009919	30022165	Pancreatic islets communicate with lymphoid tissues via exocytosis of insulin peptides. 	Insulin Granule and Secreted Peptidome	insulin, nLC-MS/MS, type 1 diabetes	Tissue-specific autoimmunity occurs when selected antigens presented by susceptible alleles of the major histocompatibility complex are recognized by T cells. However, the reason why certain specific self-antigens dominate the response and are indispensable for triggering autoreactivity is unclear. Spontaneous presentation of insulin is essential for initiating autoimmune type 1 diabetes in non-obese diabetic mice(1,2). A major set of pathogenic CD4 T cells specifically recognizes the 12-20 segment of the insulin B-chain (B:12-20), an epitope that is generated from direct presentation of insulin peptides by antigen-presenting cells(3,4). These T cells do not respond to antigen-presenting cells that have taken up insulin that, after processing, leads to presentation of a different segment representing a one-residue shift, B:13-21(4). CD4 T cells that recognize B:12-20 escape negative selection in the thymus and cause diabetes, whereas those that recognize B:13-21 have only a minor role in autoimmunity(3-5). Although presentation of B:12-20 is evident in the islets(3,6), insulin-specific germinal centres can be formed in various lymphoid tissues, suggesting that insulin presentation is widespread(7,8). Here we use live imaging to document the distribution of insulin recognition by CD4 T cells throughout various lymph nodes. Furthermore, we identify catabolized insulin peptide fragments containing defined pathogenic epitopes in beta-cell granules from mice and humans. Upon glucose challenge, these fragments are released into the circulation and are recognized by CD4 T cells, leading to an activation state that results in transcriptional reprogramming and enhanced diabetogenicity. Therefore, a tissue such as pancreatic islets, by releasing catabolized products, imposes a constant threat to self-tolerance. These findings reveal a self-recognition pathway underlying a primary autoantigen and provide a foundation for assessing antigenic targets that precipitate pathogenic outcomes by systemically sensitizing lymphoid tissues.
PXD008918	30022949	Proteomics Analysis of Monocyte-Derived Hepatocyte-Like Cells Identifies Integrin Beta 3 as a Specific Biomarker for Drug-Induced Liver Injury by Diclofenac. 	Proteomics analysis of monocyte-derived hepatocyte-like cells identifies integrin beta 3 as a specific biomarker for drug-induced liver injury by diclofenac	DILI, Drug-development, Monocyte.derived hepatocyte-like cells, biomarker	Idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury (iDILI) is a major cause of acute liver failure resulting in liver transplantation or death. Prediction and diagnosis of iDILI remain a great challenge, as current models provide unsatisfying results in terms of sensitivity, specificity, and prognostic value. The absence of appropriate tools for iDILI detection also impairs the development of reliable biomarkers. Here, we report on a new method for identification of drug-specific biomarkers. We combined the advantages of monocyte-derived hepatocyte-like (MH) cells, able to mimic individual characteristics, with those of a novel mass spectrometry-based proteomics technology to assess potential biomarkers for Diclofenac-induced DILI. We found over 2,700 proteins differentially regulated in MH cells derived from individual patients. Herefrom, we identified integrin beta 3 (ITGB3) to be specifically upregulated in Diclofenac-treated MH cells from Diclofenac-DILI patients compared to control groups. Finally, we validated ITGB3 by flow cytometry analysis of whole blood and histological staining of liver biopsies derived from patients diagnosed with Diclofenac-DILI. In summary, our results show that biomarker candidates can be identified by proteomics analysis of MH cells. Application of this method to a broader range of drugs in the future will exploit its full potential for the development of drug-specific biomarkers. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008918.
PXD009140	30023874	Proteomic Investigation of the Binding Agent between Liver Glycogen beta Particles. 	LIver Glycogen SWATH Proteomics	Glycogen, Glycogenin, Liver, Rat	Glycogen is a highly branched glucose polymer which plays an important role in glucose storage and the maintenance of blood sugar homeostasis. The dimeric protein glycogenin can self-glucosylate to act as a primer for glycogen synthesis, eventually resulting in small (~20 nm diameter) glycogen beta particles with a dimer of glycogenin at their core. In the liver, glycogen is also found in the form of alpha particles: large bound composites of many beta particles. Here, we provide evidence using qualitative and quantitative proteomics and size-exclusion chromatography from healthy rat, mouse, and human liver glycogen that glycogenin is the binding agent linking beta particles together into alpha particles.
PXD009797	30024741	Lys-C/Arg-C, a More Specific and Efficient Digestion Approach for Proteomics Studies. 	Lys-C/Arg-C, a New Enzyme Combination for Next-Generation Proteomics	Lys-C / Arg-C / trypsin / DIA / mass spectrometry	Nowadays, bottom-up approaches are predominantly adopted in proteomics studies, which necessitate a proteolysis step prior to MS analysis. Trypsin is often the best protease in choice due to its high specificity and MS-favored proteolytic products. A lot of efforts have been made to develop a superior digestion approach but hardly succeed, especially in large-scale proteomics studies. Herein, we report a new tandem digestion using Lys-C and Arg-C, termed Lys-C/Arg-C, which has been proven to be more specific and efficient than trypsin digestion. Reanalysis of our previous data ( Anal. Chem. 2018, 90 (3), 1554-1559) revealed that both Lys-C and Arg-C are trypsin-like proteases and perform better when considered as trypsin. In particular, for Arg-C, the identification capacity is increased to 2.6 times and even comparable with trypsin. The good complementarity, high digestion efficiency, and high specificity of Lys-C and Arg-C prompt the Lys-C/Arg-C digestion. We systematically evaluated Lys-C/Arg-C digestion using qualitative and quantitative proteomics approaches and confirmed its superior performance in digestion specificity, efficiency, and identification capacity to the currently widely used trypsin and Lys-C/trypsin digestions. As a result, we concluded that the Lys-C/Arg-C digestion approach would be the choice of next-generation digestion approach in both qualitative and quantitative proteomics studies. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009797.
PXD008232	30026094	The effect of entomopathogenic fungal culture filtrate on the immune response and haemolymph proteome of the large pine weevil, Hylobius abietis. 	The effect of entomopathogenic fungal culture filtrate on the immune response and haemolymph proteome of the large pine weevil, Hylobius abietis.	LFQ, entomopathogenic fungi, immune response, pine weevil	The large pine weevil Hylobius abietis L. is a major forestry pest in 15 European countries, where it is a threat to 3.4 million hectares of forest. A cellular and proteomic analysis of the effect of culture filtrate of three entomopathogenic fungi (EPF) species on the immune system of H. abietis was performed. Injection with Metarhizium brunneum or Beauvaria bassiana culture filtrate facilitated a significantly increased yeast cell proliferation in larvae. Larvae co-injected with either Beauvaria caledonica or B. bassiana culture filtrate and Candida albicans showed significantly increased mortality. Together these results suggest that EPF culture filtrate has the potential to modulate the insect immune system allowing a subsequent pathogen to proliferate. Injection with EPF culture filtrate was shown to alter the abundance of protease inhibitors, detoxifing enzymes, antimicrobial peptides and proteins involved in reception/detection and development in H. abietis larvae. Larvae injected with B. caledonica culture filtrate displayed significant alterations in abundance of proteins involved in cellulolytic and other metabolic processes in their haemolymph proteome. Screening EPF for their ability to modulate the insect immune response represents a means of assessing EPF for use as biocontrol agents, particularly if the goal is to use them in combination with other control agents.
PXD009724	30026309	Small molecule inhibitors reveal an indispensable scaffolding role of RIPK2 in NOD2 signaling. 	Small-molecule inhibitors reveal an indispensable scaffolding role of RIPK2 in NOD2 signaling	Ponatinib, RIPK2, chemical proteomics	RIPK2 mediates inflammatory signaling by the bacteria-sensing receptors NOD1 and NOD2. Kinase inhibitors targeting RIPK2 are a proposed strategy to ameliorate NOD-mediated pathologies. Here, we reveal that RIPK2 kinase activity is dispensable for NOD2 inflammatory signaling and show that RIPK2 inhibitors function instead by antagonizing XIAP-binding and XIAP-mediated ubiquitination of RIPK2. We map the XIAP binding site on RIPK2 to the loop between beta2 and beta3 of the N-lobe of the kinase, which is in close proximity to the ATP-binding pocket. Through characterization of a new series of ATP pocket-binding RIPK2 inhibitors, we identify the molecular features that determine their inhibition of both the RIPK2-XIAP interaction, and of cellular and in vivoNOD2 signaling. Our study exemplifies how targeting of the ATP-binding pocket in RIPK2 can be exploited to interfere with the RIPK2-XIAP interaction for modulation of NOD signaling.
PXD009147	30026585	SIRT7 has a critical role in bone formation by regulating lysine acylation of SP7/Osterix. 	Osterix propionylated peptide identification	osterix, propionylation	SP7/Osterix (OSX) is a master regulatory transcription factor that activates a variety of genes during differentiation of osteoblasts. However, the influence of post-translational modifications on the regulation of its transactivation activity is largely unknown. Here, we report that sirtuins, which are NAD(+)-dependent deacylases, regulate lysine deacylation-mediated transactivation of OSX. Germline Sirt7 knockout mice develop severe osteopenia characterized by decreased bone formation and an increase of osteoclasts. Similarly, osteoblast-specific Sirt7 knockout mice showed attenuated bone formation. Interaction of SIRT7 with OSX leads to the activation of transactivation by OSX without altering its protein expression. Deacylation of lysine (K) 368 in the C-terminal region of OSX by SIRT7 promote its N-terminal transactivation activity. In addition, SIRT7-mediated deacylation of K368 also facilitates depropionylation of OSX by SIRT1, thereby increasing OSX transactivation activity. In conclusion, our findings suggest that SIRT7 has a critical role in bone formation by regulating acylation of OSX.
PXD009063	30030262	Multi-OMICS analyses unveil STAT1 as a potential modifier gene in mevalonate kinase deficiency. 	Multi-OMICS data of a Hyper IgD Syndrome family	Proteogenomics analysis - Differential Analysis - Hyper IgD Syndrome - Single Amino Acid Variant Characterization	OBJECTIVES: The objective of the present study was to explain why two siblings carrying both the same homozygous pathogenic mutation for the autoinflammatory disease hyper IgD syndrome, show opposite phenotypes, that is, the first being asymptomatic, the second presenting all classical characteristics of the disease. METHODS: Where single omics (mainly exome) analysis fails to identify culprit genes/mutations in human complex diseases, multiomics analyses may provide solutions, although this has been seldom used in a clinical setting. Here we combine exome, transcriptome and proteome analyses to decipher at a molecular level, the phenotypic differences between the two siblings. RESULTS: This multiomics approach led to the identification of a single gene-STAT1-which harboured a rare missense variant and showed a significant overexpression of both mRNA and protein in the symptomatic versus the asymptomatic sister. This variant was shown to be of gain of function nature, involved in an increased activation of the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription signalling (JAK/STAT) pathway, known to play a critical role in inflammatory diseases and for which specific biotherapies presently exist. Pathway analyses based on information from differentially expressed transcripts and proteins confirmed the central role of STAT1 in the proposed regulatory network leading to an increased inflammatory phenotype in the symptomatic sibling. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the power of a multiomics approach to uncover potential clinically actionable targets for a personalised therapy. In more general terms, we provide a proteogenomics analysis pipeline that takes advantage of subject-specific genomic and transcriptomic information to improve protein identification and hence advance individualised medicine.
PXD009969	30030424	Abnormal RNA stability in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 	RNA instability in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	RNA, TMT 10plex, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, frontotemporal dementia, stability, stem cells	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) share key features, including accumulation of the RNA-binding protein TDP-43. TDP-43 regulates RNA homeostasis, but it remains unclear whether RNA stability is affected in these disorders. We use Bru-seq and BruChase-seq to assess genome-wide RNA stability in ALS patient-derived cells, demonstrating profound destabilization of ribosomal and mitochondrial transcripts. This pattern is recapitulated by TDP-43 overexpression, suggesting a primary role for TDP-43 in RNA destabilization, and in postmortem samples from ALS and FTD patients. Proteomics and functional studies illustrate corresponding reductions in mitochondrial components and compensatory increases in protein synthesis. Collectively, these observations suggest that TDP-43 deposition leads to targeted RNA instability in ALS and FTD, and may ultimately cause cell death by disrupting energy production and protein synthesis pathways.
PXD007819	30030445	Metaproteomics reveals associations between microbiome and intestinal extracellular vesicle proteins in pediatric inflammatory bowel disease. 	Pediatric IBD MLI metaproteomics	Children, IBD, Metaproteomics, intestine, microbiome	Alterations in gut microbiota have been implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), however factors that mediate the host-microbiota interactions remain largely unknown. Here we collected mucosal-luminal interface samples from a pediatric IBD inception cohort and characterized both the human and microbiota proteins using metaproteomics. We show that microbial proteins related to oxidative stress responses are upregulated in IBD cases compared to controls. In particular, we demonstrate that the expression of human proteins related to oxidative antimicrobial activities is increased in IBD cases and correlates with the alteration of microbial functions. Additionally, we reveal that many of these human proteins are present and show altered abundance in isolated free extracellular vesicles (EVs). Therefore, our study suggests that the alteration of intestinal EV proteomes is associated with the aberrant host-microbiota interactions in IBD.
PXD009262	30030465	Sympathetic inputs regulate adaptive thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue through cAMP-Salt inducible kinase axis. 	Sympathetic inputs regulate adaptive thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue through cAMP-Salt inducible kinase axis	label-free, liver, mitochondria	Various physiological stimuli, such as cold environment, diet, and hormones, trigger brown adipose tissue (BAT) to produce heat through sympathetic nervous system (SNS)- and beta-adrenergic receptors (betaARs). The betaAR stimulation increases intracellular cAMP levels through heterotrimeric G proteins and adenylate cyclases, but the processes by which cAMP modulates brown adipocyte function are not fully understood. Here we described that specific ablation of cAMP production in brown adipocytes led to reduced lipolysis, mitochondrial biogenesis, uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1) expression, and consequently defective adaptive thermogenesis. Elevated cAMP signaling by sympathetic activation inhibited Salt-inducible kinase 2 (Sik2) through protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation in brown adipose tissue. Inhibition of SIKs enhanced Ucp1 expression in differentiated brown adipocytes and Sik2 knockout mice exhibited enhanced adaptive thermogenesis at thermoneutrality in an Ucp1-dependent manner. Taken together, our data indicate that suppressing Sik2 by PKA-mediated phosphorylation is a requisite for SNS-induced Ucp1 expression and adaptive thermogenesis in BAT, and targeting Sik2 may present a novel therapeutic strategy to ramp up BAT thermogenic activity in humans.
PXD008448	30031066	Proteomic profiling of human decidual immune proteins during Toxoplasma gondii infection. 	Proteomic profiling of human decidual immune proteins during Toxoplasma gondii infection	Decidual immune cells, TMT, Toxoplasma gondii, infection	A Toxoplasma gondii infection during pregnancy can result in spontaneous abortion, preterm labor, or congenital fetal defects. The decidual immune system plays a critical role in regulating the immune micro-environment and in the induction of immune tolerance. To better understand the factors that mediate the decidual immune response associated with the T. gondii infection, a large-scale study employing TMT proteomics was conducted to characterize the differential decidual immune proteomes from infected and uninfected human decidual immune cells samples. The decidual immune cells from 105 human voluntary abortion tissues were purified, and of the 5510 unique proteins identified, 181 proteins were found to be differentially abundant (>1.2-fold cutoff, p < 0.05) in the T. gondii-infected decidual immune cells. 11 proteins of 181 differentially expressed proteins associated with trophoblast invasion, placental development, intrauterine fetal growth, and immune tolerance were verified using a quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and western blotting. This systematic analysis for the proteomics of decidual immune cells identified a broad range of immune factors in human decidual immune cells, shedding a new insight into the decidual immune molecular mechanism for abnormal pregnancy outcomes associated with T. gondii infection.
PXD007586	30035352	iTRAQ-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Chemically Induced Aquilaria sinensis Provides Insights into Agarwood Formation Mechanism. 	chemically-induced Agarwood LC-MSMS	Agarwood, germin-like protein, iTRAQ, peroxidase, plant defence response., transcriptome	Agarwood is a precious traditional Chinese medicine with a variety of pharmacological effects. Although efforts have been made in elucidating the mechanism of agarwood formation, little progress is obtained till now. Therefore, the molecular mechanism of agarwood formation needs to be further explored using different biological approaches. In this study, the quantitative proteomic analysis using iTRAQ technology combined with transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses on chemically induced Aquilaria sinensis is performed to elucidate the agarwood formation mechanism by formic acid stimulus. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD007586; 1884 proteins are detected, 504 differential proteins that show at least twofold differences in their expression levels are selected based on GO annotations, KEGG, STRING analysis, and quantitative RT-PCR analysis. The results indicate that sesquiterpene synthase, germin-like protein, pathogenesis-related protein, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, lipoyl synthase, and superoxide dismutase play important roles in the agarwood formation, suggesting that the proteins related to the plant defensive response, the removal of peroxide, the disease-resistance, the biosythesis of glycan, fatty acids, and sesquiterpene are crucial for agarwood formation.
PXD009176	30035391	The Sperm Proteome of the Echiuran Urechis unicinctus (Annelida, Echiura). 	Urechis unicinctus sperm proteome	Urechis unicinctus sperm proteome	Sperm proteins presumably play critical roles in reproduction, but in many non-model animals their identities are unknown. A total of 147 sperm proteins from the echiuran worm Urechis unicinctus, the first sperm proteome in the phylum Annelida, are reported. The echiuran sperm proteome can be classified into diverse functional groups: energy metabolism (31%), protein synthesis and degradation (18%), spermatogenesis and sperm motility (12%), signal pathway (11%), ion channel and transport proteins (6%), cytoskeleton (4%), immunity and stress responses (3%), and fertilization (1%). These results will facilitate studies of mechanisms of fertilization in echiurans, as well as comparative studies of reproduction and evolution across lophotrochozoans. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009176.
PXD007234	30036086	Menstrual fluid factors facilitate tissue repair: identification and functional action in endometrial and skin repair. 	Menstrual fluid factors facilitate tissue repair: Identification and functional action in endometrial and skin repair	woulnd healing factors	Repair after damage is essential for tissue homeostasis. Postmenstrual endometrial repair is a cyclical manifestation of rapid, scar-free, tissue repair taking ~3-5 d. Skin repair after wounding is slower (~2 wk). In the case of chronic wounds, it takes months to years to restore integrity. Herein, the unique "rapid-repair" endometrial environment is translated to the "slower repair" skin environment. Menstrual fluid (MF), the milieu of postmenstrual endometrial repair, facilitates healing of endometrial and keratinocyte "wounds" in vitro, promoting cellular adhesion and migration, stimulates keratinocyte migration in an ex vivo human skin reconstruct model, and promotes re-epithelialization in an in vivo porcine wound model. Proteomic analysis of MF identified a large number of proteins: migration inhibitory factor, neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, follistatin like-1, chemokine ligand-20, and secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor were selected for further investigation. Functionally, they promote repair of endometrial and keratinocyte wounds by promoting migration. Translation of these and other MF factors into a migration-inducing treatment paradigm could provide novel treatments for tissue repair.-Evans, J., Infusini, G., McGovern, J., Cuttle, L., Webb, A., Nebl, T., Milla, L., Kimble, R., Kempf, M., Andrews, C. J., Leavesley, D., Salamonsen, L. A. Menstrual fluid factors facilitate tissue repair: identification and functional action in endometrial and skin repair.
PXD008074	30036395	Evolutionary plasticity in the innate immune function of Akirin. 	AKIR-1 protein-protein interactions in C. elegans	AKIR-1, C. elegans, PPI	Eukaryotic gene expression requires the coordinated action of transcription factors, chromatin remodelling complexes and RNA polymerase. The conserved nuclear protein Akirin plays a central role in immune gene expression in insects and mammals, linking the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodelling complex with the transcription factor NFkappaB. Although nematodes lack NFkappaB, Akirin is also indispensable for the expression of defence genes in the epidermis of Caenorhabditis elegans following natural fungal infection. Through a combination of reverse genetics and biochemistry, we discovered that in C. elegans Akirin has conserved its role of bridging chromatin-remodellers and transcription factors, but that the identity of its functional partners is different since it forms a physical complex with NuRD proteins and the POU-class transcription factor CEH-18. In addition to providing a substantial step forward in our understanding of innate immune gene regulation in C. elegans, our results give insight into the molecular evolution of lineage-specific signalling pathways.
PXD007081	30038331	Urine-derived cells: a promising diagnostic tool in Fabry disease patients. 	Proteomic analysis of cultured primary urinary cells from M. Fabry Patients	Fabrys diseaes, PUC	Fabry disease is a lysosomal storage disorder resulting from impaired alpha-galactosidase A (alpha-Gal A) enzyme activity due to mutations in the GLA gene. Currently, powerful diagnostic tools and in vivo research models to study Fabry disease are missing, which is a major obstacle for further improvements in diagnosis and therapy. Here, we explore the utility of urine-derived primary cells of Fabry disease patients. Viable cells were isolated and cultured from fresh urine void. The obtained cell culture, modeling the renal epithelium, is characterized by patient-specific information. We demonstrate that this non-invasive source of patient cells provides an adequate cellular in vivo model as cells exhibit decreased alpha-Gal A enzyme activity and concomitant globotriaosylceramide accumulation. Subsequent quantitative proteomic analyses revealed dysregulation of endosomal and lysosomal proteins indicating an involvement of the Coordinated Lysosomal Expression and Regulation (CLEAR) network in the disease pathology. This proteomic pattern resembled data from our previously described human podocyte model of Fabry disease. Taken together, the employment of urine-derived primary cells of Fabry disease patients might have diagnostic and prognostic implications in the future. Our findings pave the way towards a more detailed understanding of pathophysiological mechanisms and may allow the development of future tailored therapeutic strategies.
PXD010132	30039638	The Disordered Landscape of the 20S Proteasome Substrates Reveals Tight Association with Phase Separated Granules. 	20S proteasome digestion of HeLa cell extracts	20S proteasome digestion, heat soluble proteins	Proteasomal degradation is the main route of regulated proteostasis. The 20S proteasome is the core particle (CP) responsible for the catalytic activity of all proteasome complexes. Structural constraints mean that only unfolded, extended polypeptide chains may enter the catalytic core of the 20S proteasome. It has been previously shown that the 20S CP is active in degradation of certain intrinsically disordered proteins (IDP) lacking structural constrains. Here, a comprehensive analysis of the 20S CP substrates in vitro is conducted. It is revealed that the 20S CP substrates are highly disordered. However, not all the IDPs are 20S CP substrates. The group of the IDPs that are 20S CP substrates, termed 20S-IDPome are characterized by having significantly more protein binding partners, more posttranslational modification sites, and are highly enriched for RNA binding proteins. The vast majority of them are involved in splicing, mRNA processing, and translation. Remarkably, it is found that low complexity proteins with prion-like domain (PrLD), which interact with GR or PR di-peptide repeats, are the most preferential 20S CP substrates. The finding suggests roles of the 20S CP in gene transcription and formation of phase-separated granules.
PXD007221	30040123	Investigating the effect of target of rapamycin kinase inhibition on the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii phosphoproteome: from known homologs to new targets. 	Phosphoproteomic study of TOR inhibition in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii	AZD8055, Chlamydomonas, Phosphoproteomics, Rapamycin, TOR, Torin1, target of rapamycin	Target of rapamycin (TOR) kinase is a conserved regulator of cell growth whose activity is modulated in response to nutrients, energy and stress. Key proteins involved in the pathway are conserved in the model photosynthetic microalga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, but the substrates of TOR kinase and downstream signaling network have not been elucidated. Our study provides a new resource for investigating the phosphorylation networks governed by the TOR kinase pathway in Chlamydomonas. We used quantitative phosphoproteomics to investigate the effects of inhibiting Chlamydomonas TOR kinase on dynamic protein phosphorylation. Wild-type and AZD-insensitive Chlamydomonas strains were treated with TOR-specific chemical inhibitors (rapamycin, AZD8055 and Torin1), after which differentially affected phosphosites were identified. Our quantitative phosphoproteomic dataset comprised 2547 unique phosphosites from 1432 different proteins. Inhibition of TOR kinase caused significant quantitative changes in phosphorylation at 258 phosphosites, from 219 unique phosphopeptides. Our results include Chlamydomonas homologs of TOR signaling-related proteins, including a site on RPS6 with a decrease in phosphorylation. Additionally, phosphosites on proteins involved in translation and carotenoid biosynthesis were identified. Follow-up experiments guided by these phosphoproteomic findings in lycopene beta/epsilon cyclase showed that carotenoid levels are affected by TORC1 inhibition and carotenoid production is under TOR control in algae.
PXD008839	30040867	Comparative proteomics of the two T. brucei PABPs suggests that PABP2 controls bulk mRNA. 	Interactome of the two T. brucei Poly(A) binding protein paralogs PABP1 and PABP2	PABP1, PABP2, Poly(A) binding, Trypanosoma brucei, interactome, mRNA stability	Poly(A)-binding proteins (PABPs) regulate mRNA fate by controlling stability and translation through interactions with both the poly(A) tail and eIF4F complex. Many organisms have several paralogs of PABPs and eIF4F complex components and it is likely that different eIF4F/PABP complex combinations regulate distinct sets of mRNAs. Trypanosomes have five eIF4G paralogs, six of eIF4E and two PABPs, PABP1 and PABP2. Under starvation, polysomes dissociate and the majority of mRNAs, most translation initiation factors and PABP2 reversibly localise to starvation stress granules. To understand this more broadly we identified a protein interaction cohort for both T. brucei PABPs by cryo-mill/affinity purification-mass spectrometry. PABP1 very specifically interacts with the previously identified interactors eIF4E4 and eIF4G3 and few others. In contrast PABP2 is promiscuous, with a larger set of interactors including most translation initiation factors and most prominently eIF4G1, with its two partners TbG1-IP and TbG1-IP2. Only RBP23 was specific to PABP1, whilst 14 RNA-binding proteins were exclusively immunoprecipitated with PABP2. Significantly, PABP1 and associated proteins are largely excluded from starvation stress granules, but PABP2 and most interactors translocate to granules on starvation. We suggest that PABP1 regulates a small subpopulation of mainly small-sized mRNAs, as it interacts with a small and distinct set of proteins unable to enter the dominant pathway into starvation stress granules and localises preferentially to a subfraction of small polysomes. By contrast PABP2 likely regulates bulk mRNA translation, as it interacts with a wide range of proteins, enters stress granules and distributes over the full range of polysomes.
PXD009868	30042207	The Proteome of Prostate Cancer Bone Metastasis Reveals Heterogeneity with Prognostic Implications. 	Prostate cancer progression: From non-malignant to bone metastasisProstate cancer progression: From non-malignant to bone metastasis	CRPC, Localized prostate cancer, Non-malignant prostate tissue, Prostate cancer bone metastasis, Prostatectomy, SILAC, castration, quantitative proteomics	Purpose: Bone is the most predominant site of distant metastasis in prostate cancer, and patients have limited therapeutic options at this stage.Experimental Design: We performed a system-wide quantitative proteomic analysis of bone metastatic prostate tumors from 22 patients operated to relieve spinal cord compression. At the time of surgery, most patients had relapsed after androgen-deprivation therapy, while 5 were previously untreated. An extended cohort of prostate cancer bone metastases (n = 65) was used for immunohistochemical validation.Results: On average, 5,067 proteins were identified and quantified per tumor. Compared with primary tumors (n = 26), bone metastases were more heterogeneous and showed increased levels of proteins involved in cell-cycle progression, DNA damage response, RNA processing, and fatty acid beta-oxidation; and reduced levels of proteins were related to cell adhesion and carbohydrate metabolism. Within bone metastases, we identified two phenotypic subgroups: BM1, expressing higher levels of AR canonical targets, and mitochondrial and Golgi apparatus resident proteins; and BM2, with increased expression of proliferation and DNA repair-related proteins. The two subgroups, validated by the inverse correlation between MCM3 and prostate specific antigen immunoreactivity, were related to disease prognosis, suggesting that this molecular heterogeneity should be considered when developing personalized therapies.Conclusions: This work is the first system-wide quantitative characterization of the proteome of prostate cancer bone metastases and a valuable resource for understanding the etiology of prostate cancer progression. Clin Cancer Res; 24(21); 5433-44. (c)2018 AACR.
PXD006910	30044099	Characterization of Naive and Vitamin C-Treated Mouse Schwann Cell Line MSC80: Induction of the Antioxidative Thioredoxin Related Transmembrane Protein 1. 	Molecular effects of Vitamin C treatment in MSC80 cells, a suitable Schwann cell model	MSC80, Schwann cells, TMX1, protein cataloguing	Schwann cells (SCs) are essential in the production of the axon-wrapping myelin sheath and provide trophic function and repair mechanisms in the peripheral nerves. Consequently, well-characterized SC in vitro models are needed to perform preclinical studies including the investigation of the complex biochemical adaptations occurring in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) under different (patho)physiological conditions. MSC80 cells represent a murine SC line used as an in vitro system for neuropathological studies. Here, we introduce the most abundant 9532 proteins identified via mass spectrometry-based protein analytics, and thus provide the most comprehensive SC protein catalogue published thus far. We cover proteins causative for inherited neuropathies and demonstrate that in addition to cytoplasmic, nuclear and mitochondrial proteins and others belonging to the protein processing machinery are very well covered. Moreover, we address the suitability of MSC80 to examine the molecular effect of a drug-treatment by analyzing the proteomic signature of Vitamin C-treated cells. Proteomic findings, immunocytochemistry, immunoblotting and functional experiments support the concept of a beneficial role of Vitamin C on oxidative stress and identified TMX1 as an oxidative stress protective factor, which might represent a promising avenue for therapeutic intervention of PNS-disorders with oxidative stress burden such as diabetic neuropathy.
PXD008971	30044528	Principles and characteristics of the Arabidopsis WRKY regulatory network during early MAMP-triggered immunity. 	Arabidopsis thaliana anti-all-WRKY pull-downs from whole seedlings	WRKY, flg22, pull-down	During microbe-associated molecular pattern-triggered immunity more than 5000 Arabidopsis genes are significantly altered in their expression, and the question arises, how such an enormous reprogramming of the transcriptome can be regulated in a safe and robust manner? For the WRKY transcription factors (TFs), which are important regulators of numerous defense responses, it appears that they act in a complex regulatory sub-network rather than in a linear fashion, which would be much more vulnerable to gene function loss either by pathogen-derived effectors or by mutations. In this study we employed RNA-seq, mass spectrometry and chromatin immunoprecipitation-seq to find evidence for and uncover principles and characteristics of this network. Upon flg22-treatment, one can distinguish between two sets of WRKY genes: constitutively expressed and induced WRKY genes. Prior to elicitation the induced WRKY genes appear to be maintained in a repressed state mainly by the constitutively expressed WRKY factors, which themselves appear to be regulated by non-WRKY TFs. Upon elicitation, induced WRKYs rapidly bind to induced WRKY gene promoters and by auto- and cross-regulation build up the regulatory network. Maintenance of this flg22-induced network appears highly robust as removal of three key WRKY factors can be physically and functionally compensated for by other WRKY family members.
PXD007771	30045750	SWATH-MS based quantitative proteomics analysis reveals that curcumin alters the metabolic enzyme profile of CML cells by affecting the activity of miR-22/IPO7/HIF-1alpha axis. 	SWATH-MS based quantitative proteomics analysis reveals that curcumin alters the metabolic enzyme profile of CML cells by affecting the activity of miR-22/IPO7/HIF-1alpha axis.	CML cells, SWATH-MS, curcumin	BACKGROUND: Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is a myeloproliferative disorder caused by expression of the chimeric BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase oncogene, resulting from the t(9;22) chromosomal translocation. Imatinib (gleevec, STI-571) is a selective inhibitor of BCR-ABL activity highly effective in the treatment of CML. However, even though almost all CML patients respond to treatment with imatinib or third generation inhibitors, these drugs are not curative and need to be taken indefinitely or until patients become resistant. Therefore, to get a definitive eradication of leukemic cells, it is necessary to find novel therapeutic combinations, for achieving greater efficacy and fewer side effects. Curcumin is an Indian spice with several therapeutic properties: anti-oxidant, analgesic, anti-inflammatory, antiseptic and anti-cancer. In cancer disease, it acts by blocking cell transformation, proliferation, and invasion and by inducing cell apoptosis. METHODS: In the present study, the effect of a sub-toxic dose of curcumin on K562 cells was evaluated by using the technique of Sequential Window Activation of All Theoretical Mass Spectra (SWATH-MS). Bioinformatic analysis of proteomic data was performed to highlight the pathways mostly affected by the treatment. The involvement of Hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF-1alpha) was assayed by evaluating its activation status and the modulation of importin 7 (IPO7) and miR-22 was assessed by quantitative PCR and western blot analysis. Finally, K562 cells transfected with miR-22 inhibitor were used to confirm the ability of curcumin to elicit miR-22 expression. RESULTS: Our findings revealed that the most relevant effect induced by curcumin was a consistent decrease of several proteins involved in glucose metabolism, most of which were HIF-1alpha targets, concomitant with the up-regulation of functional and structural mitochondrial proteins. The mechanism by which curcumin affects metabolic enzyme profile was associated with the reduction of HIF-1alpha activity, due to the miR-22-mediated down-regulation of IPO7 expression. Finally, the ability of curcumin to enhance in vitro the efficiency of imatinib was reported. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, our data indicates that the miR-22/IPO7/HIF-1alpha axis may be considered as a novel molecular target of curcumin adding new insights to better define therapeutic activity and anticancer properties of this natural compound. The MS proteomic data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier <PXD007771>.
PXD009578	30045961	Glutamate receptor delta2 serum antibodies in pediatric opsoclonus myoclonus ataxia syndrome. 	Serum autoantibodies to the glutamate receptor delta 2 in paediatric opsoclonus myoclonus ataxia syndrome	Autoimmune, GluD2, cerebellum, encephalitis, immunotherapy, neuroblastoma, opsoclonus myoclonus ataxia syndrome (OMAS), paraneoplastic	OBJECTIVE: To identify neuronal surface antibodies in opsoclonus myoclonus ataxia syndrome (OMAS) using contemporary antigen discovery methodology. METHODS: OMAS patient serum immunoglobulin G immunohistochemistry using age-equivalent rat cerebellar tissue was followed by immunoprecipitation, gel electrophoresis, and mass spectrometry. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (identifier PXD009578). This generated a list of potential neuronal surface cerebellar autoantigens. Live cell-based assays were used to confirm membrane-surface antigens and adsorb antigen-specific immunoglobulin Gs. The serologic results were compared to the clinical data. RESULTS: Four of the 6 OMAS sera tested bound rat cerebellar sections. Two of these sera with similar immunoreactivities were used in immunoprecipitation experiments using cerebellum from postnatal rat pups (P18). Mass spectrometry identified 12 cell-surface proteins, of which glutamate receptor delta2 (GluD2), a predominately cerebellar-expressed protein, was found at a 3-fold-higher concentration than the other 11 proteins. Antibodies to GluD2 were identified in 14/16 (87%) OMAS samples, compared with 5/139 (5%) pediatric and 1/38 (2.6%) adult serum controls (p < 0.0001), and in 2/4 sera from patients with neuroblastoma without neurologic features. Adsorption of positive OMAS sera against GluD2-transfected cells substantially reduced but did not eliminate reactivity toward cerebellar sections. CONCLUSION: Autoantibodies to GluD2 are common in patients with OMAS, bind to surface determinants, and are potentially pathogenic.
PXD010121	30046053	A mosquito salivary gland protein partially inhibits Plasmodium sporozoite cell traversal and transmission. 	Analysis of Plasmodium sporozoites collected from mosquito saliva	Anopheles gambiae, Plasmodium, malaria, saliva, sporozoites	The key step during the initiation of malaria is for motile Plasmodium parasites to exit the host dermis and infect the liver. During transmission, the parasites in the form of sporozoites, are injected together with mosquito saliva into the skin. However, the contribution of vector saliva to sporozoite activity during the establishment of the initial infection of the liver is poorly understood. Here we identify a vector protein by mass spectrometry, with similarity to the human gamma interferon inducible thiol reductase (GILT), that is associated with saliva sporozoites of infected Anopheles mosquitoes and has a negative impact on the speed and cell traversal activity of Plasmodium. This protein, referred to as mosquito GILT (mosGILT) represents an example of a protein found in mosquito saliva that may negatively influence sporozoite movement in the host and could lead to new approaches to prevent malaria.
PXD009650	30046110	53BP1 cooperation with the REV7-shieldin complex underpins DNA structure-specific NHEJ. 	53BP1 cooperation with the REV7-shieldin complex underpins DNA structure-specific NHEJ	REV7 Shieldin	53BP1 governs a specialized, context-specific branch of the classical non-homologous end joining DNA double-strand break repair pathway. Mice lacking 53bp1 (also known as Trp53bp1) are immunodeficient owing to a complete loss of immunoglobulin class-switch recombination(1,2), and reduced fidelity of long-range V(D)J recombination(3). The 53BP1-dependent pathway is also responsible for pathological joining events at dysfunctional telomeres(4), and its unrestricted activity in Brca1-deficient cellular and tumour models causes genomic instability and oncogenesis(5-7). Cells that lack core non-homologous end joining proteins are profoundly radiosensitive(8), unlike 53BP1-deficient cells(9,10), which suggests that 53BP1 and its co-factors act on specific DNA substrates. Here we show that 53BP1 cooperates with its downstream effector protein REV7 to promote non-homologous end joining during class-switch recombination, but REV7 is not required for 53BP1-dependent V(D)J recombination. We identify shieldin-a four-subunit putative single-stranded DNA-binding complex comprising REV7, c20orf196 (SHLD1), FAM35A (SHLD2) and FLJ26957 (SHLD3)-as the factor that explains this specificity. Shieldin is essential for REV7-dependent DNA end-protection and non-homologous end joining during class-switch recombination, and supports toxic non-homologous end joining in Brca1-deficient cells, yet is dispensable for REV7-dependent interstrand cross-link repair. The 53BP1 pathway therefore comprises distinct double-strand break repair activities within chromatin and single-stranded DNA compartments, which explains both the immunological differences between 53bp1- and Rev7- deficient mice and the context specificity of the pathway.
PXD010650	30047074	Using Skyline to Analyze Data-Containing Liquid Chromatography, Ion Mobility Spectrometry, and Mass Spectrometry Dimensions. 	Automating Multidimensional Liquid Chromatography, Ion Mobility Spectrometry and Mass Spectrometry Data Analyses Using Skyline	Skyline, data independent acquisition, ion mobility spectrometry	Recent advances in ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) have illustrated its power in determining the structural characteristics of a molecule, especially when coupled with other separations dimensions such as liquid chromatography (LC) and mass spectrometry (MS). However, these three separation techniques together greatly complicate data analyses, making better informatics tools essential for assessing the resulting data. In this manuscript, Skyline was adapted to analyze LC-IMS-CID-MS data from numerous instrument vendor datasets and determine the effect of adding the IMS dimension into the normal LC-MS molecular pipeline. For the initial evaluation, a tryptic digest of bovine serum albumin (BSA) was spiked into a yeast protein digest at seven different concentrations, and Skyline was able to rapidly analyze the MS and CID-MS data for 38 of the BSA peptides. Calibration curves for the precursor and fragment ions were assessed with and without the IMS dimension. In all cases, addition of the IMS dimension removed noise from co-eluting peptides with close m/z values, resulting in calibration curves with greater linearity and lower detection limits. This study presents an important informatics development since to date LC-IMS-CID-MS data from the different instrument vendors is often assessed manually and cannot be analyzed quickly. Because these evaluations require days for the analysis of only a few target molecules in a limited number of samples, it is unfeasible to evaluate hundreds of targets in numerous samples. Thus, this study showcases Skyline's ability to work with the multidimensional LC-IMS-CID-MS data and provide biological and environmental insights rapidly. Graphical Abstract  .
PXD007190	30048775	SWATH-MS quantitative proteomic investigation of nitrogen starvation in Arabidopsis reveals new aspects of plant nitrogen stress responses. 	SWATH-MS proteomic analysis of nitrogen deficiency response of Arabidopsis	SWATH, whole	Nitrogen is an essential macronutrient for plant growth and crop productivity. The aim of this work was to further investigate the molecular events during plant adaptation to nitrogen stress. Here, we present a SWATH-MS (Sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra)-based quantitative approach to detect proteome changes in Arabidopsis seedlings following nitrogen starvation. In total, 736 proteins of diverse functions were determined to show significant abundance changes between nitrogen-supplied and nitrogen-starved Arabidopsis seedlings. Functional categorization revealed the involvement of nitrogen stress-responsive proteins in biological processes including amino acid and protein metabolism, photosynthesis, lipid metabolism and glucosinolate metabolism. Subsequent phospholipid profiling of Arabidopsis seedlings showed changes in phospholipid composition that may enhance membrane fluidity as a response to nitrogen starvation. Moreover, an Arabidopsis grf6 T-DNA insertion mutant was found to have a nitrogen stress-sensitive phenotype. GRF6 is a 14-3-3 protein with elevated abundance upon nitrogen starvation and it may function as a positive regulator during nitrogen stress adaptation.
PXD009603	30051838	Proteomic evidence of dietary sources in ancient dental calculus. 	Proteomic Evidence of Dietary Sources in Ancient Dental Calculus	Dental Calculus, Dental Plaque	Archaeological dental calculus has emerged as a rich source of ancient biomolecules, including proteins. Previous analyses of proteins extracted from ancient dental calculus revealed the presence of the dietary milk protein beta-lactoglobulin, providing direct evidence of dairy consumption in the archaeological record. However, the potential for calculus to preserve other food-related proteins has not yet been systematically explored. Here we analyse shotgun metaproteomic data from 100 archaeological dental calculus samples ranging from the Iron Age to the post-medieval period (eighth century BC to nineteenth century AD) in England, as well as 14 dental calculus samples from contemporary dental patients and recently deceased individuals, to characterize the range and extent of dietary proteins preserved in dental calculus. In addition to milk proteins, we detect proteomic evidence of foodstuffs such as cereals and plant products, as well as the digestive enzyme salivary amylase. We discuss the importance of optimized protein extraction methods, data analysis approaches and authentication strategies in the identification of dietary proteins from archaeological dental calculus. This study demonstrates that proteomic approaches can robustly identify foodstuffs in the archaeological record that are typically under-represented due to their poor macroscopic preservation.
PXD009206	30051916	Dose- and time-dependent effects of triethylene glycol dimethacrylate on the proteome of human THP-1 monocytes. 	Dose- and time-dependent effects of triethylene glycol dimethacrylate on the proteome of human THP-1 monocytes	SILAC, THP1, methacrylate	Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate (TEGDMA) is commonly used in polymer resin-based dental materials. This study investigated the molecular mechanisms of TEGDMA toxicity by identifying its time- and dose-dependent effects on the proteome of human THP-1 monocytes. The effects of different concentrations (0.07-5 mM) and exposure times (0-72 h) of TEGDMA on cell viability, proliferation, and morphology were determined using a real-time viability assay, automated cell counting, and electron microscopy, and laid the fundament for choice of exposure scenarios in the proteomic experiments. Solvents were not used, as TEGDMA is soluble in cell culture medium (determined by photon correlation spectroscopy). Cells were metabolically labeled [using the stable isotope labeled amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) strategy], and exposed to 0, 0.3 or 2.5 mM TEGDMA for 6 or 16 h before liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analyses. Regulated proteins were analyzed in the STRING database. Cells exposed to 0.3 mM TEGDMA showed increased viability and time-dependent upregulation of proteins associated with stress/oxidative stress, autophagy, and cytoprotective functions. Cells exposed to 2.5 mM TEGDMA showed diminished viability and a protein expression profile associated with oxidative stress, DNA damage, mitochondrial dysfunction, and cell cycle inhibition. Altered expression of immune genes was observed in both groups. The study provides novel knowledge about TEGDMA toxicity at the proteomic level. Of note, even low doses of TEGDMA induced a substantial cellular response.
PXD005744	30054513	Jug r 6 is the allergenic vicilin present in walnut responsible for IgE cross-reactivities to other tree nuts and seeds. 	Purification and characterization of a novel allergenic walnut vicilin-like protein	food allergy, vicilin, walnut	Walnuts are ranked high in the list of the culprit foods inducing severe allergic reactions. Jug r 2 has been identified as a major allergen in common walnut by cDNA cloning from a somatic cell line. So far, studies were performed on the allergenic activity of recombinant Jug r 2, yet there is still no evidence about the physicochemical characteristics of the natural allergen. Therefore, we aimed to purify and deeply characterize natural Jug r 2 and to assess IgE cross-reactivity among vicilins from different tree nuts. Extensive mass spectrometry analysis of the obtained purified vicilin allowed identification of the protein sequence that displayed only 44% identity to Jug r 2. The newly identified vicilin (Jug r 6) was recognized by IgE of 26% in walnut allergic patients' sera tested. In contrast to Jug r 2, Jug r 6 displayed a remarkable level of cross-reactivity when tested with homologues from hazelnut, sesame and pistachio. It is the first report showing the necessity of proteomic studies to improve allergy component resolved diagnosis.
PXD008996	30054545	Deoxynivalenol induces structural alterations in epidermoid carcinoma cells A431 and impairs the response to biomechanical stimulation. 	Impact of biomechanical stimulation in the toxicity of deoxynivalenol in A431 cells: impairment of "dynamic" cell functions	A431 cells, Deoxynivalenol (DON, biomechanical stimulation, uniaxial cell stretching, vomitoxin)	Morphology together with the capability to respond to surrounding stimuli are key elements governing the spatial interaction of living cells with the environment. In this respect, biomechanical stimulation can trigger significant physiological cascades that can potentially modulate toxicity. Deoxynivalenol (DON, vomitoxin) is one of the most prevalent mycotoxins produced by Fusarium spp. and it was used to explore the delicate interaction between biomechanical stimulation and cytotoxicity in A431 cells. In fact, in addition of being a food contaminant, DON is a relevant toxin for several organ systems. The combination between biomechanical stimulation and the mycotoxin revealed how DON can impair crucial functions affecting cellular morphology, tubulin and lysosomes at concentrations even below those known to be cytotoxic in routine toxicity studies. Sub-toxic concentrations of DON (0.1-1 muM) impaired the capability of A431 cells to respond to a biomechanical stimulation that normally sustains trophic effects in these cells. Moreover, the effects of DON (0.1-10 muM) were partially modulated by the application of uniaxial stretching (0.5 Hz, 24 h, 15% deformation). Ultimately, proteomic analysis revealed the potential of DON to alter several proteins necessary for cell adhesion and cytoskeletal modulation suggesting a molecular link between biomechanics and the cytotoxic potential of the mycotoxin.
PXD011454	30056554	Full genome sequence of a polyvalent bacteriophage infecting strains of Shigella, Salmonella, and Escherichia. 	Protein ID of Escherichia phage EcS1	Phage	A novel lytic bacteriophage, Escherichia phage EcS1, was isolated from sewage samples collected in Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan. The complete genome sequence of EcS1 was determined using the Illumina Miseq System. The whole genome of EcS1 was found to be 175,437 bp in length with a mean G+C content of 37.8%. A total of 295 genes were identified as structural, functional, and hypothetical genes. BLAST analysis of the EcS1 genomic sequence revealed the highest identity (79%; query cover of 73-74%) to three T4-related phages that infect Serratia sp. ATCC 39006. Host range experiments revealed that EcS1 has lytic effects on three pathogenic strains of Shigella spp. and a pathogenic strain of Salmonella enterica as well as on E. coli strains. However, two strains of Serratia marcescens showed resistance to this phage. Phylogenetic trees for phage tail fiber protein sequences revealed that EcS1 is closely related to Enterobacteriaceae-infecting phages. Thus, EcS1 is a novel phage that infects several pathogenic strains of the family Enterobacteriaceae.
PXD007185	30057110	An Unbiased Screen for Human Cytomegalovirus Identifies Neuropilin-2 as a Central Viral Receptor. 	Neuropilin-2 (NRP2) is the receptor for human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) pentameric complex and is responsible for HCMV infection	Chemical cross-linking, DSS, human cytomegalovirus, receptor proteins, structural proteomics, viral entry	Characterizing cell surface receptors mediating viral infection is critical for understanding viral tropism and developing antiviral therapies. Nevertheless, due to challenges associated with detecting protein interactions on the cell surface, the host receptors of many human pathogens remain unknown. Here, we build a library consisting of most single transmembrane human receptors and implement a workflow for unbiased and high-sensitivity detection of receptor-ligand interactions. We apply this technology to elucidate the long-sought receptor of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), the leading viral cause of congenital birth defects. We identify neuropilin-2 (Nrp2) as the receptor for HCMV-pentamer infection in epithelial/endothelial cells and uncover additional HCMV interactors. Using a combination of biochemistry, cell-based assays, and electron microscopy, we characterize the pentamer-Nrp2 interaction and determine the architecture of the pentamer-Nrp2 complex. This work represents an important approach to the study of host-pathogen interactions and provides a framework for understanding HCMV infection, neutralization, and the development of novel anti-HCMV therapies.
PXD007130	30057262	Recapitulation of Human Neural Microenvironment Signatures in iPSC-Derived NPC 3D Differentiation. 	Microenvironment remodeling during human iPSC-derived NSC 3D differentiation	3D cultures, ECM, Microenvironment, Neual differentiation, SWATH, hiPSC-derived NSC	Brain microenvironment plays an important role in neurodevelopment and pathology, where the extracellular matrix (ECM) and soluble factors modulate multiple cellular processes. Neural cell culture typically relies on heterologous matrices poorly resembling brain ECM. Here, we employed neurospheroids to address microenvironment remodeling during neural differentiation of human stem cells, without the confounding effects of exogenous matrices. Proteome and transcriptome dynamics revealed significant changes at cell membrane and ECM during 3D differentiation, diverging significantly from the 2D differentiation. Structural proteoglycans typical of brain ECM were enriched during 3D differentiation, in contrast to basement membrane constituents in 2D. Moreover, higher expression of synaptic and ion transport machinery was observed in 3D cultures, suggesting higher neuronal maturation in neurospheroids. This work demonstrates that 3D neural differentiation as neurospheroids promotes the expression of cellular and extracellular features found in neural tissue, highlighting its value to address molecular defects in cell-ECM interactions associated with neurological disorders.
PXD010327	30058604	Retention Order Reversal of Phosphorylated and Unphosphorylated Peptides in Reversed-Phase LC/MS. 	Retention Order Reversal of Phosphorylated and Unphosphorylated Peptides in Reversed-Phase LC/MS	ion-pairing, linear solvation strength theory, phosphopeptides, retention order reversal, reversed-phase LC	Protein phosphorylation is one of the most ubiquitous post-translational modifications in humans, and trypsin-digested phosphorylated peptides have been analyzed by reversed phase LC/MS using C18-silica columns under acidic conditions to profile human phosphoproteomes. Here, we report that phosphopeptides generally exhibit stronger retention than their unphosphorylated counterparts when C18-silica columns are used with acetic acid or formic acid as an ion-pairing reagent, whereas the retention order is reversed when less hydrophobic stationary phases such as C4-silica columns are employed. Similarly the retention reversal is observed when more hydrophobic ion-pairing reagents such as trifluoroacetic acid are used with C18-silica columns. These phenomena could be explained by the smaller S-values of phosphopeptides in linear solvation strength theory, based on the reduced net charge caused by intramolecular interaction between phosphate and basic groups.
PXD009414	30060607	Comprehensive Snake Venomics of the Okinawa Habu Pit Viper, Protobothrops flavoviridis, by Complementary Mass Spectrometry-Guided Approaches. 	Venomics of the Okinawa Habu pit viper Protobothrops flavoviridis	BPP, Bottom-Up, Cytotoxicity, Habu, Habushu, Protobothrops flavoviridis, Snake venomics, Top-Down, Tripeptide metalloprotease inhibitor, Viperidae	The Asian world is home to a multitude of venomous and dangerous snakes, which are used to induce various medical effects in the preparation of traditional snake tinctures and alcoholics, like the Japanese snake wine, named Habushu. The aim of this work was to perform the first quantitative proteomic analysis of the Protobothrops flavoviridis pit viper venom. Accordingly, the venom was analyzed by complimentary bottom-up and top-down mass spectrometry techniques. The mass spectrometry-based snake venomics approach revealed that more than half of the venom is composed of different phospholipases A2 (PLA2). The combination of this approach and an intact mass profiling led to the identification of the three main Habu PLA2s. Furthermore, nearly one-third of the total venom consists of snake venom metalloproteinases and disintegrins, and several minor represented toxin families were detected: C-type lectin-like proteins (CTL), cysteine-rich secretory proteins (CRISP), snake venom serine proteases (svSP), l-amino acid oxidases (LAAO), phosphodiesterase (PDE) and 5'-nucleotidase. Finally, the venom of P. flavoviridis contains certain bradykinin-potentiating peptides and related peptides, like the svMP inhibitors, pEKW, pEQW, pEEW and pENW. In preliminary MTT cytotoxicity assays, the highest cancerous-cytotoxicity of crude venom was measured against human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells and shows disintegrin-like effects in some fractions.
PXD010090	30061681	FBP17 and CIP4 recruit SHIP2 and lamellipodin to prime the plasma membrane for fast endophilin-mediated endocytosis. 	Pulldown GST-SH3 domains of Endophilin and rat brain lysates	Endophilin, pulldown, rat brain lysates	Endocytosis mediates the cellular uptake of micronutrients and the turnover of plasma membrane proteins. Clathrin-mediated endocytosis is the major uptake pathway in resting cells(1), but several clathrin-independent endocytic routes exist in parallel(2,3). One such pathway, fast endophilin-mediated endocytosis (FEME), is not constitutive but triggered upon activation of certain receptors, including the beta1 adrenergic receptor(4). FEME activates promptly following stimulation as endophilin is pre-enriched by the phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate-binding protein lamellipodin(4,5). However, in the absence of stimulation, endophilin foci abort and disassemble after a few seconds. Looking for additional proteins involved in FEME, we found that 20 out of 65 BAR domain-containing proteins tested colocalized with endophilin spots. Among them, FBP17 and CIP4 prime the membrane of resting cells for FEME by recruiting the 5'-lipid phosphatase SHIP2 and lamellipodin to mediate the local production of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate and endophilin pre-enrichment. Membrane-bound GTP-loaded Cdc42 recruits FBP17 and CIP4, before being locally deactivated by RICH1 and SH3BP1 GTPase-activating proteins. This generates the transient assembly and disassembly of endophilin spots, which lasts 5-10 seconds. This mechanism periodically primes patches of the membrane for prompt responses upon FEME activation.
PXD007934	30061707	Adaptive mechanisms that provide competitive advantages to marine bacteroidetes during microalgal blooms. 	Hyper-specialized Bacteroidetes selfishly compete for laminarin in microalgal blooms	Bacteroidetes, Formosa, Laminarin degradation, marine	Polysaccharide degradation by heterotrophic microbes is a key process within Earth's carbon cycle. Here, we use environmental proteomics and metagenomics in combination with cultivation experiments and biochemical characterizations to investigate the molecular details of in situ polysaccharide degradation mechanisms during microalgal blooms. For this, we use laminarin as a model polysaccharide. Laminarin is a ubiquitous marine storage polymer of marine microalgae and is particularly abundant during phytoplankton blooms. In this study, we show that highly specialized bacterial strains of the Bacteroidetes phylum repeatedly reached high abundances during North Sea algal blooms and dominated laminarin turnover. These genomically streamlined bacteria of the genus Formosa have an expanded set of laminarin hydrolases and transporters that belonged to the most abundant proteins in the environmental samples. In vitro experiments with cultured isolates allowed us to determine the functions of in situ expressed key enzymes and to confirm their role in laminarin utilization. It is shown that laminarin consumption of Formosa spp. is paralleled by enhanced uptake of diatom-derived peptides. This study reveals that genome reduction, enzyme fusions, transporters, and enzyme expansion as well as a tight coupling of carbon and nitrogen metabolism provide the tools, which make Formosa spp. so competitive during microalgal blooms.
PXD009032	30061712	Improved phosphoproteomic analysis for phosphosignaling and active-kinome profiling in Matrigel-embedded spheroids and patient-derived organoids. 	Phosphoproteomics of Matrigel-embedded samples	Organoid, Spheroid	Many attempts have been made to reproduce the three-dimensional (3D) cancer behavior. For that purpose, Matrigel, an extracellular matrix from Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm mouse sarcoma cell, is widely used in 3D cancer models such as scaffold-based spheroids and patient-derived organoids. However, severe ion suppression caused by contaminants from Matrigel hampers large-scale phosphoproteomics. In the present study, we successfully performed global phosphoproteomics from Matrigel-embedded spheroids and organoids. Using acetone precipitations of tryptic peptides, we identified more than 20,000 class 1 phosphosites from HCT116 spheroids. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that phosphoproteomic status are significantly affected by the method used for the recovery from the Matrigel, i.e., Dispase or Cell Recovery Solution. Furthermore, we observed the activation of several phosphosignalings only in spheroids and not in adherent cells which are coincident with previous study using 3D culture. Finally, we demonstrated that our protocol enabled us to identify more than 20,000 and nearly 3,000 class 1 phosphosites from 1.4 mg and 150 mug of patient-derived organoid, respectively. Additionally, we were able to quantify phosphosites with high reproducibility (r = 0.93 to 0.95). Our phosphoproteomics protocol is useful for analyzing the phosphosignalings of 3D cancer behavior and would be applied for precision medicine with patient-derived organoids.
PXD009326	30062799	Utilities for Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Proteins (UMSAP): Fast post-processing of mass spectrometry data. 	Mass Spectrometry Utilities: Fast post processing of mass spectrometry data.	DegP, GlpQ, MSU, data analysis, proteolysis	RATIONALE: Mass spectrometry (MS) is an invaluable tool for the analysis of proteins. However, the sheer amount of data generated in MS studies demands dedicated data-processing tools that are efficient and require minimal user intervention. METHODS: Utilities for Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Proteins (UMSAP) is a graphical user interface designed for efficient post-processing of MS result files. The software is written in Tcl/Tk and can be used in Windows, OS X or Linux. No third party programs or libraries are required. Currently, UMSAP can process data obtained from proteolytic degradation experiments and generates graphical outputs allowing a straightforward interpretation of statistically relevant results. RESULTS: UMSAP is used here to analyze the proteolytic degradation of glycerophosphoryl diester phosphodiesterase GlpQ by the protein quality control protease DegP. Mass spectrometry was used to monitor proteolysis over time in the absence and presence of a peptidic allosteric activator of DegP. The software's output clearly shows the increased proteolytic activity of DegP in the presence of the activating peptide, identifies statistically significant products of the proteolysis and offers valuable insights into substrate specificity. CONCLUSIONS: Utilities for Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Proteins is an open-source software designed for efficient post-processing of large datasets obtained by MS analyses of proteins. In addition, the modular architecture of the software allows easy incorporation of new modules to analyze various experimental mass spectrometry setups.
PXD009813	30064219	Extensive Characterization of the Human Salivary Basic Proline-Rich Protein Family by Top-Down Mass Spectrometry. 	Human salivary basic proline-rich proteins	High-Resolution ESIMS/MS Experiments, Saliva	Human basic proline-rich proteins and basic glycosylated proline-rich proteins, encoded by the polymorphic PRB1-4 genes and expressed only in parotid glands, are the most complex family of adult salivary proteins. The family includes 11 parent peptides/proteins and more than 6 parent glycosylated proteins, but a high number of proteoforms with rather similar structures derive from polymorphisms and post-translational modifications. 55 new components of the family were characterized by top-down liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and tandem-mass platforms, bringing the total number of proteoforms to 109. The new components comprise the three variants P-H S1 --> A, P-Ko P36 --> S, and P-Ko A41 --> S and several of their naturally occurring proteolytic fragments. The paper represents an updated reference for the peptides included in the heterogeneous family of proteins encoded by PRB1/PRB4. MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD009813.
PXD008660	30065264	GM-CSF driven myeloid cells in adipose tissue link weight gain and insulin resistance via formation of 2-aminoadipate. 	Proteome-wide diet-independent adipose tissue alterations link dendritic cells to 2-aminoadipoate associated insulin sensitivity.	adipose tissue biology, branched chain amino acid metabolism, extended multiplexing, inflammation, insulin resistance, isobaric labeling, obesity, quantitative proteomics	In a GM-CSF driven myeloid cell deficient mouse model (Csf2(-/-)) that has preserved insulin sensitivity despite increased adiposity, we used unbiased three-dimensional integration of proteome profiles, metabolic profiles, and gene regulatory networks to understand adipose tissue proteome-wide changes and their metabolic implications. Multi-dimensional liquid chromatography mass spectrometry and extended multiplex mass labeling was used to analyze proteomes of epididymal adipose tissues isolated from Csf2(+/+) and Csf2(-/-) mice that were fed low fat, high fat, or high fat plus cholesterol diets for 8 weeks. The metabolic health (as measured by body weight, adiposity, plasma fasting glucose, insulin, triglycerides, phospholipids, total cholesterol levels, and glucose and insulin tolerance tests) deteriorated with diet for both genotypes, while mice lacking Csf2 were protected from insulin resistance. Regardless of diet, 30 mostly mitochondrial, branch chain amino acids (BCAA), and lysine metabolism proteins were altered between Csf2(-/-) and Csf2(+/+) mice (FDR < 0.05). Lack of GM-CSF driven myeloid cells lead to reduced adipose tissue 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (DHTKD1) levels and subsequent increase in plasma 2-aminoadipate (2-AA) levels, both of which are reported to correlate with insulin resistance. Tissue DHTKD1 levels were >4-fold upregulated and plasma 2-AA levels were >2 fold reduced in Csf2(-/-) mice (p < 0.05). GM-CSF driven myeloid cells link peripheral insulin sensitivity to adiposity via lysine metabolism involving DHTKD1/2-AA axis in a diet independent manner.
PXD003172	30066193	Approaching cellular resolution and reliable identification in mass spectrometry imaging of tryptic peptides. 	MS imaging of tryptic peptides in mouse brain measured at 50 m pixel size	mouse brain, proteins, trypsin, tryptic peptides	On-tissue digestion has become the preferred method to identify proteins in mass spectrometry (MS) imaging. In this study, we report advances in data acquisition and protein identification for MS imaging after on-tissue digestion. Tryptic peptides in a coronal mouse brain section were measured at 50 mum pixel size and revealed detailed histological structures, e.g., the ependyma (consisting of one to two cell layers), which was confirmed by H&E staining. This demonstrates that MS imaging of tryptic peptides at or close to cellular resolution is within reach. We also describe a detailed identification workflow which resulted in the identification of 99 proteins (with 435 corresponding peptides), based on comparison with LC-MS/MS data and in silico digest. These results were obtained with stringent parameters, including high mass accuracy in imaging mode (RSME < 3 ppm) and at least two unique peptides per protein showing consistent spatial distribution. We identified almost 50% of proteins with at least four corresponding peptides. As there is no agreed approach for identification of proteins after on-tissue digestion yet, we discuss our workflow in detail and make the corresponding mass spectral data available as "open data" via ProteomeXchange (identifier PXD003172). With this, we would like to contribute to a more effective discussion and the development of new approaches for tryptic peptide identification in MS imaging. From an experimental point of view, we demonstrate the improvement due to the combination of high spatial resolution and high mass resolution/mass accuracy on a measurement at 25 mum pixel size in mouse cerebellum tissue. A whole body section of a mouse pub imaged at 50 mum pixel size (40 GB, 230,000 spectra) demonstrates the stability of our protocol. For this data set, we developed a workflow that is based on conversion to the common data format imzML and sequential application of freely available software tools. In combination, the presented results for spatial resolution, protein identification, and data processing constitute significant improvements for the field of on-tissue digestion. Graphical abstract MS imaging of coronal mouse brain cerebellum with a pixel size of 25 mum: A Optical image, B myelin staining, C H&E staining, and D MS image overlay (RGB) of tryptic peptides m/z = 726.4045 +/- 0.005, HGFLPR + H(+) (red), m/z = 536.3173 +/- 0.005, AKPAK + Na(+) (green), and m/z = 994.5436 +/- 0.005, WRQLIEK + Na(+) (blue).
PXD004145	30066486	The pH regulator PacC: a host-dependent virulence factor in Botrytis cinerea. 	Adaptation to pH and pH signaling in the phytopathogenic fungus Botrytis cinerea	Botrytis cinerea, LC-MS, Quantitative proteomics, pH-regulated genes	The phytopathogenic fungus Botrytis cinerea is able to infect a wide variety of plants and plant tissues with differing chemical compositions. During its interaction with the host, this pathogen modulates its ambient pH by secreting acids or ammonia. In this work, we examined the Pal/Pac pathway, the fungal ambient pH-responsive signalling circuit, and investigated the role of the PacC transcription factor. Characterization of the BcpacC deletion mutant revealed an alteration of both fungal growth and virulence depending on the pH of the culture medium or of the host tissue. The pathogenicity of the mutant was altered on plants exhibiting a neutral pH and not on plants with acidic tissues. The capacity of the mutant to acidify its environment and, more particularly, to produce oxalic acid was affected, as was production of reactive oxygen species. Finally, proteomic profiling of the mutant secretome revealed significant changes in plant cell wall polysaccharides proteins and lipid degradation and oxidoreduction, highlighting the importance of BcPacC in the necrotrophic lifestyle of B. cinerea.
PXD010418	30067223	Thalidomide promotes degradation of SALL4, a transcription factor implicated in Duane Radial Ray syndrome. 	Thalidomide promotes degradation of SALL4, a transcription factor implicated in Duane Radial Ray Syndrome, part 3	IMiDs, crl4, cullin, thalidomide, ubiquitin	In historical attempts to treat morning sickness, use of the drug thalidomide led to the birth of thousands of children with severe birth defects. Despite their teratogenicity, thalidomide and related IMiD drugs are now a mainstay of cancer treatment; however, the molecular basis underlying the pleiotropic biology and characteristic birth defects remains unknown. Here we show that IMiDs disrupt a broad transcriptional network through induced degradation of several C2H2 zinc finger transcription factors, including SALL4, a member of the spalt-like family of developmental transcription factors. Strikingly, heterozygous loss of function mutations in SALL4 result in a human developmental condition that phenocopies thalidomide-induced birth defects such as absence of thumbs, phocomelia, defects in ear and eye development, and congenital heart disease. We find that thalidomide induces degradation of SALL4 exclusively in humans, primates, and rabbits, but not in rodents or fish, providing a mechanistic link for the species-specific pathogenesis of thalidomide syndrome.
PXD008909	30067761	An overview of Phoneutria nigriventer spider venom using combined transcriptomic and proteomic approaches. 	Phoneutria nigriventer Proteome	Shot gun, Spider, Venom	Phoneutria nigriventer is one of the largest existing true spiders and one of the few considered medically relevant. Its venom contains several neurotoxic peptides that act on different ion channels and chemical receptors of vertebrates and invertebrates. Some of these venom toxins have been shown as promising models for pharmaceutical or biotechnological use. However, the large diversity and the predominance of low molecular weight toxins in this venom have hampered the identification and deep investigation of the less abundant toxins and the proteins with high molecular weight. Here, we combined conventional and next-generation cDNA sequencing with Multidimensional Protein Identification Technology (MudPIT), to obtain an in-depth panorama of the composition of P. nigriventer spider venom. The results from these three approaches showed that cysteine-rich peptide toxins are the most abundant components in this venom and most of them contain the Inhibitor Cysteine Knot (ICK) structural motif. Ninety-eight sequences corresponding to cysteine-rich peptide toxins were identified by the three methodologies and many of them were considered as putative novel toxins, due to the low similarity to previously described toxins. Furthermore, using next-generation sequencing we identified families of several other classes of toxins, including CAPs (Cysteine Rich Secretory Protein-CRiSP, antigen 5 and Pathogenesis-Related 1-PR-1), serine proteinases, TCTPs (translationally controlled tumor proteins), proteinase inhibitors, metalloproteinases and hyaluronidases, which have been poorly described for this venom. This study provides an overview of the molecular diversity of P. nigriventer venom, revealing several novel components and providing a better basis to understand its toxicity and pharmacological activities.
PXD008720	30068331	Species comparison of liver proteomes reveals links to naked mole-rat longevity and human aging. 	Species comparison of liver proteomes reveals links to  naked mole-rat longevity and human aging	Liver, human aging, longevity, naked mole-rat	BACKGROUND: Mammals display a wide range of variation in their lifespan. Investigating the molecular networks that distinguish long- from short-lived species has proven useful to identify determinants of longevity. Here, we compared the livers of young and old long-lived naked mole-rats (NMRs) and the phylogenetically closely related, shorter-lived, guinea pigs using an integrated omics approach. RESULTS: We found that NMR livers display a unique expression pattern of mitochondrial proteins that results in distinct metabolic features of their mitochondria. For instance, we observed a generally reduced respiration rate associated with lower protein levels of respiratory chain components, particularly complex I, and increased capacity to utilize fatty acids. Interestingly, we show that the same molecular networks are affected during aging in both NMRs and humans, supporting a direct link to the extraordinary longevity of both species. Finally, we identified a novel detoxification pathway linked to longevity and validated it experimentally in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. CONCLUSIONS: Our work demonstrates the benefits of integrating proteomic and transcriptomic data to perform cross-species comparisons of longevity-associated networks. Using a multispecies approach, we show at the molecular level that livers of NMRs display progressive age-dependent changes that recapitulate typical signatures of aging despite the negligible senescence and extraordinary longevity of these rodents.
PXD009641	30068531	Lipase maturation factor 1 affects redox homeostasis in the endoplasmic reticulum. 	The identification of Lipase Maturation Factor 1 (LMF1) partners	Crosslinking, LMF1, Lipase, Redox	Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is a secreted lipase that clears triglycerides from the blood. Proper LPL folding and exit from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) require lipase maturation factor 1 (LMF1), an ER-resident transmembrane protein, but the mechanism involved is unknown. We used proteomics to identify LMF1-binding partners necessary for LPL secretion in HEK293 cells and found these to include oxidoreductases and lectin chaperones, suggesting that LMF1 facilitates the formation of LPL's five disulfide bonds. In accordance with this role, we found that LPL aggregates in LMF1-deficient cells due to the formation of incorrect intermolecular disulfide bonds. Cells lacking LMF1 were hypersensitive to depletion of glutathione, but not DTT treatment, suggesting that LMF1 helps reduce the ER Accordingly, we found that loss of LMF1 results in a more oxidized ER Our data show that LMF1 has a broader role than simply folding lipases, and we identified fibronectin and the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) as novel LMF1 clients that contain multiple, non-sequential disulfide bonds. We conclude that LMF1 is needed for secretion of some ER client proteins that require reduction of non-native disulfides during their folding.
PXD009784	30071318	Changes in the urinary extracellular vesicle proteome are associated with nephronophthisis-related ciliopathies. 	Changes in the urinary extracellular vesicle proteome are associated with nephronophthisis-related ciliopathies	ciliopathies, extracellular vesicle, kidney, label-free proteomics, nephronophthisis	Nephronophthisis is one of the leading genetic causes of end-stage renal disease in childhood. Early diagnostics and prognostics for nephronophthisis are currently limited. We aimed to identify non-invasive protein biomarkers for nephronophthisis in urinary extracellular vesicles. Extracellular vesicles were isolated from urine of 12 patients with a nephronophthisis-related ciliopathy and 12 age- and gender-matched controls, followed by in-depth label-free LC-MS/MS proteomics analysis of gel fractionated extracellular vesicle proteins. Supervised cluster analysis of proteomic profiles separated patients from controls. We identified 156 differentially expressed proteins with fold change >=4 in patients compared to controls (P < .05). Importantly, expression levels of discriminating proteins were correlated with chronic kidney disease stage, suggesting possible applications for urinary extracellular vesicle biomarkers in prognostics for nephronophthisis. Enrichment analysis of gene ontology terms revealed GO terms including signaling, actin cytoskeleton and endocytosis among the downregulated proteins in patients, whereas terms related to response to wounding and extracellular matrix organization were enriched among upregulated proteins. Our findings represent the first step towards a non-invasive diagnostic test for nephronophthisis. Further research is needed to determine specificity of the candidate biomarkers. In conclusion, proteomic profiles of urinary extracellular vesicles differentiate nephronophthisis-related ciliopathy patients from healthy controls. SIGNIFICANCE: Nephronophthisis is an important cause of end-stage renal disease in children and is associated with an average diagnostic delay of 3.5 years. This is the first study investigating candidate biomarkers for nephronophthisis using global proteomics analysis of urinary extracellular vesicles in patients with nephronophthisis compared to control individuals. We show that measuring protein markers in urinary extracellular vesicles is a promising approach for non-invasive early diagnostics of nephronophthisis.
PXD008821	30072576	Co-regulatory networks of human serum proteins link genetics to disease. 	Confirmation of SOMAmer Enrichment from Biological Matrices using Mass Spectrometry, plasma	Blood serum, SOMAmer, aptamer, blood plasma, cell lysate, conditioned media	Proteins circulating in the blood are critical for age-related disease processes; however, the serum proteome has remained largely unexplored. To this end, 4137 proteins covering most predicted extracellular proteins were measured in the serum of 5457 Icelanders over 65 years of age. Pairwise correlation between proteins as they varied across individuals revealed 27 different network modules of serum proteins, many of which were associated with cardiovascular and metabolic disease states, as well as overall survival. The protein modules were controlled by cis- and trans-acting genetic variants, which in many cases were also associated with complex disease. This revealed co-regulated groups of circulating proteins that incorporated regulatory control between tissues and demonstrated close relationships to past, current, and future disease states.
PXD010024	30072686	Cysteine-mediated decyanation of vitamin B12 by the predicted membrane transporter BtuM. 	An unprecedented binding mode of vitamin B12 in the predicted transporter BtuM	BtuM, decyanation	Uptake of vitamin B12 is essential for many prokaryotes, but in most cases the membrane proteins involved are yet to be identified. We present the biochemical characterization and high-resolution crystal structure of BtuM, a predicted bacterial vitamin B12 uptake system. BtuM binds vitamin B12 in its base-off conformation, with a cysteine residue as axial ligand of the corrin cobalt ion. Spectroscopic analysis indicates that the unusual thiolate coordination allows for decyanation of vitamin B12. Chemical modification of the substrate is a property other characterized vitamin B12-transport proteins do not exhibit.
PXD010070	30074391	Simplified Protocol for Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry Using the MS-Cleavable Cross-linker DSBU with Efficient Cross-link Identification. 	Cross-linking mass spectrometry analyses of three different kinetochore protein complexes (KMN, NDC80C, MIS12C) using an MS-cleavable cross-linker, BuUrBu (DSBU)	BuUrBu, DSBU, MS-cleavable cross-linker, MeroX, Q-Exactive, cross-linking MS, kinetochore, protein complex	Chemical cross-linking combined with mass spectrometry (MS) is a powerful approach to identify and map protein-protein interactions. Its applications support computational modeling of three-dimensional structures and complement classical structural methodologies such as X-ray crystallography, NMR spectroscopy, and electron microscopy (EM). A plethora of cross-linkers, MS methods, and data analysis programs have been developed, but due to their methodological complexity application is currently reserved for specialized mass spectrometry laboratories. Here, we present a simplified single-step purification protocol that results in improved identifications of cross-linked peptides. We describe an easy-to-follow pipeline that combines the MS-cleavable cross-linker DSBU (disuccinimidyl dibutyric urea), a Q-Exactive mass spectrometer, and the dedicated software MeroX for data analysis to make cross-linking MS accessible to structural biology and biochemistry laboratories. In experiments focusing on kinetochore subcomplexes containing 4-10 subunits (so-called KMN network), one-step peptide purification, and enrichment by size-exclusion chromatography yielded identification of 135-228 non-redundant cross-links (577-820 cross-linked peptides) from each experiment. Notably, half of the non-redundant cross-links identified were not lysine-lysine cross-links and involved side chains with hydroxy groups. The new pipeline has a comparable potential toward the identification of protein-protein interactions as previously used pipelines based on isotope-labeled cross-linkers. A newly identified cross-link enabled us to improve our 3D-model of the KMN, emphasizing the power of cross-linking data for evaluation of low-resolution EM maps. In sum, our optimized experimental scheme represents a viable shortcut toward obtaining reliable cross-link data sets.
PXD009015	30076174	Non-muscle myosin II drives vesicle loss during human reticulocyte maturation. 	NanoLC-MSMS Phosphoproteomics comparison of in vitro cultured/native reticulocytes and erythrocytes	erythrocyte, erythropoiesis, nanoLC-MSMS, phospho, reticulocyte	The process of maturation of reticulocytes into fully mature erythrocytes that occurs in the circulation is known to be characterized by a complex interplay between loss of cell surface area and volume, removal of remnant cell organelles and redundant proteins, and highly selective membrane and cytoskeletal remodeling. However, the mechanisms that underlie and drive these maturational processes in vivo are currently poorly understood and, at present, reticulocytes derived through in vitro culture fail to undergo the final transition to erythrocytes. Here, we used high-throughput proteomic methods to highlight differences between erythrocytes, cultured reticulocytes and endogenous reticulocytes. We identify a cytoskeletal protein, non-muscle myosin IIA (NMIIA) whose abundance and phosphorylation status differs between reticulocytes and erythrocytes and localized it in the proximity of autophagosomal vesicles. An ex vivo circulation system was developed to simulate the mechanical shear component of circulation and demonstrated that mechanical stimulus is necessary, but insufficient for reticulocyte maturation. Using this system in concurrence with non-muscle myosin II inhibition, we demonstrate the involvement of non-muscle myosin IIA in reticulocyte remodeling and propose a previously undescribed mechanism of shear stress-responsive vesicle clearance that is crucial for reticulocyte maturation.
PXD007906	30076294	A secretome profile indicative of oleate-induced proliferation of HepG2 hepatocellular carcinoma cells. 	A secretome profile indicative of oleate-induced proliferation of HepG2 hepatocellular carcinoma cell line	HepG2, Oleate, hepatocellular carcinoma	Increased fatty acid (FA) is often observed in highly proliferative tumors. FAs have been shown to modulate the secretion of proteins from tumor cells, contributing to tumor survival. However, the secreted factors affected by FA have not been systematically explored. Here, we found that treatment of oleate, a monounsaturated omega-9 FA, promoted the proliferation of HepG2 cells. To examine the secreted factors associated with oleate-induced cell proliferation, we performed a comprehensive secretome profiling of oleate-treated and untreated HepG2 cells. A comparison of the secretomes identified 349 differentially secreted proteins (DSPs; 145 upregulated and 192 downregulated) in oleate-treated samples, compared to untreated samples. The functional enrichment and network analyses of the DSPs revealed that the 145 upregulated secreted proteins by oleate treatment were mainly associated with cell proliferation-related processes, such as lipid metabolism, inflammatory response, and ER stress. Based on the network models of the DSPs, we selected six DSPs (MIF, THBS1, PDIA3, APOA1, FASN, and EEF2) that can represent such processes related to cell proliferation. Thus, our results provided a secretome profile indicative of an oleate-induced proliferation of HepG2 cells.
PXD009923	30076308	A widespread alternate form of cap-dependent mRNA translation initiation. 	DAP5 directs a widespread alternate form of cap-dependent mRNA translation initiation using eIF3d for specialized cell functions	affinity purification mass spectrometry	Translation initiation of most mammalian mRNAs is mediated by a 5' cap structure that binds eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E). However, inactivation of eIF4E does not impair translation of many capped mRNAs, suggesting an unknown alternate mechanism may exist for cap-dependent but eIF4E-independent translation. We show that DAP5, an eIF4GI homolog that lacks eIF4E binding, utilizes eIF3d to facilitate cap-dependent translation of approximately 20% of mRNAs. Genome-wide transcriptomic and translatomic analyses indicate that DAP5 is required for translation of many transcription factors and receptor capped mRNAs and their mRNA targets involved in cell survival, motility, DNA repair and translation initiation, among other mRNAs. Mass spectrometry and crosslinking studies demonstrate that eIF3d is a direct binding partner of DAP5. In vitro translation and ribosome complex studies demonstrate that DAP5 and eIF3d are both essential for eIF4E-independent capped-mRNA translation. These studies disclose a widespread and previously unknown mechanism for cap-dependent mRNA translation by DAP5-eIF3d complexes.
PXD009661	30078680	Quantitative phosphoproteomics reveals GTBP-1 regulating C.elegans lifespan at different environmental temperatures. 	Quantitative temporal phosphoproteomics of aging C.elegans under different environmental temperatures	C.elegans, accelerated aging, iTRAQ, natural aging, phosphoproteomics	Temperature is one of the primary environmental factors that affect aging, in which protein phosphorylation is an important regulator. Currently, the understanding of phosphorylation events in regulatory networks during aging has remained rather limited. Herein, the phosphoproteomes of C.elegans of different age groups cultured at 20 degreesC (natural aging) and 25 degreesC (accelerated aging) were analyzed. Through using the iTRAQ-labeled phosphoproteomics method, 2375 phosphoproteins and 9063 phosphosites were identified. Volcano plots illustrated that 208 proteins during natural aging and 130 proteins during accelerated aging, were significantly changed. Gene ontology and pathway analysis revealed that these proteins were mainly involved in translation, development, metabolisms, and animal behavior processes. Moreover, our results uncovered those kinases CK2, MAPK and CAMK2 might play important roles in aging regulation. Functional experiments confirm that the candidated phosphoprotein GTBP-1 could regulate C.elegans lifespan at 20 degreesC or 25 degreesC and is more resistant to heat and oxidative stresses. In summary, our results provided an important resource for future studies of protein phosphorylation in worms. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009661.
PXD008814	30079056	A Novel Iron Transporter SPD_1590 in Streptococcus pneumoniae Contributing to Bacterial Virulence Properties. 	SPD1590_iTRAQ -  A Novel Iron Transporter SPD_1590 in Streptococcus pneumoniae Contributing to Bacterial Virulence Properties	Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, Streptococcus pneumoniae D39, iTRAQ labeling	Streptococcus pneumoniae, a Gram-positive human pathogen, has evolved three main transporters for iron acquisition from the host: PiaABC, PiuABC, and PitABC. Our previous study had shown that the mRNA and protein levels of SPD_1590 are significantly upregulated in the DeltapiuA/DeltapiaA/DeltapitA triple mutant, suggesting that SPD_1590 might be a novel iron transporter in S. pneumoniae. In the present study, using spd1590-knockout, -complemented, and -overexpressing strains and the purified SPD_1590 protein, we show that SPD_1590 can bind hemin, probably supplementing the function of PiuABC, to provide the iron necessary for the bacterium. Furthermore, the results of iTRAQ quantitative proteomics and cell-infection studies demonstrate that, similarly to other metal-ion uptake proteins, SPD_1590 is important for bacterial virulence properties. Overall, these results provide a better understanding of the biology of this clinically important bacterium.
PXD009437	30079738	Transcriptional and Proteomic Analysis Revealed a Synergistic Effect of Aflatoxin M1 and Ochratoxin A Mycotoxins on the Intestinal Epithelial Integrity of Differentiated Human Caco-2 Cells. 	Human intestine LC-MSMS -  Transcriptional and proteomic analysis revealed a synergistic effect of aflatoxin M1 and ochratoxin A mycotoxins on intestinal epithelial integrity of differentiated human Caco-2 cells	intestinal epithelial cells	Aflatoxin M1 (AFM1) is a common mycotoxin in dairy milk, and it is typically concurrently present with other mycotoxins that may represent a threat to food safety. However, knowledge of how AFM1, alone or in combination with other mycotoxins, may affect human intestinal epithelial integrity remain to be established. We employed transcriptome and proteome analysis integrated with biological validation to reveal the molecular basis underlining the effect of exposure to AFM1, ochratoxin A (OTA), or both on the intestinal epithelial integrity of differentiated Caco-2 cells. Exposure to 4 mug/mL of OTA was found to disrupt human gut epithelial integrity, whereas 4 mug/mL of AFM1 did not. The integrated transcriptome and proteome analysis of AFM1 and OTA, alone or in combination, indicate the synergistic effect of the two mycotoxins in disrupting intestinal integrity. This effect was mechanistically linked to a broad range of pathways related to intestinal integrity enriched by down-regulated genes and proteins, associated with focal adhesion, adheren junction, and gap junction pathways. Furthermore, the cross-omics analysis of mixed AFM1 and OTA compared to OTA alone suggest that kinase family members, including myosin light-chain kinase, mitogen-activated protein kinases, and protein kinase C, are the potential key regulators in modulating intestinal epithelial integrity. These findings provide novel insight into the synergistic detrimental role of multiple mycotoxins in disrupting intestinal integrity and, therefore, identify potential targets to improve milk safety related to human health.
PXD010480	30080416	Highly Efficient Phosphoproteome Capture and Analysis from Urinary Extracellular Vesicles. 	Urine EV Phosphoproteomics -  Highly Efficient Phosphoproteome Capture and Analysis from Urinary Extracellular Vesicles	EVs, EVtrap, exosomes, phosphoproteomics, urine	Analysis of protein phosphorylation in extracellular vesicles (EVs) offers an unprecedented potential for understanding cancer signaling and early stage disease diagnosis. However, prior to the phosphoproteome analysis step, the isolation of EVs from biofluids remains a challenging issue to overcome due to the low yield and impurity from current isolation methods. Here, we carry out an extensive assessment of several EV isolation methods including a novel rapid isolation method EVTRAP for highly efficient capture of extracellular vesicles from human urine sample. We demonstrate that over 95% recovery yield can be consistently achieved by EVTRAP, a significant improvement over current standard techniques. We then applied EVTRAP to identify over 16 000 unique peptides representing 2000 unique EV proteins from 200 muL urine sample, including all known EV markers with substantially increased recovery levels over ultracentrifugation. Most importantly, close to 2000 unique phosphopeptides were identified from more than 860 unique phosphoproteins using 10 mL of urine. The data demonstrated that EVTRAP is a highly effective and potentially widely implementable clinical isolation method for analysis of EV protein phosphorylation.
PXD008154	30082485	Temporal Proteomic Analysis of Pancreatic beta-Cells in Response to Lipotoxicity and Glucolipotoxicity. 	Proteomic profiles of INS1 cells	INS1 lipotoxicity glucolipotoxicity	Chronic hyperlipidemia causes the dysfunction of pancreatic beta-cells, such as apoptosis and impaired insulin secretion, which are aggravated in the presence of hyperglycemia. The underlying mechanisms, such as endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, oxidative stress and metabolic disorders, have been reported before; however, the time sequence of these molecular events is not fully understood. Here, using isobaric labeling-based mass spectrometry, we investigated the dynamic proteomes of INS-1 cells exposed to high palmitate in the absence and presence of high glucose. Using bioinformatics analysis of differentially expressed proteins, including the time-course expression pattern, protein-protein interaction, gene set enrichment and KEGG pathway analysis, we analyzed the dynamic features of previously reported and newly identified lipotoxicity- and glucolipotoxicity-related molecular events in more detail. Our temporal data highlight cholesterol metabolism occurring at 4 h, earlier than fatty acid metabolism that started at 8 h and likely acting as an early toxic event highly associated with ER stress induced by palmitate. Interestingly, we found that the proliferation of INS-1 cells was significantly increased at 48 h by combined treatment of palmitate and glucose. Moreover, benefit from the time-course quantitative data, we identified and validated two new molecular targets: Setd8 for cell replication and Rhob for apoptosis, demonstrating that our temporal dataset serves as a valuable resource to identify potential candidates for mechanistic studies of lipotoxicity and glucolipotoxicity in pancreatic beta-cells.
PXD009819	30082728	TRPS1 shapes YAP/TEAD-dependent transcription in breast cancer cells. 	TRPS1 shapes YAP/TEAD-dependent transcription in breast cancer cells	Breast Cancer, Hippo, TAZ, TEAD, TRPS1, YAP	Yes-associated protein (YAP), the downstream transducer of the Hippo pathway, is a key regulator of organ size, differentiation and tumorigenesis. To uncover Hippo-independent YAP regulators, we performed a genome-wide CRISPR screen that identifies the transcriptional repressor protein Trichorhinophalangeal Syndrome 1 (TRPS1) as a potent repressor of YAP-dependent transactivation. We show that TRPS1 globally regulates YAP-dependent transcription by binding to a large set of joint genomic sites, mainly enhancers. TRPS1 represses YAP-dependent function by recruiting a spectrum of corepressor complexes to joint sites. Loss of TRPS1 leads to activation of enhancers due to increased H3K27 acetylation and an altered promoter-enhancer interaction landscape. TRPS1 is commonly amplified in breast cancer, which suggests that restrained YAP activity favours tumour growth. High TRPS1 activity is associated with decreased YAP activity and leads to decreased frequency of tumour-infiltrating immune cells. Our study uncovers TRPS1 as an epigenetic regulator of YAP activity in breast cancer.
PXD009794	30082787	EBS is a bivalent histone reader that regulates floral phase transition in Arabidopsis. 	EBS is a bivalent histone reader that regulates floral phase transition in Arabidopsis	chromatin, histone	The ability of cells to perceive and translate versatile cues into differential chromatin and transcriptional states is critical for many biological processes(1-5). In plants, timely transition to a flowering state is crucial for successful reproduction(6-9). EARLY BOLTING IN SHORT DAY (EBS) is a negative transcriptional regulator that prevents premature flowering in Arabidopsis thaliana(10,11). We found that EBS contains bivalent bromo-adjacent homology (BAH)-plant homeodomain (PHD) reader modules that bind H3K27me3 and H3K4me3, respectively. We observed co-enrichment of a subset of EBS-associated genes with H3K4me3, H3K27me3, and Polycomb repressor complex 2 (PRC2). Notably, EBS adopted an autoinhibition mode to mediate its switch in binding preference between H3K27me3 and H3K4me3. This binding balance was critical because disruption of either EBS-H3K27me3 or EBS-H3K4me3 interaction induced early floral transition. Our results identify a bivalent chromatin reader capable of recognizing two antagonistic histone marks, and we propose a distinct mechanism of interaction between active and repressive chromatin states.
PXD007753	30082797	The identification of carbon dioxide mediated protein post-translational modifications. 	Trapping carbon dioxide on Arabidopsis proteome	carbamate, carbon dioxide, trapping	Carbon dioxide is vital to the chemistry of life processes including metabolism, cellular homoeostasis, and pathogenesis. CO2 is generally unreactive but can combine with neutral amines to form carbamates on proteins under physiological conditions. The most widely known examples of this are CO2 regulation of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase and haemoglobin. However, the systematic identification of CO2-binding sites on proteins formed through carbamylation has not been possible due to the ready reversibility of carbamate formation. Here we demonstrate a methodology to identify protein carbamates using triethyloxonium tetrafluoroborate to covalently trap CO2, allowing for downstream proteomic analysis. This report describes the systematic identification of carbamates in a physiologically relevant environment. We demonstrate the identification of carbamylated proteins and the general principle that CO2 can impact protein biochemistry through carbamate formation. The ability to identify protein carbamates will significantly advance our understanding of cellular CO2 interactions.
PXD008161	30084631	Development of in Planta Chemical Cross-Linking-Based Quantitative Interactomics in Arabidopsis. 	Development of in planta chemical cross-linking-based quantitative interactomics in Arabidopsis	4C proteomic workflow, ECL2, IPQCX-MS, in planta quantitative interactomics, in vivo cross-linking	An in planta chemical cross-linking-based quantitative interactomics (IPQCX-MS) workflow has been developed to investigate in vivo protein-protein interactions and alteration in protein structures in a model organism, Arabidopsis thaliana. A chemical cross-linker, azide-tag-modified disuccinimidyl pimelate (AMDSP), was directly applied onto Arabidopsis tissues. Peptides produced from protein fractions of CsCl density gradient centrifugation were dimethyl-labeled, from which the AMDSP cross-linked peptides were fractionated on chromatography, enriched, and analyzed by mass spectrometry. ECL2 and SQUA-D software were used to identify and quantitate these cross-linked peptides, respectively. These computer programs integrate peptide identification with quantitation and statistical evaluation. This workflow eventually identified 354 unique cross-linked peptides, including 61 and 293 inter- and intraprotein cross-linked peptides, respectively, demonstrating that it is able to in vivo identify hundreds of cross-linked peptides at an organismal level by overcoming the difficulties caused by multiple cellular structures and complex secondary metabolites of plants. Coimmunoprecipitation and super-resolution microscopy studies have confirmed the PHB3-PHB6 protein interaction found by IPQCX-MS. The quantitative interactomics also found hormone-induced structural changes of SBPase and other proteins. This mass-spectrometry-based interactomics will be useful in the study of in vivo protein-protein interaction networks in agricultural crops and plant-microbe interactions.
PXD008733	30084848	A tissue-based draft map of the murine MHC class I immunopeptidome. 	A tissue-based draft map of the murine MHC class I immunopeptidome	Human Proteome Project, MHC, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), immunopeptidome, map, tissue	The large array of peptides presented to CD8+ T cells by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules is referred to as the MHC class I immunopeptidome. Although the MHC class I immunopeptidome is ubiquitous in mammals and represents a critical component of the immune system, very little is known, in any species, about its composition across most tissues and organs in vivo. We applied mass spectrometry (MS) technologies to draft the first tissue-based atlas of the murine MHC class I immunopeptidome in health. Peptides were extracted from 19 normal tissues from C57BL/6 mice and prepared for MS injections, resulting in a total number of 28,448 high-confidence H2D(b)/K(b)-associated peptides identified and annotated in the atlas. This atlas provides initial qualitative data to explore the tissue-specificity of the immunopeptidome and serves as a guide to identify potential tumor-associated antigens from various cancer models. Our data were shared via PRIDE (PXD008733), SysteMHC Atlas (SYSMHC00018) and SWATH Atlas. We anticipate that this unique dataset will be expanded in the future and will find wide applications in basic and translational immunology.
PXD008322	30086300	Tdrd6a Regulates the Aggregation of Buc into Functional Subcellular Compartments that Drive Germ Cell Specification. 	Tdrd6a regulates the aggregation of Buc into functional subcellular compartments that drive germ cell specification	immunoprecipitation, peptide pulldown	Phase separation represents an important form of subcellular compartmentalization. However, relatively little is known about how the formation or disassembly of such compartments is regulated. In zebrafish, the Balbiani body (Bb) and the germ plasm (Gp) are intimately linked phase-separated structures essential for germ cell specification and home to many germ cell-specific mRNAs and proteins. Throughout development, these structures occur as a single large aggregate (Bb), which disperses throughout oogenesis and upon fertilization accumulates again into relatively large assemblies (Gp). Formation of the Bb requires Bucky ball (Buc), a protein with prion-like properties. We found that the multi-tudor domain-containing protein Tdrd6a interacts with Buc, affecting its mobility and aggregation properties. Importantly, lack of this regulatory interaction leads to significant defects in germ cell development. Our work presents insights into how prion-like protein aggregations can be regulated and highlights the biological relevance of such regulatory events.
PXD009665	30086358	Venom-gland transcriptomics and venom proteomics of the giant Florida blue centipede, Scolopendra viridis. 	Scolopendra viridis venom MS -  Venom-gland transcriptomics and venom proteomics of the giant Florida blue centipede, Scolopendra viridis	Centipede, venom	The limited number of centipede venom characterizations have revealed a rich diversity of toxins, and recent work has suggested centipede toxins may be more rapidly diversifying than previously considered. Additionally, many identified challenges in venomics research, including assembly and annotation methods, toxin quantification, and the ability to provide biological or technical replicates, have yet to be addressed in centipede venom characterizations. We performed high-throughput, quantifiable transcriptomic and proteomic methods on two individual Scolopendra viridis centipedes from North Florida. We identified 39 toxins that were proteomically confirmed, and 481 nontoxins that were expressed in the venom gland of S. viridis. The most abundant toxins expressed in the venom of S. viridis belonged to calcium and potassium ion-channel toxins, venom allergens, metalloproteases, and beta-pore forming toxins. We compared our results to the previously characterized S. viridis from Morelos, Mexico, and found only five proteomically confirmed toxins in common to both localities, suggesting either extreme toxin divergence within S. viridis, or that these populations may represent entirely different species. By using multiple assembly and annotation methods, we generated a comprehensive and quantitative reference transcriptome and proteome of a Scolopendromorpha centipede species, while overcoming some of the challenges present in venomics research.
PXD009440	30086402	Top-down proteomic profiling of human saliva in multiple sclerosis patients. 	Human Salivary Prolactine Inducible Protein (PIP)	LTQ Orbitrap, saliva	Multiple sclerosis is a chronic disease of the central nervous system characterized by inflammation, demyelination and neurodegeneration which is of undetermined origin. To date a single diagnostic test of multiple sclerosis does not exists and novel biomarkers are demanded for a more accurate and early diagnosis. In this study, we performed the quantitative analysis of 119 salivary peptides/proteins from 49 multiple sclerosis patients and 54 healthy controls by a mass spectrometry-based top-down proteomic approach. Statistical analysis evidenced different levels on 23 proteins: 8 proteins showed lower levels in multiple sclerosis patients with respect to controls and they were mono- and di-oxidized cystatin SN, mono- and di-oxidized cystatin S1, mono-oxidized cystatin SA and mono-phosphorylated statherin. 15 proteins showed higher levels in multiple sclerosis patients with respect to controls and they were antileukoproteinase, two proteoforms of Prolactin-Inducible Protein, P-C peptide (Fr.1-14, Fr. 26-44, and Fr. 36-44), SV1 fragment of statherin, cystatin SN Des1-4, cystatin SN P11 --> L variant, and cystatin A T96 --> M variant. The differences observed between the salivary proteomic profile of patients suffering from multiple sclerosis and healthy subjects is consistent with the inflammatory condition and altered immune response typical of the pathology. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009440. SIGNIFICANCE: To date a single diagnostic test of multiple sclerosis does not exist, and diagnosis is based on multiple tests which mainly include the analysis of cerebrospinal fluid. However, the need for lumbar puncture makes the analysis of cerebrospinal fluid impractical for monitoring disease activity and response to treatment. The possible use of saliva as a diagnostic fluid for oral and systemic diseases has been largely investigated, but only marginally in multiple sclerosis compared to other body fluids. Our study demonstrates that the salivary proteome of multiple sclerosis patients differs considerably compared to that of sex and age matched healthy individuals and suggests that some differences might be associated with the different disease-modifying therapy used to treat multiple sclerosis patients.
PXD009769	30087110	RNA editing of Filamin A pre-mRNA regulates vascular contraction and diastolic blood pressure. 	Protein interactome changes as a result of single FilaminA RNA editing.	FLNA, cytoskeleton, smooth muscle	Epitranscriptomic events such as adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) RNA editing by ADAR can recode mRNAs to translate novel proteins. Editing of the mRNA that encodes actin crosslinking protein Filamin A (FLNA) mediates a Q-to-R transition in the interactive C-terminal region. While FLNA editing is conserved among vertebrates, its physiological function remains unclear. Here, we show that cardiovascular tissues in humans and mice show massive editing and that FLNA RNA is the most prominent substrate. Patient-derived RNA-Seq data demonstrate a significant drop in FLNA editing associated with cardiovascular diseases. Using mice with only impaired FLNA editing, we observed increased vascular contraction and diastolic hypertension accompanied by increased myosin light chain phosphorylation, arterial remodeling, and left ventricular wall thickening, which eventually causes cardiac remodeling and reduced systolic output. These results demonstrate a causal relationship between RNA editing and the development of cardiovascular disease indicating that a single epitranscriptomic RNA modification can maintain cardiovascular health.
PXD009248	30087207	PUX10 Is a Lipid Droplet-Localized Scaffold Protein That Interacts with CELL DIVISION CYCLE48 and Is Involved in the Degradation of Lipid Droplet Proteins. 	Proteome of Arabidopsis thaliana pux10-1 mutant lipid droplets	PUX10, lipid droplets, seedling	The number of known proteins associated with plant lipid droplets (LDs) is small compared with other organelles. Many aspects of LD biosynthesis and degradation are unknown, and identifying and characterizing candidate LD proteins could help elucidate these processes. Here, we analyzed the proteome of LD-enriched fractions isolated from tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) pollen tubes. Proteins that were highly enriched in comparison with the total or cytosolic fraction were further tested for LD localization via transient expression in pollen tubes. One of these proteins, PLANT UBX DOMAIN-CONTAINING PROTEIN10 (PUX10), is a member of the plant UBX domain-containing (PUX) protein family. This protein localizes to LDs via a unique hydrophobic polypeptide sequence and can recruit the AAA-type ATPase CELL DIVISION CYCLE48 (CDC48) protein via its UBX domain. PUX10 is conserved in Arabidopsis thaliana and expressed in embryos, pollen tubes, and seedlings. In pux10 knockout mutants in Arabidopsis, LD size is significantly increased. Proteomic analysis of pux10 mutants revealed a delayed degradation of known LD proteins, some of which possessed ubiquitination sites. We propose that PUX10 is involved in a protein degradation pathway at LDs, mediating an interaction between polyubiquitinated proteins targeted for degradation and downstream effectors such as CDC48.
PXD009300	30087584	Proteomic distinction of renal oncocytomas and chromophobe renal cell carcinomas. 	Proteomic Distinction of Renal Oncocytomas and Eosinophilic Chromophobe Renal Cell Carcinomas	paraffin embedment proteomics immunohistochemistry, renal cell tumors formalin-fixation	BACKGROUND: Renal oncocytomas (ROs) are benign epithelial tumors of the kidney whereas chromophobe renal cell carcinoma (chRCCs) are malignant renal tumors. The latter constitute 5-7% of renal neoplasias. ROs and chRCCs show pronounced molecular and histological similarities, which renders their differentiation demanding. We aimed for the differential proteome profiling of ROs and early-stage chRCCs in order to better understand distinguishing protein patterns. METHODS: We employed formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded samples (six RO cases, six chRCC cases) together with isotopic triplex dimethylation and a pooled reference standard to enable cohort-wide quantitative comparison. For lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP1) and integrin alpha-V (ITGAV) we performed corroborative immunohistochemistry (IHC) in an extended cohort of 42 RO cases and 31 chRCC cases. RESULTS: At 1% false discovery rate, we identified > 3900 proteins, of which > 2400 proteins were consistently quantified in at least four RO and four chRCC cases. The proteomic expression profiling discriminated ROs and chRCCs and highlighted established features such as accumulation of mitochondrial proteins in ROs together with emphasizing the accumulation of endo-lysosomal proteins in chRCCs. In line with the proteomic data, IHC showed enrichment of LAMP1 in chRCC and of ITGAV in RO. CONCLUSION: We present one of the first differential proteome profiling studies on ROs and chRCCs and highlight differential abundance of LAMP1 and ITGAV in these renal tumors.
PXD009481	30089874	Biochemical analyses reveal amino acid residues critical for cell cycle-dependent phosphorylation of human Cdc14A phosphatase by cyclin-dependent kinase 1. 	Human Cdc14A is phosphorylated by Cdk1 at early mitosis	Cdc14., Cell cycle, Cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK), Molecular biology, Phosphatase, Phosphorylation	Cdc14 enzymes compose a family of highly conserved phosphatases that are present in a wide range of organisms, including yeast and humans, and that preferentially reverse the phosphorylation of Cyclin-Dependent Kinase (Cdk) substrates. The budding yeast Cdc14 orthologue has essential functions in the control of late mitosis and cytokinesis. In mammals, however, the two Cdc14 homologues, Cdc14A and Cdc14B, do not play a prominent role in controlling late mitotic events, suggesting that some Cdc14 functions are not conserved across species. Moreover, in yeast, Cdc14 is regulated by changes in its subcellular location and by phosphorylation events. In contrast, little is known about the regulation of human Cdc14 phosphatases. Here, we have studied how the human Cdc14A orthologue is regulated during the cell cycle. We found that Cdc14A is phosphorylated on Ser411, Ser453 and Ser549 by Cdk1 early in mitosis and becomes dephosphorylated during late mitotic stages. Interestingly, in vivo and in vitro experiments revealed that, unlike in yeast, Cdk1-mediated phosphorylation of human Cdc14A did not control its catalytic activity but likely modulated its interaction with other proteins in early mitosis. These findings point to differences in Cdk1-mediated mechanisms of regulation between human and yeast Cdc14 orthologues.
PXD003587	30090399	Acetaminophen-induced S-nitrosylation and S-sulfenylation signalling in 3D cultured hepatocarcinoma cell spheroids. 	Acetaminophen-induced S-nitrosylation and S-sulfenylation signalling in 3D cultured hepatocarcinoma cell spheroids.	3D cell culture, APAP, HepG2/C3A, S-nitrosylation, S-sulfenylation, quantitative redox proteomics, toxicology	Acetaminophen (APAP) is possibly the most widely used medication globally and yet little is known of its molecular effects at therapeutic doses. Using a novel approach, we have analysed the redox proteome of the hepatocellular cell line HepG2/C3A treated with therapeutic doses of APAP and quantitated both individual protein abundance and their reversible S-nitrosylation (SNO) and S-sulfenylation (SOH) modifications by mass spectrometry. APAP treatment results in a late, transient increase in ATP production and a multiplicity of alterations in protein abundance and modifications. The majority of the differentially SNO or SOH modified proteins are found in the endoplasmic reticulum and cytosol, suggesting that the source of reactive species is there. The cellular response indicates: constraint of fatty acid metabolism; reduction in ribosome construction and protein synthesis (to conserve ATP); maintenance of glutathione levels (by increased synthetic capacity); and an increased NADPH production (via the pentose phosphate pathway). This response appears to be coordinated, directly or indirectly, by the canonical Wnt and Nrf2 signalling pathways. Combined with the known role of NAPQI, these studies suggest that the physiological and toxicological responses form a continuum: therapeutic doses of APAP produce reactive species and NAPQI in the cytoplasm but result in little permanent damage. The cell mounts a multifaceted response which minimises disruption and repairs are effected within a day or two. Higher doses of APAP lead to intensified reactive species production, which increasingly disturbs mitochondrial function and eventually leads to cell death.
PXD003497	30090875	Multi-region proteome analysis quantifies spatial heterogeneity of prostate tissue biomarkers. 	Quantification of Proteome heterogeneity in benign and malignant prostate tissues	PCT-SWATH, intra-tumor heterogeneity, prostate cancer	It remains unclear to what extent tumor heterogeneity impacts on protein biomarker discovery. Here, we quantified proteome intra-tissue heterogeneity (ITH) based on a multi-region analysis of prostate tissues using pressure cycling technology and SWATH mass spectrometry. We quantified 6,873 proteins and analyzed the ITH of 3,700 proteins. The level of ITH varied depending on proteins and tissue types. Benign tissues exhibited more complex ITH patterns than malignant tissues. Spatial variability of ten prostate biomarkers was validated by immunohistochemistry in an independent cohort (n=83) using tissue microarrays. PSA was preferentially variable in benign prostatic hyperplasia, while GDF15 substantially varied in prostate adenocarcinomas. Further, we found that DNA repair pathways exhibited a high degree of variability in tumorous tissues, which may contribute to the genetic heterogeneity of tumors. This study conceptually adds a new perspective to protein biomarker discovery: it suggests that recent technological progress should be exploited to quantify and account for spatial proteome variation to complement biomarker identification and utilization.
PXD010230	30092220	Cerebrospinal fluid from Alzheimer patients affects cell-mediated nerve growth factor production and cell survival in vitro. 	Human Cerebrospinal fluid mass-spec	alzheimers, csf, mass-spec	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by early degeneration of cholinergic neurons and decreased levels of nerve growth factor (NGF). Thus, increasing the NGF levels by for instance encapsulated cell bio-delivery (ECB) is a potential treatment strategy. The results from our previous first-in-human studies on ECB of NGF to the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons were promising, but indicated some variability of long-term viability of the encapsulated cells and associated reduced NGF-release. Here we studied the effect of amyloid beta-peptides (Abeta), interleukin 1-beta (IL-1beta), and CSF from AD, Lewy body dementia (LBD) or subjective cognitive impairment (SCI) patients on the NGF overproducing cell line NGC-0295. At physiological concentrations, neither Abeta40 nor Abeta42 had any major impact on cell viability or NGF-production. In contrast, IL-1beta dose-dependently affected NGF-production over time. Exposure of NGF-producing cells to CSF from AD patients showed significantly reduced NGF-release as compared to CSF from LBD or SCI patients. By mass spectrometry we found 3 proteins involved in inflammatory pathways to have an altered expression in AD CSF compared to LBD and SCI. Cell survival and NGF-release were not affected by Abeta. NGF-release was affected by IL-1beta, suggesting that inflammation has a negative effect on ECB cells.
PXD008338	30092248	N-terminal phosphorylation of glutaminase C decreases its enzymatic activity and cancer cell migration. 	Glutaminase C N-terminus phosphorylation decreases its enzymatic activity	Breast Cancer, Glutaminase, MAPK1, Metabolism, Phosphorylation	The mitochondrial phosphate-activated glutaminase C (GAC) is produced by the alternative splicing of the GLS gene. Compared to the other GLS isoform, the kidney-type glutaminase (KGA), GAC is more enzymatically efficient and of particular importance for cancer cell growth. Although its catalytic mechanism is well understood, little is known about how post-translational modifications can impact GAC function. Here, we identified by mass spectrometry a phosphorylated serine at the GLS N-terminal domain (at position 95) and investigated its role on regulating GAC activity. The ectopic expression of the phosphomimetic mutant (GAC.S95D) in breast cancer cells, compared to wild-type GAC (GAC.WT), led to decreased glutaminase activity, glutamine uptake, glutamate release and intracellular glutamate levels, without changing GAC sub-cellular localization. Interestingly, cells expressing the GAC.S95D mutant, compared to GAC.WT, presented decreased migration and vimentin level, an epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition marker. These results reveal that GAC is post-translationally regulated by phosphorylation, which affects cellular glutamine metabolism and glutaminase-related cell phenotype.
PXD011413	30093420	gpGrouper: A Peptide Grouping Algorithm for Gene-Centric Inference and Quantitation of Bottom-Up Proteomics Data. 	Mir-146a wild-type 3 sequence identity is dispensable for proper innate immune function in vivo	Mir-146a, miRNA	In quantitative mass spectrometry, the method by which peptides are grouped into proteins can have dramatic effects on downstream analyses. Here we describe gpGrouper, an inference and quantitation algorithm that offers an alternative method for assignment of protein groups by gene locus and improves pseudo-absolute iBAQ quantitation by weighted distribution of shared peptide areas. We experimentally show that distributing shared peptide quantities based on unique peptide peak ratios improves quantitation accuracy compared with conventional winner-take-all scenarios. Furthermore, gpGrouper seamlessly handles two-species samples such as patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) without ignoring the host species or species-shared peptides. This is a critical capability for proper evaluation of proteomics data from PDX samples, where stromal infiltration varies across individual tumors. Finally, gpGrouper calculates peptide peak area (MS1) based expression estimates from multiplexed isobaric data, producing iBAQ results that are directly comparable across label-free, isotopic, and isobaric proteomics approaches.
PXD010224	30093655	Arsenic targets Pin1 and cooperates with retinoic acid to inhibit cancer-driving pathways and tumor-initiating cells. 	Arsenic targets Pin1 and cooperates with retinoic acid to inhibit cancer-driving pathways and tumor-initiating cells	ATO, ATRA, Pin1, Synergy	Arsenic trioxide (ATO) and all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) combination safely cures fatal acute promyelocytic leukemia, but their mechanisms of action and efficacy are not fully understood. ATRA inhibits leukemia, breast, and liver cancer by targeting isomerase Pin1, a master regulator of oncogenic signaling networks. Here we show that ATO targets Pin1 and cooperates with ATRA to exert potent anticancer activity. ATO inhibits and degrades Pin1, and suppresses its oncogenic function by noncovalent binding to Pin1's active site. ATRA increases cellular ATO uptake through upregulating aquaporin-9. ATO and ATRA, at clinically safe doses, cooperatively ablate Pin1 to block numerous cancer-driving pathways and inhibit the growth of triple-negative breast cancer cells and tumor-initiating cells in cell and animal models including patient-derived orthotopic xenografts, like Pin1 knockout, which is substantiated by comprehensive protein and microRNA analyses. Thus, synergistic targeting of Pin1 by ATO and ATRA offers an attractive approach to combating breast and other cancers.
PXD008473	30094954	Proteome Profiles of Head Kidney and Spleen of Rainbow Trout (Oncorhynchus Mykiss). 	Shotgun proteomic profiling of head kidney of rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss	Head kidney, LC MS-MS, Proteome profile, Rainbow trout	The head kidney and spleen are major lymphoid organs of the teleost fish. The authors identify proteome profiles of head kidney and spleen of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) using a shotgun proteomic approach. Gene ontology annotation of proteins is predicted using bioinformatic tools. This study represents detailed proteome profiles of head kidney and spleen of rainbow trout, with a total of 3241 and 2542 proteins identified, respectively. It is found that lymphoid organs are equipped with a variety of functional proteins related to defense, receptor, signal transduction, antioxidant, cytoskeleton, transport, binding, and metabolic processes. The identified proteome profiles will serve as a template for understanding lymphoid organ functions in salmonids and will increase the amount of spectra information of rainbow trout proteins in the public data repository PRIDE. This data can be accessed via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD008473 and PXD008478.
PXD010647	30095222	The Proteome of Enchytraeus crypticus-Exposure to CuO Nanomaterial and CuCl2 -in Pursue of a Mechanistic Interpretation. 	The Proteome of Enchytraeus crypticus - Exposure to CuO Nanomaterial and CuCl2	enchytraeids, metallic oxide nanomaterials, protein profiling, tandem mass tags	The transcriptome of the ecotoxicological model Enchytraeus crypticus (known as potworm) is well studied, but the downstream changes at the protein level remained a gap. Changes in the protein regulation following exposure to CuO nanomaterial (NM) and Cu salt (CuCl2 ) are investigated. HPLC-MS/MS using tandem mass tags is used. CuO NM elicits higher number of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) compared to CuCl2 with little to no overlap of proteins. CuO NM causes more stress response mechanisms, with good agreement between DEPs, genes, and metabolites. CuCl2 causes higher impact in shorter time periods, but organisms have conserved mechanisms (constitutive genes) that allow Cu handling and detoxification. CuO NM causes higher impact after a longer exposure period, inducing regulation of facultative genes with a whole differentiated paradigm and cascade. This could be due to different issues: 1) the cell uptake route is different for Cu NM and Cu ions, 2) internalized Cu NM can result in a "Trojan-horse" effect, 3) the cascade of events occurs in a different time order, and 4) the organism uptake is different between life stages, i.e., cocoons thickened surface protects the entry of NM and juveniles have facilitated entry via tegument. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010647.
PXD009110	30095923	SIRT3 Overexpression Inhibits Growth of Kidney Tumor Cells and Enhances Mitochondrial Biogenesis. 	SIRT3 Deacetylates TFAM to Promote Mitochondrial Biogenesis	SIRT3, TFAM acetylation, clear cell renal cancer, mitochondrial biogenesis	SIRT3 is a NAD(+)-dependent mitochondrial protein deacetylase implicated in the regulation of central metabolism and mitochondrial proteostasis. SIRT3 is downregulated in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), which is the most common form of renal cancer. Although ccRCC is characterized by a typical Warburg-like phenotype, mitochondrial dysfunction and elevated fat deposition, it is unknown whether SIRT3 plays a role in tumorigenesis and the development of this disease. In the present study, we found that SIRT3 overexpression and knockdown had opposing effects on the growth of ccRCC cells, decreasing and increasing the rate of cell proliferation, respectively. SIRT3 overexpression also increased mitochondrial mass in ccRCC cells. Unexpectedly, SIRT3 overexpression increased ROS levels, and sensitized cells to oxidative stress. Metabolomics and quantitative proteomics showed that SIRT3 overexpression alterd cellular metabolism and reversed the Warburg effect in ccRCC cells. Further studies demonstrated that SIRT3 promoted mitochondrial biogenesis by increasing both the expression and deacetylation of TFAM (transcription factor A, mitochondrial). Mutagenesis experiments revealed that acetylation of TFAM at K154 impaired TFAM interaction with mitochondrial DNA, thereby decreasing the activity of the protein and, consequently, mitochondrial biogenesis. Overall, our results suggest that SIRT3 regulates mitochondrial biogenesis and that its downregulation promotes a Warburg phenotype in ccRCC.
PXD007705	30097507	Comparative proteomics reveals a diagnostic signature for pulmonary head-and-neck cancer metastasis. 	Comparative proteomics reveals a diagnostic signature for pulmonary head-and-neck cancer metastasis.	diagnostic Biomarker, head and neck cancer, human tissue proteomics, lung cancer, metastasis, squamous cell carcinoma	Patients with head-and-neck cancer can develop both lung metastasis and primary lung cancer during the course of their disease. Despite the clinical importance of discrimination, reliable diagnostic biomarkers are still lacking. Here, we have characterised a cohort of squamous cell lung (SQCLC) and head-and-neck (HNSCC) carcinomas by quantitative proteomics. In a training cohort, we quantified 4,957 proteins in 44 SQCLC and 30 HNSCC tumours. A total of 518 proteins were found to be differentially expressed between SQCLC and HNSCC, and some of these were identified as genetic dependencies in either of the two tumour types. Using supervised machine learning, we inferred a proteomic signature for the classification of squamous cell carcinomas as either SQCLC or HNSCC, with diagnostic accuracies of 90.5% and 86.8% in cross- and independent validations, respectively. Furthermore, application of this signature to a cohort of pulmonary squamous cell carcinomas of unknown origin leads to a significant prognostic separation. This study not only provides a diagnostic proteomic signature for classification of secondary lung tumours in HNSCC patients, but also represents a proteomic resource for HNSCC and SQCLC.
PXD007896	30097535	Comprehensive Proteomics Identification of IFN-lambda3-regulated Antiviral Proteins in HBV-transfected Cells. 	Comprehensive proteomics identification of IFN-3-regulated anti-viral proteins in HBV-transfected cells	Dimethyl labeling, Hepatitis B Virus, IFN-3	Interferon lambda (IFN-lambda) is a relatively unexplored, yet promising antiviral agent. IFN-lambda has recently been tested in clinical trials of chronic hepatitis B virus infection (CHB), with the advantage that side effects may be limited compared with IFN-alpha, as IFN-lambda receptors are found only in epithelial cells. To date, IFN-lambda's downstream signaling pathway remains largely unelucidated, particularly via proteomics methods. Here, we report that IFN-lambda3 inhibits HBV replication in HepG2.2.15 cells, reducing levels of both HBV transcripts and intracellular HBV DNA. Quantitative proteomic analysis of HBV-transfected cells was performed following 24-hour IFN-lambda3 treatment, with parallel IFN-alpha2a and PBS treatments for comparison using a dimethyl labeling method. The depth of the study allowed us to map the induction of antiviral proteins to multiple points of the viral life cycle, as well as facilitating the identification of antiviral proteins not previously known to be elicited upon HBV infection (e.g. IFITM3, XRN2, and NT5C3A). This study also shows up-regulation of many effectors involved in antigen processing/presentation indicating that this cytokine exerted immunomodulatory effects through several essential molecules for these processes. Interestingly, the 2 subunits of the immunoproteasome cap (PSME1 and PSME2) were up-regulated whereas cap components of the constitutive proteasome were down-regulated upon both IFN treatments, suggesting coordinated modulation toward the antigen processing/presentation mode. Furthermore, in addition to confirming canonical activation of interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) transcription through the JAK-STAT pathway, we reveal that IFN-lambda3 restored levels of RIG-I and RIG-G, proteins known to be suppressed by HBV. Enrichment analysis demonstrated that several biological processes including RNA metabolism, translation, and ER-targeting were differentially regulated upon treatment with IFN-lambda3 versus IFN-alpha2a. Our proteomic data suggests that IFN-lambda3 regulates an array of cellular processes to control HBV replication.
PXD004653	30098407	Combination of label-free quantitative proteomics and transcriptomics reveals intraspecific venom variation between the two strains of Tetrastichus brontispae, a parasitoid of two invasive beetles. 	Intraspecific Venom Variation between Tetrastichum brontispae strains	Lable-free, Tetrastichus brontispae, Venom	The venom apparatus is a conserved organ in parasitoids that shows adaptations correlated with life-style diversification. Combining transcriptomics and label-free quantitative proteomics, here we explored the venom apparatus components of the endoparasitoid Tetrastichus brontispae (Eulophidae), and provide a comparison of the venom apparatus proteomes between its two closely related strains, T. brontispae-Octodonta nipae (Tb-On) and T. brontispae-Brontispa longissima (Tb-Bl). Tb-Bl targets the B. longissima pupa as its habitual host. However, Tb-On is an experimental derivative of Tb-Bl, which has been exposed to the O. nipae pupa as host consecutively for over 40 generation. Results showed that approximately 1505 venom proteins were identified in the T. brontispae venom apparatus. The extracts contained novel venom proteins, such as 4-coumarate-CoA ligase 4. A comparative venom proteome analysis revealed that significant quantitative and qualitative differences in venom composition exist between the two strains; although the most abundant venom proteins were shared between them. The differentially produced proteins were mainly enriched in fatty acid biosynthesis and melanotic encapsulation response. Six of these enriched proteins presented increased levels in Tb-On, and this result was validated by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) analysis. Overall, our data reveal that venom composition can evolve quickly and respond to host selection.
PXD008870	30100563	Intestinal Metaproteomics Reveals Host-Microbiota Interactions in Subjects at Risk for Type 1 Diabetes. 	Intestinal metaproteomics reveals host-microbiota interactions in subjects at risk for type 1 diabetes	Metaproteomics, diabetes metaproteome	OBJECTIVE: Dysbiosis of the gut microbiota has been linked to disease pathogenesis in type 1 diabetes, yet the functional consequences to the host of this dysbiosis are unknown. We investigated the functional interactions between the microbiota and the host associated with type 1 diabetes disease risk. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional analysis of stool samples from subjects with recent-onset type 1 diabetes (n = 33), islet autoantibody-positive subjects (n = 17), low-risk autoantibody-negative subjects (n = 29), and healthy subjects (n = 22). Metaproteomic analysis was used to identify gut- and pancreas-derived host and microbial proteins, and these data were integrated with sequencing-based microbiota profiling. RESULTS: Both human (host-derived) proteins and microbial-derived proteins could be used to differentiate new-onset and islet autoantibody-positive subjects from low-risk subjects. Significant alterations were identified in the prevalence of host proteins associated with exocrine pancreas output, inflammation, and mucosal function. Integrative analysis showed that microbial taxa associated with host proteins involved in maintaining function of the mucous barrier, microvilli adhesion, and exocrine pancreas were depleted in patients with new-onset type 1 diabetes. CONCLUSIONS: These data support that patients with type 1 diabetes have increased intestinal inflammation and decreased barrier function. They also confirmed that pancreatic exocrine dysfunction occurs in new-onset type 1 diabetes and show for the first time that this dysfunction is present in high-risk individuals before disease onset. The data identify a unique type 1 diabetes-associated signature in stool that may be useful as a means to monitor disease progression or response to therapies aimed at restoring a healthy microbiota.
PXD007113	30101693	An ancient family of mobile genomic islands introducing cephalosporinase and carbapenemase genes in Enterobacteriaceae. 	A novel mobile genomic island: introducing cephalosporinase morons'  in Enterobacteriaceae	"cephalosporin resistance ", "mobile genomic islands ", Enterobacteriaceae	The exchange of mobile genomic islands (MGIs) between microorganisms is often mediated by phages, which may provide benefits to the phage's host. The present study started with the identification of Enterobacter cloacae, Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli isolates with exceptional cephalosporin and carbapenem resistance phenotypes from patients in a neonatal ward. To identify possible molecular connections between these isolates and their beta-lactam resistance phenotypes, the respective bacterial genome sequences were compared. This unveiled the existence of a family of ancient MGIs that were probably exchanged before the species E. cloacae, K. pneumoniae and E. coli emerged from their common ancestry. A representative MGI from E. cloacae was named MIR17-GI, because it harbors the novel beta-lactamase gene variant blaMIR17. Importantly, our observations show that the MIR17-GI-like MGIs harbor genes associated with high-level resistance to cephalosporins. Among them, MIR17-GI stands out because MIR17 also displays carbapenemase activity. As shown by mass spectrometry, the MIR17 carbapenemase is among the most abundantly expressed proteins of the respective E. cloacae isolate. Further, we show that MIR17-GI-like islands are associated with integrated P4-like prophages. This implicates phages in the spread of cephalosporin and carbapenem resistance amongst Enterobacteriaceae. The discovery of an ancient family of MGIs, mediating the spread of cephalosporinase and carbapenemase genes, is of high clinical relevance, because high-level cephalosporin and carbapenem resistance have serious implications for the treatment of patients with enterobacteriaceal infections.
PXD009937	30102515	Complete Native Stable Isotope Labeling by Amino Acids of Saccharomyces cerevisiae for Global Proteomic Analysis. 	2nSILAC_effect of arginine and lysine on BY4741 and W303	Saccharomyces cerevisiae, mitochondria, native SILAC	Knowledge about the functions of individual proteins on a system-wide level is crucial to fully understand molecular mechanisms underlying cellular processes. A considerable part of the proteome across all organisms is still poorly characterized. Mass spectrometry is an efficient technology for the global study of proteins. One of the most prominent methods for accurate proteome-wide comparative quantification is stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC). However, application of SILAC to prototrophic organisms such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, also known as baker's yeast, is compromised since they are able to synthesize all amino acids on their own. Here, we describe an advanced strategy, termed 2nSILAC, that allows for in vivo labeling of prototrophic baker's yeast using heavy arginine and lysine under fermentable and respiratory growth conditions, making it a suitable tool for the global study of protein functions. This generic 2nSILAC strategy allows for directly using and systematically screening yeast mutant strain collections available to the scientific community. We exemplarily demonstrate its high potential by analyzing the effects of mitochondrial gene deletions in mitochondrial fractions using quantitative mass spectrometry revealing the role of Coi1 for the assembly of cytochrome c oxidase (respiratory chain complex IV).
PXD010208	30103608	High-Throughput Phosphorylation Screening and Validation through Ti(IV)-Nanopolymer Functionalized Reverse Phase Phosphoprotein Array. 	High-throughput Phosphorylation Screening and Validation through Ti(IV)-Nanopolymer Functionalized Reverse Phase PhosphoProtein Array	Phosphorylation	Protein phosphorylation is one of the most important and widespread molecular regulatory mechanisms that controls almost all aspects of cellular functions in animals and plants. Here, we introduce a novel chemically functionalized reverse phase phosphoprotein array (RP3A) to capture and measure phosphoproteomes. RP3A uses polyamidoamine (PAMAM) dendrimer immobilized with Ti(IV) ions to functionalize nitrocellulose membrane, facilitating specific chelation of phosphoproteins from complex protein samples on the array. Globular, water-soluble Ti(IV)-dendrimer allows the RP3A surface to be highly accessible to phosphoproteins multidimensionally, and the captured phosphoproteins were subsequently detected using the same validated antibodies as in regular reverse-phase protein arrays. The novel chemical strategy demonstrated superior specificity (1:10 000), high sensitivity (fg level), and good quantitative nature ( R(2) = 0.99) for measuring phosphoproteins. We further applied quantitative phosphoproteomics followed by RP3A to validate the phosphorylation status of a panel of phosphoproteins in response to environmental stresses in Arabidopsis.
PXD008715	30104635	A proximity-tagging system to identify membrane protein-protein interactions. 	Membrane protein interactome -  A proximity-tagging system to identify membrane protein-protein interactions	catalytic tagging, membrane proteins	The communication between cells and between cellular organelles is often controlled by the interaction of membrane proteins. Although many methods for the detection of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) exist, membrane PPIs remain difficult to detect. Here we developed a proximity-based tagging system, PUP-IT (pupylation-based interaction tagging), to identify membrane protein interactions. In this approach, a small protein tag, Pup, is applied to proteins that interact with a PafA-fused bait, enabling transient and weak interactions to be enriched and detected by mass spectrometry. Pup does not diffuse from the enzyme, which allows high-specificity labeling. We applied this approach to CD28, a critical costimulatory receptor for T lymphocyte activation, and identified known CD28 binding partners and multiple potential interacting proteins. In addition, we demonstrated that this method can identify the interaction between a cell surface receptor and its ligand.
PXD010067	30105046	Characterization of a L-Gulono-1,4-Lactone Oxidase Like Protein in the Floral Nectar of Mucuna sempervirens, Fabaceae. 	Characterization of a L-Gulono-1,4-Lactone Oxidase Like Protein in the Floral Nectar of Mucuna sempervirens, Fabaceae.	L-ascorbate biosynthesis, L-gulonolactone oxidase like protein, Mucuna sempervirens Hemsl, Nectarin	Floral nectar plays important roles in the interaction between animal-pollinated plants and pollinators. Its components include water, sugars, amino acids, vitamins, and proteins. Growing empirical evidence shows that most of the proteins secreted in nectar (nectarines) are enzymes that can tailor nectar chemistry for their animal mutualists or reduce the growth of microorganisms in nectar. However, to date, the function of many nectarines remains unknown, and very few plant species have had their nectar proteome thoroughly investigated. Mucuna sempervirens (Fabaceae) is a perennial woody vine native to China. Nectarines from this species were separated using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and analyzed using mass spectrometry. A L-gulonolactone oxidase like protein (MsGulLO) was detected, and the full length cDNA was cloned: it codes for a protein of 573 amino acids with a predicted signal peptide. MsGulLO has high similarity to L-gulonolactone oxidase 5 (AtGulLO5) in Arabidopsis thaliana, which was suggested to be involved in the pathway of ascorbate biosynthesis; however, both MsGulLO and AtGulLO5 are divergent from animal L-gulonolactone oxidases. MsGulLO was expressed mainly in flowers, and especially in nectary before blooming. However, cloning and gene expression analysis showed that L-galactonolactone dehydrogenase (MsGLDH), a vital enzyme in plant ascorbate biosynthesis, was expressed in all of flowers, roots, stems, and especially leaves. MsGulLO was purified to near homogeneity from raw MS nectar by gel filtration chromatography. The enzyme was determined to be a neutral monomeric protein with an apparent molecular mass of 70 kDa. MsGulLO is not a flavin-containing protein, and has neither L-galactonolactone dehydrogenase activity, nor the L-gulonolactone activity that is usual in animal GulLOs. However, it has weak oxidase activity with the following substrates: L-gulono-1,4-lactone, L -galactono-1,4-lactone, D-gluconic acid-delta-lactone, glucose, and fructose. MsGulLO is suggested to function in hydrogen peroxide generation in nectar but not in plant ascorbate biosynthesis.
PXD008959	30107058	A novel STRIPAK complex component mediates hyphal fusion and fruiting-body development in filamentous fungi. 	SCI1 co-purifies with the STRIPAK protein PRO11	PRO11, SCI1, STRIPAK, Sordaria macrospora, fruiting-body development, hyphal fusion	The STRIPAK complex is involved in growth, cell fusion, development and signaling pathways, and thus malfunctions in the human STRIPAK complex often result in severe neuronal diseases and cancer. Despite the high degree of general conservation throughout the complex, several STRIPAK complex-associated small coiled-coil proteins of animals and yeasts are not conserved across species. As there are no data for filamentous ascomycetes, we addressed this through affinity purification with HA-tagged striatin ortholog PRO11 in Sordaria macrospora. Combining the method with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, we were able to co-purify STRIPAK complex interactor 1 (SCI1), the first STRIPAK-associated small coiled-coil protein in filamentous ascomycetes. Using yeast two-hybrid experiments, we identified SCI1 protein regions required for SCI1-PRO11 interaction, dimerization of SCI1 and interaction with other STRIPAK components. Further, both proteins PRO11 and SCI1 co-localize with the nuclear basket protein SmPOM152 at the nuclear envelope. Expression of the gene sci1 occurs during early developmental stages of S. macrospora, and the protein SCI1 in combination with PRO11 is required for cell fusion, vegetative growth and sexual development. The results of the present study will help to understand the underlying molecular mechanisms of STRIPAK signaling and function in cellular development and diseases in higher eukaryotes.
PXD008002	30108239	A Methodological Assessment and Characterization of Genetically-Driven Variation in Three Human Phosphoproteomes. 	A Methodological Assessment and Characterization of Genetically-Driven Variation in Three Human Phosphoproteomes	LCL, MaxQuant, YRI	Phosphorylation of proteins on serine, threonine, and tyrosine residues is a ubiquitous post-translational modification that plays a key part of essentially every cell signaling process. It is reasonable to assume that inter-individual variation in protein phosphorylation may underlie phenotypic differences, as has been observed for practically any other molecular regulatory phenotype. However, we do not know much about the extent of inter-individual variation in phosphorylation because it is quite challenging to perform a quantitative high throughput study to assess inter-individual variation in any post-translational modification. To test our ability to address this challenge with SILAC-based mass spectrometry, we quantified phosphorylation levels for three genotyped human cell lines within a nested experimental framework, and found that genetic background is the primary determinant of phosphoproteome variation. We uncovered multiple functional, biophysical, and genetic associations with germline driven phosphopeptide variation. Variants affecting protein levels or structure were among these associations, with the latter presenting, on average, a stronger effect. Interestingly, we found evidence that is consistent with a phosphopeptide variability buffering effect endowed from properties enriched within longer proteins. Because the small sample size in this 'pilot' study may limit the applicability of our genetic observations, we also undertook a thorough technical assessment of our experimental workflow to aid further efforts. Taken together, these results provide the foundation for future work to characterize inter-individual variation in post-translational modification levels and reveal novel insights into the nature of inter-individual variation in phosphorylation.
PXD010277	30109319	Design and synthesis of tailored human caseinolytic protease P inhibitors. 	Design and synthesis of tailored human caseinolytic protease P inhibitors	ClpP, Huh7, Jurkat, Mitochondria, phenyl esters	Human caseinolytic protease P (hClpP) is important for degradation of misfolded proteins in the mitochondrial unfolded protein response. We here introduce tailored hClpP inhibitors that utilize a steric discrimination in their core naphthofuran scaffold to selectively address the human enzyme. This novel inhibitor generation exhibited superior activity compared to previously introduced beta-lactones, optimized for bacterial ClpP. Further insights into the bioactivity and binding to cellular targets were obtained via chemical proteomics as well as proliferation- and migration studies in cancer cells.
PXD017013	30110646	Proteomic Characterization of the Heart and Skeletal Muscle Reveals Widespread Arginine ADP-Ribosylation by the ARTC1 Ectoenzyme. 	Gas-phase Fragmentation of ADP-Ribosylated Peptides: Arginine-Specific Side-Chain Losses and their Implication in Database Searches	ADP-ribosylation, Orbitrap Fusion, Post-translational modification, arginine, marker ion, neutral loss	The clostridium-like ecto-ADP-ribosyltransferase ARTC1 is expressed in a highly restricted manner in skeletal muscle and heart tissue. Although ARTC1 is well studied, the identification of ARTC1 targets in vivo and subsequent characterization of ARTC1-regulated cellular processes on the proteome level have been challenging and only a few ARTC1-ADP-ribosylated targets are known. Applying our recently developed mass spectrometry-based workflow to C2C12 myotubes and to skeletal muscle and heart tissues from wild-type mice, we identify hundreds of ARTC1-ADP-ribosylated proteins whose modifications are absent in the ADP-ribosylome of ARTC1-deficient mice. These proteins are ADP-ribosylated on arginine residues and mainly located on the cell surface or in the extracellular space. They are associated with signal transduction, transmembrane transport, and muscle function. Validation of hemopexin (HPX) as a ARTC1-target protein confirmed the functional importance of ARTC1-mediated extracellular arginine ADP-ribosylation at the systems level.
PXD009502	30111112	Gingival Exudatome Dynamics Implicate Inhibition of the Alternative Complement Pathway in the Protective Action of the C3 Inhibitor Cp40 in Nonhuman Primate Periodontitis. 	Gingival exudatome dynamics implicates inhibition of the alternative complement pathway in the protective action of the C3 inhibitor Cp40 in non-human primate periodontitis	C3 inhibitor, GCF, Macaca fascicularis, periodontitis	Periodontitis is a prevalent chronic inflammatory disease associated with dysbiosis. Although complement inhibition has been successfully used to treat periodontitis in animal models, studies globally analyzing inflamed tissue proteins to glean insight into possible mechanisms of action are missing. Using quantitative shotgun proteomics, we aimed to investigate differences in composition of inflammatory gingival tissue exudate ("gingival crevicular fluid"; GCF), before and after local administration of an inhibitor of the central complement component, C3, in nonhuman primates. The C3 inhibitor, Cp40 (also known as AMY-101) was administered locally in the maxillary gingival tissue of cynomolgus monkeys with established periodontitis, either once a week (1x-treatment; n = 5 animals) or three times per week (3x-treatment; n = 10 animals), for 6 weeks followed by another 6 weeks of observation in the absence of treatment. 45 GCF samples were processed for FASP digestion and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. Data were processed using the ProgenesisQI software. The statistical significance of differences between the groups was determined by RM-ANOVA, and a protein expression change was considered as a true regulation at >2-fold and p < 0.05. The human orthologues were subjected to Gene Ontology analyses using PANTHER. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009502. 573 proteins with >2 peptides were longitudinally quantified. Both 3x and 1x administration of Cp40 resulted in significant down-regulation of dozens of proteins during the 6-week course of treatment as compared to baseline. Following drug withdrawal at 6 weeks, more than 50% of the down-regulated proteins showed increased levels at week 12. The top scored pathway was "complement activation, alternative pathway", and several proteins involved in this pathway were down-regulated at 6 weeks. We mapped the proteomic fingerprint changes in local tissue exudate of cynomolgus monkey periodontitis in response to C3 inhibition and identified the alternative pathway of complement activation and leukocyte degranulation as main targets, which are thus likely to play significant roles in periodontal disease pathogenesis. Label-free quantitative proteomics strategies utilizing GCF are powerful tools for the identification of treatment targets and providing insights into disease mechanisms.
PXD007894	30112540	Absolute two-point quantification of proteins using dimethylated proteotypic peptides. 	Absolute quantitation of proteins by two-point quantitation using dimethylated proteotypic peptides	absolute quantitation, dimethylation, parallel reaction monitoring, targeted proteomics	Absolute targeted proteomics typically employs known amounts of synthetic stable isotopically labeled peptides which are mixed with the analyte and analysed by LC-MS to determine the concentration of proteins. In order to obtain more data, we evaluated the use of two different stable isotopes of the same peptide as spike-in for absolute quantification. For this purpose, peptide labeling by reductive amination was applied, which is a mild reaction for dimethylation of amine groups with very high yield. Three different forms can be generated with e.g., light and heavy labels for spike-in peptides, and medium label for endogenous peptides. The method was studied with peptides of apolipoprotein A-I, apolipoprotein B-100, and leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein without and with serum. In serum, the endogenous protein concentrations were measured across four orders of magnitude by the two-point quantification method. Less than 20% of coefficient of variation (CV) values and strong correlation with R(2) of 0.99 across three analytical replicates was observed. Most importantly, the two-point quantification method allows an internal quality control of the spike-in peptide as strong deviations in ratios calculated between the first and second reference indicate a methodical error. Because of the significant lower costs than synthetically stable isotopically labeled peptides, this approach might be particularly interesting for the absolute quantification of multiple proteins.
PXD010025	30113170	Identification of Missing Proteins in Human Olfactory Epithelial Tissue by Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry. 	Identification of Missing Proteins in Human Olfactory Epithelial Tissue by Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry	Human Proteome Project, Missing protein, Olfactory Epithelial Tissue, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP)	We performed proteomic analyses of human olfactory epithelial tissue to identify missing proteins using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Using a next-generation proteomic pipeline with a < 1.0% false discovery rate at the peptide and protein levels, we identified 3731 proteins, among which five were missing proteins (P0C7M7, P46721, P59826, Q658L1, and Q8N434). We validated the identified missing proteins using the corresponding synthetic peptides. No olfactory receptor (OR) proteins were detected in olfactory tissue, suggesting that detection of ORs would be very difficult. We also identified 49 and 50 alternative splicing variants mapped at the neXtProt and GENCODE databases, respectively, and 2000 additional single amino acid variants. This data set is available at the ProteomeXchange consortium via PRIDE repository (PXD010025).
PXD009019	30113852	Proteomic Analysis of Urine from California Sea Lions ( Zalophus californianus): A Resource for Urinary Biomarker Discovery. 	Proteomic analysis of California sea lion urine	california sea lion, marine mammal, urine	Urinary markers for the assessment of kidney diseases in wild animals are limited, in part, due to the lack of urinary proteome data, especially for marine mammals. One of the most prevalent kidney diseases in marine mammals is caused by Leptospira interrogans, which is the second most common etiology linked to stranding of California sea lions ( Zalophus californianus). Urine proteins from 11 sea lions with leptospirosis kidney disease and eight sea lions without leptospirosis or kidney disease were analyzed using shotgun proteomics. In total, 2694 protein groups were identified, and 316 were differentially abundant between groups. Major urine proteins in sea lions were similar to major urine proteins in dogs and humans except for the preponderance of resistin, lysozyme C, and PDZ domain containing 1, which appear to be over-represented. Previously reported urine protein markers of kidney injury in humans and animals were also identified. Notably, neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, osteopontin, and epidermal fatty acid binding protein were elevated over 20-fold in the leptospirosis-infected sea lions. Consistent with leptospirosis infection in rodents, urinary proteins associated with the renin-angiotensin system were depressed, including neprilysin. This study represents a foundation from which to explore the clinical use of urinary protein markers in California sea lions.
PXD009399	30114510	Quantitative proteomics using tandem mass tags in relation to the acute phase protein response in chicken challenged with Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide endotoxin. 	TMT-based quantitative proteomics of plasma from chicken challenged with lipopolysaccharide endotoxin	Chicken, TMT, lipopolysaccharide endotoxin infection, plasma, quantitative proteomics	The inflammatory response in chickens (Gallus Gallus domesticus) is an integral part of the bird's response to infection. Detailing proteomic changes occurring during infection would be beneficial to the poultry industry, offering opportunities for comparative pathophysiological analysis. The objective of this study was to quantify the changes in the plasma proteome in chickens challenged with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a bacterial endotoxin known to stimulate the host innate immune system. Plasma from chicken (N = 6) challenged with Escherichia coli (LPS) (2 mg/kg body weight) was collected pre (0 h) and at 12, 24, 48, and 72 h post-injection along with plasma from a control group (N = 6) challenged with sterile saline. Samples were analysed by a quantitative Tandem Mass Tags approach using a Q-Exactive-Plus mass-spectrometer. Identification and relative quantification were performed using Proteome Discoverer, and data were analysed using R. Gene Ontology terms were analysed by Cytoscape based on the Gallus gallus database. Finally, 87 significantly regulated proteins were found, including serum-amyloid-A, ovotransferrin and alpha-1-acid-glycoprotein, showing a significant effect of time post-injection in the LPS-treated group. Different pathways related with protein activation cascade and heterotopic cell-cell adhesion were affected by LPS-challenge. LPS-challenged chickens demonstrate significant changes to the plasma proteome with both increases and decreases of individual proteins within 12 h of challenge. SIGNIFICANCE: The injection of chicken with bacterial lipopolysaccharide followed by sequential plasma and clinical analysis of the bird, is a long established and a widely used model for inflammation and infection studies. This study, utilising and combining proteomic and immunoassay analysis with bioinformatic analysis, revealed that several biological pathways are modulated during this early period of inflammation. In addition, proteins with biomarker potential were identified and successfully validated. This experimental model also demonstrated potential for pathophysiological mechanism investigation and as an inflammatory model for biomedical research. There is, despite plasma being an easily accessible biological matrix which is representative of the health status of the bird, scarce data on the chicken plasma proteome. This research makes a positive contribution to the current field, generating significant data for continuing comparative analysis.
PXD008467	30115630	Proteomic Discovery and Validation of the Confounding Effect of Heparin Administration on the Analysis of Candidate Cardiovascular Biomarkers. 	Plasma proteomics reveals the confounding effect of heparin administration on the analysis of candidate cardiovascular biomarkers - Cohort1	cardiovascular biomkarkers, chemi-proteomics, heparin	BACKGROUND: Several plasma proteins have been suggested as markers for a variety of cardiovascular conditions but fail to qualify in independent patient cohorts. This may relate to interference of medication on plasma protein concentrations. We used proteomics to identify plasma proteins that changed in concentration with heparin administration and therefore potentially may confound their evaluation as biomarkers in situations in which heparin is used. METHODS: We used a proteomic approach based on isobaric tagging and nano-LC-MS/MS analysis to quantify several hundred proteins in a discovery study in which individual plasma samples from 9 patients at intravascular ultrasound follow-up 12 months after an acute myocardial infarction before heparin administration and 2, 15, and 60 min after heparin administration; we validated our findings in 500 individual plasma samples obtained at admission from patients with suspected ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), of whom 363 were treated with heparin before admission. RESULTS: In the discovery study, 25 of 653 identified plasma proteins displayed a changed concentration after heparin administration (Bonferroni-corrected P value at P < 7.66 x 10(-5)). Fourteen of the proteins changed significantly among heparin-treated patients in the validation study (nominal significance level of P < 6.92 x 10(-5)). Among heparin-affected proteins in both the discovery study and the validation study were midkine, spondin 1, secreted frizzled-like protein 1, lipoprotein lipase, and follistatin, all previously associated with STEMI. CONCLUSIONS: Medications such as heparin administration given before blood sampling may confound biomarker discovery and should be carefully considered in such studies.
PXD008419	30115750	Correction of cognitive deficits in mouse models of Down syndrome by a pharmacological inhibitor of DYRK1A. 	Correction of cognitive deficits in mouse models of Down syndrome by pharmacological inhibitor of DYRK1A	DYRK1A, Down syndrome, Kinase inhibitor, Leucettine, Synapsin	Growing evidence supports the implication of DYRK1A in the development of cognitive deficits seen in Down syndrome (DS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). We here demonstrate that pharmacological inhibition of brain DYRK1A is able to correct recognition memory deficits in three DS mouse models with increasing genetic complexity [Tg(Dyrk1a), Ts65Dn, Dp1Yey], all expressing an extra copy of Dyrk1a Overexpressed DYRK1A accumulates in the cytoplasm and at the synapse. Treatment of the three DS models with the pharmacological DYRK1A inhibitor leucettine L41 leads to normalization of DYRK1A activity and corrects the novel object cognitive impairment observed in these models. Brain functional magnetic resonance imaging reveals that this cognitive improvement is paralleled by functional connectivity remodelling of core brain areas involved in learning/memory processes. The impact of Dyrk1a trisomy and L41 treatment on brain phosphoproteins was investigated by a quantitative phosphoproteomics method, revealing the implication of synaptic (synapsin 1) and cytoskeletal components involved in synaptic response and axonal organization. These results encourage the development of DYRK1A inhibitors as drug candidates to treat cognitive deficits associated with DS and AD.
PXD002725	30116025	Proteomic phenotyping of metastatic melanoma reveals putative signatures of MEK inhibitor response and prognosis. 	Data independent MS phenotyping of patient derived melanoma cell lines	Melanoma, SWATH, drug resistance	BACKGROUND: Genotyping of melanomas is used to identify patients for treatment with BRAF and MEK inhibitors, but clinical responses are highly variable. This study investigated the utility of protein expression phenotyping to provide an integrated assessment of gene expression programs in BRAF/NRAS melanoma which would be useful for prognosis and may predict response to MEK inhibition. METHODS: Mass spectrometry profiling of early passage cell lines established from Stage III cutaneous melanomas was conducted. Basal protein expression was correlated with in vitro response to the MEK inhibitor, selumetinib. Protein expression in a cohort of 32 drug naive BRAF/NRAS metastatic melanoma specimens was examined. The prognostic utility of a subset of these proteins and mRNA transcripts from a separate cohort was determined. RESULTS: Unsupervised analysis of basal cell line protein abundances delineated response to selumetinib, but BRAF/NRAS genotype did not. Resistance was associated with functions including cell motility, cell adhesion and cytoskeletal organization. Several of these response biomarkers were observed in lymph node biospecimens and correlated with melanoma-specific survival. Loss of ICAM-1 protein and mRNA expression was a strong prognosticator of diminished survival in BRAF/NRAS mutant melanoma. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate the utility of proteomic phenotyping to identify both putative biomarkers of response to MEK inhibition and prognostication associated with metastatic melanoma.
PXD008280	30116038	Biphasic cellular adaptations and ecological implications of Alteromonas macleodii degrading a mixture of algal polysaccharides. 	Succession of proteomic, transcriptomic and exometabolomic signatures in Alteromonas macleodii degrading a mix of macroalgal polysaccharides	Alteromonas, catabolite repression, polysaccharide degradation	Algal polysaccharides are an important bacterial nutrient source and central component of marine food webs. However, cellular and ecological aspects concerning the bacterial degradation of polysaccharide mixtures, as presumably abundant in natural habitats, are poorly understood. Here, we contextualize marine polysaccharide mixtures and their bacterial utilization in several ways using the model bacterium Alteromonas macleodii 83-1, which can degrade multiple algal polysaccharides and contributes to polysaccharide degradation in the oceans. Transcriptomic, proteomic and exometabolomic profiling revealed cellular adaptations of A. macleodii 83-1 when degrading a mix of laminarin, alginate and pectin. Strain 83-1 exhibited substrate prioritization driven by catabolite repression, with initial laminarin utilization followed by simultaneous alginate/pectin utilization. This biphasic phenotype coincided with pronounced shifts in gene expression, protein abundance and metabolite secretion, mainly involving CAZymes/polysaccharide utilization loci but also other functional traits. Distinct temporal changes in exometabolome composition, including the alginate/pectin-specific secretion of pyrroloquinoline quinone, suggest that substrate-dependent adaptations influence chemical interactions within the community. The ecological relevance of cellular adaptations was underlined by molecular evidence that common marine macroalgae, in particular Saccharina and Fucus, release mixtures of alginate and pectin-like rhamnogalacturonan. Moreover, CAZyme microdiversity and the genomic predisposition towards polysaccharide mixtures among Alteromonas spp. suggest polysaccharide-related traits as an ecophysiological factor, potentially relating to distinct 'carbohydrate utilization types' with different ecological strategies. Considering the substantial primary productivity of algae on global scales, these insights contribute to the understanding of bacteria-algae interactions and the remineralization of chemically diverse polysaccharide pools, a key step in marine carbon cycling.
PXD009698	30117243	Transcriptomic and proteomic responses of the oceanic diatom Pseudo-nitzschia granii to iron limitation. 	Transcriptomic and proteomic responses of the oceanic diatom Pseudo-nitzschia granii to iron limitation	diatom, iron limitation	Diatoms are a highly successful group of photosynthetic protists that often thrive under adverse environmental conditions. Members of the genus Pseudo-nitzschia are ecologically important diatoms which are able to subsist during periods of chronic iron limitation and form dense blooms following iron fertilization events. The cellular strategies within diatoms that orchestrate these physiological responses to variable iron concentrations remain largely uncharacterized. Using a combined transcriptomic and proteomic approach, we explore the exceptional ability of a diatom isolated from the iron-limited Northeast Pacific Ocean to reorganize its intracellular processes as a function of iron. We compared the molecular responses of Pseudo-nitzschia granii observed under iron-replete and iron-limited growth conditions to those of other model diatoms. Iron-coordinated molecular responses demonstrated some agreement between gene expression and protein abundance, including iron-starvation-induced-proteins, a putative iron transport system and components of photosynthesis and the Calvin cycle. Pseudo-nitzschia granii distinctly differentially expresses genes encoding proteins involved in iron-independent photosynthetic electron transport, urea acquisition and vitamin synthesis. We show that P. granii is unique among studied diatoms in its physiology stemming from distinct cellular responses, which may underlie its ability to subsist in low iron regions and rapidly bloom to outcompete other diatom taxa following iron enrichment.
PXD008520	30117535	Distinct branches of the N-end rule pathway modulate the plant immune response. 	Distinct branches  of the N-end rule pathway modulate the plant immune response	Amino-terminal glutamine amidase, ERFVII, N-end rule pathway, NTAQ, Plant immunity	The N-end rule pathway is a highly conserved constituent of the ubiquitin proteasome system, yet little is known about its biological roles. Here we explored the role of the N-end rule pathway in the plant immune response. We investigated the genetic influences of components of the pathway and known protein substrates on physiological, biochemical and metabolic responses to pathogen infection. We show that the glutamine (Gln) deamidation and cysteine (Cys) oxidation branches are both components of the plant immune system, through the E3 ligase PROTEOLYSIS (PRT)6. In Arabidopsis thaliana Gln-specific amino-terminal (Nt)-amidase (NTAQ1) controls the expression of specific defence-response genes, activates the synthesis pathway for the phytoalexin camalexin and influences basal resistance to the hemibiotroph pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato (Pst). The Nt-Cys ETHYLENE RESPONSE FACTOR VII transcription factor substrates enhance pathogen-induced stomatal closure. Transgenic barley with reduced HvPRT6 expression showed enhanced resistance to Ps. japonica and Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei, indicating a conserved role of the pathway. We propose that that separate branches of the N-end rule pathway act as distinct components of the plant immune response in flowering plants.
PXD009129	30120285	Complementary iTRAQ-based proteomic and RNA sequencing-based transcriptomic analyses reveal a complex network regulating pomegranate (Punica granatum L.) fruit peel colour. 	Punica granatum L. Peel LC-MS/MS	Peel, Pomegranate	Peel colour is an important factor affecting the marketability of pomegranate fruits. Therefore, elucidating the genetic mechanism of fruit peel colour development may be useful for breeding pomegranate cultivars with enhanced fruit peel colours. In this study, we combined an iTRAQ-based proteome-level analysis with an RNA sequencing-based transcriptome-level analysis to detect the proteins and genes related to fruit peel colour development in pomegranate. We analysed the 'Tunisia' (red fruit) and 'White' (white fruit) pomegranate cultivars at two stages of fruit development. A total of 27 differentially abundant proteins (increased abundance) and 54 differentially expressed genes (16 up-regulated and 38 down-regulated) were identified from our proteomics and transcriptomics data. The identified proteins and genes contribute to pomegranate fruit peel colour by participating in the biosynthesis of anthocyanins, stilbenoids, diarylheptanoids, gingerols, flavonoids, and phenylpropanoids. Several candidate proteins and genes corresponded to enzymes related to general reactions (PAL, 4CL, DFR, LDOX/ANS, CHS, and F3'5'H) and glycosylation (GT1 and UGAT) of compounds and pigments related to the colour of pomegranate fruit peel. Complementary proteome- and transcriptome-level analyses revealed a complex molecular network controlling fruit peel colour. The candidate genes identified in this study may be useful for the marker-based breeding of new pomegranate cultivars.
PXD008023	30123426	Spatial and temporal proteome dynamics of glioma cells during oncolytic adenovirus Delta-24-RGD infection. 	nuclear proteomics of glioma cells infected with an oncolytic adenovirus	adenovirus, glioma, nuclear fraction	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common and aggressive type of malignant glioma. Oncolytic adenoviruses are being modified to exploit the aberrant expression of proteins in tumor cells to increase the antiglioma efficacy. E1A mutant adenovirus Delta-24-RGD (DNX-2401) has shown a favorable toxicity profile and remarkable efficacy in a first-in-human phase I clinical trial. However, the comprehensive modulation of glioma metabolism in response to Delta-24-RGD infection is poorly understood. Integrating mass spectrometry based-quantitative proteomics, physical and functional interaction data, and biochemical approaches, we conducted a cell-wide study of cytosolic, nuclear, and secreted glioma proteomes throughout the early time course of Delta-24-RGD infection. In addition to the severe proteostasis impairment detected during the first hours post-infection (hpi), Delta-24-RGD induces a transient inhibition of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), and transcription factor AP-1 (c-JUN) between 3 and 10hpi, increasing the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) activity at 6hpi. Furthermore, Delta-24-RGD specifically modulates the activation dynamics of protein kinase C (PKC), extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) pathways early in infection. At extracellular level, Delta-24-RGD triggers a time -dependent dynamic production of multitasking cytokines, and chemotactic factors, suggesting potential pleiotropic effects on the immune system reactivation. Taken together, these data help us to understand the mechanisms used by Delta-24-RGD to exploit glioma proteome organization. Further mining of this proteomic resource may enable design and engineering complementary adenoviral based-vectors to increase the specificity and potency against glioma.
PXD009646	30124047	Deep Dive on the Proteome of Human Cerebrospinal Fluid: A Valuable Data Resource for Biomarker Discovery and Missing Protein Identification. 	Deep Dive in the Proteome of Human Cerebrospinal Fluid: A Valuable Data Resource for Biomarker Discovery and Missing Protein Identification	Human Proteome Project, augurin, brain, cerebrospinal fluid, missing proteins, tandem mass tag	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is a body fluid of choice for biomarker studies of brain disorders but remains relatively under-studied compared with other biological fluids such as plasma, partly due to the more invasive means of its sample collection. The present study establishes an in-depth CSF proteome through the analysis of a unique CSF sample from a pool of donors. After immunoaffinity depletion, the CSF sample was fractionated using off-gel electrophoresis and analyzed with liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (MS) using the latest generation of hybrid Orbitrap mass spectrometers. The shotgun proteomic analysis allowed the identification of 20 689 peptides mapping on 3379 proteins. To the best of our knowledge, the obtained data set constitutes the largest CSF proteome published so far. Among the CSF proteins identified, 34% correspond to genes whose transcripts are highly expressed in brain according to the Human Protein Atlas. The principal Alzheimer's disease biomarkers (e.g., tau protein, amyloid-beta, apolipoprotein E, and neurogranin) were detected. Importantly, our data set significantly contributes to the Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP), and 12 proteins considered as missing are proposed for validation in accordance with the HPP guidelines. Of these 12 proteins, 8 proteins are based on 2 to 6 uniquely mapping peptides from this CSF analysis, and 4 match a new peptide with a "stranded" single peptide in PeptideAtlas from previous CSF studies. The MS proteomic data are available to the ProteomeXchange Consortium ( http://www.proteomexchange.org/ ) with the data set identifier PXD009646.
PXD010527	30124983	SPOP promotes transcriptional expression of DNA repair and replication factors to prevent replication stress and genomic instability. 	SPOP promotes transcriptional expression of DNA repair and replication factors to prevent replication stress and genomic instability.	Prostate cancer, SPOP, interactome	Mutations in SPOP, the gene most frequently point-mutated in primary prostate cancer, are associated with a high degree of genomic instability and deficiency in homologous recombination repair of DNA but the underlying mechanisms behind this defect are currently unknown. Here we demonstrate that SPOP knockdown leads to spontaneous replication stress and impaired recovery from replication fork stalling. We show that this is associated with reduced expression of several key DNA repair and replication factors including BRCA2, ATR, CHK1 and RAD51. Consequently, SPOP knockdown impairs RAD51 foci formation and activation of CHK1 in response to replication stress and compromises recovery from replication fork stalling. An SPOP interactome analysis shows that wild type (WT) SPOP but not mutant SPOP associates with multiple proteins involved in transcription, mRNA splicing and export. Consistent with the association of SPOP with transcription, splicing and RNA export complexes, the decreased expression of BRCA2, ATR, CHK1 and RAD51 occurs at the level of transcription.
PXD010422	30125099	eXL-MS: An Enhanced Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry Workflow To Study Protein Complexes. 	eXL-MS: An enhanced Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry Workflow to Study Protein Complexes.	Creatine Kinase, click chemistry, cross-link, monoavidin biotin affinty enrichment	The analysis of proteins and protein complexes by cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) has expanded in the past decade. However, mostly used approaches suffer important limitations in term of efficiency and sensitivity. We describe here a new workflow based on the advanced use of the trifunctional cross-linker NNP9. NNP9 carries an azido group allowing the quantitative and selective introduction of a biotin molecule into cross-linked proteins. The incorporation is performed by click-chemistry using an adapted version of the enhanced filter-aided sample preparation (eFASP) protocol. This protocol, based on the use of a molecular filter, allows a very high recovery of peptides after enzymatic digestion and complete removal of contaminants. This in turn offers the possibility for one to analyze very large membrane proteins solubilized in detergent. After trypsin digestion, biotinylated peptides can be easily enriched on monoavidin beads and analyzed by LC-MS/MS. The whole workflow was developed on creatine kinase in the presence of detergent. It led to a drastic improvement in the number of identified cross-linked peptides (407 vs 81), compared to the conventional approach using a gel-based separation. One great advantage of our enhanced cross-linking mass spectrometry (eXL-MS) workflow is its high efficiency, allowing the analysis of a very low amount of material (15 mug). We also demonstrate that higher-energy collision dissociation (HCD) outperforms electron-transfer/higher-energy collision dissociation (EThcD) in terms of number of cross-linked peptides identified, but EThcD leads to better sequence coverage than HCD and thus easier localization of cross-linking sites.
PXD008693	30125121	Isoform-Level Interpretation of High-Throughput Proteomics Data Enabled by Deep Integration with RNA-seq. 	EMpire: Deep isoform level integration of the transcriptome, translatome, and proteome	Protien Isoforms, mRNA-Seq	Cellular control of gene expression is a complex process that is subject to multiple levels of regulation, but ultimately it is the protein produced that determines the biosynthetic state of the cell. One way that a cell can regulate the protein output from each gene is by expressing alternate isoforms with distinct amino acid sequences. These isoforms may exhibit differences in localization and binding interactions that can have profound functional implications. High-throughput liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry proteomics (LC-MS/MS) relies on enzymatic digestion and has lower coverage and sensitivity than transcriptomic profiling methods such as RNA-seq. Digestion results in predictable fragmentation of a protein, which can limit the generation of peptides capable of distinguishing between isoforms. Here we exploit transcript-level expression from RNA-seq to set prior likelihoods and enable protein isoform abundances to be directly estimated from LC-MS/MS, an approach derived from the principle that most genes appear to be expressed as a single dominant isoform in a given cell type or tissue. Through this deep integration of RNA-seq and LC-MS/MS data from the same sample, we show that a principal isoform can be identified in >80% of gene products in homogeneous HEK293 cell culture and >70% of proteins detected in complex human brain tissue. We demonstrate that the incorporation of translatome data from ribosome profiling further refines this process. Defining isoforms in experiments with matched RNA-seq/translatome and proteomic data increases the functional relevance of such data sets and will further broaden our understanding of multilevel control of gene expression.
PXD008976	30125959	Controlled cellular redox, repressive hemin utilization and adaptive stress responses are crucial to metronidazole tolerance of Porphyromonas gingivalis persisters. 	Characterization of Metronidazole-tolerant Porphyromonas gingivalis Persisters	Porphyromonas gingivalis, hemin, metronidazole, persisters	BACKGROUND: Antimicrobial-tolerant microbial persisters critically account for various infections and inflammation. This study identified the characteristics of Porphyromonas gingivalis persisters, and explored their underlying survival mechanisms through proteomic profiling. METHODS: Porphyromonas gingivalis cultured with different concentrations of hemin was treated with 100 mug/ml of metronidazole (MTZ). The viability of P. gingivalis persisters was determined by colony-forming unit assay and LIVE/DEAD staining. The proteomic signature of P. gingivalis persister fractions was examined using LC-MS/MS and bioinformatic analysis. RESULTS: A small fraction of P. gingivalis persisters survived from lethal MTZ treatment without heritability. At late exponential phase, the frequency of these persisters significantly increased when incubated with 1 mug/ml of hemin compared to 10 mug/ml. Higher levels of P. gingivalis persisters formed at stationary phase than the late exponential phase. High-throughput proteomic analysis showed that the persisters markedly downregulated multiple proteins involved in electron transfer and heme/iron utilization essential for redox regulation and MTZ activation. Moreover, the persisters enabled to shut down major cellular activities (e.g. translation) and overexpress stress proteins. CONCLUSION: The presence and survival of metronidazole-tolerant P. gingivalis persisters may be dominated by regulation of cellular redox state and enhanced via repression of heme/iron utilization, dormancy and stress responses.
PXD011844	30126049	Increased differentiation and production of extracellular matrix components of primary human osteoblasts after cocultivation with endothelial cells: A quantitative proteomics approach. 	Human osteoblasts quantitative proteomic analysis after cocultivation with endothelial cells	angiogenesis, bone tissue engineering, human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), primary human osteoblasts (hOBs), quantitative proteomic, stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)	Coculturing of bone-forming and blood vessel-forming cells is a strategy aimed at increasing vascularity of implanted bone constructs in tissue-engineering applications. We previously described that the coculture of primary human osteoblasts (hOBs) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) improves the differentiation of both cell types, leading to the formation of functional blood vessels and enhanced bone regeneration. The objective of this study was to further delineate the multifaceted interactions between both cell types. To investigate the proteome of hOBs after cocultivation with HUVECs we used stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture, revealing 49 significantly upregulated, and 54 significantly downregulated proteins. Amongst the highest regulated proteins, we found the proteins important for osteoblast differentiation, cellular adhesion, and extracellular matrix function, notably: connective tissue growth factor, desmoplakin, galectin-3, and cyclin-dependent kinase 6. The findings were confirmed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. We also investigated whether the mRNA transcripts correlate with the changes in protein levels by quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. In addition, the data was compared to our previous microarray analysis of hOB transcriptome. Taken together, this in-depth analysis delivers reliable data suggesting the importance of coculturing of hOBs and HUVECs in tissue engineering.
PXD008411	30126895	p62-Dependent Phase Separation of Patient-Derived KEAP1 Mutations and NRF2. 	Patient-derived KEAP1 superbinder mutants stabilize KEAP1 structure and sequester NRF2 in p62-dependent clusters	KEAP1, NRF2, clusters, lung cancer, mutations, p62, superbinders	Cancer-derived loss-of-function mutations in the KEAP1 tumor suppressor gene stabilize the NRF2 transcription factor, resulting in a prosurvival gene expression program that alters cellular metabolism and neutralizes oxidative stress. In a recent genotype-phenotype study, we classified 40% of KEAP1 mutations as ANCHOR mutants. By immunoprecipitation, these mutants bind more NRF2 than wild-type KEAP1 and ubiquitylate NRF2, but they are incapable of promoting NRF2 degradation. BioID-based protein interaction studies confirmed increased abundance of NRF2 within the KEAP1 ANCHOR mutant complexes, with no other statistically significant changes to the complexes. Discrete molecular dynamic simulation modeling and limited proteolysis suggest that the ANCHOR mutations stabilize residues in KEAP1 that contact NRF2. The modeling supports an intramolecular salt bridge between the R470C ANCHOR mutation and E493; mutation of the E493 residue confirmed the model, resulting in the ANCHOR phenotype. In live cells, the KEAP1 R320Q and R470C ANCHOR mutants colocalize with NRF2, p62/SQSTM1, and polyubiquitin in structured spherical droplets that rapidly fuse and dissolve. Transmission electron microscopy coupled with confocal fluorescent imaging revealed membraneless phase-separated biomolecular condensates. We present a model wherein ANCHOR mutations form p62-dependent biomolecular condensates that may represent a transitional state between impaired proteasomal degradation and autophagy.
PXD010207	30126924	TMEM41B is a novel regulator of autophagy and lipid mobilization. 	TMEM41B is a novel regulator of autophagy and lipid mobilization	autophagy/ contact sites/ CRISPR/ lipid droplets/ TMEM41B	Autophagy maintains cellular homeostasis by targeting damaged organelles, pathogens, or misfolded protein aggregates for lysosomal degradation. The autophagic process is initiated by the formation of autophagosomes, which can selectively enclose cargo via autophagy cargo receptors. A machinery of well-characterized autophagy-related proteins orchestrates the biogenesis of autophagosomes; however, the origin of the required membranes is incompletely understood. Here, we have applied sensitized pooled CRISPR screens and identify the uncharacterized transmembrane protein TMEM41B as a novel regulator of autophagy. In the absence of TMEM41B, autophagosome biogenesis is stalled, LC3 accumulates at WIPI2- and DFCP1-positive isolation membranes, and lysosomal flux of autophagy cargo receptors and intracellular bacteria is impaired. In addition to defective autophagy, TMEM41B knockout cells display significantly enlarged lipid droplets and reduced mobilization and beta-oxidation of fatty acids. Immunostaining and interaction proteomics data suggest that TMEM41B localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Taken together, we propose that TMEM41B is a novel ER-localized regulator of autophagosome biogenesis and lipid mobilization.
PXD010695	30126978	Characterization of the Sperm Proteome and Reproductive Outcomes with in Vitro, Fertilization after a Reduction in Male Ejaculatory Abstinence Period. 	Characterization of the Sperm Proteome and Reproductive Outcomes with in Vitro Fertilization after a Reduction in Male Ejaculatory Abstinence Period	IVF treatment, Sperm, ejaculatory abstinence, protein modifications, reproductive outcomes	Semen samples from men after a short ejaculatory abstinence show improved sperm quality and result in increased pregnancy rates, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Herein, we report that ejaculates from short (1-3 h) compared with long (3-7 days) periods of abstinence showed increases in motile sperm count, sperm vitality, normal sperm morphology, acrosome reaction capacity, total antioxidant capacity, sperm mitochondrial membrane potential, high DNA stainability, and a decrease in the sperm DNA fragmentation index (p, < 0.05). Sperm proteomic analysis showed 322 differentially expressed proteins (minimal fold change of +/-1.5 or greater and p, < 0.05), with 224 upregulated and 98 downregulated. These differentially expressed proteins are profoundly involved in specific cellular processes, such as motility and capacitation, oxidative stress, and metabolism. Interestingly, protein trimethyllysine modification was increased, and butyryllysine, propionyllysine, and malonyllysine modifications were decreased in ejaculates from a short versus, long abstinence (p, < 0.05). Finally, the rates of implantation, clinical pregnancy, and live births from in vitro, fertilization treatments were significantly increased in semen samples after a short abstinence. Our study provides preliminary mechanistic insights into improved sperm quality and pregnancy outcomes associated with spermatozoa retrieved after a short ejaculatory abstinence.
PXD006788	30127373	STAT3 associates with vacuolar H(+)-ATPase and regulates cytosolic and lysosomal pH. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of proteins interacting with STAT3	Stat3, co-immunoprecipitation	Dysregulated intracellular pH is emerging as a hallmark of cancer. In spite of their acidic environment and increased acid production, cancer cells maintain alkaline intracellular pH that promotes cancer progression by inhibiting apoptosis and increasing glycolysis, cell growth, migration, and invasion. Here we identify signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3) as a key factor in the preservation of alkaline cytosol. STAT3 associates with the vacuolar H(+)-ATPase in a coiled-coil domain-dependent manner and increases its activity in living cells and in vitro. Accordingly, STAT3 depletion disrupts intracellular proton equilibrium by decreasing cytosolic pH and increasing lysosomal pH, respectively. This dysregulation can be reverted by reconstitution with wild-type STAT3 or STAT3 mutants unable to activate target genes (Tyr705Phe and DNA-binding mutant) or to regulate mitochondrial respiration (Ser727Ala). Upon cytosolic acidification, STAT3 is transcriptionally inactivated and further recruited to lysosomal membranes to reestablish intracellular proton equilibrium. These data reveal STAT3 as a regulator of intracellular pH and, vice versa, intracellular pH as a regulator of STAT3 localization and activity.
PXD010245	30127427	Mononuclear phagocytes locally specify and adapt their phenotype in a multiple sclerosis model. 	Mononuclear phagocyte phenotypes in a multiple sclerosis model	Mononuclear pahgocytes, central nervous system, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, macrophage, microglia, multiple sclerosis	Mononuclear phagocytes are key regulators of both tissue damage and repair in neuroinflammatory conditions such as multiple sclerosis. To examine divergent phagocyte phenotypes in the inflamed CNS, we introduce an in vivo imaging approach that allows us to temporally and spatially resolve the evolution of phagocyte polarization in a murine model of multiple sclerosis. We show that the initial proinflammatory polarization of phagocytes is established after spinal cord entry and critically depends on the compartment they enter. Guided by signals from the CNS environment, individual phagocytes then switch their phenotype as lesions move from expansion to resolution. Our study thus provides a real-time analysis of the temporospatial determinants and regulatory principles of phagocyte specification in the inflamed CNS.
PXD009598	30130116	Deciphering the Dark Proteome: Use of the Testis and Characterization of Two Dark Proteins. 	Characterization of Two Unknown Proteins in the Human Testis	Dark Proteins, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, Testis, Unknown Proteins	For the C-HPP consortium, dark proteins include not only uPE1, but also missing proteins (MPs, PE2-4), smORFs, proteins from lncRNAs, and products from uncharacterized transcripts. Here, we investigated the expression of dark proteins in the human testis by combining public mRNA and protein expression data for several tissues and performing LC-MS/MS analysis of testis protein extracts. Most uncharacterized proteins are highly expressed in the testis. Thirty could be identified in our data set, of which two were selected for further analyses: (1) A0AOU1RQG5, a putative cancer/testis antigen specifically expressed in the testis, where it accumulates in the cytoplasm of elongated spermatids; and (2) PNMA6E, which is enriched in the testis, where it is found in the germ cell nuclei during most stages of spermatogenesis. Both proteins are coded on Chromosome X. Finally, we studied the expression of other dark proteins, uPE1 and MPs, in a series of human tissues. Most were highly expressed in the testis at both the mRNA and protein levels. The testis appears to be a relevant organ to study the dark proteome, which may have a function related to spermatogenesis and germ cell differentiation. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited with the ProteomeXchange Consortium under the data set identifier PXD009598.
PXD009524	30136313	DNA mismatch repair activity of MutLalpha is regulated by CK2-dependent phosphorylation of MLH1 (S477). 	DNA mismatch repair activity of MutLalpha is regulated by CK2-dependent phosphorylation of MLH1 (S477)	CK2, DNA mismatch repair, Lynch syndrome, MLH1, MutLalpha, phosphorylation	MutLalpha, a heterodimer consisting of MLH1 and PMS2, is a key player of DNA mismatch repair (MMR), yet little is known about its regulation. In this study, we used mass spectrometry to identify phosphorylated residues within MLH1 and PMS2. The most frequently detected phosphorylated amino acid was serine 477 of MLH1. Pharmacological treatment indicates that Casein kinase II (CK2) could be responsible for the phosphorylation of MLH1 at serine 477 in vivo. In vitro kinase assay verified MLH1 as a substrate of CK2. Most importantly, using in vitro MMR assay we could demonstrate that p-MLH1(S477) lost MMR activity. Moreover, we found that levels of p-MLH1(S477) varied during the cell cycle. In summary, we identified that phosphorylation of MLH1 by CK2 at amino acid position 477 can switch off MMR activity in vitro. Since CK2 is overexpressed in many tumors and is able to inactivate MMR, the new mechanism here described could have an important impact on tumors overactive in CK2.
PXD009001	30137231	Increased sensitivity with automated validation of XL-MS cleavable peptide crosslinks. 	XLinkProphet ReACT XL-MS -  Increased sensitivity with automated validation of XL-MS cleavable peptide crosslinks	Crosslink Standard Data ReACT Results, ProteomeXchange project tag: Reference	MOTIVATION: Peptides crosslinked with cleavable chemical crosslinkers are identified with mass spectrometry by independent database search of spectra associated with the two linked peptides. A major challenge is to combine together the evidence of the two peptides into an overall assessment of the two-peptide crosslink. RESULTS: Here, we describe software that models crosslink specific information to automatically validate XL-MS cleavable peptide crosslinks. Using a dataset of crosslinked protein mixtures, we demonstrate that it computes accurate and highly discriminating probabilities, enabling as many as 75% more identifications than was previously possible using only search scores and a predictable false discovery rate. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: XLinkProphet software is freely available on the web at http://brucelab.gs.washington.edu. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
PXD006358	30138317	Strap associates with Csde1 and affects expression of select Csde1-bound transcripts. 	Csde1 binds transcripts involved in protein homeostasis and controls their expression in erythropoiesis	Csde1, IBAQ, Label-free qauntification, RNA-binding protein, erythropoiesis, translation	Erythropoiesis is regulated at many levels, including control of mRNA translation. Changing environmental conditions, such as hypoxia or the availability of nutrients and growth factors, require a rapid response enacted by the enhanced or repressed translation of existing transcripts. Cold shock domain protein e1 (Csde1/Unr) is an RNA-binding protein required for erythropoiesis and strongly upregulated in erythroblasts relative to other hematopoietic progenitors. The aim of this study is to identify the Csde1-containing protein complexes and investigate their role in post-transcriptional expression control of Csde1-bound transcripts. We show that Serine/Threonine kinase receptor-associated protein (Strap/Unrip), was the protein most strongly associated with Csde1 in erythroblasts. Strap is a WD40 protein involved in signaling and RNA splicing, but its role when associated with Csde1 is unknown. Reduced expression of Strap did not alter the pool of transcripts bound by Csde1. Instead, it altered the mRNA and/or protein expression of several Csde1-bound transcripts that encode for proteins essential for translational regulation during hypoxia, such as Hmbs, eIF4g3 and Pabpc4. Also affected by Strap knockdown were Vim, a Gata-1 target crucial for erythrocyte enucleation, and Elavl1, which stabilizes Gata-1 mRNA. The major cellular processes affected by both Csde1 and Strap were ribosome function and cell cycle control.
PXD010177	30139799	Reconstitution of mammalian cleavage factor II involved in 3' processing of mRNA precursors. 	Reconstitution of mammalian Cleavage Factor II	DSBU, RNA processing	Cleavage factor II (CF II) is a poorly characterized component of the multiprotein complex catalyzing 3' cleavage and polyadenylation of mammalian mRNA precursors. We have reconstituted CF II as a heterodimer of hPcf11 and hClp1. The heterodimer is active in partially reconstituted cleavage reactions, whereas hClp1 by itself is not. Pcf11 moderately stimulates the RNA 5' kinase activity of hClp1; the kinase activity is dispensable for RNA cleavage. CF II binds RNA with nanomolar affinity. Binding is mediated mostly by the two zinc fingers in the C-terminal region of hPcf11. RNA is bound without pronounced sequence-specificity, but extended G-rich sequences appear to be preferred. We discuss the possibility that CF II contributes to the recognition of cleavage/polyadenylation substrates through interaction with G-rich far-downstream sequence elements.
PXD009570	30139998	Polycomb complexes associate with enhancers and promote oncogenic transcriptional programs in cancer through multiple mechanisms. 	LFQMS  of RING2 (RING1B, RNF2) immunoprecipitation from MDA-MB-231 and T47D breast cancer cells	LC-MSMS LFQMS IP-MS AP-MS RING2	Polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1) plays essential roles in cell fate decisions and development. However, its role in cancer is less well understood. Here, we show that RNF2, encoding RING1B, and canonical PRC1 (cPRC1) genes are overexpressed in breast cancer. We find that cPRC1 complexes functionally associate with ERalpha and its pioneer factor FOXA1 in ER+ breast cancer cells, and with BRD4 in triple-negative breast cancer cells (TNBC). While cPRC1 still exerts its repressive function, it is also recruited to oncogenic active enhancers. RING1B regulates enhancer activity and gene transcription not only by promoting the expression of oncogenes but also by regulating chromatin accessibility. Functionally, RING1B plays a divergent role in ER+ and TNBC metastasis. Finally, we show that concomitant recruitment of RING1B to active enhancers occurs across multiple cancers, highlighting an under-explored function of cPRC1 in regulating oncogenic transcriptional programs in cancer.
PXD009234	30140170	Global phosphoproteomic analysis identifies SRMS-regulated secondary signaling intermediates. 	Global phosphoproteomic analysis identifies SRMS-regulated signaling intermediates	BRK, FRK, PTK5, PTK6, PTK70, SRMS, Src, non-receptor tyrosine kinase, phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: The non-receptor tyrosine kinase, SRMS (Src-related kinase lacking C-terminal regulatory tyrosine and N-terminal myristoylation sites) is a member of the BRK family kinases (BFKs) which represents an evolutionarily conserved relative of the Src family kinases (SFKs). Tyrosine kinases are known to regulate a number of cellular processes and pathways via phosphorylating substrate proteins directly and/or by partaking in signaling cross-talks leading to the indirect modulation of various signaling intermediates. In a previous study, we profiled the tyrosine-phosphoproteome of SRMS and identified multiple candidate substrates of the kinase. The broader cellular signaling intermediates of SRMS are unknown. METHODS: In order to uncover the broader SRMS-regulated phosphoproteome and identify the SRMS-regulated indirect signaling intermediates, we performed label-free global phosphoproteomics analysis on cells expressing wild-type SRMS. Using computational database searching and bioinformatics analyses we characterized the dataset. RESULTS: Our analyses identified 60 hyperphosphorylated (phosphoserine/phosphothreonine) proteins mapped from 140 hyperphosphorylated peptides. Bioinfomatics analyses identified a number of significantly enriched biological and cellular processes among which DNA repair pathways were found to be upregulated while apoptotic pathways were found to be downregulated. Analyses of motifs derived from the upregulated phosphosites identified Casein kinase 2 alpha (CK2alpha) as one of the major potential kinases contributing to the SRMS-dependent indirect regulation of signaling intermediates. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, our phosphoproteomics analyses identified serine/threonine phosphorylation dynamics as important secondary events of the SRMS-regulated phosphoproteome with implications in the regulation of cellular and biological processes.
PXD010828	30140941	Changes in proteome solubility indicate widespread proteostatic disruption in mouse models of neurodegenerative disease. 	Neurodegenerative disease mouse model SDS-insoluble proteins	Protein Misfolding, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), transgenic mice	The deposition of pathologic misfolded proteins in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, frontotemporal dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is hypothesized to burden protein homeostatic (proteostatic) machinery, potentially leading to insufficient capacity to maintain the proteome. This hypothesis has been supported by previous work in our laboratory, as evidenced by the perturbation of cytosolic protein solubility in response to amyloid plaques in a mouse model of Alzheimer's amyloidosis. In the current study, we demonstrate changes in proteome solubility are a common pathology to mouse models of neurodegenerative disease. Pathological accumulations of misfolded tau, alpha-synuclein and mutant superoxide dismutase 1 in CNS tissues of transgenic mice were associated with changes in the solubility of hundreds of CNS proteins in each model. We observed that changes in proteome solubility were progressive and, using the rTg4510 model of inducible tau pathology, demonstrated that these changes were dependent upon sustained expression of the primary pathologic protein. In all of the models examined, changes in proteome solubility were robust, easily detected, and provided a sensitive indicator of proteostatic disruption. Interestingly, a subset of the proteins that display a shift towards insolubility were common between these different models, suggesting that a specific subset of the proteome is vulnerable to proteostatic disruption. Overall, our data suggest that neurodegenerative proteinopathies modeled in mice impose a burden on the proteostatic network that diminishes the ability of neural cells to prevent aberrant conformational changes that alter the solubility of hundreds of abundant cellular proteins.
PXD009010	30141211	Incomplete Differentiation of Engrafted Bone Marrow Endothelial Progenitor Cells Initiates Hepatic Fibrosis in the Rat. 	Identification of the proteins secreted by normal and cirrhotic LSECs	LSECs, MS, shotgun proteomics	Normal liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) promote quiescence of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Prior to fibrosis, LSECs undergo capillarization, which is permissive for HSC activation, the proximate event in hepatic fibrosis. The aims of this study were to elucidate the nature of and mechanisms leading to capillarization and to determine how LSECs promote HSC quiescence and why "capillarized LSECs" lose control of HSC activation. The contribution of bone marrow (BM) endothelial progenitor cells to capillarization was identified using rats transplanted with transgenic enhanced green fluorescent protein-positive BM. Shotgun proteomics and informatics were used to identify the LSEC mediator that maintains HSC quiescence. The study shows that capillarization is due to repair of injured LSECs by BM endothelial progenitors that engraft but fail to fully mature. Lack of maturation of BM-derived LSECs is due to cell autonomous pathways that inhibit the nitric oxide pathway. We identify heparin binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF) as the signal that maintains HSC quiescence and show that immature LSECs are unable to shed HB-EGF from the cytosolic membrane. Conclusion: Chronic liver injury can recruit BM progenitors of LSECs that engraft and fail to fully differentiate, which creates an environment that is permissive for hepatic fibrosis; elucidation of these early events in the fibrotic process will provide targets for treatment of hepatic fibrosis.
PXD010336	30141336	Integrated Dissection of Cysteine Oxidative Post-translational Modification Proteome During Cardiac Hypertrophy. 	Integrated Dissection of Cysteine Oxidative Modification Proteome During Cardiac Hypertrophy	biotin switch, cardiac hypertrophy, cysteine oxidation, cysteine sulfinylation, cysteine sulfonylation, dimethyl labeling, heart, quantitative proteomics, reversible cysteine oxidation	Cysteine oxidative modification of cellular proteins is crucial for many aspects of cardiac hypertrophy development. However, integrated dissection of multiple types of cysteine oxidative post-translational modifications (O-PTM) of proteomes in cardiac hypertrophy is currently missing. Here we developed a novel discovery platform that encompasses a customized biotin switch-based quantitative proteomics pipeline and an advanced analytic workflow to comprehensively profile the landscape of cysteine O-PTM in an ISO-induced cardiac hypertrophy mouse model. Specifically, we identified a total of 1655 proteins containing 3324 oxidized cysteine sites by at least one of the following three modifications: reversible cysteine O-PTM, cysteine sulfinylation (CysSO2H), and cysteine sulfonylation (CysSO3H). Analyzing the hypertrophy signatures that are reproducibly discovered from this computational workflow unveiled four biological processes with increased cysteine O-PTM. Among them, protein phosphorylation, creatine metabolism, and response to elevated Ca(2+) pathways exhibited an elevation of cysteine O-PTM in early stages, whereas glucose metabolism enzymes were increasingly modified in later stages, illustrating a temporal regulatory map in cardiac hypertrophy. Our cysteine O-PTM platform depicts a dynamic and integrated landscape of the cysteine oxidative proteome, through the extracted molecular signatures, and provides critical mechanistic insights in cardiac hypertrophy. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010336.
PXD009914	30143613	The dual methyltransferase METTL13 targets N terminus and Lys55 of eEF1A and modulates codon-specific translation rates. 	METTL13 modulates mRNA translation through methylation of eEF1A at Lys55 and the N-terminus, part 2	PTM, eEF1A, methylation	Eukaryotic elongation factor 1 alpha (eEF1A) delivers aminoacyl-tRNA to the ribosome and thereby plays a key role in protein synthesis. Human eEF1A is subject to extensive post-translational methylation, but several of the responsible enzymes remain unknown. Using a wide range of experimental approaches, we here show that human methyltransferase (MTase)-like protein 13 (METTL13) contains two distinct MTase domains targeting the N terminus and Lys55 of eEF1A, respectively. Our biochemical and structural analyses provide detailed mechanistic insights into recognition of the eEF1A N terminus by METTL13. Moreover, through ribosome profiling, we demonstrate that loss of METTL13 function alters translation dynamics and results in changed translation rates of specific codons. In summary, we here unravel the function of a human MTase, showing that it methylates eEF1A and modulates mRNA translation in a codon-specific manner.
PXD005308	30145203	Integrated proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of cisplatin-sensitive and resistant bladder cancer cells reveal CDK2 network as a key therapeutic target. 	Integrated Analysis of Global Proteome and Phosphoproteome in Cisplatin Resistant Bladder Cancer Cell Revealed the Molecular Signature Predictive to Patient Survival	Phosphoproteomics, biological network, bladder cancer, cisplatin resistance, molecular signature	BACKGROUND: Cisplatin-based chemotherapy is currently part of the standard of care for bladder cancer (BC). Unfortunately, some patients respond poorly to chemotherapy and have acquired or developed resistance. The molecular mechanisms underlying this resistance remain unclear. Here, we introduce a multidimensional proteomic analysis of a cisplatin-resistant BC model that provides different levels of protein information, including that of the global proteome and phosphoproteome. METHODS: To characterize the global proteome and phosphoproteome in cisplatin-resistant BC cells, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry experiments combined with comprehensive bioinformatics analysis were performed. Perturbed expression and phosphorylation levels of key kinases associated with cisplatin resistance were further studied using various cell biology assays, including western blot analysis. RESULTS: Analyses of protein expression and phosphorylation identified significantly altered proteins, which were also EGF-dependent and independent. This suggests that protein phosphorylation plays a significant role in cisplatin-resistant BC. Additional network analysis of significantly altered proteins revealed CDK2, CHEK1, and ERBB2 as central regulators mediating cisplatin resistance. In addition to this, we identified the CDK2 network, which consists of CDK2 and its 5 substrates, as being significantly associated with poor survival after cisplatin chemotherapy. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these findings potentially provide a novel way of classifying higher-risk patients and may guide future research in developing therapeutic targets.
PXD010183	30145211	Involvement of an Orphan Transporter, SLC22A18, in Cell Growth and Drug Resistance of Human Breast Cancer MCF7 Cells. 	Cytosolic fraction of MCF7 cells, SLC22A18 KD	Cytosol, MCF7, SLC22A18, SWATH-MS	The SLC22A18 gene, which encodes an orphan transporter, is located at the 11p15.5 imprinted region, an important tumor suppressor gene region. However, the role of SLC22A18 in tumor suppression remains unclear. Here, we investigated the involvement of SLC22A18 in cell growth, invasion, and drug resistance of MCF7 human breast cancer cell line. Western blot analysis indicated that SLC22A18 is predominantly expressed at intracellular organelle membranes. Quantitative proteomics showed that knockdown of SLC22A18 significantly altered the expression of 578 (31.0%) of 1867 proteins identified, including proteins related to malignancy and poor prognosis of breast cancer. SLC22A18 knockdown (1) increased MCF7 cell growth concomitantly with a >7-fold increase of annexin A8 (involved in cell growth and migration; a predictor of poor prognosis), (2) induced spherical morphology of MCF7 cells concomitantly with a nearly 3-fold increase of CD44 (involved in regulation of malignant phenotypes), and (3) increased chemosensitivity to vinca alkaloids concomitantly with a >80% reduction of doublecortin-like kinase 1 (involved in regulation of microtubule polymerization). Our results suggest that SLC22A18 may act as a tumor suppressor by regulating the expression levels of cell growth-related proteins, and vinca alkaloids might show therapeutic efficacy against low-SLC22A18-expressing breast cancer.
PXD010222	30146169	Chemical Crosslinking Mass Spectrometry Reveals the Conformational Landscape of the Activation Helix of PPARgamma; a Model for Ligand-Dependent Antagonism. 	Chemical crosslinking mass spectrometry reveals the conformational landscape of the activation helix of PPARgamma; a model for ligand-dependent antagonism	XL-MS	Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are pharmacological targets for the treatment of metabolic disorders. Previously, we demonstrated the anti-diabetic effects of SR1664, a PPARgamma modulator lacking classical transcriptional agonism, despite its poor pharmacokinetic properties. Here, we report identification of the antagonist SR11023 as a potent insulin sensitizer with significant plasma exposure following oral administration. To determine the structural mechanism of ligand-dependent antagonism of PPARgamma, we employed an integrated approach combining solution-phase biophysical techniques to monitor activation helix (helix 12) conformational dynamics. While informative on receptor dynamics, hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance data provide limited information regarding the specific orientations of structural elements. In contrast, label-free quantitative crosslinking mass spectrometry revealed that binding of SR11023 to PPARgamma enhances interaction with co-repressor motifs by pushing H12 away from the agonist active conformation toward the H2-H3 loop region (i.e., the omega loop), revealing the molecular mechanism for active antagonism of PPARgamma.
PXD006503	30146486	Impairment of Angiogenesis by Fatty Acid Synthase Inhibition Involves mTOR Malonylation. 	NOVEL ROLE OF FATTY ACID SYNTHASE IN ANGIOGENESIS THROUGH MODULATION OF LYSINE MALONYLATION OF MTOR	endothelial cell metabolism, fatty acid synthesis, protein malonylation	The role of fatty acid synthesis in endothelial cells (ECs) remains incompletely characterized. We report that fatty acid synthase knockdown (FASN(KD)) in ECs impedes vessel sprouting by reducing proliferation. Endothelial loss of FASN impaired angiogenesis in vivo, while FASN blockade reduced pathological ocular neovascularization, at >10-fold lower doses than used for anti-cancer treatment. Impaired angiogenesis was not due to energy stress, redox imbalance, or palmitate depletion. Rather, FASN(KD) elevated malonyl-CoA levels, causing malonylation (a post-translational modification) of mTOR at lysine 1218 (K1218). mTOR K-1218 malonylation impaired mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) kinase activity, thereby reducing phosphorylation of downstream targets (p70S6K/4EBP1). Silencing acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 (an enzyme producing malonyl-CoA) normalized malonyl-CoA levels and reactivated mTOR in FASN(KD) ECs. Mutagenesis unveiled the importance of mTOR K1218 malonylation for angiogenesis. This study unveils a novel role of FASN in metabolite signaling that contributes to explaining the anti-angiogenic effect of FASN blockade.
PXD008475	30148364	Systematic Identification and Analysis of Lysine Succinylation in Strawberry Stigmata. 	Systematic Identification and Analysis of Lysine Succinylation in Strawberry Stigmata	AP2, PTM, clathrin, strawberry stigmata, succinylation	The various post-translational modifications (PTMs) of plant proteins have important regulatory roles in development. We therefore examined various modified proteins from strawberry stigmata and found that succinylation of lysine residues was the most abundant type of modification. We then subjected proteins from strawberry stigmata to an efficient enrichment method for succinylated peptides and identified 200 uniquely succinylated lysines (Suks) in 116 proteins. A bioinformatics analysis revealed that these proteins are involved in important biological processes, including stress responses, vesicular transport, and energy metabolism. Proteomics, combined with immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting, revealed an obvious increase in succinylation of the assembly polypeptide 2 (AP2) and clathrin from 0.5 to 2 h after pollination, suggesting that succinylation is involved in the recognition of pollen-stigma signaling substances and vesicular transport. These results suggest that AP2/clathrin-mediated vesicular transport processes are regulated by lysine succinylation during pollen recognition.
PXD008987	30148835	Chemoproteomic identification of molecular targets of antifungal prototypes, thiosemicarbazide and a camphene derivative of thiosemicarbazide, in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. 	Chemoproteomic identification of molecular targets of antifungal prototypes, thiosemicarbazide and a camphene derivative of thiosemicarbazide, in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis	Paracoccidioidomycosis, camphene, chemoproteomic, thiosemicarbazide	Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM) is a neglected human systemic disease caused by species of the genus Paracoccidioides. The disease attacks the host's lungs and may disseminate to many other organs. Treatment involves amphotericin B, sulfadiazine, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole, or fluconazole. The treatment duration is usually long, from 6 months to 2 years, and many adverse effects may occur in relation to the treatment; co-morbidities and poor treatment adherence have been noted. Therefore, the discovery of more effective and less toxic drugs is needed. Thiosemicarbazide (TSC) and a camphene derivative of thiosemicarbazide (TSC-C) were able to inhibit P. brasiliensis growth at a low dosage and were not toxic to fibroblast cells. In order to investigate the mode of action of those compounds, we used a chemoproteomic approach to determine which fungal proteins were bound to each of these compounds. The compounds were able to inhibit the activities of the enzyme formamidase and interfered in P. brasiliensis dimorphism. In comparison with the transcriptomic and proteomic data previously obtained by our group, we determined that TSC and TSC-C were multitarget compounds that exerted effects on the electron-transport chain and cell cycle regulation, increased ROS formation, inhibited proteasomes and peptidases, modulated glycolysis, lipid, protein and carbohydrate metabolisms, and caused suppressed the mycelium to yeast transition.
PXD010451	30149710	Deciphering the Molecular Diversity of an Ant Venom Peptidome through a Venomics Approach. 	Venomics  reveals an ant venom peptidome	Ant, Peptides, Venom	The peptide toxins in the venoms of small invertebrates such as stinging ants have rarely been studied due to the limited amount of venom available per individual. We used a venomics strategy to identify the molecular diversity of the venom peptidome for the myrmicine ant Tetramorium bicarinatum. The methodology included (i) peptidomics, in which the venom peptides are sequenced through a de novo mass spectrometry approach or Edman degradation; (ii) transcriptomics, based on RT-PCR-cloning and DNA sequencing; and (iii) the data mining of the RNA-seq in the available transcriptome. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed about 2800 peptides in the venom. However, the de novo sequencing suggested that most of these peptides arose from processing or the artifactual fragmentations of full-length mature peptides. These peptides, called "myrmicitoxins", are produced by a limited number of genes. Thirty-seven peptide precursors were identified and classified into three superfamilies. These precursors are related to pilosulin, secapin or are new ant venom prepro-peptides. The mature myrmicitoxins display sequence homologies with antimicrobial, cytolytic and neurotoxic peptides. The venomics strategy enabled several post-translational modifications in some peptides such as O-glycosylation to be identified. This study provides novel insights into the molecular diversity and evolution of ant venoms.
PXD004326	30150368	N-terminal Acetylation Levels Are Maintained During Acetyl-CoA Deficiency in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Metabolic regulation of N-terminal acetylation in yeast	Acetyl coenzyme A, Metabolism, N-terminal Acetylation, N-terminomics, Saccharomyces cerevisiae	N-terminal acetylation (Nt-acetylation) is a highly abundant protein modification in eukaryotes and impacts a wide range of cellular processes, including protein quality control and stress tolerance. Despite its prevalence, the mechanisms regulating Nt-acetylation are still nebulous. Here, we present the first global study of Nt-acetylation in yeast cells as they progress to stationary phase in response to nutrient starvation. Surprisingly, we found that yeast cells maintain their global Nt-acetylation levels upon nutrient depletion, despite a marked decrease in acetyl-CoA levels. We further observed two distinct sets of protein N termini that display differential and opposing Nt-acetylation behavior upon nutrient starvation, indicating a dynamic process. The first protein cluster was enriched for annotated N termini showing increased Nt-acetylation in stationary phase compared with exponential growth phase. The second protein cluster was conversely enriched for alternative nonannotated N termini (i.e. N termini indicative of shorter N-terminal proteoforms) and, like histones, showed reduced acetylation levels in stationary phase when acetyl-CoA levels were low. Notably, the degree of Nt-acetylation of Pcl8, a negative regulator of glycogen biosynthesis and two components of the pre-ribosome complex (Rsa3 and Rpl7a) increased during starvation. Moreover, the steady-state levels of these proteins were regulated both by starvation and NatA activity. In summary, this study represents the first comprehensive analysis of metabolic regulation of Nt-acetylation and reveals that specific, rather than global, Nt-acetylation events are subject to metabolic regulation.
PXD010782	30150413	BRAF/MAPK and GSK3 signaling converges to control MITF nuclear export. 	BRAF/MAPK and GSK3 signaling converges to control MITF nuclear export	MITF|melanoma|MAPK|nuclear export|GSK3, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP)	The close integration of the MAPK, PI3K, and WNT signaling pathways underpins much of development and is deregulated in cancer. In principle, combinatorial posttranslational modification of key lineage-specific transcription factors would be an effective means to integrate critical signaling events. Understanding how this might be achieved is central to deciphering the impact of microenvironmental cues in development and disease. The microphthalmia-associated transcription factor MITF plays a crucial role in the development of melanocytes, the retinal pigment epithelium, osteoclasts, and mast cells and acts as a lineage survival oncogene in melanoma. MITF coordinates survival, differentiation, cell-cycle progression, cell migration, metabolism, and lysosome biogenesis. However, how the activity of this key transcription factor is controlled remains poorly understood. Here, we show that GSK3, downstream from both the PI3K and Wnt pathways, and BRAF/MAPK signaling converges to control MITF nuclear export. Phosphorylation of the melanocyte MITF-M isoform in response to BRAF/MAPK signaling primes for phosphorylation by GSK3, a kinase inhibited by both PI3K and Wnt signaling. Dual phosphorylation, but not monophosphorylation, then promotes MITF nuclear export by activating a previously unrecognized hydrophobic export signal. Nonmelanocyte MITF isoforms exhibit poor regulation by MAPK signaling, but instead their export is controlled by mTOR. We uncover here an unanticipated mode of MITF regulation that integrates the output of key developmental and cancer-associated signaling pathways to gate MITF flux through the import-export cycle. The results have significant implications for our understanding of melanoma progression and stem cell renewal.
PXD008858	30150478	Argentilactone Molecular Targets in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis Identified by Chemoproteomics. 	Argentilactone molecular targets in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis identified by chemoproteomics	Paracoccidioides, antifungal, argentilactone, chemoproteomic, targets	Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM) is the cause of many deaths from systemic mycoses. The etiological agents of PCM belong to the Paracoccidioides genus, which is restricted to Latin America. The infection is acquired through the inhalation of conidia that primarily lodge in the lungs and may disseminate to other organs and tissues. The treatment for PCM is commonly performed via the administration of antifungals such as amphotericin B, co-trimoxazole, and itraconazole. The antifungal toxicity and side effects, in addition to their long treatment times, have stimulated research for new bioactive compounds. Argentilactone is a compound that was isolated from the Brazilian savanna plant Hyptis ovalifolia, and it has been suggested to be a potent antifungal, inhibiting the dimorphism of P. brasiliensis and the enzymatic activity of isocitrate lyase, a key enzyme of the glyoxylate cycle. This work was developed due to the importance of elucidating the putative mode of action of argentilactone. The chemoproteomics approach via affinity chromatography was the methodology used to explore the interactions between P. brasiliensis proteins and argentilactone. A total of 109 proteins were identified and classified functionally. The most representative functional categories were related to amino acid metabolism, energy, and detoxification. Argentilactone inhibited the enzymatic activity of malate dehydrogenase, citrate synthase, and pyruvate dehydrogenase. Furthermore, argentilactone induces the production of reactive oxygen species and inhibits the biosynthesis of cell wall polymers.
PXD010470	30150748	Revealing the mechanisms of membrane protein export by virulence-associated bacterial secretion systems. 	SseF-SscB Interaction -  Revealing the mechanisms of membrane protein export by virulence-associated bacterial secretion systems	Salmonella, SscB, SseF, Type III secretion systems, in vivo photocrosslinking, pBpa	Many bacteria export effector proteins fulfilling their function in membranes of a eukaryotic host. These effector membrane proteins appear to contain signals for two incompatible bacterial secretion pathways in the same protein: a specific export signal, as well as transmembrane segments that one would expect to mediate targeting to the bacterial inner membrane. Here, we show that the transmembrane segments of effector proteins of type III and type IV secretion systems indeed integrate in the membrane as required in the eukaryotic host, but that their hydrophobicity in most instances is just below the threshold required for mediating targeting to the bacterial inner membrane. Furthermore, we show that binding of type III secretion chaperones to both the effector's chaperone-binding domain and adjacent hydrophobic transmembrane segments also prevents erroneous targeting. These results highlight the evolution of a fine discrimination between targeting pathways that is critical for the virulence of many bacterial pathogens.
PXD005934	30151425	A molecular mechanism for the enzymatic methylation of nitrogen atoms within peptide bonds. 	Enzymatic activation of the nitrogen atom in peptide bonds	Methylation, amide chemistry and biochemistry, enzyme catalysis	The peptide bond, the defining feature of proteins, governs peptide chemistry by abolishing nucleophilicity of the nitrogen. This and the planarity of the peptide bond arise from the delocalization of the lone pair of electrons on the nitrogen atom into the adjacent carbonyl. While chemical methylation of an amide bond uses a strong base to generate the imidate, OphA, the precursor protein of the fungal peptide macrocycle omphalotin A, self-hypermethylates amides at pH 7 using S-adenosyl methionine (SAM) as cofactor. The structure of OphA reveals a complex catenane-like arrangement in which the peptide substrate is clamped with its amide nitrogen aligned for nucleophilic attack on the methyl group of SAM. Biochemical data and computational modeling suggest a base-catalyzed reaction with the protein stabilizing the reaction intermediate. Backbone N-methylation of peptides enhances their protease resistance and membrane permeability, a property that holds promise for applications to medicinal chemistry.
PXD006004	30152752	Arabidopsis RNA processing factor SERRATE regulates the transcription of intronless genes. 	RNA polymerase II Immunoprecipitation from Arabidopsis LC-MSMS	Pol II	Intron splicing increases proteome complexity, promotes RNA stability, and enhances transcription. However, introns and the concomitant need for splicing extend the time required for gene expression and can cause an undesirable delay in the activation of genes. Here, we show that the plant microRNA processing factor SERRATE (SE) plays an unexpected and pivotal role in the regulation of intronless genes. Arabidopsis SE associated with more than 1000, mainly intronless, genes in a transcription-dependent manner. Chromatin-bound SE liaised with paused and elongating polymerase II complexes and promoted their association with intronless target genes. Our results indicate that stress-responsive genes contain no or few introns, which negatively affects their expression strength, but that some genes circumvent this limitation via a novel SE-dependent transcriptional activation mechanism. Transcriptome analysis of a Drosophila mutant defective in ARS2, the metazoan homologue of SE, suggests that SE/ARS2 function in regulating intronless genes might be conserved across kingdoms.
PXD009537	30153513	Proteomic comparison of selective breeding and growth hormone transgenesis in fish: Unique pathways to enhanced growth. 	Salmon fast growing muscle LC-MSMS	Salmon, fast growth, muscle, teleost	In fish used for food production and scientific research, fast growth can be achieved via selective breeding or induced instantaneously via growth hormone (GH) transgenesis (GHT). The proteomic basis for these distinct routes towards a similar higher phenotype remains uncharacterized, as are associated implications for health parameters. We addressed this knowledge gap using skeletal muscle proteomics in coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch), hypothesising that i) selective breeding and GHT are underpinned by both parallel and unique changes in growth systems, and ii) rapidly-growing fish strains have lowered scope to allocate resources towards immune function. Quantitative profiling of GHT and growth-selected strains was done in comparison to wild-type after injection with PBS (control) or Poly I:C (to mimic infection). We identified remodelling of the muscle proteome in each growth-enhanced strain that was strikingly non-overlapping. GHT was characterized by focal upregulation of systems driving protein synthesis, while the growth-selected fish presented a larger and more diverse set of changes, consistent with complex alterations to many metabolic and cellular pathways. Poly I:C had little detectable effect on the muscle proteome. This study demonstrates that distinct proteome profiles can explain outwardly similar enhanced growth phenotypes, improving our understanding of growth mechanisms in anthropogenic animal strains. SIGNIFICANCE: This work provides the first proteomic insights into mechanisms underpinning different anthropogenic routes to rapid growth in salmon. High-throughput proteomic profiling was used to reveal changes supporting enhanced growth, comparing skeletal muscle of growth hormone transgenic (GHT) and selectively-bred salmon strains with their wild-type counterparts. Contrasting past mRNA-level comparisons of the same fish strains, our data reveals a surprisingly substantial proteomic divergence between the GHT and selectively bred strains. The findings demonstrate that many unique molecular mechanisms underlie growth-enhanced phenotypes in different types of fish strain used for food production and scientific research.
PXD009174	30153514	Integrated proteomic analysis of tumor necrosis factor alpha and interleukin 1beta-induced endothelial inflammation. 	Integrated proteomic analysis of Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha and Interleukin 1 beta-induced endothelial inflammation	Endothelium, IL-1beta, TNFalpha, cell surface proteomics, inflammation, phosphoproteomics, time-resolved	The vascular endothelium provides a unique interaction plane for plasma proteins and leukocytes in inflammation. The pro-inflammatory cytokines Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha (TNFalpha) and interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta) have a profound effect on endothelial cells, which includes increased levels of adhesion molecules and a disrupted barrier function. To assess the endothelial response to these cytokines at the protein level, we evaluated changes in the whole proteome, cell surface proteome and phosphoproteome after 24 h of cytokine treatment. The effects of TNFalpha and IL-1beta on endothelial cells were strikingly similar and included changes in proteins not previously associated with endothelial inflammation. Temporal profiling revealed time-dependent proteomic changes, including a limited number of early responsive proteins such as adhesion receptors ICAM1 and SELE. In addition, this approach uncovered a greater number of late responsive proteins, including proteins related to self-antigen peptide presentation, and a transient increase in ferritin. Peptide-based cell surface proteomics revealed extensive changes at the cell surface, which were in agreement with the whole proteome. In addition, site-specific changes within ITGA5 and ICAM1 were detected. Combined, our integrated proteomic data provide detailed information on endothelial inflammation, emphasize the role of the extracellular matrix therein, and include potential targets for therapeutic intervention. SIGNIFICANCE: Pro-inflammatory cytokines induce the expression of cell adhesion molecules in vascular endothelial cells. These molecules mediate the adhesion and migration of immune cells across the vessel wall, which is a key process to resolve infections in the underlying tissue. Dysregulation of endothelial inflammation can contribute to vascular diseases and the vascular endothelium is therefore an attractive target to control inflammation. Current strategies targeting endothelial adhesion molecules, including PECAM, CD99, ICAM1 and VCAM1 do not completely prevent transmigration. To identify additional therapeutic targets, we mapped the endothelial proteome after pro-inflammatory cytokine treatment. In addition to the whole proteome, we assessed the surface proteome to focus on cell adhesion molecules, and the phosphoproteome to uncover protein activation states. Here, we present an integrated overview of affected processes which further improves our understanding of endothelial inflammation and may eventually aid in therapeutic intervention of imbalanced inflammation.
PXD009766	30154156	Clinical Proteomics of Breast Cancer Reveals a Novel Layer of Breast Cancer Classification. 	Clinical Proteomics of Breast Cancer Unravels a Novel Layer of Breast Cancer Classification	LC-MS, breast cancer classification, breast cancer subtypes	Breast cancer classification has been the focus of numerous worldwide efforts, analyzing the molecular basis of breast cancer subtypes and aiming to associate them with clinical outcome and to improve the current diagnostic routine. Genomic and transcriptomic profiles of breast cancer have been well established, however the proteomic contribution to these profiles has yet to be elucidated. In this work, we utilized mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis on more than 130 clinical breast samples to demonstrate intertumor heterogeneity across three breast cancer subtypes and healthy tissue. Unsupervised analysis identified four proteomic clusters, among them, one that represents a novel luminal subtype characterized by increased PI3K signaling. This subtype was further validated using an independent protein-based dataset, but not in two independent transcriptome cohorts. These results demonstrate the importance of deep proteomic analysis, which may affect cancer treatment decision making.Significance: These findings utilize extensive proteomics to identify a novel luminal breast cancer subtype, highlighting the added value of clinical proteomics in breast cancer to identify unique features not observable by genomic approaches. Cancer Res; 78(20); 6001-10. (c)2018 AACR.
PXD009515	30156103	MT-MAMS: Protein Methyltransferase Motif Analysis by Mass Spectrometry. 	MT-MAMS: protein methyltransferase motif analysis by mass spectrometry	Methylation, methyltransferase, motif	Protein methyltransferases often recognize their substrates through linear sequence motifs. The determination of these motifs is critical to understand methyltransferase mechanism, function, and drug targeting. Here we describe MT-MAMS (methyltransferase motif analysis by mass spectrometry), a quantitative approach to characterize methyltransferase substrate recognition motifs. In MT-MAMS, peptide sets are synthesized which contain all amino acid substitutions at single positions within a template sequence. These are then incubated with the methyltransferase of interest in the presence of deuterated S-adenosyl methionine (D3-AdoMet). The use of this heavy methyl donor gives unique mass shifts to methylated peptides, allowing their unambiguous quantification by mass spectrometry. The stoichiometry of methylation resulting from each substitution is then derived, and finally the methyltransferase substrate recognition motif is generated. We validated MT-MAMS by application to lysine methyltransferase G9a, generating the substrate recognition motif (TKRN)-(A > RS > G)-(R >> K)-K-(STRCKMAQHG)-Phi; this is highly similar to that previously determined by peptide arrays. We then determined the recognition motif of yeast lysine elongation factor methyltransferase 1 (Efm1) to be (Y > FW)-K-^P-G-G-Phi. This is a new type of lysine methyltransferase recognition motif that only contains noncharged residues, excluding the target lysine. We further determined recognition motifs of major yeast and human arginine methyltransferases Hmt1 and PRMT1, revealing them to be ^(DE)-^(DE)-R-(G >> A)-(GN > RAW)-(FYW > ILKHM) and ^(DE)-^(DE)-R-(G >> N)-(GR > ANK)-(K > YHMFILW), respectively. These motifs expand significantly on the canonical RGG recognition motif and include the negative specificity of these enzymes, a feature unique to MT-MAMS. Finally, we show that MT-MAMS can be used to generate insights into the processivity of protein methyltransferases.
PXD010315	30156851	Improving Fractionation of Human Milk Proteins through Calcium Phosphate Coprecipitation and Their Rapid Characterization by Capillary Electrophoresis. 	Improving fractionation of human milk proteins through calcium phosphate co-precipitation and their rapid characterization by capillary electrophoresis	calcium phosphate fractionation, capillary electrophoresis, fraction collection, human milk caseins, human milk whey proteins	This work describes a simple sample pretreatment method for the fractionation of human milk proteins (into their two main groups, whey and caseins) prior to their analysis. The protein-extraction protocol is based on the addition of calcium phosphate to nonadjusted pH human milk. The combination of calcium ions with phosphate results in an effective coprecipitation of caseins. To assess the suitability of this fractionation protocol, the protein extracts were analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), LC-MS/MS, and capillary electrophoresis (CE) analysis. The results evidence a significant decrease in contamination of casein fraction with whey proteins and vice versa compared with the conventional isoelectric precipitation of caseins. In addition, CE fraction collection coupled to LC-MS/MS (off-line coupling) has been successfully applied to the identification of minor proteins in this complex matrix. The methodology presented here constitutes a promising tool to enlarge the knowledge of human milk proteome.
PXD006785	30157181	Dissecting the subcellular membrane proteome reveals enrichment of H+ (co-)transporters and vesicle trafficking proteins in acidic zones of Chara internodal cells. 	Chara membrane proteome -  Dissecting the subcellular membrane proteome reveals enrichment of H+ (co-)transporters and vesicle trafficking proteins in acidic zones of Chara internodal cells	Chara australis, charasome, membrane proteins	The Characeae are multicellular green algae with very close relationship to land plants. Their internodal cells have been the subject of numerous (electro-)physiological studies. When exposed to light, internodal cells display alternating bands of low and high pH along their surface in order to facilitate carbon uptake required for photosynthesis. Here we investigated for the first time the subcellular membrane protein composition of acidic and alkaline regions in internodal cells of Chara australis R. Br. using MS-proteomics. The identified peptides were annotated to Chara unigenes using a custom-made Chara database generated from a transcriptome analysis and to orthologous Arabidopsis genes using TAIR (The Arabidopsis Information Resource) database. Apart from providing the first public-available, functionally-annotated sequence database for Chara australis, the proteome study, which is supported by immunodetection, identified several membrane proteins associated with acidic regions that contain a high density of specific plasma membrane (PM) invaginations, the charasomes, which locally increase the membrane area to overcome diffusion limitation in membrane transport. An increased abundance of PM H+ ATPases at charasomes is consistent with their role in the acidification of the environment, but the characean PM H+ ATPase sequence suggests a different regulation compared to higher plant PM H+ ATPases. A higher abundance of H+ co-transporters in the charasome-rich, acidic regions possibly reflects enhanced uptake of ions and nutrients. The increase in mitochondrial proteins confirms earlier findings about the accumulation of cortical mitochondria in the acidic zones. The significant enrichment of clathrin heavy chains and clathrin adaptor proteins as well as other proteins involved in trafficking indicate a higher activity of membrane transport in the charasome-rich than in charasome-poor areas. New and unexpected data, for instance the upregulation and abundance of vacuolar transporters correlating with the charasome-rich, acidic cell regions account for new perspectives in the formation of charasomes.
PXD007790	30157431	The NAD(+) Salvage Pathway Supports PHGDH-Driven Serine Biosynthesis. 	NAD Salvage Supports Serine Biosynthesis	Complex I, FK866, NAD, Serine	NAD(+) is a key metabolic redox cofactor that is regenerated from nicotinamide through the NAD(+) salvage pathway. Here, we find that inhibiting the NAD(+) salvage pathway depletes serine biosynthesis from glucose by impeding the NAD(+)-dependent protein, 3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH). Importantly, we find that PHGDH(high) breast cancer cell lines are exquisitely sensitive to inhibition of the NAD(+) salvage pathway. Further, we find that PHGDH protein levels and those of the rate-limiting enzyme of NAD(+) salvage, NAMPT, correlate in ER-negative, basal-like breast cancers. Although NAD(+) salvage pathway inhibitors are actively being pursued in cancer treatment, their efficacy has been poor, and our findings suggest that they may be effective for PHGDH-dependent cancers.
PXD009931	30157440	Systems-wide Analysis of Serine ADP-Ribosylation Reveals Widespread Occurrence and Site-Specific Overlap with Phosphorylation. 	Systems-wide analysis of serine-ADP-ribosylation reveals widespread occurrence and site-specific overlap with phosphorylation (part 2, phosphorylation data)	ADP, ADP-ribosylation, Phosphorylation	ADP-ribosylation (ADPr) is a reversible posttranslational modification involved in a range of cellular processes. Here, we report system-wide identification of serine ADPr in human cells upon oxidative stress. High-resolution mass spectrometry and unrestricted data processing confirm that serine residues are the major target of ADPr in HeLa cells. Proteome-wide analysis identifies 3,090 serine ADPr sites, with 97% of acceptor sites modulating more than 2-fold upon oxidative stress, while treatment with the poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor olaparib abrogates this induction. Serine ADPr predominantly targets nuclear proteins, while structural-predictive analyses reveal that serine ADPr preferentially targets disordered protein regions. The identified ADP-ribosylated serines significantly overlap with known phosphorylated serines, and large-scale phosphoproteomics analysis provides evidence for site-specific crosstalk between serine ADPr and phosphorylation. Collectively, we demonstrate that serine ADPr is a widespread modification and a major nuclear signaling response to oxidative stress, with a regulatory scope comparable to other extensive posttranslational modifications.
PXD010031	30158496	Proteomic Analysis of the Function of a Novel Cold-Regulated Multispanning Transmembrane Protein COR413-PM1 in Arabidopsis. 	Proteome Analysis from a Multispanning Transmembrane Gene COR413-PM1 in Arabidopsis	Cold stress, Q-Excative Plus	The plasma membrane is the first subcellular organ that senses low temperature, and it includes some spanning transmembrane proteins that play important roles in cold regulation. COR413-PM1 is a novel multispanning transmembrane cold-regulated protein; however, the related functions are not clear in Arabidopsis. We found the tolerance to freezing stress of cor413-pm1 was lower than wild-type (WT). A proteomics method was used to analyze the differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) between cor413-pm1 and WT. A total of 4143 protein groups were identified and 3139 were accurately quantitated. The DAPs associated with COR413-PM1 and freezing treatment were mainly involved in the metabolism of fatty acids, sugars, and purine. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) confirmed the proteomic analysis results of four proteins: fatty acid biosynthesis 1 (FAB1) is involved in fatty acid metabolism and might affect the plasma membrane structure; fructokinase 3 (FRK3) and sucrose phosphate synthase A1 (SPSA1) play roles in sugar metabolism and may influence the ability of osmotic adjustment under freezing stress; and GLN phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate amidotransferase 2 (ASE2) affects freezing tolerance through purine metabolism pathways. In short, our results demonstrate that the multispanning transmembrane protein COR413-PM1 regulates plant tolerance to freezing stress by affecting the metabolism of fatty acids, sugars, and purine in Arabidopsis.
PXD008012	30158526	In vivo phosphoproteomics reveals kinase activity profiles that predict treatment outcome in triple-negative breast cancer. 	In vivo phosphoproteomics reveals kinase activity profiles that predict treatment  outcome in triple-negative breast cancer	ProteomeXchange project tag: PRIME-XS Project, kinases, phophoproteomics, triple negative breast cancer	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) lacks prognostic and predictive markers. Here, we use high-throughput phosphoproteomics to build a functional TNBC taxonomy. A cluster of 159 phosphosites is upregulated in relapsed cases of a training set (n = 34 patients), with 11 hyperactive kinases accounting for this phosphoprofile. A mass-spectrometry-to-immunohistochemistry translation step, assessing 2 independent validation sets, reveals 6 kinases with preserved independent prognostic value. The kinases split the validation set into two patterns: one without hyperactive kinases being associated with a >90% relapse-free rate, and the other one showing >=1 hyperactive kinase and being associated with an up to 9.5-fold higher relapse risk. Each kinase pattern encompasses different mutational patterns, simplifying mutation-based taxonomy. Drug regimens designed based on these 6 kinases show promising antitumour activity in TNBC cell lines and patient-derived xenografts. In summary, the present study elucidates phosphosites and kinases implicated in TNBC and suggests a target-based clinical classification system for TNBC.
PXD010549	30158631	A molecular switch orchestrates enzyme specificity and secretory granule morphology. 	20170712-Leslie-3 -  A molecular switch orchestrates enzyme specificity and secretory granule morphology		Regulated secretion is an essential process where molecules destined for export are directed to membranous secretory granules, where they undergo packaging and maturation. Here, we identify a gene (pgant9) that influences the structure and shape of secretory granules within the Drosophila salivary gland. Loss of pgant9, which encodes an O-glycosyltransferase, results in secretory granules with an irregular, shard-like morphology, and altered glycosylation of cargo. Interestingly, pgant9 undergoes a splicing event that acts as a molecular switch to alter the charge of a loop controlling access to the active site of the enzyme. The splice variant with the negatively charged loop glycosylates the positively charged secretory cargo and rescues secretory granule morphology. Our study highlights a mechanism for dictating substrate specificity within the O-glycosyltransferase enzyme family. Moreover, our in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that the glycosylation status of secretory cargo influences the morphology of maturing secretory granules.
PXD010368	30166341	RNA-binding proteins and heat-shock protein 90 are constituents of the cytoplasmic capping enzyme interactome. 	Cytoplasmic capping enzyme interactome	BioID, crosslinking, cytoplasmic capping enzyme	The N(7)-methylguanosine cap is added in the nucleus early in gene transcription and is a defining feature of eukaryotic mRNAs. Mammalian cells also possess cytoplasmic machinery for restoring the cap at uncapped or partially degraded RNA 5' ends. Central to both pathways is capping enzyme (CE) (RNA guanylyltransferase and 5'-phosphatase (RNGTT)), a bifunctional, nuclear and cytoplasmic enzyme. CE is recruited to the cytoplasmic capping complex by binding of a C-terminal proline-rich sequence to the third Src homology 3 (SH3) domain of NCK adapter protein 1 (NCK1). To gain broader insight into the cellular context of cytoplasmic recapping, here we identified the protein interactome of cytoplasmic CE in human U2OS cells through two complementary approaches: chemical cross-linking and recovery with cytoplasmic CE and protein screening with proximity-dependent biotin identification (BioID). This strategy unexpectedly identified 66 proteins, 52 of which are RNA-binding proteins. We found that CE interacts with several of these proteins independently of RNA, mediated by sequences within its N-terminal triphosphatase domain, and we present a model describing how CE-binding proteins may function in defining recapping targets. This analysis also revealed that CE is a client protein of heat shock protein 90 (HSP90). Nuclear and cytoplasmic CEs were exquisitely sensitive to inhibition of HSP90, with both forms declining significantly following treatment with each of several HSP90 inhibitors. Importantly, steady-state levels of capped mRNAs decreased in cells treated with the HSP90 inhibitor geldanamycin, raising the possibility that the cytotoxic effect of these drugs may partially be due to a general reduction in translatable mRNAs.
PXD008005	30166453	CRL4(AMBRA1) targets Elongin C for ubiquitination and degradation to modulate CRL5 signaling. 	Quantitative proteomics of AMBRA1	AMBRA1, Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase, DDB1, E3	Multi-subunit cullin-RING ligases (CRLs) are the largest family of ubiquitin E3 ligases in humans. CRL activity is tightly regulated to prevent unintended substrate degradation or autocatalytic degradation of CRL subunits. Using a proteomics strategy, we discovered that CRL4(AMBRA)(1) (CRL substrate receptor denoted in superscript) targets Elongin C (ELOC), the essential adapter protein of CRL5 complexes, for polyubiquitination and degradation. We showed that the ubiquitin ligase function of CRL4(AMBRA)(1) is required to disrupt the assembly and attenuate the ligase activity of human CRL5(SOCS)(3) and HIV-1 CRL5(VIF) complexes as AMBRA1 depletion leads to hyperactivation of both CRL5 complexes. Moreover, CRL4(AMBRA)(1) modulates interleukin-6/STAT3 signaling and HIV-1 infectivity that are regulated by CRL5(SOCS)(3) and CRL5(VIF), respectively. Thus, by discovering a substrate of CRL4(AMBRA)(1), ELOC, the shared adapter of CRL5 ubiquitin ligases, we uncovered a novel CRL cross-regulation pathway.
PXD010793	30171158	Estimating the Contribution of Proteasomal Spliced Peptides to the HLA-I Ligandome. 	Estimating the Contribution of Proteasomal Spliced Peptides to the HLA-I Ligandome	HLA-I peptides, Immunopeptidomics, Proteasomal splicing	Spliced peptides are short protein fragments spliced together in the proteasome by peptide bond formation. True estimation of the contribution of proteasome-spliced peptides (PSPs) to the global human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligandome is critical. A recent study suggested that PSPs contribute up to 30% of the HLA ligandome. We performed a thorough reanalysis of the reported results using multiple computational tools and various validation steps and concluded that only a fraction of the proposed PSPs passes the quality filters. To better estimate the actual number of PSPs, we present an alternative workflow. We performed de novo sequencing of the HLA-peptide spectra and discarded all de novo sequences found in the UniProt database. We checked whether the remaining de novo sequences could match spliced peptides from human proteins. The spliced sequences were appended to the UniProt fasta file, which was searched by two search tools at a false discovery rate (FDR) of 1%. We find that 2-6% of the HLA ligandome could be explained as spliced protein fragments. The majority of these potential PSPs have good peptide-spectrum match properties and are predicted to bind the respective HLA molecules. However, it remains to be shown how many of these potential PSPs actually originate from proteasomal splicing events.
PXD008766	30171159	Hepatic Mitochondrial Defects in a Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Mouse Model Are Associated with Increased Degradation of Oxidative Phosphorylation Subunits. 	Hepatic mitochondrial proteome dynamics in NAFLD mice	NAFLD, energy metabolism, heavy water metabolic labeling, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative phosphorylation, oxidative stress, proteome dynamics, turnover	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is associated with hepatic mitochondrial dysfunction characterized by reduced ATP synthesis. We applied the (2)H2O-metabolic labeling approach to test the hypothesis that the reduced stability of oxidative phosphorylation proteins contributes to mitochondrial dysfunction in a diet-induced mouse model of NAFLD. A high fat diet containing cholesterol (a so-called Western diet (WD)) led to hepatic oxidative stress, steatosis, inflammation and mild fibrosis, all markers of NAFLD, in low density cholesterol (LDL) receptor deficient (LDLR(-/-)) mice. In addition, compared with controls (LDLR(-/-) mice on normal diet), livers from NAFLD mice had reduced citrate synthase activity and ATP content, suggesting mitochondrial impairment. Proteome dynamics study revealed that mitochondrial defects are associated with reduced average half-lives of mitochondrial proteins in NAFLD mice (5.41 +/- 0.46 versus 5.15 +/- 0.49 day, p < 0.05). In particular, the WD reduced stability of oxidative phosphorylation subunits, including cytochrome b-c1 complex subunit 1 (5.9 +/- 0.1 versus 3.4 +/- 0.8 day), ATP synthase subunit alpha (6.3 +/- 0.4 versus 5.5 +/- 0.4 day) and ATP synthase F(0) complex subunit B1 of complex V (8.5 +/- 0.6 versus 6.5 +/- 0.2 day) (p < 0.05). These changes were associated with impaired complex III and F0F1-ATP synthase activities. Markers of mitophagy were increased, but proteasomal degradation activity were reduced in NAFLD mice liver, suggesting that ATP deficiency because of reduced stability of oxidative phosphorylation complex subunits contributed to inhibition of ubiquitin-proteasome and activation of mitophagy. In conclusion, the (2)H2O-metabolic labeling approach shows that increased degradation of hepatic oxidative phosphorylation subunits contributed to mitochondrial impairment in NAFLD mice.
PXD009254	30172883	Proteome Profiling of Primary Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinomas Undergoing Additive Chemoradiation Link ALDH1A1 to Early Local Recurrence and Chemoradiation Resistance. 	Proteome profiles of primary pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas undergoing adjuvant chemoradiation link ALDH1A1 to early local recurrence and chemoradiation resistance	ALDH1A1, Chemoradiation, MAOA	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has a poor prognosis with frequent post-surgical local recurrence. The combination of adjuvant chemotherapy with radiotherapy is under consideration to achieve a prolonged progression-free survival (PFS). To date, few studies have determined the proteome profiles associated with response to adjuvant chemoradiation. We herein analyzed the proteomes of primary PDAC tumors subjected to additive chemoradiation after surgical resection and achieving short PFS (median 6 months) versus prolonged PFS (median 28 months). Proteomic analysis revealed the overexpression of Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1 Family Member A1 (ALDH1A1) and Monoamine Oxidase A (MAOA) in the short PFS cohort, which were corroborated by immunohistochemistry. In vitro, specific inhibition of ALDH1A1 by A37 in combination with gemcitabine, radiation, and chemoradiation lowered cell viability and augmented cell death in MiaPaCa-2 and Panc 05.04 cells. ALDH1A1 silencing in both cell lines dampened cell proliferation, cell metabolism, and colony formation. In MiaPaCa-2 cells, ALDH1A1 silencing sensitized cells towards treatment with gemcitabine, radiation or chemoradiation. In Panc 05.04, increased cell death was observed upon gemcitabine treatment only. These findings are in line with previous studies that have suggested a role of ALDH1A1 chemoradiation resistance, e.g., in esophageal cancer. In summary, we present one of the first proteome studies to investigate the responsiveness of PDAC to chemoradiation and provide further evidence for a role of ALDH1A1 in therapy resistance.
PXD003574	30174305	Fibroblasts Mobilize Tumor Cell Glycogen to Promote Proliferation and Metastasis. 	SILAC proteomics of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and cancer cells	SILAC, cancer cells, cancer-associated fibroblasts	Successful metastasis requires the co-evolution of stromal and cancer cells. We used stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture coupled with quantitative, label-free phosphoproteomics to study the bidirectional signaling in ovarian cancer cells and human-derived, cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) after co-culture. In cancer cells, the interaction with CAFs supported glycogenolysis under normoxic conditions and induced phosphorylation and activation of phosphoglucomutase 1, an enzyme involved in glycogen metabolism. Glycogen was funneled into glycolysis, leading to increased proliferation, invasion, and metastasis of cancer cells co-cultured with human CAFs. Glycogen mobilization in cancer cells was dependent on p38alpha MAPK activation in CAFs. In vivo, deletion of p38alpha in CAFs and glycogen phosphorylase inhibition in cancer cells reduced metastasis, suggesting that glycogen is an energy source used by cancer cells to facilitate metastatic tumor growth.
PXD008552	30174607	Andrographolide Sulfonate Attenuates Acute Lung Injury by Reducing Expression of Myeloperoxidase and Neutrophil-Derived Proteases in Mice. 	Andrographolide sulfonate attenuates acute lung injury by reducing expression of myeloperoxidase and neutrophil-derived proteases in mice	Andrographolide sulfonate, acute lung injury, iTRAQ, target identification.	Andrographolide sulfonate (Andro-S), a sulfonation derivative of andrographolide, is known to be effective in treating inflammation-related diseases, while the underlying mechanisms and global protein alterations in response to Andro-S remain unknown. This study aimed to investigate the pharmacological effects and potential targets of Andro-S in a murine model of acute lung injury (ALI). ALI was induced by aerosolized lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure before treatment with Andro-S. Inflammatory state of each treatment group was determined by histological analysis and quantification of inflammatory markers. Differentially expressed proteins in lung tissues were identified by an iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic approach and further confirmed by immunohistochemistry analysis. Administration of Andro-S alleviated LPS-induced histological changes in the lung and reduced the expression of inflammatory markers in serum, bronchoalveolar fluid and lung tissues. Proteomic analysis identified 31 differentially expressed proteins from a total of 2,234 quantified proteins in the lung. According to bioinformatics analysis, neutrophil elastase (ELANE), cathepsin G (CTSG) and myeloperoxidase (MPO), three neutrophil-derived proteases related to immune system process and defense responses to fungi were chosen as potential targets of Andro-S. Further immunohistochemistry analysis confirmed the inhibitory effects of Andro-S on LPS-induced ELANE, CTSG and MPO up-regulation. These results indicate that Andro-S suppressed the severity of LPS-induced ALI, possibly by attenuating the expression of and neutrophil-derived proteases.
PXD009804	30174657	Mutation of the Surface Layer Protein SlpB Has Pleiotropic Effects in the Probiotic Propionibacterium freudenreichii CIRM-BIA 129. 	Propionibacterium freudenreichii wild-type CIRM-BIA 129 and CB129slpB mutant strains	Propionibacterium freudenreichii, comparison, mutant	Propionibacterium freudenreichii is a beneficial Gram-positive bacterium, traditionally used as a cheese-ripening starter, and currently considered as an emerging probiotic. As an example, the P. freudenreichii CIRM-BIA 129 strain recently revealed promising immunomodulatory properties. Its consumption accordingly exerts healing effects in different animal models of colitis, suggesting a potent role in the context of inflammatory bowel diseases. This anti-inflammatory effect depends on surface layer proteins (SLPs). SLPs may be involved in key functions in probiotics, such as persistence within the gut, adhesion to host cells and mucus, or immunomodulation. Several SLPs coexist in P. freudenreichii CIRM-BIA 129 and mediate immunomodulation and adhesion. A mutant P. freudenreichii CIRM-BIA 129DeltaslpB (CB129DeltaslpB) strain was shown to exhibit decreased adhesion to intestinal epithelial cells. In the present study, we thoroughly analyzed the impact of this mutation on cellular properties. Firstly, we investigated alterations of surface properties in CB129DeltaslpB. Surface extractable proteins, surface charges (zeta-potential) and surface hydrophobicity were affected by the mutation. Whole-cell proteomics, using high definition mass spectrometry, identified 1,288 quantifiable proteins in the wild-type strain, i.e., 53% of the theoretical proteome predicted according to P. freudenreichii CIRM-BIA 129 genome sequence. In the mutant strain, we detected 1,252 proteins, including 1,227 proteins in common with the wild-type strain. Comparative quantitative analysis revealed 97 proteins with significant differences between wild-type and mutant strains. These proteins are involved in various cellular process like signaling, metabolism, and DNA repair and replication. Finally, in silico analysis predicted that slpB gene is not part of an operon, thus not affecting the downstream genes after gene knockout. This study, in accordance with the various roles attributed in the literature to SLPs, revealed a pleiotropic effect of a single slpB mutation, in the probiotic P. freudenreichii. This suggests that SlpB may be at a central node of cellular processes and confirms that both nature and amount of SLPs, which are highly variable within the P. freudenreichii species, determine the probiotic abilities of strains.
PXD009915	30177573	Evidence for the nuclear import of histones H3.1 and H4 as monomers. 	Evidence for the nuclear import of monomeric histones H3.1 & H4	histones	Newly synthesised histones are thought to dimerise in the cytosol and undergo nuclear import in complex with histone chaperones. Here, we provide evidence that human H3.1 and H4 are imported into the nucleus as monomers. Using a tether-and-release system to study the import dynamics of newly synthesised histones, we find that cytosolic H3.1 and H4 can be maintained as stable monomeric units. Cytosolically tethered histones are bound to importin-alpha proteins (predominantly IPO4), but not to histone-specific chaperones NASP, ASF1a, RbAp46 (RBBP7) or HAT1, which reside in the nucleus in interphase cells. Release of monomeric histones from their cytosolic tether results in rapid nuclear translocation, IPO4 dissociation and incorporation into chromatin at sites of replication. Quantitative analysis of histones bound to individual chaperones reveals an excess of H3 specifically associated with sNASP, suggesting that NASP maintains a soluble, monomeric pool of H3 within the nucleus and may act as a nuclear receptor for newly imported histone. In summary, we propose that histones H3 and H4 are rapidly imported as monomeric units, forming heterodimers in the nucleus rather than the cytosol.
PXD009557	30177828	An orthogonal proteomic survey uncovers novel Zika virus host factors. 	Proteome of ZIKV-infected and NS4B-transduced hNPC (H/PF/2013)	ZIKV, differentiation, hNPC	Zika virus (ZIKV) has recently emerged as a global health concern owing to its widespread diffusion and its association with severe neurological symptoms and microcephaly in newborns(1). However, the molecular mechanisms that are responsible for the pathogenicity of ZIKV remain largely unknown. Here we use human neural progenitor cells and the neuronal cell line SK-N-BE2 in an integrated proteomics approach to characterize the cellular responses to viral infection at the proteome and phosphoproteome level, and use affinity proteomics to identify cellular targets of ZIKV proteins. Using this approach, we identify 386 ZIKV-interacting proteins, ZIKV-specific and pan-flaviviral activities as well as host factors with known functions in neuronal development, retinal defects and infertility. Moreover, our analysis identified 1,216 phosphorylation sites that are specifically up- or downregulated after ZIKV infection, indicating profound modulation of fundamental signalling pathways such as AKT, MAPK-ERK and ATM-ATR and thereby providing mechanistic insights into the proliferation arrest elicited by ZIKV infection. Functionally, our integrative study identifies ZIKV host-dependency factors and provides a comprehensive framework for a system-level understanding of ZIKV-induced perturbations at the levels of proteins and cellular pathways.
PXD009548	30180573	Probing the Sensitivity of the Orbitrap Lumos Mass Spectrometer Using a Standard Reference Protein in a Complex Background. 	Probing the Sensitivity of the Lumos Mass Spectrometer by analyzing varying amounts of whole cell extracts	Data dependent acquisition, Limit of Detection, Orbitrap Lumos, Sensitivity	The use of mass spectrometry as a tool to detect proteins of biological interest has become a cornerstone of proteomics. The popularity of mass spectrometry-based methods has increased along with instrument improvements in detection and speed. The Orbitrap Fusion Lumos mass spectrometer has recently been shown to have better fragmentation and detection than its predecessors. Here, we determined the sensitivity of the Lumos using the NIST monoclonal antibody reference material at various concentrations to detect its peptides in a background of S. cerevisiae whole cell lysate, which was kept at a constant concentration. The data collected by data-dependent acquisition showed that the spiked protein could be detected at 10 pg by an average of 4 peptides in 250 ng of whole cell lysate when the instrument was operated by detecting the peptide masses in the Orbitrap and the fragment masses in the ion trap (FTIT mode). In contrast, when the peptides and fragments were both detected in the Orbitrap on either the Lumos or Q-Exactive Plus (FTFT mode), the lowest concentration of NIST monoclonal antibody detected was 50 pg. The Lumos can detect a single protein at a level 2500 times lower than the whole cell background and the combination of detecting ions in the Orbitrap and ion trap can improve the identification of low abundance proteins. Furthermore, the total number of proteins identified from decreasing starting amounts of whole cell extracts was determined. The Lumos, when operated in FTIT mode, was able to identify twice as many proteins compared to the Q-Exactive+ at 5 ng of whole cell lysate. Similar numbers of proteins were identified on both platforms at higher concentrations of starting material. Therefore, the Lumos mass spectrometer is especially useful for detecting proteins of low abundance in complex backgrounds or samples that have limited starting material.
PXD008684	30180969	iTRAQ-based proteomics screen for potential regulators of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) root cell wall component response to Al stress. 	An iTRAQ-based proteomics screen analysis of potential regulators of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) root growth inhibition due to Al stress	Aluminum-toxicity, Triticum aestivum L, iTRAQ, metabolism, root growth	OBJECTIVE: The inhibition of Aluminum (Al)-induced root tip cell elongation is a major cause of plant root elongation suppression. The inhibition of root tip cell elongation is caused by a disruption of cell wall component metabolism, growth signaling, or cellular damage. The aim of this study was to identify the proteins involved in the metabolism of the root cell wall components under Al stress in the Al-tolerant wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivar ET8. METHODS: Differentially expressed proteins of Al-tolerant wheat roots were screened via isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ). Furthermore, their expression changes were detected via RT-PCR analysis. The contents of major components of the cell wall and their changes in metabolic enzyme activities were also investigated. RESULTS: A total of 97 differentially expressed proteins from Al-tolerant wheat roots were screened and nine of these 97 proteins were root cell wall component related. The known nucleic acid sequences of proteins were 14-3-3 protein, the plasm membrane (PM) H(+)-ATPase, phospholipase D, peroxidase, and glycosyltransferase. For 14-3-3 protein, phospholipase D and peroxidase, the protein expression and mRNA expression were consistent with Al-treatment; however, for PM H(+)-ATPase and glycosyltransferase, the protein expression and mRNA expression were inconsistent under Al-stress. Furthermore, both cellulase activity and callase activity were down-regulated by Al stress, while the phenylalanineammonialyase (PAL), cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD), and peroxidase (POD) activities were up-regulated. Furthermore, the PM H(+)-ATPase activity was decreased in response to Al stress. In addition, the contents of callose, cellulose, lignin, and H2O2 varied significantly. CONCLUSIONS: The cell wall components, relative metabolism enzymes activity, and gene expression also changed followed by protein expression changed in response to Al stress. The results suggest that Al stress leads to marked variations in metabolic enzyme activity, carbohydrate content, followed by changes of root cell components in wheat roots.
PXD010924	30181176	Altered patterns of global protein synthesis and translational fidelity in RPS15-mutated chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 	Altered patterns of global protein synthesis and translational fidelity in RPS15-mutated chronic lymphocytic leukemia	CLL, Chronic lymphocytic leukemia, RPS15, proteostasis, ribosomal decoding center, translational fidelity	Genomic studies have recently identified RPS15 as a new driver gene in aggressive and chemorefractory cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). RPS15 encodes a ribosomal protein whose conserved C-terminal domain extends into the decoding center of the ribosome. We demonstrate that mutations in highly conserved residues of this domain affect protein stability, by increasing its ubiquitin-mediated degradation, and cell-proliferation rates. On the other hand, we show that mutated RPS15 can be loaded into the ribosomes, directly impacting on global protein synthesis and/or translational fidelity in a mutation-specific manner. Quantitative mass spectrometry analyses suggest that RPS15 variants may induce additional alterations in the translational machinery, as well as a metabolic shift at the proteome level in HEK293T and MEC-1 cells. These results indicate that CLL-related RPS15 mutations might act following patterns known for other ribosomal diseases, likely switching from a hypo- to a hyperproliferative phenotype driven by mutated ribosomes. In this scenario, loss of translational fidelity causing altered cell proteostasis can be proposed as a new molecular mechanism involved in CLL pathobiology.
PXD008147	30181344	The Protein Coded by a Short Open Reading Frame, Not by the Annotated Coding Sequence, Is the Main Gene Product of the Dual-Coding Gene MIEF1. 	First evidence that a protein coded by a short ORF, not by the annotated CDS is the main gene product	CRISPR-Cas9, Short ORF, Targeted proteomics, Translation	Proteogenomics and ribosome profiling concurrently show that genes may code for both a large and one or more small proteins translated from annotated coding sequences (CDSs) and unannotated alternative open reading frames (named alternative ORFs or altORFs), respectively, but the stoichiometry between large and small proteins translated from a same gene is unknown. MIEF1, a gene recently identified as a dual-coding gene, harbors a CDS and a newly annotated and actively translated altORF located in the 5'UTR. Here, we use absolute quantification with stable isotope-labeled peptides and parallel reaction monitoring to determine levels of both proteins in two human cells lines and in human colon. We report that the main MIEF1 translational product is not the canonical 463 amino acid MiD51 protein but the small 70 amino acid alternative MiD51 protein (altMiD51). These results demonstrate the inadequacy of the single CDS concept and provide a strong argument for incorporating altORFs and small proteins in functional annotations.
PXD009996	30183078	Proteogenomic systems analysis identifies targeted therapy resistance mechanisms in EGFR-mutated lung cancer. 	Proteogenomic systems analysis identifies targeted therapy resistance mechanisms in EGFR-mutated lung cancer	Drug Resistance, Lung cancer, System Biology	Cancer precision medicine largely relies on knowledge about genetic aberrations in tumors and next-generation-sequencing studies have shown a high mutational complexity in many cancers. Although a large number of the observed mutations is believed to be not causally linked with cancer, the functional effects of many rare mutations but also of combinations of driver mutations are often unknown. Here, we perform a systems analysis of a model of EGFR-mutated nonsmall cell lung cancer resistant to targeted therapy that integrates whole exome sequencing, global time-course discovery phosphoproteomics and computational modeling to identify functionally relevant molecular alterations. Our approach allows for a complexity reduction from over 2,000 genetic events potentially involved in mediating resistance to only 44 phosphoproteins and 35 topologically close genetic alterations. We perform single- and combination-drug testing against the predicted phosphoproteins and discovered that targeting of HSPB1, DBNL and AKT1 showed potent antiproliferative effects overcoming resistance against EGFR-inhibitory therapy. Our approach may therefore be used to complement mutational profiling to identify functionally relevant molecular aberrations and propose combination therapies across cancers.
PXD009861	30184435	Fast Open Modification Spectral Library Searching through Approximate Nearest Neighbor Indexing. 	Fast open modification spectral library searching through approximate nearest neighbor indexing	PTM, open modification searching, spectral library	Open modification searching (OMS) is a powerful search strategy that identifies peptides carrying any type of modification by allowing a modified spectrum to match against its unmodified variant by using a very wide precursor mass window. A drawback of this strategy, however, is that it leads to a large increase in search time. Although performing an open search can be done using existing spectral library search engines by simply setting a wide precursor mass window, none of these tools have been optimized for OMS, leading to excessive runtimes and suboptimal identification results. We present the ANN-SoLo tool for fast and accurate open spectral library searching. ANN-SoLo uses approximate nearest neighbor indexing to speed up OMS by selecting only a limited number of the most relevant library spectra to compare to an unknown query spectrum. This approach is combined with a cascade search strategy to maximize the number of identified unmodified and modified spectra while strictly controlling the false discovery rate as well as a shifted dot product score to sensitively match modified spectra to their unmodified counterparts. ANN-SoLo achieves state-of-the-art performance in terms of speed and the number of identifications. On a previously published human cell line data set, ANN-SoLo confidently identifies more spectra than SpectraST or MSFragger and achieves a speedup of an order of magnitude compared with SpectraST. ANN-SoLo is implemented in Python and C++. It is freely available under the Apache 2.0 license at https://github.com/bittremieux/ANN-SoLo .
PXD009108	30185551	Induction of Paracrine Signaling in Metastatic Melanoma Cells by PPARgamma Agonist Rosiglitazone Activates Stromal Cells and Enhances Tumor Growth. 	PPARgamma regulates a cell-to-cell communication program in human methastatic melanoma cells	PPAR, label-free quantitation, melanoma, rosiglitazone, secretome	In addition to improving insulin sensitivity in type 2 diabetes, the thiazolidinedione family of compounds and the pharmacologic activation of their best-characterized target PPARgamma have been proposed as a therapeutic option for cancer treatment. In this study, we reveal a new mode of action for the thiazolidinedione rosiglitazone that can contribute to tumorigenesis. Rosiglitazone activated a tumorigenic paracrine communication program in a subset of human melanoma cells that involves the secretion of cytokines, chemokines, and angiogenic factors. This complex blend of paracrine signals activated nonmalignant fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and macrophages in a tumor-friendly way. In agreement with these data, rosiglitazone promoted human melanoma development in xenografts, and tumors exposed to rosiglitazone exhibited enhanced angiogenesis and inflammation. Together, these findings establish an important tumorigenic action of rosiglitazone in a subset of melanoma cells. Although studies conducted on cohorts of diabetic patients report overall benefits of thiazolidinediones in cancer prevention, our data suggest that exposure of established tumors to rosiglitazone may be deleterious.Significance: These findings uncover a novel mechanism by which the thiazolidinedione compound rosiglitazone contributes to tumorigenesis, thus highlighting a potential risk associated with its use in patients with established tumors. Cancer Res; 78(22); 6447-61. (c)2018 AACR.
PXD008614	30185624	Oocyte-specific maternal Slbp2 is required for replication-dependent histone storage and early nuclear cleavage in zebrafish oogenesis and embryogenesis. 	zebrafish embryos proteome for slbp2 KO F3 and wild type	slbp2 zebrafish embryos MBT	Stem-loop binding protein (SLBP) is required for replication-dependent histone mRNA metabolism in mammals. Zebrafish possesses two slbps, and slbp1 is necessary for retinal neurogenesis. However, the detailed expression and function of slbp2 in zebrafish are still unknown. In this study, we first identified zebrafish slbp2 as an oocyte-specific maternal factor and then generated a maternal-zygotic slbp2 F3 homozygous mutant (MZslbp2Delta4(-/-)) using CRISPR/Cas9. The depletion of maternal Slbp2 disrupted early nuclear cleavage, which resulted in developmental arrest at the MBT stage. The developmental defects could be rescued in slbp2 transgenic MZslbp2Delta4(-/-) embryos. However, homozygous mutant MZslbp1Delta1(-/-) developed normally, indicating slbp1 is dispensable for zebrafish early embryogenesis. Through comparative proteome and transcriptome profiling between WT and MZslbp2Delta4(-/-) embryos, we identified many differentially expressed proteins and genes. In comparison with those in WT embryos, four replication-dependent histones, including H2a, H2b, H3, and H4, all reduced their expression, while histone variant h2afx significantly increased in MZslbp2Delta4(-/-) embryos at the 256-cell stage and high stage. Zebrafish Slbp2 can bind histone mRNA stem-loop in vitro, and the defects of MZslbp2Delta4(-/-) embryos can be partially rescued by overexpression of H2b. The current data indicate that maternal Slbp2 plays a pivotal role in the storage of replication-dependent histone mRNAs and proteins during zebrafish oogenesis.
PXD006770	30185674	Attached stratified mucus separates bacteria from the epithelial cells in COPD lungs. 	COPD lungs show an attached stratified mucus layer resembling the protective colonic mucus	BAL fluid, COPD, PPE, epithelial cells, lungs, mucins, plugs, quantitative proteomics	The respiratory tract is normally kept essentially free of bacteria by cilia-mediated mucus transport, but in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and cystic fibrosis (CF), bacteria and mucus accumulates instead. To address the mechanisms behind the mucus accumulation, the proteome of bronchoalveolar lavages from COPD patients and mucus collected in an elastase-induced mouse model of COPD was analyzed, revealing similarities with each other and with the protein content in colonic mucus. Moreover, stratified laminated sheets of mucus were observed in airways from patients with CF and COPD and in elastase-exposed mice. On the other hand, the mucus accumulation in the elastase model was reduced in Muc5b-KO mice. While mucus plugs were removed from airways by washing with hypertonic saline in the elastase model, mucus remained adherent to epithelial cells. Bacteria were trapped on this mucus, whereas, in non-elastase-treated mice, bacteria were found on the epithelial cells. We propose that the adherence of mucus to epithelial cells observed in CF, COPD, and the elastase-induced mouse model of COPD separates bacteria from the surface cells and, thus, protects the respiratory epithelium.
PXD007232	30185791	Combining discovery and targeted proteomics reveals a prognostic signature in oral cancer. 	FFPE oral cancer -  Combining discovery and targeted proteomics reveals a prognostic signature in oral cancer	FFPE, OSCC	Different regions of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) have particular histopathological and molecular characteristics limiting the standard tumor-node-metastasis prognosis classification. Therefore, defining biological signatures that allow assessing the prognostic outcomes for OSCC patients would be of great clinical significance. Using histopathology-guided discovery proteomics, we analyze neoplastic islands and stroma from the invasive tumor front (ITF) and inner tumor to identify differentially expressed proteins. Potential signature proteins are prioritized and further investigated by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and targeted proteomics. IHC indicates low expression of cystatin-B in neoplastic islands from the ITF as an independent marker for local recurrence. Targeted proteomics analysis of the prioritized proteins in saliva, combined with machine-learning methods, highlights a peptide-based signature as the most powerful predictor to distinguish patients with and without lymph node metastasis. In summary, we identify a robust signature, which may enhance prognostic decisions in OSCC and better guide treatment to reduce tumor recurrence or lymph node metastasis.
PXD010500	30185903	Coupling of bone resorption and formation by RANKL reverse signalling. 	Mouse osteoclast-small extracellular vesicles LC-MSMS	Osteoclast, small extracellular vesicles	Receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappa B (RANK) ligand (RANKL) binds RANK on the surface of osteoclast precursors to trigger osteoclastogenesis. Recent studies have indicated that osteocytic RANKL has an important role in osteoclastogenesis during bone remodelling; however, the role of osteoblastic RANKL remains unclear. Here we show that vesicular RANK, which is secreted from the maturing osteoclasts, binds osteoblastic RANKL and promotes bone formation by triggering RANKL reverse signalling, which activates Runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2). The proline-rich motif in the RANKL cytoplasmic tail is required for reverse signalling, and a RANKL(Pro29Ala) point mutation reduces activation of the reverse signalling pathway. The coupling of bone resorption and formation is disrupted in RANKL(Pro29Ala) mutant mice, indicating that osteoblastic RANKL functions as a coupling signal acceptor that recognizes vesicular RANK. RANKL reverse signalling is therefore a potential pharmacological target for avoiding the reduced bone formation associated with inhibition of osteoclastogenesis.
PXD010498	30186274	Metabolic Reprogramming of Clostridioides difficile During the Stationary Phase With the Induction of Toxin Production. 	Metabolic reprogramming with the induction of toxin production of Clostridioides difficile during the stationary phase	Clostridioides difficile, Clostridium difficile, Stickland reactions, metabolism, starvation, toxin formation	The obligate anaerobe, spore forming bacterium Clostridioides difficile (formerly Clostridium difficile) causes nosocomial and community acquired diarrhea often associated with antibiotic therapy. Major virulence factors of the bacterium are the two large clostridial toxins TcdA and TcdB. The production of both toxins was found strongly connected to the metabolism and the nutritional status of the growth environment. Here, we systematically investigated the changes of the gene regulatory, proteomic and metabolic networks of C. difficile 630Deltaerm underlying the adaptation to the non-growing state in the stationary phase. Integrated data from time-resolved transcriptome, proteome and metabolome investigations performed under defined growth conditions uncovered multiple adaptation strategies. Overall changes in the cellular processes included the downregulation of ribosome production, lipid metabolism, cold shock proteins, spermine biosynthesis, and glycolysis and in the later stages of riboflavin and coenzyme A (CoA) biosynthesis. In contrast, different chaperones, several fermentation pathways, and cysteine, serine, and pantothenate biosynthesis were found upregulated. Focusing on the Stickland amino acid fermentation and the central carbon metabolism, we discovered the ability of C. difficile to replenish its favored amino acid cysteine by a pathway starting from the glycolytic 3-phosphoglycerate via L-serine as intermediate. Following the growth course, the reductive equivalent pathways used were sequentially shifted from proline via leucine/phenylalanine to the central carbon metabolism first to butanoate fermentation and then further to lactate fermentation. The toxin production was found correlated mainly to fluxes of the central carbon metabolism. Toxin formation in the supernatant was detected when the flux changed from butanoate to lactate synthesis in the late stationary phase. The holistic view derived from the combination of transcriptome, proteome and metabolome data allowed us to uncover the major metabolic strategies that are used by the clostridial cells to maintain its cellular homeostasis and ensure survival under starvation conditions.
PXD010361	30190327	Plasma membrane profiling during enterohemorrhagic E. coli infection reveals that the metalloprotease StcE cleaves CD55 from host epithelial surfaces. 	Cell Surface Proteome during Enterohaemorrhagic E. coli infection	EHEC, HeLa	Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) is one of several E. coli pathotypes that infect the intestinal tract and cause disease. Formation of the characteristic attaching and effacing lesion on the surface of infected cells causes significant remodeling of the host cell surface; however, limited information is available about changes at the protein level. Here we employed plasma membrane profiling, a quantitative cell-surface proteomics technique, to identify host proteins whose cell-surface levels are altered during infection. Using this method, we quantified more than 1100 proteins, 280 of which showed altered cell-surface levels after exposure to EHEC. 22 host proteins were significantly reduced on the surface of infected epithelial cells. These included both known and unknown targets of EHEC infection. The complement decay-accelerating factor cluster of differentiation 55 (CD55) exhibited the greatest reduction in cell-surface levels during infection. We showed by flow cytometry and Western blot analysis that CD55 is cleaved from the cell surface by the EHEC-specific protease StcE and found that StcE-mediated CD55 cleavage results in increased neutrophil adhesion to the apical surface of intestinal epithelial cells. This suggests that StcE alters host epithelial surfaces to depress neutrophil transepithelial migration during infection. This work is the first report of the global manipulation of the epithelial cell surface by a bacterial pathogen and illustrates the power of quantitative cell-surface proteomics in uncovering critical aspects of bacterial infection biology.
PXD009227	30190555	High-throughput and high-sensitivity phosphoproteomics with the EasyPhos platform. 	High-throughput and high-sensitivity phosphoproteomics with the EasyPhos platform	EGF, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, cancer, glioblastoma, machine learning, phos, phosphorylation, post-translational modification, signal transduction	Mass spectrometry has transformed the field of cell signaling by enabling global studies of dynamic protein phosphorylation ('phosphoproteomics'). Recent developments are enabling increasingly sophisticated phosphoproteomics studies, but practical challenges remain. The EasyPhos workflow addresses these and is sufficiently streamlined to enable the analysis of hundreds of phosphoproteomes at a depth of >10,000 quantified phosphorylation sites. Here we present a detailed and updated workflow that further ensures high performance in sample-limited conditions while also reducing sample preparation time. By eliminating protein precipitation steps and performing the entire protocol, including digestion, in a single 96-well plate, we now greatly minimize opportunities for sample loss and variability. This results in very high reproducibility and a small sample size requirement (<=200 mug of protein starting material). After cell culture or tissue collection, the protocol takes 1 d, whereas mass spectrometry measurements require ~1 h per sample. Applied to glioblastoma cells acutely treated with epidermal growth factor (EGF), EasyPhos quantified 20,132 distinct phosphopeptides from 200 mug of protein in less than 1 d of measurement time, revealing thousands of EGF-regulated phosphorylation events.
PXD010197	30194279	Farnesylated heat shock protein 40 is a component of membrane-bound RISC in Arabidopsis. 	Farnesylated Heat Shock Protein 40 is a component of membrane-bound RISC in Arabidopsis	ARGONAUTE, Small RNA, chaperones, farnesylation, polysomes., rough ER	ARGONAUTE1 (AGO1) binds directly to small regulatory RNA and is a key effector protein of post-transcriptional gene silencing mediated by microRNA (miRNA) and small interfering RNA (siRNA) in Arabidopsis The formation of an RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) of AGO1 and small RNA requires the function of the heat shock protein 70/90 chaperone system. Some functions of AGO1 occur in association with endomembranes, in particular the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER), but proteins interacting with AGO1 in membrane fractions remain unidentified. In this study, we show that the farnesylated heat shock protein 40 homologs, J2 and J3, associate with AGO1 in membrane fractions in a manner that involves protein farnesylation. We also show that three changes in AGO1 function are detectable in mutants in protein farnesylation and J2/J3. First, perturbations of the HSP40/70/90 pathway by mutation of J3, HSP90, and farnesyl transferase affect the amounts of AGO1 associated with membranes. Second, miRNA association with membrane-bound polysomes is increased in farnesyl transferase and farnesylation-deficient J2/J3 mutants. Third, silencing by noncell autonomously acting short interfering RNAs is impaired. These observations highlight the involvement of farnesylated J2/J3 in small RNA-mediated gene regulation, and suggest that the importance of chaperone-AGO1 interaction is not limited to the RISC assembly process.
PXD010789	30194420	T cell microvilli constitute immunological synaptosomes that carry messages to antigen-presenting cells. 	T cell microvilli constitute immunological synaptosomes that carry messages to antigen-presenting cells	T cell vesicle	Microvilli on T cells have been proposed to survey surfaces of antigen-presenting cells (APC) or facilitate adhesion under flow; however, whether they serve essential functions during T cell activation remains unclear. Here we show that antigen-specific T cells deposit membrane particles derived from microvilli onto the surface of cognate antigen-bearing APCs. Microvilli carry T cell receptors (TCR) at all stages of T cell activation and are released as large TCR-enriched, T cell microvilli particles (TMP) in a process of trogocytosis. These microvilli exclusively contain protein arrestin-domain-containing protein 1, which is directly involved in membrane budding and, in combination with vacuolar protein-sorting-associated protein 4, transforms large TMPs into smaller, exosome-sized TMPs. Notably, TMPs from CD4(+) T cells are enriched with LFA-2/CD2 and various cytokines involved in activating dendritic cells. Collectively, these results demonstrate that T cell microvilli constitute "immunological synaptosomes" that carry T cell messages to APCs.
PXD010027	30197081	Mutations in Disordered Regions Can Cause Disease by Creating Dileucine Motifs. 	Mutations in disordered regions cause disease by creating dileucine motifs - peptide-protein interaction screen	PPI, disordered regions, peptide array, protein-protein interaction	Many disease-causing missense mutations affect intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) of proteins, but the molecular mechanism of their pathogenicity is enigmatic. Here, we employ a peptide-based proteomic screen to investigate the impact of mutations in IDRs on protein-protein interactions. We find that mutations in disordered cytosolic regions of three transmembrane proteins (GLUT1, ITPR1, and CACNA1H) lead to an increased clathrin binding. All three mutations create dileucine motifs known to mediate clathrin-dependent trafficking. Follow-up experiments on GLUT1 (SLC2A1), the glucose transporter causative of GLUT1 deficiency syndrome, revealed that the mutated protein mislocalizes to intracellular compartments. Mutant GLUT1 interacts with adaptor proteins (APs) in vitro, and knocking down AP-2 reverts the cellular mislocalization and restores glucose transport. A systematic analysis of other known disease-causing variants revealed a significant and specific overrepresentation of gained dileucine motifs in structurally disordered cytosolic domains of transmembrane proteins. Thus, several mutations in disordered regions appear to cause "dileucineopathies."
PXD007716	30197181	Human Dystrophin Structural Changes upon Binding to Anionic Membrane Lipids. 	Dystrophin -  Human Dystrophin Structural Changes upon Binding to Anionic Membrane Lipids	Dystrophin, click-chemistry, phosphlipid	Scaffolding proteins play important roles in supporting the plasma membrane (sarcolemma) of muscle cells. Among them, dystrophin strengthens the sarcolemma through protein-lipid interactions, and its absence due to gene mutations leads to the severe Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Most of the dystrophin protein consists of a central domain made of 24 spectrin-like coiled-coil repeats (R). Using small angle neutron scattering (SANS) and the contrast variation technique, we specifically probed the structure of the three first consecutive repeats 1-3 (R1-3), a part of dystrophin known to physiologically interact with membrane lipids. R1-3 free in solution was compared to its structure adopted in the presence of phospholipid-based bicelles. SANS data for the protein/lipid complexes were obtained with contrast-matched bicelles under various phospholipid compositions to probe the role of electrostatic interactions. When bound to anionic bicelles, large modifications of the protein three-dimensional structure were detected, as revealed by a significant increase of the protein gyration radius from 42 +/- 1 to 60 +/- 4 Aa. R1-3/anionic bicelle complexes were further analyzed by coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations. From these studies, we report an all-atom model of R1-3 that highlights the opening of the R1 coiled-coil repeat when bound to the membrane lipids. This model is totally in agreement with SANS and click chemistry/mass spectrometry data. We conclude that the sarcolemma membrane anchoring that occurs during the contraction/elongation process of muscles could be ensured by this coiled-coil opening. Therefore, understanding these structural changes may help in the design of rationalized shortened dystrophins for gene therapy. Finally, our strategy opens up new possibilities for structure determination of peripheral and integral membrane proteins not compatible with different high-resolution structural methods.
PXD008724	30197755	"Two hits - one stone"; increased efficacy of cisplatin-based therapies by targeting PCNA's role in both DNA repair and cellular signaling. 	APIM-peptide targeting PCNA improves cisplatin therapy in a rat muscle-invasive bladder cancer model	assay, ay-27, lfq, mib, rat	Low response rate and rapid development of resistance against commonly used chemotherapeutic regimes demand new multi-targeting anti-cancer strategies. In this study, we target the stress-related roles of the scaffold protein PCNA with a cell-penetrating peptide containing the PCNA-interacting motif APIM. The APIM-peptide increased the efficacy of cisplatin-based therapies in a muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) solid tumor model in rat and in bladder cancer (BC) cell lines. By combining multiple omics-levels, from gene expression to proteome/kinome and metabolome, we revealed a unique downregulation of the EGFR/ERBB2 and PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathways in the APIM-peptide-cisplatin combination treated cells. Additionally, the combination treatment reduced the expression of anti-apoptotic proteins and proteins involved in development of resistance to cisplatin. Concurrently, we observed increased levels of DNA breaks in combination treated cells, suggesting that the APIM-peptide impaired PCNA - DNA repair protein interactions and reduced the efficacy of repair. This was also seen in cisplatin-resistant cells, which notably was re-sensitized to cisplatin by the APIM-peptide. Our data indicate that the increased efficacy of cisplatin treatment is mediated both via downregulation of known oncogenic signaling pathways and inhibition of DNA repair/translesion synthesis (TLS), thus the APIM-peptide hits both nuclear and cytosolic functions of PCNA. The novel multi-targeting strategy of the APIM-peptide could potentially improve the efficacy of chemotherapeutic regiments for treatment of MIBC, and likely other solid tumors.
PXD009161	30198307	Nrf2 Sequesters Keap1 Preventing Podosome Disassembly: A Quintessential Duet Moonlights in Endothelium. 	Nrf2 sequesters Keap1 preventing podosome disassembly	cells	AIMS: Nrf2 (nuclear factor erythroid 2-like 2) is a transcription factor known to modulate blood vessel formation. Various experimental settings, however, attribute to Nrf2 either stimulatory or repressive influence on angiogenesis. Our findings unveil the mechanism of Nrf2-dependent vessel formation, which reaches beyond transactivation of gene expression and reconciles previous discrepancies. RESULTS: We provide evidence that growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15)- and stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1)-induced angiogenesis strongly depends on the presence of Nrf2 protein but does not rely on its transcriptional activity. Instead, Nrf2 serves as a protein restraining Keap1 (Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1), its known transcriptional repressor. Angiogenic response is abrogated in Nrf2-deficient endothelial cells but not in cells expressing dominant negative form or Keap1-binding fragment of Nrf2. Deficiency of Nrf2 protein available for Keap1 leads to the overabundance of RhoGAP1 (Rho GTPase-activating protein 1), the protein regulating cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42) activity. This impairs podosome assembly and disrupts actin rearrangements, thereby preventing angiogenesis. Effects of Nrf2 deficiency can be rescued by concomitant knockdown of RhoGAP1 or Keap1. Importantly, in the established murine model of Nrf2 deficiency, the N-terminal fragment of Nrf2 containing Keap1 binding domain is preserved. Thus, this model can be used to characterize Nrf2 as a transcription factor, but not as a Keap1-sequestering protein. Innovation and Conclusion: To date, the significance of Nrf2 in cell function has been ascribed solely to the regulation of transcription. We demonstrate that Nrf2 serves as a protein tethering Keap1 to allow podosome assembly and angiogenesis. Moreover, we emphasize that the new Nrf2 function of a Keap1 scavenger implies revisiting the interpretation of some of the previous data on the Nrf2-Keap1 system.
PXD009553	30200768	Quantitative Proteomic Profiling Reveals Key Pathways in the Anticancer Action of Methoxychalcone Derivatives in Triple Negative Breast Cancer. 	Quantitative proteomic profiling reveals key pathways in the anti-cancer action of methoxychalcone derivatives in triple negative breast cancer	breast cancer, cancer, cell lines, drugs	Triple negative breast cancer is an aggressive, heterogeneous disease with high recurrence and metastasis rates even with modern chemotherapy regimens and thus is in need of new therapeutics. Here, three novel synthetic analogues of chalcones, plant-based molecules that have demonstrated potency against a wide variety of cancers, were investigated as potential therapeutics for triple negative breast cancer. These compounds exhibit IC50 values of ~5 muM in triple negative breast cancer cell lines and are more potent against triple negative breast cancer cell lines than against nontumor breast cell lines according to viability experiments. Tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics followed by gene set enrichment analysis and validation experiments using flow cytometry, apoptosis, and Western blot assays revealed three different anticancer mechanisms for these compounds. First, the chalcone analogues induce the unfolded protein response followed by apoptosis. Second, increases in the abundances of MHC-I pathway proteins occurs, which would likely result in immune stimulation in an organism. And third, treatment with the chalcone analogues causes disruption of the cell cycle by interfering with microtubule structure and by inducing G1 phase arrest. These data demonstrate the potential of these novel chalcone derivatives as treatments for triple negative breast cancer, though further work evaluating their efficacy in vivo is needed.
PXD008797	30201737	Comparative Secretome Analyses of Human and Zoonotic Staphylococcus aureus Isolates CC8, CC22, and CC398. 	Exoproteome analysis of Staphylococcus aureus clinical isolates belonging to different clonal complexes (C22, CC8 and CC398)	Staphylococcus aureus, clonal complex, exoproteome, secretome, virulence factors	The spread of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in the community, hospitals and in livestock is mediated by highly diverse virulence factors that include secreted toxins, superantigens, enzymes and surface-associated adhesins allowing host adaptation and colonization. Here, we combined proteogenomics, secretome and phenotype analyses to compare the secreted virulence factors in selected S. aureus isolates of the dominant human- and livestock-associated genetic lineages CC8, CC22, and CC398. The proteogenomic comparison revealed 2181 core genes and 1306 accessory genes in 18 S. aureus isolates reflecting the high genome diversity. Using secretome analysis, we identified 869 secreted proteins with 538 commons in eight isolates of CC8, CC22, and CC398. These include 64 predicted extracellular and 37 cell surface proteins that account for 82.4% of total secretome abundance. Among the top 10 most abundantly secreted virulence factors are the major autolysins (Atl, IsaA, Sle1, SAUPAN006375000), lipases and lipoteichoic acid hydrolases (Lip, Geh, LtaS), cytolytic toxins (Hla, Hlb, PSMbeta1) and proteases (SspB). The CC398 isolates showed lower secretion of cell wall proteins, but higher secretion of alpha- and beta-hemolysins (Hla, Hlb) which correlated with an increased Agr activity and strong hemolysis. CC398 strains were further characterized by lower biofilm formation and staphyloxanthin levels because of decreased SigB activity. Overall, comparative secretome analyses revealed CC8- or CC22-specific enterotoxin and Spl protease secretion as well as Agr- and SigB-controlled differences in exotoxin and surface protein secretion between human-specific and zoonotic lineages of S. aureus.
PXD009106	30201955	Molecular basis for disassembly of an importin:ribosomal protein complex by the escortin Tsr2. 	Molecular basis for RanGTP independent disassembly of an importin:ribosomal protein complex by the escortin Tsr2	ADH, Chemical cross-linking, DMTMM, DSS, PDH, ribosomal assembly, ribosome, structural proteomics	Disordered extensions at the termini and short internal insertions distinguish eukaryotic ribosomal proteins (r-proteins) from their anucleated archaeal counterparts. Here, we report an NMR structure of such a eukaryotic-specific segment (ESS) in the r-protein eS26 in complex with the escortin Tsr2. The structure reveals how ESS attracts Tsr2 specifically to importin:eS26 complexes entering the nucleus in order to trigger non-canonical RanGTP-independent disassembly. Tsr2 then sequesters the released eS26 and prevents rebinding to the importin, providing an alternative allosteric mechanism to terminate the process of nuclear import. Notably, a Diamond-Blackfan anemia-associated Tsr2 mutant protein is impaired in binding to ESS, unveiling a critical role for this interaction in human hematopoiesis. We propose that eS26-ESS and Tsr2 are components of a nuclear sorting system that co-evolved with the emergence of the nucleocytoplasmic barrier and transport carriers.
PXD009402	30201971	ER-associated ubiquitin ligase HRD1 programs liver metabolism by targeting multiple metabolic enzymes. 	ER -associated ubiquitin ligase HRD1 programs liver metabolism by targeting multiple metabolic enzymes	AP-MS, E3 ligase, HepG2, Hrd1, NAFLD, liver, metabolic enzymes, ubiquitination	The HMG-CoA reductase degradation protein 1 (HRD1) has been identified as a key enzyme for endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation of misfolded proteins, but its organ-specific physiological functions remain largely undefined. Here we show that mice with HRD1 deletion specifically in the liver display increased energy expenditure and are resistant to HFD-induced obesity and liver steatosis and insulin resistance. Proteomic analysis identifies a HRD1 interactome, a large portion of which includes metabolic regulators. Loss of HRD1 results in elevated ENTPD5, CPT2, RMND1, and HSD17B4 protein levels and a consequent hyperactivation of both AMPK and AKT pathways. Genome-wide mRNA sequencing revealed that HRD1-deficiency reprograms liver metabolic gene expression profiles, including suppressing genes involved in glycogenesis and lipogenesis and upregulating genes involved in glycolysis and fatty acid oxidation. We propose HRD1 as a liver metabolic regulator and a potential drug target for obesity, fatty liver disease, and insulin resistance associated with the metabolic syndrome.
PXD009840	30203655	Subcellular Proteome Landscape of Human Embryonic Stem Cells Revealed Missing Membrane Proteins. 	Mining Missing Protein Landscape in Subcellular Proteome of Human Embryonic Stem Cells	Subcellular fractionation, human embryonic stem cells, membrane proteins, missing protein	Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) have the capacity for self-renewal and multilineage differentiation, which are of clinical importance for regeneration medicine. Despite the significant progress of hESC study, the complete hESC proteome atlas, especially the surface protein composition, awaits delineation. According to the latest release of neXtProt database (January 17, 2018; 19 658 PE1, 2, 3, and 4 human proteins), membrane proteins present the major category (1047; 48%) among all 2186 missing proteins (MPs). We conducted a deep subcellular proteomics analysis of hESCs to identify the nuclear, cytoplasmic, and membrane proteins in hESCs and to mine missing membrane proteins in the very early cell status. To our knowledge, our study achieved the largest data set with confident identification of 11 970 unique proteins (1% false discovery rate at peptide, protein, and PSM levels), including the most-comprehensive description of 6 138 annotated membrane proteins in hESCs. Following the HPP guideline, we identified 26 gold (neXtProt PE2, 3, and 4 MPs) and 87 silver (potential MP candidates with a single unique peptide detected) MPs, of which 69 were membrane proteins, and the expression of 21 gold MPs was further verified either by multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry or by matching synthetic peptides in the Peptide Atlas database. Functional analysis of the MPs revealed their potential roles in the pluripotency-related pathways and the lineage- and tissue-specific differentiation processes. Our proteome map of hESCs may provide a rich resource not only for the identification of MPs in the human proteome but also for the investigation on self-renewal and differentiation of hESC. All mass spectrometry data were deposited in ProteomeXchange via jPOST with identifier PXD009840.
PXD006607	30205043	Aberrant ERBB4-SRC Signaling as a Hallmark of Group 4 Medulloblastoma Revealed by Integrative Phosphoproteomic Profiling. 	Proteomic analysis of human Medulloblastoma reveals distinct activated pathways between subgroups	Medulloblastoma, Methylome, Multiomics, Phosphoproteomic, RNAseq, Whole genome sequencing	The current consensus recognizes four main medulloblastoma subgroups (wingless, Sonic hedgehog, group 3 and group 4). While medulloblastoma subgroups have been characterized extensively at the (epi-)genomic and transcriptomic levels, the proteome and phosphoproteome landscape remain to be comprehensively elucidated. Using quantitative (phospho)-proteomics in primary human medulloblastomas, we unravel distinct posttranscriptional regulation leading to highly divergent oncogenic signaling and kinase activity profiles in groups 3 and 4 medulloblastomas. Specifically, proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses identify aberrant ERBB4-SRC signaling in group 4. Hence, enforced expression of an activated SRC combined with p53 inactivation induces murine tumors that resemble group 4 medulloblastoma. Therefore, our integrative proteogenomics approach unveils an oncogenic pathway and potential therapeutic vulnerability in the most common medulloblastoma subgroup.
PXD009029	30205969	Application of multiplexed ion mobility spectrometry towards the identification of host protein signatures of treatment effect in pulmonary tuberculosis. 	Application of Multiplexed Ion Mobility Spectrometry towards the Identification of Host Protein Signatures of Treatment Effect in Pulmonary Tuberculosis	ion mobility spectrometry, tuberculosis	RATIONALE: The monitoring of TB treatments in clinical practice and clinical trials relies on traditional sputum-based culture status indicators at specific time points. Accurate, predictive, blood-based protein markers would provide a simpler and more informative view of patient health and response to treatment. OBJECTIVE: We utilized sensitive, high throughput multiplexed ion mobility-mass spectrometry (IM-MS) to characterize the serum proteome of TB patients at the start of and at 8 weeks of rifamycin-based treatment. We sought to identify treatment specific signatures within patients as well as correlate the proteome signatures to various clinical markers of treatment efficacy. METHODS: Serum samples were collected from 289 subjects enrolled in CDC TB Trials Consortium Study 29 at time of enrollment and at the end of the intensive phase (after 40 doses of TB treatment). Serum proteins were immunoaffinity-depleted of high abundant components, digested to peptides and analyzed for data acquisition utilizing a unique liquid chromatography IM-MS platform (LC-IM-MS). Linear mixed models were utilized to identify serum protein changes in the host response to antibiotic treatment as well as correlations with culture status end points. RESULTS: A total of 10,137 peptides corresponding to 872 proteins were identified, quantified, and used for statistical analysis across the longitudinal patient cohort. In response to TB treatment, 244 proteins were significantly altered. Pathway/network comparisons helped visualize the interconnected proteins, identifying up regulated (lipid transport, coagulation cascade, endopeptidase activity) and down regulated (acute phase) processes and pathways in addition to other cross regulated networks (inflammation, cell adhesion, extracellular matrix). Detection of possible lung injury serum proteins such as HPSE, significantly downregulated upon treatment. Analyses of microbiologic data over time identified a core set of serum proteins (TTHY, AFAM, CRP, RET4, SAA1, PGRP2) which change in response to treatment and also strongly correlate with culture status. A similar set of proteins at baseline were found to be predictive of week 6 and 8 culture status. CONCLUSION: A comprehensive host serum protein dataset reflective of TB treatment effect is defined. A repeating set of serum proteins (TTHY, AFAM, CRP, RET4, SAA1, PGRP2, among others) were found to change significantly in response to treatment, to strongly correlate with culture status, and at baseline to be predictive of future culture conversion. If validated in cohorts with long term follow-up to capture failure and relapse of TB, these protein markers could be developed for monitoring of treatment in clinical trials and in patient care.
PXD009173	30206139	The kinases HipA and HipA7 phosphorylate different substrate pools in Escherichia coli to promote multidrug tolerance. 	High persister protein kinase HipA and its gain-of-function variant HipA7 phosphorylate different substrate pools in Escherichia coli	E. coli, HipA kinase, SILAC, phosphoproteome	The bacterial serine-threonine protein kinase HipA promotes multidrug tolerance by phosphorylating the glutamate-tRNA ligase (GltX), leading to a halt in translation, inhibition of growth, and induction of a physiologically dormant state (persistence). The HipA variant HipA7 substantially increases persistence despite being less efficient at inhibiting cell growth. We postulated that this phenotypic difference was caused by differences in the substrates targeted by both kinases. We overproduced HipA and HipA7 in Escherichia coli and identified their endogenous substrates by SILAC-based quantitative phosphoproteomics. We confirmed that GltX was the main substrate of both kinase variants and likely the primary determinant of persistence. When HipA and HipA7 were moderately overproduced from plasmids, HipA7 targeted only GltX, but HipA phosphorylated several additional substrates involved in translation, transcription, and replication, such as ribosomal protein L11 (RplK) and the negative modulator of replication initiation, SeqA. HipA7 showed reduced kinase activity compared to HipA and targeted a substrate pool similar to that of HipA only when produced from a high-copy number plasmid. The kinase variants also differed in autophosphorylation, which was substantially reduced for HipA7. When produced endogenously from the chromosome, HipA showed no activity because of inhibition by the antitoxin HipB, whereas HipA7 phosphorylated GltX and phage shock protein PspA. Initial testing did not reveal a connection between HipA-induced phosphorylation of RplK and persistence or growth inhibition, suggesting that other HipA-specific substrates were likely responsible for growth inhibition. Our results contribute to the understanding of HipA7 action and present a resource for elucidating HipA-related persistence.
PXD004054	30206180	Knockout of the Hmt1p Arginine Methyltransferase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae Leads to the Dysregulation of Phosphate-associated Genes and Processes. 	SILAC analysis of hmt1 yeast -  Knockout of the Hmt1p arginine methyltransferase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae leads to the dysregulation of phosphate-associated genes and processes	HMT1, SILAC, arginine methylation, methylation, phosphate	Hmt1p is the predominant arginine methyltransferase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae Its substrate proteins are involved in transcription, transcriptional regulation, nucleocytoplasmic transport and RNA splicing. Hmt1p-catalyzed methylation can also modulate protein-protein interactions. Hmt1p is conserved from unicellular eukaryotes through to mammals where its ortholog, PRMT1, is lethal upon knockout. In yeast, however, the effect of knockout on the transcriptome and proteome has not been described. Transcriptome analysis revealed downregulation of phosphate-responsive genes in hmt1Delta, including acid phosphatases PHO5, PHO11, and PHO12, phosphate transporters PHO84 and PHO89 and the vacuolar transporter chaperone VTC3 Analysis of the hmt1Delta proteome revealed decreased abundance of phosphate-associated proteins including phosphate transporter Pho84p, vacuolar alkaline phosphatase Pho8p, acid phosphatase Pho3p and subunits of the vacuolar transporter chaperone complex Vtc1p, Vtc3p and Vtc4p. Consistent with this, phosphate homeostasis was dysregulated in hmt1Delta cells, showing decreased extracellular phosphatase levels and decreased total Pi in phosphate-depleted medium. In vitro, we showed that transcription factor Pho4p can be methylated at Arg-241, which could explain phosphate dysregulation in hmt1Delta if interplay exists with phosphorylation at Ser-242 or Ser-243, or if Arg-241 methylation affects the capacity of Pho4p to homodimerize or interact with Pho2p. However, the Arg-241 methylation site was not validated in vivo and the localization of a Pho4p-GFP fusion in hmt1Delta was not different from wild type. To our knowledge, this is the first study to reveal an association between Hmt1p and phosphate homeostasis and one which suggests a regulatory link between S-adenosyl methionine and intracellular phosphate.
PXD009999	30206219	Phosphoproteomic-based kinase profiling early in influenza virus infection identifies GRK2 as antiviral drug target. 	Phosphoproteomic-based kinase profiling early in influenza virus infection	Influenza virus, SILAC, phosphoproteomics	Although annual influenza epidemics affect around 10% of the global population, current treatment options are limited and development of new antivirals is needed. Here, using quantitative phosphoproteomics, we reveal the unique phosphoproteome dynamics that occur in the host cell within minutes of influenza A virus (IAV) infection. We uncover cellular kinases required for the observed signaling pattern and find that inhibition of selected candidates, such as the G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 (GRK2), leads to decreased IAV replication. As GRK2 has emerged as drug target in heart disease, we focus on its role in IAV infection and show that it is required for viral uncoating. Replication of seasonal and pandemic IAVs is severely decreased by specific GRK2 inhibitors in primary human airway cultures and in mice. Our study reveals the IAV-induced changes to the cellular phosphoproteome and identifies GRK2 as crucial node of the kinase network that enables IAV replication.
PXD009623	30207155	Characterization of Cerebrospinal Fluid via Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry. 	Characterization of cerebrospinal fluid via data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry	LC-MS, cerebrospinal fluid, data-independent acquisition, spectral library	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is in direct contact with the brain and serves as a valuable specimen to examine diseases of the central nervous system through analyzing its components. These include the analysis of metabolites, cells as well as proteins. For identifying new suitable diagnostic protein biomarkers bottom-up data-dependent acquisition (DDA) mass spectrometry-based approaches are most popular. Drawbacks of this method are stochastic and irreproducible precursor ion selection. Recently, data-independent acquisition (DIA) emerged as an alternative method. It overcomes several limitations of DDA, since it combines the benefits of DDA and targeted methods like selected reaction monitoring (SRM). We established a DIA method for in-depth proteome analysis of CSF. For this, four spectral libraries were generated with samples from native CSF ( n = 5), CSF fractionation (15 in total) and substantia nigra fractionation (54 in total) and applied to three CSF DIA replicates. The DDA and DIA methods for CSF were conducted with the same nanoLC parameters using a 180 min gradient. Compared to a conventional DDA method, our DIA approach increased the number of identified protein groups from 648 identifications in DDA to 1574 in DIA using a comprehensive spectral library generated with DDA measurements from five native CSF and 54 substantia nigra fractions. We also could show that a sample specific spectral library generated from native CSF only increased the identification reproducibility from three DIA replicates to 90% (77% with a DDA method). Moreover, by utilizing a substantia nigra specific spectral library for CSF DIA, over 60 brain-originated proteins could be identified compared to only 11 with DDA. In conclusion, the here presented optimized DIA method substantially outperforms DDA and could develop into a powerful tool for biomarker discovery in CSF. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifiers PXD010698, PXD010708, PXD010690, PXD010705, and PXD009624.
PXD010937	30207828	Layers of regulation of cell-cycle gene expression in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Layers of regulation on cell-cycle gene expression in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae	time-course, transcription factor	In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, transcription factors (TFs) regulate the periodic expression of many genes during the cell cycle, including gene products required for progression through cell-cycle events. Experimental evidence coupled with quantitative models suggests that a network of interconnected TFs is capable of regulating periodic genes over the cell cycle. Importantly, these dynamical models were built on transcriptomics data and assumed that TF protein levels and activity are directly correlated with mRNA abundance. To ask whether TF transcripts match protein expression levels as cells progress through the cell cycle, we applied a multiplexed targeted mass spectrometry approach (parallel reaction monitoring) to synchronized populations of cells. We found that protein expression of many TFs and cell-cycle regulators closely followed their respective mRNA transcript dynamics in cycling wild-type cells. Discordant mRNA/protein expression dynamics was also observed for a subset of cell-cycle TFs and for proteins targeted for degradation by E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes such as SCF (Skp1/Cul1/F-box) and APC/C (anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome). We further profiled mutant cells lacking B-type cyclin/CDK activity ( clb1-6) where oscillations in ubiquitin ligase activity, cyclin/CDKs, and cell-cycle progression are halted. We found that a number of proteins were no longer periodically degraded in clb1-6 mutants compared with wild type, highlighting the importance of posttranscriptional regulation. Finally, the TF complexes responsible for activating G1/S transcription (SBF and MBF) were more constitutively expressed at the protein level than at periodic mRNA expression levels in both wild-type and mutant cells. This comprehensive investigation of cell-cycle regulators reveals that multiple layers of regulation (transcription, protein stability, and proteasome targeting) affect protein expression dynamics during the cell cycle.
PXD007881	30208319	Disease-Linked Glutarylation Impairs Function and Interactions of Mitochondrial Proteins and Contributes to Mitochondrial Heterogeneity. 	Disease-linked lysine glutarylation impairs function and interactions of mitochondrial proteins and contribute to mitochondrial heterogeneity	Metabolism, Molecular Biology of Disease, Post-translational Modifications, Proteolysis & Proteomics, glutamate dehydrogenase, glutaryl-CoA-dehydrogenase, glutaryl-proteome, protein interaction	Lysine glutarylation (Kglu) of mitochondrial proteins is associated with glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase (GCDH) deficiency, which impairs lysine/tryptophan degradation and causes destruction of striatal neurons during catabolic crisis with subsequent movement disability. By investigating the role of Kglu modifications in this disease, we compared the brain and liver glutarylomes of Gcdh-deficient mice. In the brain, we identified 73 Kglu sites on 37 mitochondrial proteins involved in various metabolic degradation pathways. Ultrastructural immunogold studies indicated that glutarylated proteins are heterogeneously distributed in mitochondria, which are exclusively localized in glial cells. In liver cells, all mitochondria contain Kglu-modified proteins. Glutarylation reduces the catalytic activities of the most abundant glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) and the brain-specific carbonic anhydrase 5b and interferes with GDH-protein interactions. We propose that Kglu contributes to the functional heterogeneity of mitochondria and may metabolically adapt glial cells to the activity and metabolic demands of neighboring GCDH-deficient neurons.
PXD000869	30208840	The caseinolytic protease complex component CLPC1 in Arabidopsis maintains proteome and RNA homeostasis in chloroplasts. 	CLPC1 maintains chloroplast proteome and RNA homeostasis	CLPC1, RNA, chloroplast, homeostasis	BACKGROUND: Homeostasis of the proteome is critical to the development of chloroplasts and also affects the expression of certain nuclear genes. CLPC1 facilitates the translocation of chloroplast pre-proteins and mediates protein degradation. RESULTS: We found that proteins involved in photosynthesis are dramatically decreased in their abundance in the clpc1 mutant, whereas many proteins involved in chloroplast transcription and translation were increased in the mutant. Expression of the full-length CLPC1 protein, but not of the N-terminus-deleted CLPC1 (DeltaN), in the clpc1 mutant background restored the normal levels of most of these proteins. Interestingly, the DeltaN complementation line could also restore some proteins affected by the mutation to normal levels. We also found that that the clpc1 mutation profoundly affects transcript levels of chloroplast genes. Sense transcripts of many chloroplast genes are up-regulated in the clpc1 mutant. The level of SVR7, a PPR protein, was affected by the clpc1 mutation. We showed that SVR7 might be a target of CLPC1 as CLPC1-SVR7 interaction was detected through co-immunoprecipitation. CONCLUSION: Our study indicates that in addition to its role in maintaining proteome homeostasis, CLPC1 and likely the CLP proteasome complex also play a role in transcriptome homeostasis through its functions in maintaining proteome homeostasis.
PXD008417	30209068	Xrp1 genetically interacts with the ALS-associated FUS orthologue caz and mediates its toxicity. 	DROSOPHILA FUS MUTANT PHENOTYPES ARE MEDIATED BY INCREASED XRP1 EXPRESSION LEADING TO GENE EXPRESSION DYSREGULATION	AT-hook motif, Drosophila, FUS, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, frontotemporal dementia, gene expression regulation	Cabeza (caz) is the single Drosophila melanogaster orthologue of the human FET proteins FUS, TAF15, and EWSR1, which have been implicated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia. In this study, we identified Xrp1, a nuclear chromatin-binding protein, as a key modifier of caz mutant phenotypes. Xrp1 expression was strongly up-regulated in caz mutants, and Xrp1 heterozygosity rescued their motor defects and life span. Interestingly, selective neuronal Xrp1 knockdown was sufficient to rescue, and neuronal Xrp1 overexpression phenocopied caz mutant phenotypes. The caz/Xrp1 genetic interaction depended on the functionality of the AT-hook DNA-binding domain in Xrp1, and the majority of Xrp1-interacting proteins are involved in gene expression regulation. Consistently, caz mutants displayed gene expression dysregulation, which was mitigated by Xrp1 heterozygosity. Finally, Xrp1 knockdown substantially rescued the motor deficits and life span of flies expressing ALS mutant FUS in motor neurons, implicating gene expression dysregulation in ALS-FUS pathogenesis.
PXD009614	30209945	Label-Free Proteomic Approach to Characterize Protease-Dependent and -Independent Effects of sarA Inactivation on the Staphylococcus aureus Exoproteome. 	Quantitative analysis of the exoproteome from a Staphylococcus aureus LAC sarA mutant	GelCMS, Staphylococcus aureus, protease, proteolysis, sarA	The staphylococcal accessory regulator A ( sarA) impacts the extracellular accumulation of Staphylococcus aureus virulence factors at the level of intracellular production and extracellular protease-mediated degradation. We previously used a proteomics approach that measures protein abundance of all proteoforms to demonstrate that mutation of sarA results in increased levels of extracellular proteases and assesses the impact of this on the accumulation of S. aureus exoproteins. Our previous approach was limited as it did not take into account that large, stable proteolytic products from a given protein could result in false negatives when quantified by total proteoforms. Here, our goal was to use an expanded proteomics approach utilizing a dual quantitative method for measuring abundance at both the total proteoform and full-length exoprotein levels to alleviate these false negatives and thereby provide for characterization of protease-dependent and -independent effects of sarA mutation on the S. aureus exoproteome. Proteins present in conditioned medium from overnight, stationary phase cultures of the USA300 strain LAC, an isogenic sarA mutant, and a sarA mutant unable to produce any of the known extracellular proteases ( sarA/protease) were resolved using one-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Quantitative proteomic comparisons of sarA versus sarA/protease mutants identified proteins that were cleaved in a protease-dependent manner owing to mutation of sarA, and comparisons of sarA/protease mutant versus the LAC parent strain identified proteins in which abundance was altered in a sarA mutant in a protease-independent manner. Furthermore, the proteins uniquely identified by the full-length data analysis approach eliminated false negatives observed in the total proteoform analysis. This expanded approach provided for a more comprehensive analysis of the impact of mutating sarA on the S. aureus exoproteome.
PXD009318	30210494	IgG-Independent Co-aggregation of FcepsilonRI and FcgammaRIIB Results in LYN- and SHIP1-Dependent Tyrosine Phosphorylation of FcgammaRIIB in Murine Bone Marrow-Derived Mast Cells. 	IgG-independent co-aggregation of FceRI and FcgRIIB results in LYN- and SHIP1-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of FcgRIIB	mast cell activation, tyrosine phosphorylation	Activation of the high-affinity receptor for IgE (FcepsilonRI) follows a bell-shaped dose-response curve. Upon supra-optimal stimulation, mast cell effector responses are down-regulated by inhibitory molecules like the SH2-containing inositol-5'-phosphatase SHIP1 and the SRC-family-kinase LYN. To identify further molecules involved in a negative regulatory signalosome, we screened for proteins showing the same pattern of tyrosine phosphorylation as SHIP1, which is tyrosine-phosphorylated strongest upon supra-optimal antigen (Ag) stimulation. The low-affinity IgG receptor, FcgammaRIIB, was found to be most strongly phosphorylated under supra-optimal conditions. This phosphorylation is the consequence of passive, Ag/IgE-dependent and progressive co-localization of FcepsilonRI and FcgammaRIIB, which is not dependent on IgG. Upon supra-optimal FcepsilonRI cross-linking, FcgammaRIIB phosphorylation is executed by LYN and protected from dephosphorylation by SHIP1. Analysis of FcgammaRIIB-deficient bone marrow-derived mast cells revealed an ambiguous phenotype upon FcepsilonRI cross-linking. Absence of FcgammaRIIB significantly diminished the level of SHIP1 phosphorylation and resulted in augmented Ca(2+) mobilization. Though, degranulation and IL-6 production were only weakly altered. Altogether our data establish the LYN/FcgammaRIIB/SHIP1 signalosome in the context of FcepsilonRI activation, particularly at supra-optimal Ag concentrations. The fact that SHIP1 tyrosine phosphorylation/activation not only depends on FcgammaRIIB, highlights the necessity for its tight backup control.
PXD009278	30213709	Development of MS-based methods for identification and quantification of proteins altered during early pregnancy in dogs. 	Development of MS-based methods for identification and quantification of proteins altered during early pregnancy in dogs	Dog proteomics, PRM, early pregnancy diagnosis, shotgun proteomics	Increased knowledge on serum protein profiles during early pregnancy in dogs would be valuable for several reasons, including animal welfare. Inflammatory changes during this period have been described. Today, mass spectrometry (MS) is a well-established technique to perform unbiased qualitative and quantitative studies of proteins in body fluids regardless of species. In the present study, a shotgun proteomic analysis based on nano-liquid chromatography-MS was performed to identify proteins of altered abundance during canine pregnancy, and, thereafter, a targeted parallel reaction monitoring (PRM)-method was developed and applied to absolutely quantify the concentrations of a selection of these proteins. Among the 32 proteins found altered between pregnant and non-pregnant dogs in the initial analysis, 12 were selected based on their changes in concentration and known biological importance, and these were analyzed using the PRM method. The PRM method showed good linearity, repeatability and sensitivity, and confirmed the higher concentration of Fibrinogen A, protein S alpha and C-reactive protein at early time points in pregnant bitches. In conclusion, the combination of both methods allowed the identification of several altered proteins, and the quantification and description of the concentration patterns for a selection of them during the early stage of dog pregnancy. SIGNIFICANCE: MS is a powerful technique that allows the investigation of protein variations in samples from different origin, such as serum from dogs. The application of a shotgun proteomic analysis as a screening method has revealed the alteration of several proteins after fifteen days of pregnancy in dogs. The complementary development of a PRM MS-based method for several of these proteins has enabled the absolute quantification of their concentrations at five different time points during early pregnancy. With the MS technique, a combination of proteins can be studied with lower limits of detection than with immunoassays. Care should be taken not to interpret the observed changes in pregnant dogs as signs of disease.
PXD010411	30213795	SIRT2-mediated inactivation of p73 is required for glioblastoma tumorigenicity. 	Acetylation of p73 in 293T cell	293T, Acetylation, SIRT2, p73	Glioblastoma is one of the most aggressive forms of cancers and has a poor prognosis. Genomewide analyses have revealed that a set of core signaling pathways, the p53, RB, and RTK pathways, are commonly deregulated in glioblastomas. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the tumorigenicity of glioblastoma are not fully understood. Here, we show that the lysine deacetylase SIRT2 is required for the proliferation and tumorigenicity of glioblastoma cells, including glioblastoma stem cells. Furthermore, we demonstrate that SIRT2 regulates p73 transcriptional activity by deacetylation of its C-terminal lysine residues. Our results suggest that SIRT2-mediated inactivation of p73 is critical for the proliferation and tumorigenicity of glioblastoma cells and that SIRT2 may be a promising molecular target for the therapy of glioblastoma.
PXD010632	30213940	SNX3-retromer requires an evolutionary conserved MON2:DOPEY2:ATP9A complex to mediate Wntless sorting and Wnt secretion. 	SNX3-retromer requires an evolutionary conserved MON2:DOPEY2:ATP9A complex to mediate Wntless sorting and Wnt secretion	retromer flippase snx3	Wntless transports Wnt morphogens to the cell surface and is required for Wnt secretion and morphogenic gradients formation. Recycling of endocytosed Wntless requires the sorting nexin-3 (SNX3)-retromer-dependent endosome-to-Golgi transport pathway. Here we demonstrate the essential role of SNX3-retromer assembly for Wntless transport and report that SNX3 associates with an evolutionary conserved endosome-associated membrane re-modelling complex composed of MON2, DOPEY2 and the putative aminophospholipid translocase, ATP9A. In vivo suppression of Ce-mon-2, Ce-pad-1 or Ce-tat-5 (respective MON2, DOPEY2 and ATP9A orthologues) phenocopy a loss of SNX3-retromer function, leading to enhanced lysosomal degradation of Wntless and a Wnt phenotype. Perturbed Wnt signalling is also observed upon overexpression of an ATPase-inhibited TAT-5(E246Q) mutant, suggesting a role for phospholipid flippase activity during SNX3-retromer-mediated Wntless sorting. Together, these findings provide in vitro and in vivo mechanistic details to describe SNX3-retromer-mediated transport during Wnt secretion and the formation of Wnt-morphogenic gradients.
PXD012121	30215534	The autophagy receptor SQSTM1/p62 mediates anti-inflammatory actions of the selective NR3C1/glucocorticoid receptor modulator compound A (CpdA) in macrophages. 	The auophagy receptor SQSTM1/p62 mediates anti-inflammatory actions of the selective NR3C1/glucocorticoid receptor modulator compound A (CpdA) in macrophages	Autophagy, CpdA, NFE2L2/NRF2, SQSTM1/p62, autophagy receptors, glucocorticoids, inflammation	Glucocorticoids are widely used to treat inflammatory disorders; however, prolonged use of glucocorticoids results in side effects including osteoporosis, diabetes and obesity. Compound A (CpdA), identified as a selective NR3C1/glucocorticoid receptor (nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group C, member 1) modulator, exhibits an inflammation-suppressive effect, largely in the absence of detrimental side effects. To understand the mechanistic differences between the classic glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX) and CpdA, we looked for proteins oppositely regulated in bone marrow-derived macrophages using an unbiased proteomics approach. We found that the autophagy receptor SQSTM1 but not NR3C1 mediates the anti-inflammatory action of CpdA. CpdA drives SQSTM1 upregulation by recruiting the NFE2L2 transcription factor to its promoter. In contrast, the classic NR3C1 ligand dexamethasone recruits NR3C1 to the Sqstm1 promoter and other NFE2L2-controlled gene promoters, resulting in gene downregulation. Both DEX and CpdA induce autophagy, with marked different autophagy characteristics and morphology. Suppression of LPS-induced Il6 and Ccl2 genes by CpdA in macrophages is hampered upon Sqstm1 silencing, confirming that SQSTM1 is essential for the anti-inflammatory capacity of CpdA, at least in this cell type. Together, these results demonstrate how off-target mechanisms of selective NR3C1 ligands may contribute to a more efficient anti-inflammatory therapy.
PXD010892	30217814	In vivo cross-linking supports a head-to-tail mechanism for regulation of the plant plasma membrane P-type H(+)-ATPase. 	In vivo cross-linking supports a head-to-tail mechanism for regulation of the plant plasma membrane P-type H+-ATPase	H+-ATPase, and Arabidopsis thaliana, protein cross-linking, protein-protein interaction	In higher plants, a P-type proton-pumping ATPase generates the proton-motive force essential for the function of all other transporters and for proper growth and development. X-ray crystallographic studies of the plant plasma membrane proton pump have provided information on amino acids involved in ATP catalysis but provided no information on the structure of the C-terminal regulatory domain. Despite progress in elucidating enzymes involved in the signaling pathways that activate or inhibit this pump, the site of interaction of the C-terminal regulatory domain with the catalytic domains remains a mystery. Genetic studies have pointed to amino acids in various parts of the protein that may be involved, but direct chemical evidence for which ones are specifically interacting with the C terminus is lacking. In this study, we used in vivo cross-linking experiments with a photoreactive unnatural amino acid, p-benzoylphenylalanine, and tandem MS to obtain direct evidence that the C-terminal regulatory domain interacts with amino acids located within the N-terminal actuator domain. Our observations are consistent with a mechanism in which intermolecular, rather than intramolecular, interactions are involved. Our model invokes a "head-to-tail" organization of ATPase monomers in which the C-terminal domain of one ATPase molecule interacts with the actuator domain of another ATPase molecule. This model serves to explain why cross-linked peptides are found only in dimers and trimers, and it is consistent with prior studies suggesting that within the membrane the protein can be organized as homopolymers, including dimers, trimers, and hexamers.
PXD010787	30217950	Functional Proteomics and Deep Network Interrogation Reveal a Complex Mechanism of Action of Midostaurin in Lung Cancer Cells. 	Project Name: Functional proteomics of midostaurin in lung cancer cells: Chemical Proteomics	Chemical Proteomics, Drug Pulldown, Lung Cancer, Midostaurin, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP)	Lung cancer is associated with high prevalence and mortality, and despite significant successes with targeted drugs in genomically defined subsets of lung cancer and immunotherapy, the majority of patients currently does not benefit from these therapies. Through a targeted drug screen, we found the recently approved multi-kinase inhibitor midostaurin to have potent activity in several lung cancer cells independent of its intended target, PKC, or a specific genomic marker. To determine the underlying mechanism of action we applied a layered functional proteomics approach and a new data integration method. Using chemical proteomics, we identified multiple midostaurin kinase targets in these cells. Network-based integration of these targets with quantitative tyrosine and global phosphoproteomics data using protein-protein interactions from the STRING database suggested multiple targets are relevant for the mode of action of midostaurin. Subsequent functional validation using RNA interference and selective small molecule probes showed that simultaneous inhibition of TBK1, PDPK1 and AURKA was required to elicit midostaurin's cellular effects. Immunoblot analysis of downstream signaling nodes showed that combined inhibition of these targets altered PI3K/AKT and cell cycle signaling pathways that in part converged on PLK1. Furthermore, rational combination of midostaurin with the potent PLK1 inhibitor BI2536 elicited strong synergy. Our results demonstrate that combination of complementary functional proteomics approaches and subsequent network-based data integration can reveal novel insight into the complex mode of action of multi-kinase inhibitors, actionable targets for drug discovery and cancer vulnerabilities. Finally, we illustrate how this knowledge can be used for the rational design of synergistic drug combinations with high potential for clinical translation.
PXD008178	30217974	Proteomics reveals signal peptide features determining the client specificity in human TRAP-dependent ER protein import. 	Substrates of human TRAP complex	ER protein import, HeLa cells, MS, Sec61 complex, TRAP complex	In mammalian cells, one-third of all polypeptides are transported into or across the ER membrane via the Sec61 channel. While the Sec61 complex facilitates translocation of all polypeptides with amino-terminal signal peptides (SP) or transmembrane helices, the Sec61-auxiliary translocon-associated protein (TRAP) complex supports translocation of only a subset of precursors. To characterize determinants of TRAP substrate specificity, we here systematically identify TRAP-dependent precursors by analyzing cellular protein abundance changes upon TRAP depletion using quantitative label-free proteomics. The results are validated in independent experiments by western blotting, quantitative RT-PCR, and complementation analysis. The SPs of TRAP clients exhibit above-average glycine-plus-proline content and below-average hydrophobicity as distinguishing features. Thus, TRAP may act as SP receptor on the ER membrane's cytosolic face, recognizing precursor polypeptides with SPs of high glycine-plus-proline content and/or low hydrophobicity, and triggering substrate-specific opening of the Sec61 channel through interactions with the ER-lumenal hinge of Sec61alpha.
PXD010586	30217979	Structural determinants of Rab11 activation by the guanine nucleotide exchange factor SH3BP5. 	Interaction of the GEF SH3BP5 and its cognate GTPase Rab11	GEF, HDX-MS, Rab11, hydrogen deuterium exchange	The GTPase Rab11 plays key roles in receptor recycling, oogenesis, autophagosome formation, and ciliogenesis. However, investigating Rab11 regulation has been hindered by limited molecular detail describing activation by cognate guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs). Here, we present the structure of Rab11 bound to the GEF SH3BP5, along with detailed characterization of Rab-GEF specificity. The structure of SH3BP5 shows a coiled-coil architecture that mediates exchange through a unique Rab-GEF interaction. Furthermore, it reveals a rearrangement of the switch I region of Rab11 compared with solved Rab-GEF structures, with a constrained conformation when bound to SH3BP5. Mutation of switch I provides insights into the molecular determinants that allow for Rab11 selectivity over evolutionarily similar Rab GTPases present on Rab11-positive organelles. Moreover, we show that GEF-deficient mutants of SH3BP5 show greatly decreased Rab11 activation in cellular assays of active Rab11. Overall, our results give molecular insight into Rab11 regulation, and how Rab-GEF specificity is achieved.
PXD010412	30218046	The gut microbiota promotes hepatic fatty acid desaturation and elongation in mice. 	The gut microbiota promotes hepatic fatty acid desaturation and elongation in mice	Classification score, Data integration, Fatty acid signature, Fatty acyls, Lipid metabolism, Lipidomics, Microbiome, Short chain fatty acids, Stable isotope labelling	Interactions between the gut microbial ecosystem and host lipid homeostasis are highly relevant to host physiology and metabolic diseases. We present a comprehensive multi-omics view of the effect of intestinal microbial colonization on hepatic lipid metabolism, integrating transcriptomic, proteomic, phosphoproteomic, and lipidomic analyses of liver and plasma samples from germfree and specific pathogen-free mice. Microbes induce monounsaturated fatty acid generation by stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 and polyunsaturated fatty acid elongation by fatty acid elongase 5, leading to significant alterations in glycerophospholipid acyl-chain profiles. A composite classification score calculated from the observed alterations in fatty acid profiles in germfree mice clearly differentiates antibiotic-treated mice from untreated controls with high sensitivity. Mechanistic investigations reveal that acetate originating from gut microbial degradation of dietary fiber serves as precursor for hepatic synthesis of C16 and C18 fatty acids and their related glycerophospholipid species that are also released into the circulation.
PXD010176	30219844	TCellXTalk facilitates the detection of co-modified peptides for the study of protein post-translational modification cross-talk in T cells. 	TCellXTalk enables the detection of co-modified peptides for the study of protein post-translational modification cross-talk in T cells	Human Proteome Project, PTMs, ProteomeXchange project tag: Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP), T cells, TCR activation, cross-talk	MOTIVATION: Protein function is regulated by post-translational modifications (PTMs) that may act individually or interact with others in a phenomenon termed PTM cross-talk. Multiple databases have been dedicated to PTMs, including recent initiatives oriented towards the in silico prediction of PTM interactions. The study of PTM cross-talk ultimately requires experimental evidence about whether certain PTMs coexist in a single protein molecule. However, available resources do not assist researchers in the experimental detection of co-modified peptides. RESULTS: Herein, we present TCellXTalk, a comprehensive database of phosphorylation, ubiquitination and acetylation sites in human T cells that supports the experimental detection of co-modified peptides using targeted or directed mass spectrometry. We demonstrate the efficacy of TCellXTalk and the strategy presented here in a proof of concept experiment that enabled the identification and quantification of 15 co-modified (phosphorylated and ubiquitinated) peptides from CD3 proteins of the T-cell receptor complex. To our knowledge, these are the first co-modified peptide sequences described in this widely studied cell type. Furthermore, quantitative data showed distinct dynamics for co-modified peptides upon T cell activation, demonstrating differential regulation of co-occurring PTMs in this biological context. Overall, TCellXTalk facilitates the experimental detection of co-modified peptides in human T cells and puts forward a novel and generic strategy for the study of PTM cross-talk. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: TCellXTalk is available at https://www.tcellxtalk.org. Source Code is available at https://bitbucket.org/lp-csic-uab/tcellxtalk. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
PXD011009	30220210	Limits for Resolving Isobaric Tandem Mass Tag Reporter Ions Using Phase-Constrained Spectrum Deconvolution. 	Limits for resolving isobaric tandem mass tag reporter ions using phase constrained spectrum deconvolution	Q Exactive HF-X, phase constrained spectrum deconvolution, quantitative proteomics, resolution, tmt	A popular method for peptide quantification relies on isobaric labeling such as tandem mass tags (TMT), which enables multiplexed proteome analyses. Quantification is achieved by reporter ions generated by fragmentation in a tandem mass spectrometer. However, with higher degrees of multiplexing, the smaller mass differences between the reporter ions increase the mass resolving power requirements. This contrasts with faster peptide sequencing capabilities enabled by lowered mass resolution on Orbitrap instruments. It is therefore important to determine the mass resolution limits for highly multiplexed quantification when maximizing proteome depth. Here, we defined the lower boundaries for resolving TMT reporter ions with 0.0063 Da mass differences using an ultra-high-field Orbitrap mass spectrometer. We found the optimal method depends on the relative ratio between closely spaced reporter ions and that 64 ms transient acquisition time provided sufficient resolving power for separating TMT reporter ions with absolute ratio changes up to 16-fold. Furthermore, a 32 ms transient processed with phase-constrained spectrum deconvolution provides >50% more identifications with >99% quantified but with a slight loss in quantification precision and accuracy. These findings should guide decisions on what Orbitrap resolution settings to use in future proteomics experiments, relying on isobaric TMT reporter ion quantification.
PXD010842	30220457	Targeting Epigenetic Crosstalk as a Therapeutic Strategy for EZH2-Aberrant Solid Tumors. 	Targeting Histone Modification Crosstalk as a Therapeutic Strategy for EZH2-aberrant Solid Tumors	EZH2, H3K27ac	Mutations or aberrant upregulation of EZH2 occur frequently in human cancers, yet clinical benefits of EZH2 inhibitor (EZH2i) remain unsatisfactory and limited to certain hematological malignancies. We profile global posttranslational histone modification changes across a large panel of cancer cell lines with various sensitivities to EZH2i. We report here oncogenic transcriptional reprogramming mediated by MLL1's interaction with the p300/CBP complex, which directs H3K27me loss to reciprocal H3K27ac gain and restricts EZH2i response. Concurrent inhibition of H3K27me and H3K27ac results in transcriptional repression and MAPK pathway dependency in cancer subsets. In preclinical models encompassing a broad spectrum of EZH2-aberrant solid tumors, a combination of EZH2 and BRD4 inhibitors, or a triple-combination including MAPK inhibition display robust efficacy with very tolerable toxicity. Our results suggest an attractive precision treatment strategy for EZH2-aberrant tumors on the basis of tumor-intrinsic MLL1 expression and concurrent inhibition of epigenetic crosstalk and feedback MAPK activation.
PXD010540	30220458	An Atypical Parvovirus Drives Chronic Tubulointerstitial Nephropathy and Kidney Fibrosis. 	An atypical parvovirus driving chronic tubulointerstitial nephropathy and kidney fibrosis	Liver, Miouse, Virus	The occurrence of a spontaneous nephropathy with intranuclear inclusions in laboratory mice has puzzled pathologists for over 4 decades, because its etiology remains elusive. The condition is more severe in immunodeficient animals, suggesting an infectious cause. Using metagenomics, we identify the causative agent as an atypical virus, termed "mouse kidney parvovirus" (MKPV), belonging to a divergent genus of Parvoviridae. MKPV was identified in animal facilities in Australia and North America, is transmitted via a fecal-oral or urinary-oral route, and is controlled by the adaptive immune system. Detailed analysis of the clinical course and histopathological features demonstrated a stepwise progression of pathology ranging from sporadic tubular inclusions to tubular degeneration and interstitial fibrosis and culminating in renal failure. In summary, we identify a widely distributed pathogen in laboratory mice and establish MKPV-induced nephropathy as a new tool for elucidating mechanisms of tubulointerstitial fibrosis that shares molecular features with chronic kidney disease in humans.
PXD009276	30220558	Phosphorylation of the Ribosomal Protein RPL12/uL11 Affects Translation during Mitosis. 	RPL12 phosphorylation regulates translation during mitosis - pSILAC B cell -	LC-MS, Ribosome	Emerging evidence indicates that heterogeneity in ribosome composition can give rise to specialized functions. Until now, research mainly focused on differences in core ribosomal proteins and associated factors. The effect of posttranslational modifications has not been studied systematically. Analyzing ribosome heterogeneity is challenging because individual proteins can be part of different subcomplexes (40S, 60S, 80S, and polysomes). Here we develop polysome proteome profiling to obtain unbiased proteomic maps across ribosomal subcomplexes. Our method combines extensive fractionation by sucrose gradient centrifugation with quantitative mass spectrometry. The high resolution of the profiles allows us to assign proteins to specific subcomplexes. Phosphoproteomics on the fractions reveals that phosphorylation of serine 38 in RPL12/uL11, a known mitotic CDK1 substrate, is strongly depleted in polysomes. Follow-up experiments confirm that RPL12/uL11 phosphorylation regulates the translation of specific subsets of mRNAs during mitosis. Together, our results show that posttranslational modification of ribosomal proteins can regulate translation.
PXD010306	30221418	Partial enzymatic reactions: A missed opportunity in proteomics research. 	Short enzymatic reactions in proteomics studies	Fast proteolytic digestion	RATIONALE: Biological studies are conducted at ever-increasing rates by relying on proteomic workflows. Although data acquisition by mass spectrometry is highly automated and rapid, sample preparation continues to be the bottleneck of developing high-throughput workflows. Enzymatic protein processing, in particular, involves time-consuming protocols that can extend from one day to another. To address this gap, we developed and evaluated simple, in-solution tryptic enzymatic reactions that unfold within a few minutes, and demonstrate the utility of the methodology for the rapid analysis of proteins originating from cancer cell extracts. METHODS: Tryptic enzymatic reactions were conducted for 7-60 min, and the results were compared with that of a routine approach conducted for 18 h. No other reaction conditions were changed relative to the 18 h procedure. The reaction products were analyzed by nanospray high-performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (nano-HPLC/MS/MS), and the quality of the products was assessed in terms of peptide/protein identifications, sequence coverage, peptide length, missed-cleavage sites, quality of generated ions, and peptide hydrophilic/hydrophobic properties. RESULTS: The results demonstrate that brief, and therefore incomplete, enzymatic processes lead to a large number of peptide fragments that improve protein sequence and proteome coverage, that the tandem mass spectra produced from these peptides are of high quality for reliable protein identifications, and that the physical properties of peptides are prone to supporting the development of alternative multi-dimensional separations and middle-down proteomics analysis strategies. The reproducibility of generating the same peptides within a few minutes of enzymatic digestion was remarkably close to that obtained from 18 h long reactions, and the combined results of short and long reactions increased proteome coverage by ~40%. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate that partial enzymatic reactions conducted on short time-scales represent a valuable asset to proteomic studies, and propose their implementation either as simple, cost-effective, stand-alone protocols for substantially streamlining the analysis of biological samples, or as complementary protocols, for improving protein sequence and proteome coverage.
PXD009265	30221945	Combining High-Resolution and Exact Calibration To Boost Statistical Power: A Well-Calibrated Score Function for High-Resolution MS2 Data. 	Combining high resolution and exact calibration to boost statistical power: A well-calibrated score function for high-resolution MS2	E. coli, ocean, plasmodium, score function	To achieve accurate assignment of peptide sequences to observed fragmentation spectra, a shotgun proteomics database search tool must make good use of the very high-resolution information produced by state-of-the-art mass spectrometers. However, making use of this information while also ensuring that the search engine's scores are well calibrated, that is, that the score assigned to one spectrum can be meaningfully compared to the score assigned to a different spectrum, has proven to be challenging. Here we describe a database search score function, the "residue evidence" (res-ev) score, that achieves both of these goals simultaneously. We also demonstrate how to combine calibrated res-ev scores with calibrated XCorr scores to produce a "combined p value" score function. We provide a benchmark consisting of four mass spectrometry data sets, which we use to compare the combined p value to the score functions used by several existing search engines. Our results suggest that the combined p value achieves state-of-the-art performance, generally outperforming MS Amanda and Morpheus and performing comparably to MS-GF+. The res-ev and combined p-value score functions are freely available as part of the Tide search engine in the Crux mass spectrometry toolkit ( http://crux.ms ).
PXD009317	30224647	De novo mutations in MSL3 cause an X-linked syndrome marked by impaired histone H4 lysine 16 acetylation. 	De novo mutations of MSL3 cause a novel X-linked syndrome due to impaired histone H4 lysine 16 acetylation	Epigenetic Chromatin (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, MSL3, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), X-linked syndrome, acetylation, histone H4, lysine 16	The etiological spectrum of ultra-rare developmental disorders remains to be fully defined. Chromatin regulatory mechanisms maintain cellular identity and function, where misregulation may lead to developmental defects. Here, we report pathogenic variations in MSL3, which encodes a member of the chromatin-associated male-specific lethal (MSL) complex responsible for bulk histone H4 lysine 16 acetylation (H4K16ac) in flies and mammals. These variants cause an X-linked syndrome affecting both sexes. Clinical features of the syndrome include global developmental delay, progressive gait disturbance, and recognizable facial dysmorphism. MSL3 mutations affect MSL complex assembly and activity, accompanied by a pronounced loss of H4K16ac levels in vivo. Patient-derived cells display global transcriptome alterations of pathways involved in morphogenesis and cell migration. Finally, we use histone deacetylase inhibitors to rebalance acetylation levels, alleviating some of the molecular and cellular phenotypes of patient cells. Taken together, we characterize a syndrome that allowed us to decipher the developmental importance of MSL3 in humans.
PXD006635	30224661	A Golgi UDP-GlcNAc transporter delivers substrates for N-linked glycans and sphingolipids. 	Plant UDP-N-acetylglucosamine (UDP-GlcNAc) transporter (UGNT1) glycopeptide analysis	UDP-N-acetylglucosamine, glycopeptide, nucleotide sugar transporters	Glycosylation requires activated glycosyl donors in the form of nucleotide sugars to drive processes such as post-translational protein modifications and glycolipid and polysaccharide biosynthesis. Most of these reactions occur in the Golgi, requiring cytosolic-derived nucleotide sugars, which need to be actively transferred into the Golgi lumen by nucleotide sugar transporters. We identified a Golgi-localized nucleotide sugar transporter from Arabidopsis thaliana with affinity for UDP-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (UDP-GlcNAc) and assigned it UDP-GlcNAc transporter 1 (UGNT1). Profiles of N-glycopeptides revealed that plants carrying the ugnt1 loss-of-function allele are virtually devoid of complex and hybrid N-glycans. Instead, the N-glycopeptide population from these alleles exhibited high-mannose structures, representing structures prior to the addition of the first GlcNAc in the Golgi. Concomitantly, sphingolipid profiling revealed that the biosynthesis of GlcNAc-containing glycosyl inositol phosphorylceramides (GIPCs) is also reliant on this transporter. By contrast, plants carrying the loss-of-function alleles affecting ROCK1, which has been reported to transport UDP-GlcNAc and UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine, exhibit no changes in N-glycan or GIPC profiles. Our findings reveal that plants contain a single UDP-GlcNAc transporter that delivers an essential substrate for the maturation of N-glycans and the GIPC class of sphingolipids.
PXD009241	30225281	Identification of potential biomarkers of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma using iTRAQ based quantitative proteomic approach. 	Identification of potential biomarkers of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma using iTRAQ based quantitative proteomic approach	HNSCC, OKF6/TERT, Parallel Reaction Monitoring, iTRAQ	Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is one of the most common cancers in India. Despite improvements in treatment strategy, the survival rates of HNSCC patients remain poor. Thus, it is necessary to identify biomarkers that can be used for early detection of disease. In this study, we employed iTRAQ-based quantitative mass spectrometry analysis to identify dysregulated proteins from a panel of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) cell lines. We identified 2468 proteins, of which 496 proteins were found to be dysregulated in at least two out of three HNSCC cell lines compared to immortalized normal oral keratinocytes. We detected increased expression of replication protein A1 (RPA1) and heat shock protein family H (Hsp110) member 1 (HSPH1), in HNSCC cell lines compared to control. The differentially expressed proteins were further validated using parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) and western blot analysis in HNSCC cell lines. Immunohistochemistry-based validation using HNSCC tissue microarrays revealed overexpression of RPA1 and HSPH1 in 15.7% and 32.2% of the tested cases, respectively. Our study illustrates quantitative proteomics as a robust approach for identification of potential HNSCC biomarkers. The proteomic data has been submitted to ProteomeXchange Consortium (http://www.proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org) via the PRIDE public data repository accessible using the data identifier - PXD009241.
PXD009517	30226384	Host Cell Proteome of Physcomitrella patens Harbors Proteases and Protease Inhibitors under Bioproduction Conditions. 	The host cell proteome of Physcomitrella patens	Bioreactor, Physcomitrella patens, host cell proteome	Host cell proteins are inevitable contaminants of biopharmaceuticals. Here, we performed detailed analyses of the host cell proteome of moss ( Physcomitrella patens) bioreactor supernatants using mass spectrometry and subsequent bioinformatics analysis. Distinguishing between the apparent secretome and intracellular contaminants, a complex extracellular proteolytic network including subtilisin-like proteases, metallo-proteases, and aspartic proteases was identified. Knockout of a subtilisin-like protease affected the overall extracellular proteolytic activity. Besides proteases, also secreted protease-inhibiting proteins such as serpins were identified. Further, we confirmed predicted cleavage sites of 40 endogenous signal peptides employing an N-terminomics approach. The present data provide novel aspects to optimize both product stability of recombinant biopharmaceuticals as well as their maturation along the secretory pathway. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009517.
PXD008978	30226781	Increasing the Separation Capacity of Intact Histone Proteoforms Chromatography Coupling Online Weak Cation Exchange-HILIC to Reversed Phase LC UVPD-HRMS. 	Online Weak Cation Exchange-HILIC  Reversed Phase LC UVPD-HRMS of intact HeLa Histones	Epigenetic Chromatin (B/D-HPP), Histones, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Top-Down Proteomics, UVPD, online 2DLC	Top-down proteomics is an emerging analytical strategy to characterize combinatorial protein post-translational modifications (PTMs). However, sample complexity and small mass differences between chemically closely related proteoforms often limit the resolution attainable by separations employing a single liquid chromatographic (LC) principle. In particular, for ultramodified proteins like histones, extensive and time-consuming fractionation is needed to achieve deep proteoform coverage. Herein, we present the first online nanoflow comprehensive two-dimensional liquid chromatography (nLCxLC) platform top-down mass spectrometry analysis of histone proteoforms. The described two-dimensional LC system combines weak cation exchange chromatography under hydrophilic interaction LC conditions (i.e., charge- and hydrophilicity-based separation) with reversed phase liquid chromatography (i.e., hydrophobicity-based separation). The two independent chemical selectivities were run at nanoflows (300 nL/min) and coupled online with high-resolution mass spectrometry employing ultraviolet photodissociation (UVPD-HRMS). The nLCxLC workflow increased the number of intact protein masses observable relative to one-dimensional approaches and allowed characterization of hundreds of proteoforms starting from limited sample quantities (~1.5 mug).
PXD010445	30228260	A variant NuRD complex containing PWWP2A/B excludes MBD2/3 to regulate transcription at active genes. 	A variant NuRD complex containing PWWP2A/B excludes MBD2/3 to regulate transcription at active genes	HDAC, NuRD, PWWP2A/B	Transcriptional regulation by chromatin is a highly dynamic process directed through the recruitment and coordinated action of epigenetic modifiers and readers of these modifications. Using an unbiased proteomic approach to find interactors of H3K36me3, a modification enriched on active chromatin, here we identify PWWP2A and HDAC2 among the top interactors. PWWP2A and its paralog PWWP2B form a stable complex with NuRD subunits MTA1/2/3:HDAC1/2:RBBP4/7, but not with MBD2/3, p66alpha/beta, and CHD3/4. PWWP2A competes with MBD3 for binding to MTA1, thus defining a new variant NuRD complex that is mutually exclusive with the MBD2/3 containing NuRD. In mESCs, PWWP2A/B is most enriched at highly transcribed genes. Loss of PWWP2A/B leads to increases in histone acetylation predominantly at highly expressed genes, accompanied by decreases in Pol II elongation. Collectively, these findings suggest a role for PWWP2A/B in regulating transcription through the fine-tuning of histone acetylation dynamics at actively transcribed genes.
PXD009744	30228356	Differential Proteome Analysis of Human Neuroblastoma Xenograft Primary Tumors and Matched Spontaneous Distant Metastases. 	Differential Proteome Analysis of Human Neuroblastoma Xenograft Primary Tumors and Matched Spontaneous Distant Metastases	bioluminescence imaging, infrared laser ablation, proteome analysis, spontaneous metastasis	Metastasis formation is the major cause for cancer-related deaths and the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study we describe spontaneous metastasis xenograft mouse models of human neuroblastoma used for unbiased identification of metastasis-related proteins by applying an infrared laser (IR) for sampling primary tumor and metastatic tissues, followed by mass spectrometric proteome analysis. IR aerosol samples were obtained from ovarian and liver metastases, which were indicated by bioluminescence imaging (BLI), and matched subcutaneous primary tumors. Corresponding histology proved the human origin of metastatic lesions. Ovarian metastases were commonly larger than liver metastases indicating differential outgrowth capacities. Among ~1,900 proteins identified at each of the three sites, 55 proteins were differentially regulated in ovarian metastases while 312 proteins were regulated in liver metastases. There was an overlap of 21 and 7 proteins up- and down-regulated at both metastatic sites, respectively, most of which were so far not related to metastasis such as LYPLA2, EIF4B, DPY30, LGALS7, PRPH, and NEFM. Moreover, we established in vitro sublines from primary tumor and metastases and demonstrate differences in cellular protrusions, migratory/invasive potential and glycosylation. Summarized, this work identified several novel putative drivers of metastasis formation that are tempting candidates for future functional studies.
PXD008252	30228939	Nidogen-1 is a novel extracellular ligand for the NKp44 activating receptor. 	Nidogen-1 is a novel extracellular ligand for the NKp44 activating receptor	NID1 NK NKp44  receptor	The release of soluble ligands of activating Natural Killer (NK) cell receptors may represent a regulatory mechanism of NK cell function both in physiologic and in pathologic conditions. Here, we identified the extracellular matrix protein Nidogen-1 (NID1) as a ligand of NKp44, an important activating receptor expressed by activated NK cells. When released as soluble molecule, NID1 regulates NK cell function by modulating NKp44-induced IFN-gamma production or cytotoxicity. In particular, it also modulates IFN-gamma production induced by Platelet-Derived Growth Factor (PDGF)-DD following NKp44 engagement. We also show that NID1 may be present at the cell surface. In this form or when bound to a solid support (bNID1), NID1 fails to induce NK cell cytotoxicity or cytokine release. However, analysis by mass spectrometry revealed that exposure to bNID1 can induce in human NK cells relevant changes in the proteomic profiles suggesting an effect on different biological processes.
PXD007820	30229651	Proteomic Response to Thaxtomin Phytotoxin Elicitor Cellobiose and to Deletion of Cellulose Utilization Regulator CebR in Streptomyces scabies. 	Proteomic response to the thaxtomin phytotoxin elicitor cellobiose and to the deletion of the cellulose utilization regulator CebR in Streptomyces scabies	LC-MSe, Streptomyces scabies, Synapt MS, pathogenicity	Streptomyces scabies is responsible for common scab disease on root and tuber vegetables. Production of its main phytotoxin thaxtomin A is triggered upon transport of cellulose byproducts cellotriose and cellobiose, which disable the repression of the thaxtomin biosynthesis activator gene txtR by the cellulose utilization regulator CebR. To assess the intracellular response under conditions where S. scabies develops a virulent behavior, we performed a comparative proteomic analysis of wild-type S. scabies 87-22 and its cebR null mutant (hyper-virulent phenotype) grown in the absence or presence of cellobiose. Our study revealed significant changes in abundance of proteins belonging to metabolic pathways known or predicted to be involved in pathogenicity of S. scabies. Among these, we identified proteins of the cello-oligosaccharide-mediated induction of thaxtomin production, the starch utilization system required for utilization of the carbohydrate stored in S. scabies's hosts, and siderophore synthesis utilization systems, which are key features of pathogens to acquire iron once they colonized the host. Thus, proteomic analysis supported by targeted mass spectrometry-based metabolite quantitative analysis revealed the central role of CebR as a regulator of virulence of S. scabies.
PXD009199	30230243	Quantitative Analysis of the Brain Ubiquitylome in Alzheimer's Disease. 	Mapping Ubiquitination Sites in Alzheimer's Disease	AD, GG remnant peptides, ubiquitylome	Several neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's Disease (AD) are characterized by ubiquitin-positive pathological protein aggregates. Here, an immunoaffinity approach is utilized to enrich ubiquitylated isopeptides after trypsin digestion from five AD and five age-matched control postmortem brain tissues. Label-free MS-based proteomic analysis identifies 4291 unique ubiquitylation sites mapping to 1682 unique proteins. Differential enrichment analysis shows that over 800 ubiquitylation sites are significantly altered between AD and control cases. Of these, =~80% are increased in AD, including seven poly ubiquitin linkages, which is consistent with proteolytic stress and high burden of ubiquitylated pathological aggregates in AD. The microtubule associated protein Tau, the core component of neurofibrillary tangles, has the highest number of increased sites of ubiquitylation per any protein in AD. Tau poly ubiquitylation from AD brain homogenates is confirmed by reciprocal co-immunoprecipitation and by affinity capture using tandem ubiquitin binding entities. Co-modified peptides, with both ubiquitylation and phosphorylation sites, are also enriched in AD. Notably, many of the co-modified peptides mapped to Tau within KXGS motifs in the microtubule binding region suggesting that crosstalk between phosphorylation and ubiquitylation occurs on Tau in AD. Overall, these findings highlight the utility of MS to map ubiquitylated substrates in human brain and provides insight into mechanisms underlying pathological protein posttranslational modification in AD.
PXD010724	30231569	Nitric Oxide Enhancing Resistance to PEG-Induced Water Deficiency is Associated with the Primary Photosynthesis Reaction in Triticum aestivum L. 	Nitric Oxide Enhances Resistance to PEG-induced Water Deficiency is Associated with the Primary Photosynthesis Reaction in Triticum aestivum L.	20% PEG-induced water deficiency, Triticum aestivum L., nitric oxide, phosphoproteomic, primary reaction of photosynthesis	Photosynthesis is affected by water-deficiency (WD) stress, and nitric oxide (NO) is a free radical that participates in the photosynthesis process. Previous studies have suggested that NO regulates excitation-energy distribution of photosynthesis under WD stress. Here, quantitative phosphoproteomic profiling was conducted using iTRAQ. Differentially phosphorylated protein species (DEPs) were identified in leaves of NO- or polyethylene glycol (PEG)-treated wheat seedlings (D), and in control seedlings. From 1396 unique phosphoproteins, 2257 unique phosphorylated peptides and 2416 phosphorylation sites were identified. Of these, 96 DEPs displayed significant changes (>=1.50-fold, p < 0.01). These DEPs are involved in photosynthesis, signal transduction, etc. Furthermore, phosphorylation of several DEPs was upregulated by both D and NO treatments, but downregulated only in NO treatment. These differences affected the chlorophyll A-B binding protein, chloroplast post-illumination chlorophyll-fluorescence-increase protein, and SNT7, implying that NO indirectly regulated the absorption and transport of light energy in photosynthesis in response to WD stress. The significant difference of chlorophyll (Chl) content, Chl a fluorescence-transient, photosynthesis index, and trapping and transport of light energy further indicated that exogenous NO under D stress enhanced the primary photosynthesis reaction compared to D treatment. A putative pathway is proposed to elucidate NO regulation of the primary reaction of photosynthesis under WD.
PXD008545	30232403	Proteomics study of human cord blood reticulocyte-derived exosomes. 	Proteomics of human cord blood reticulocyte-derived exosomes	exosome, reticulocyte	Reticulocyte-derived exosomes (Rex), extracellular vesicles of endocytic origin, were initially discovered as a cargo-disposal mechanism of obsolete proteins in the maturation of reticulocytes into erythrocytes. In this work, we present the first mass spectrometry-based proteomics of human Rex (HuRex). HuRex were isolated from cultures of human reticulocyte-enriched cord blood using different culture conditions and exosome isolation methods. The newly described proteome consists of 367 proteins, most of them related to exosomes as revealed by gene ontology over-representation analysis and include multiple transporters as well as proteins involved in exosome biogenesis and erythrocytic disorders. Immunoelectron microscopy validated the presence of the transferrin receptor. Moreover, functional assays demonstrated active capture of HuRex by mature dendritic cells. As only seven proteins have been previously associated with HuRex, this resource will facilitate studies on the role of human reticulocyte-derived exosomes in normal and pathological conditions affecting erythropoiesis.
PXD010065	30233522	Global Profiling of Lysine Acetylation in Borrelia burgdorferi B31 Reveals Its Role in Central Metabolism. 	Acetylation in Borrelia burgdorferi	Borrelia burgdorferi, acetylation, lyme disease, metabolism	The post-translational modification of proteins has been shown to be extremely important in prokaryotes. Using a highly sensitive mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach, we have characterized the acetylome of B. burgdorferi. As previously reported for other bacteria, a relatively low number (5%) of the potential genome-encoded proteins of B. burgdorferi were acetylated. Of these, the vast majority were involved in central metabolism and cellular information processing (transcription, translation, etc.). Interestingly, these critical cell functions were targeted during both ML (mid-log) and S (stationary) phases of growth. However, acetylation of target proteins in ML phase was limited to single lysine residues while these same proteins were acetylated at multiple sites during S phase. To determine the acetyl donor in B. burgdorferi, we used mutants that targeted the sole acetate metabolic/anabolic pathway in B. burgdorferi (lipid I synthesis). B. burgdorferi strains B31-A3, B31-A3 DeltaackA (acetyl-P(-) and acetyl-CoA(-)) and B31-A3 Deltapta (acetyl-P(+) and acetyl-CoA(-)) were grown to S phase and the acetylation profiles were analyzed. While only two proteins were acetylated in the DeltaackA mutant, 140 proteins were acetylated in the Deltapta mutant suggesting that acetyl-P was the primary acetyl donor in B. burgdorferi. Using specific enzymatic assays, we were able to demonstrate that hyperacetylation of proteins in S phase appeared to play a role in decreasing the enzymatic activity of at least two glycolytic proteins. Currently, we hypothesize that acetylation is used to modulate enzyme activities during different stages of growth. This strategy would allow the bacteria to post-translationally stimulate the activity of key glycolytic enzymes by deacetylation rather than expending excessive energy synthesizing new proteins. This would be an appealing, low-energy strategy for a bacterium with limited metabolic capabilities. Future work focuses on identifying potential protein deacetylase(s) to complete our understanding of this important biological process.
PXD010333	30237200	Targeted Analysis of Lysosomal Directed Proteins and Their Sites of Mannose-6-phosphate Modification. 	Analysis of intact mannose-6-phosphate glycopeptides	CHO, Hela, IMAC, M6P, glycopeptide	Mannose-6-phosphate (M6P) is a distinctive post-translational modification critical for trafficking of lysosomal acid hydrolases into the lysosome. Improper trafficking into the lysosome, and/or lack of certain hydrolases, results in a toxic accumulation of their substrates within the lysosomes. To gain insight into the enzymes destined to the lysosome these glycoproteins can be distinctively enriched and studied using their unique M6P tag. Here we demonstrate, by adapting a protocol optimized for the enrichment of phosphopeptides using Fe(3+)-IMAC chromatography, that proteome-wide M6P glycopeptides can be selectively enriched and subsequently analyzed by mass spectrometry, taking advantage of exclusive phosphomannose oxonium fragment marker ions. As proof-of-concept of this protocol, applying it to HeLa cells, we identified hundreds of M6P-modified glycopeptides on 35 M6P-modified glycoproteins. We next targeted CHO cells, either wild-type or cells deficient in Acp2 and Acp5, which are acid phosphatases targeting M6P. In the KO CHO cells we observed a 20-fold increase of the abundance of the M6P-modification on endogenous CHO glycoproteins but also on the recombinantly over-expressed lysosomal human alpha-galactosidase. We conclude that our approach could thus be of general interest for characterization of M6P glycoproteomes as well as characterization of lysosomal enzymes used as treatment in enzyme replacement therapies targeting lysosomal storage diseases.
PXD009721	30239205	In-Depth Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Trophozoites and Pseudocysts of Trichomonas vaginalis. 	In-depth quantitative proteomic analysis of trophozoites and pseudocysts of Trichomonas vaginalis r	FASP, Trichomonas vaginalis, parasite, proteomic ruler, total protein approach	Trichomonas vaginalis is a sexually transmitted anaerobic parasite that infects humans causing trichomoniasis, a common and ubiquitous sexually transmitted disease. The life cycle of this parasite possesses a trophozoite form without a cystic stage. However, the presence of nonproliferative and nonmotile, yet viable and reversible spherical forms with internalized flagella, denominated pseudocysts, has been commonly observed for this parasite. To understand the mechanisms involved in the formation of pseudocysts, we performed a mass spectrometry-based high-throughput quantitative proteomics study using a label-free approach and functional assays by biochemical and flow cytometric methods. We observed that the morphological transformation of trophozoite to pseudocysts is coupled to (i) a metabolic shift toward a less glycolytic phenotype; (ii) alterations in the abundance of hydrogenosomal iron-sulfur cluster (ISC) assembly machinery; (iii) increased abundance of regulatory particles of the ubiquitin-proteasome system; (iv) significant alterations in proteins involved in adhesion and cytoskeleton reorganization; and (v) arrest in G2/M phase associated with alterations in the abundance of regulatory proteins of the cell cycle. These data demonstrate that pseudocysts experience important physiological and structural alterations for survival under unfavorable environmental conditions.
PXD011204	30240925	A high glucose level is associated with decreased aspirin-mediated acetylation of platelet cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 at serine 529: A pilot study. 	Human Platelets PRM -  A high glucose level is associated with decreased aspirin-mediated acetylation of platelet cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 at serine 529: A pilot study	Diabetes, PRM, Platelets, aspirin-acetylation	Diabetes is a major risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. Although aspirin is considered a cornerstone of the prevention and treatment of atherothrombotic-related ischemic events, this antiplatelet drug appears to be less effective in patients with poorly controlled diabetes. It has been suggested that the glycation of platelet proteins plays a pivotal role in poor responsiveness to aspirin. However, a direct effect on the critical residue (serine 529, or Ser 529) of the catalytic pocket of cyclooxygenase 1 (COX-1) has never been demonstrated. This pilot study aimed to elucidate the impact of hyperglycaemia on aspirin acetylation of COX-1 using a targeted mass spectrometry approach. We observed that high glucose concentration had a direct impact on the level of acetylation of the COX-1 Ser 529 residue, whereas it's overall acetylation level remained unchanged. Moreover, the functional aspirin-induced inhibition of COX-1 was dose-dependently impaired as glucose concentrations increased. These in vitro findings were in line with data obtained using platelets from diabetic patients. These data provide new insights into the interplay between glucose and aspirin on platelet proteins and their effects on platelet COX-1. They also suggest a potential mechanistic explanation for the phenomenon of poor response to aspirin in diabetic patients. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD011204. SIGNIFICANCE: Deciphering the mutual interplay between glucose and aspirin-mediated acetylation on platelet COX-1, might be of great interest as there is still a lack of information of the mechanism underlying this process that may contribute to the less-than expected response of platelets to aspirin, often observed in diabetes.
PXD010372	30241606	Multi-level Proteomics Identifies CT45 as a Chemosensitivity Mediator and Immunotherapy Target in Ovarian Cancer. 	Multi-level proteomics identifies CT45 as a  chemosensitivity mediator and immunotherapy target in ovarian cancer	Biomarker, Ovarian Cancer	Most high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) patients develop resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy and recur, but 15% remain disease free over a decade. To discover drivers of long-term survival, we quantitatively analyzed the proteomes of platinum-resistant and -sensitive HGSOC patients from minute amounts of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumors. This revealed cancer/testis antigen 45 (CT45) as an independent prognostic factor associated with a doubling of disease-free survival in advanced-stage HGSOC. Phospho- and interaction proteomics tied CT45 to DNA damage pathways through direct interaction with the PP4 phosphatase complex. In vitro, CT45 regulated PP4 activity, and its high expression led to increased DNA damage and platinum sensitivity. CT45-derived HLA class I peptides, identified by immunopeptidomics, activate patient-derived cytotoxic T cells and promote tumor cell killing. This study highlights the power of clinical cancer proteomics to identify targets for chemo- and immunotherapy and illuminate their biological roles.
PXD009659	30242034	Cell polarity and adherens junction formation inhibit epithelial Fas cell death receptor signaling. 	A survival mechanism controlled by cadherins and Dlg1 polarity complex inhibits Fas cell death receptor signaling	PDZ, cell Polarity, cell death, death receptor, epithelia	Finely tuned regulation of epithelial cell death maintains tissue integrity and homeostasis. At the cellular level, life and death decisions are controlled by environmental stimuli such as the activation of death receptors. We show that cell polarity and adherens junction formation prevent proapoptotic signals emanating from the Fas death receptor. Fas is sequestered in E-cadherin actin-based adhesion structures that are less able to induce downstream apoptosis signaling. Using a proteomic-based approach, we find that the polarity molecule Dlg1 interacts with the C-terminal PDZ-binding site in Fas and that this interaction decreases formation of the death-inducing complex upon engagement with Fas ligand (FasL), thus acting as an additional cell death protection mechanism. We propose that E-cadherin and Dlg1 inhibit FasL-induced cell death by two complementary but partially independent mechanisms that help to maintain epithelial homeostasis by protecting normal polarized epithelia from apoptosis. When polarity is lost, the Fas-cadherin-Dlg1 antiapoptotic complex is disrupted, and FasL can promote the elimination of compromised nonpolarized cells.
PXD008079	30242111	Integrated Proteomics Reveals Apoptosis-related Mechanisms Associated with Placental Malaria. 	Integrated proteomics reveals apoptosis-related mechanisms associated with past-chronic stage of placental malaria	P. falciparum, glycoproteome, phosphoproteome, placental malaria	Malaria in pregnancy is a public health concern in malaria-endemic areas. Accumulation of maternal immune cells in the placenta and increased levels of inflammatory cytokines caused by sequestration of Plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes have been associated to poor neonatal outcomes, including low birth weight because of fetal growth restriction. Little is known about the molecular changes occurring in a P. falciparum-infected placenta that has developed placental malaria during pregnancy but had the parasites cleared by pharmacological treatment (past infection). We conducted an integrated proteome, phosphoproteome and glycoproteome analysis in past P. falciparum-infected placentas aiming to find molecular changes associated with placental malaria. A total of 2946 proteins, 1733 N-linked glycosites and 4100 phosphosites were identified and quantified in this study, disclosing overrepresented processes related to oxidative stress, protein folding and regulation of apoptosis in past-infected placentas Moreover, AKT and ERK signaling pathways activation, together with clinical data, were further correlated to an increased apoptosis in past-infected placentas. This study showed apoptosis-related mechanisms associated with placental malaria that can be further explored as therapeutic target against adverse pregnancy outcomes.
PXD010870	30242148	Gap junction protein Connexin-43 is a direct transcriptional regulator of N-cadherin in vivo. 	Co-IP (AP-MS) of Connexin-43 -  Gap junction protein Connexin-43 is a direct transcriptional regulator of N-cadherin in vivo	AP-MS, Co-IP, Hela	Connexins are the primary components of gap junctions, providing direct links between cells under many physiological processes. Here, we demonstrate that in addition to this canonical role, Connexins act as transcriptional regulators. We show that Connexin 43 (Cx43) controls neural crest cell migration in vivo by directly regulating N-cadherin transcription. This activity requires interaction between Cx43 carboxy tail and the basic transcription factor-3, which drives the translocation of Cx43 tail to the nucleus. Once in the nucleus they form a complex with PolII which directly binds to the N-cadherin promoter. We found that this mechanism is conserved between amphibian and mammalian cells. Given the strong evolutionary conservation of connexins across vertebrates, this may reflect a common mechanism of gene regulation by a protein whose function was previously ascribed only to gap junctional communication.
PXD010401	30242258	Notch2 controls non-autonomous Wnt-signalling in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. 	Notch2 controls non-autonomous Wnt-signalling in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia	CLL, NOTCH, WNT, plasma membrane	The Wnt signalling pathway, one of the core de-regulated pathways in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), is activated in only a subset of patients through somatic mutations. Here we describe alternative, microenvironment-dependent mechanisms of Wnt activation in malignant B cells. We show that tumour cells specifically induce Notch2 activity in mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) required for the transcription of the complement factor C1q. MSC-derived C1q in turn inhibits Gsk3-beta mediated degradation of beta-catenin in CLL cells. Additionally, stromal Notch2 activity regulates N-cadherin expression in CLL cells, which interacts with and further stabilises beta-catenin. Together, these stroma Notch2-dependent mechanisms induce strong activation of canonical Wnt signalling in CLL cells. Pharmacological inhibition of the Wnt pathway impairs microenvironment-mediated survival of tumour cells. Similarly, inhibition of Notch signalling diminishes survival of stroma-protected CLL cells in vitro and disease engraftment in vivo. Notch2 activation in the microenvironment is a pre-requisite for the activation of canonical Wnt signalling in tumour cells.
PXD010239	30242280	Cryo-EM analysis of the T3S injectisome reveals the structure of the needle and open secretin. 	Identification of proteins in the Salmonella SPI-1 type III secretion injectisome needle complex	bacteria, injectisome, type iii secretion system	The bacterial type III secretion system, or injectisome, is a syringe shaped nanomachine essential for the virulence of many disease causing Gram-negative bacteria. At the core of the injectisome structure is the needle complex, a continuous channel formed by the highly oligomerized inner and outer membrane hollow rings and a polymerized helical needle filament which spans through and projects into the infected host cell. Here we present the near-atomic resolution structure of a needle complex from the prototypical Salmonella Typhimurium SPI-1 type III secretion system, with local masking protocols allowing for model building and refinement of the major membrane spanning components of the needle complex base in addition to an isolated needle filament. This work provides significant insight into injectisome structure and assembly and importantly captures the molecular basis for substrate induced gating in the giant outer membrane secretin portal family.
PXD009651	30242930	Accumulation of endogenous peptides triggers a pathogen stress response in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	HiRIEF TMT Proteomics of Arabidosis thaliana, wildtype versus oligopeptidases' KO mutants	HiRIEF, LCMS, OOP, PreP, TMT, oligopeptidase	The stepwise degradation of peptides to amino acids in plant mitochondria and chloroplasts is catalyzed by a network of oligopeptidases (presequence protease PreP, organellar oligopeptidase OOP) and aminopeptidases. In the present report, we show that the lack of oligopeptidase activity in Arabidopsis thaliana results in the accumulation of endogenous free peptides, mostly of chloroplastic origin (targeting peptides and degradation products). Using mRNA sequencing and deep coverage proteomics, allowing for the identification of 17 000 transcripts and 11 000 proteins, respectively, we uncover a peptide-stress response occurring in plants lacking PreP and OOP oligopeptidase activity. The peptide-stress response results in the activation of the classical plant defense pathways in the absence of pathogenic challenge. The constitutive activation of the pathogen-defense pathways imposes a strong growth penalty and a reduction of the plants reproductive fitness. Our results indicate that the absence of organellar oligopeptidases PreP1/2 and OOP results in the accumulation of peptides that are perceived as pathogenic effectors and activate the signaling pathways of plant-defense response.
PXD006083	30244943	Feasibility of a plasma bioassay to assess oxidative protection of low-density lipoproteins by high-density lipoproteins. 	Plasma factors mediating inhibition of LDL oxidation	human plasma	BACKGROUND: Traditionally, the impact of lipoproteins on vascular disease has been evaluated in light of their quantity, that is, cholesterol content, in plasma. However, recent studies of high-density lipoproteins (HDLs) have focused on functionality with regard to atheroprotection. For example, bioassays have emerged to assess the ability of HDL, in its near native plasma environment, to promote cholesterol removal (efflux) from cells. As a result, attention has focused on developing plasma-based assays for other putative HDL protective functions including protecting low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) from oxidative damage. OBJECTIVE: To determine the feasibility of such an assay in a complex sample such as plasma, we evaluated the contribution of HDL vs other plasma factors in preventing LDL oxidation. METHODS: We separated normolipidemic human plasma by gel filtration chromatography and assessed each fraction for its ability to prevent LDL modification by water soluble radical and copper-initiated oxidation mechanisms. RESULTS: Using proteomics and selective precipitation methods, we identified major antioxidative contributions for fibrinogen, immunoglobulin G, albumin, and small soluble molecules like uric acid and ascorbate, with albumin being especially dominant in copper-initiated mechanisms. HDL particles were minor contributors (~1%-2%) to the antioxidant capacity of plasma, irrespective of oxidation mechanism. CONCLUSIONS: Given the overwhelming background of antioxidant capacity inherent to highly abundant plasma proteins, specific bioassays of HDL antioxidative function will likely require its complete separation from plasma.
PXD030463	30245083	Prospective Isolation and Characterization of Genetically and Functionally Distinct AML Subclones. 	Label-free quantitative proteome of AML CD34+ and mobilized PB CD34+ cells	acute myeloid leukemia, leukemic stem/progenitor cells	Intra-tumor heterogeneity caused by clonal evolution is a major problem in cancer treatment. To address this problem, we performed label-free quantitative proteomics on primary acute myeloid leukemia (AML) samples. We identified 50 leukemia-enriched plasma membrane proteins enabling the prospective isolation of genetically distinct subclones from individual AML patients. Subclones differed in their regulatory phenotype, drug sensitivity, growth, and engraftment behavior, as determined by RNA sequencing, DNase I hypersensitive site mapping, transcription factor occupancy analysis, in vitro culture, and xenograft transplantation. Finally, we show that these markers can be used to identify and longitudinally track distinct leukemic clones in patients in routine diagnostics. Our study describes a strategy for a major improvement in stratifying cancer diagnosis and treatment.
PXD008588	30246146	Characterization of Aspergillus niger Isolated from the International Space Station. 	Genomic and Proteomic characterization of Aspergillus niger isolated from the International Space Station	Aspergillus niger, International Space Station	The initial characterization of the Aspergillus niger isolate JSC-093350089, collected from U.S. segment surfaces of the International Space Station (ISS), is reported, along with a comparison to the extensively studied strain ATCC 1015. Whole-genome sequencing of the ISS isolate enabled its phylogenetic placement within the A. niger/welwitschiae/lacticoffeatus clade and revealed that the genome of JSC-093350089 is within the observed genetic variance of other sequenced A. niger strains. The ISS isolate exhibited an increased rate of growth and pigment distribution compared to a terrestrial strain. Analysis of the isolate's proteome revealed significant differences in the molecular phenotype of JSC-093350089, including increased abundance of proteins involved in the A. niger starvation response, oxidative stress resistance, cell wall modulation, and nutrient acquisition. Together, these data reveal the existence of a distinct strain of A. niger on board the ISS and provide insight into the characteristics of melanized fungal species inhabiting spacecraft environments. IMPORTANCE A thorough understanding of how fungi respond and adapt to the various stimuli encountered during spaceflight presents many economic benefits and is imperative for the health of crew. As A. niger is a predominant ISS isolate frequently detected in built environments, studies of A. niger strains inhabiting closed systems may reveal information fundamental to the success of long-duration space missions. This investigation provides valuable insights into the adaptive mechanisms of fungi in extreme environments as well as countermeasures to eradicate unfavorable microbes. Further, it enhances understanding of host-microbe interactions in closed systems, which can help NASA's Human Research Program maintain a habitat healthy for crew during long-term manned space missions.
PXD009066	30246424	Alpha- and beta-mannan utilization by marine Bacteroidetes. 	Utilization of alpha- and beta-mannan by marine Flavobacteriia	Leeuwenhoekiella, mannan, marine, polysaccharide	Marine microscopic algae carry out about half of the global carbon dioxide fixation into organic matter. They provide organic substrates for marine microbes such as members of the Bacteroidetes that degrade algal polysaccharides using carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes). In Bacteroidetes genomes CAZyme encoding genes are mostly grouped in distinct regions termed polysaccharide utilization loci (PULs). While some studies have shown involvement of PULs in the degradation of algal polysaccharides, the specific substrates are for the most part still unknown. We investigated four marine Bacteroidetes isolated from the southern North Sea that harbour putative mannan-specific PULs. These PULs are similarly organized as PULs in human gut Bacteroides that digest alpha- and beta-mannans from yeasts and plants respectively. Using proteomics and defined growth experiments with polysaccharides as sole carbon sources we could show that the investigated marine Bacteroidetes express the predicted functional proteins required for alpha- and beta-mannan degradation. Our data suggest that algal mannans play an as yet unknown important role in the marine carbon cycle, and that biochemical principles established for gut or terrestrial microbes also apply to marine bacteria, even though their PULs are evolutionarily distant.
PXD009088	30246935	Proteome Profiling by Label-Free Mass Spectrometry Reveals Differentiated Response of Campylobacter jejuni 81-176 to Sublethal Concentrations of Bile Acids. 	SWATH-LC/MS/MS of the proteomic response in Campylobacter jejuni 81-176 to sublethal concentrations of seven different bile acids	Campylobacter, SWATH, bile acids	PURPOSE: Bile acids are crucial components of the intestinal antimicrobial defense and represent a significant stress factor for enteric pathogens. Adaptation processes of Campylobacter jejuni to this hostile environment are analyzed in this study by a proteomic approach. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Proteome profiling by label-free mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS) has been used to characterize the adaptation of C. jejuni to sublethal concentrations of seven bile acids. RESULTS: The bile acids with the lowest inhibitory concentration (IC50 ), deoxycholic and chenodeoxycholic acid, induce the most significant proteome changes. Overall a downregulation of all basic biosynthetic pathways and a general decrease in the transcription machinery are found. Concurrently, an induction of factors involved in detoxification of reactive oxygen species, protein folding, and bile acid exporting efflux pumps is detected. Exposure to deoxycholic and chenodeoxycholic acid results in an increased expression of components of the more energy-efficient aerobic respiration pathway, while the anaerobic branches of the electron transport chain are down-expressed. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The results show that C. jejuni has a differentiated system of adaptation to bile acid stresses. The findings enhance the understanding of the pathogenesis of campylobacteriosis, especially for survival of C. jejuni in the human intestine, and may provide clues to future medical treatment.
PXD011084	30247619	Cdk1 gates cell cycle-dependent tRNA synthesis by regulating RNA polymerase III activity. 	Cdk1 Gates Cell Cycle-Dependent tRNA Synthesis by Regulating RNA Polymerase III Activity	Cdk1, cell cycle, tRNA, transcription	tRNA genes are transcribed by RNA polymerase III (RNAPIII). During recent years it has become clear that RNAPIII activity is strictly regulated by the cell in response to environmental cues and the homeostatic status of the cell. However, the molecular mechanisms that control RNAPIII activity to regulate the amplitude of tDNA transcription in normally cycling cells are not well understood. Here, we show that tRNA levels fluctuate during the cell cycle and reveal an underlying molecular mechanism. The cyclin Clb5 recruits the cyclin dependent kinase Cdk1 to tRNA genes to boost tDNA transcription during late S phase. At tDNA genes, Cdk1 promotes the recruitment of TFIIIC, stimulates the interaction between TFIIIB and TFIIIC, and increases the dynamics of RNA polymerase III in vivo. Furthermore, we identified Bdp1 as a putative Cdk1 substrate in this process. Preventing Bdp1 phosphorylation prevented cell cycle-dependent recruitment of TFIIIC and abolished the cell cycle-dependent increase in tDNA transcription. Our findings demonstrate that under optimal growth conditions Cdk1 gates tRNA synthesis in S phase by regulating the RNAPIII machinery, revealing a direct link between the cell cycle and RNAPIII activity.
PXD011000	30247810	Tape Stripped Stratum Corneum Samples Prove to be Suitable for Comprehensive Proteomic Investigation of Actinic Keratosis. 	Proteomic analysis of tape-stripped actininc keratosis	Tape-stripping, actininc keratosis	PURPOSE: Actinic keratoses (AK) are premalignant tumors that can be clinically difficult to differentiate from skin cancer. An easy, quick, and reliable noninvasive alternative to biopsy is needed to definitively confirm the clinical diagnoses. This study evaluates Tape Stripping (TS) of stratum corneum (SC) for noninvasive biomarker analysis of AK. METHOD: Lesional and nonlesional human SC samples are obtained by application of stripping tapes on the skin of five AK patients. Following sample preparation, protein digests are analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Bioinformatics analyses are performed using Funrich, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), and Oncomine bioinformatics and analytical tools. RESULTS: Of the total 613 unique proteins identified, 477 overlap with proteins identified in the proteomic analysis of formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) AK samples. Additionally, 32 proteins are significantly increased and four proteins decreased in AK samples compared to the normal skin (p < 0.05). In line with proteomic analysis of FFPE samples, IPA and Funrich analysis show that differentially abundant proteins in the TS AK samples are implicated in PI3K/AKT and EGF signaling pathways. These findings are confirmed at the transcript level. CONCLUSION: Tape stripped AK sample is suitable for biomarker analysis. The application of this technique further could revolutionize management of keratinocytic skin tumors by reducing the need for traditional invasive biopsy.
PXD010460	30250061	Fam49/CYRI interacts with Rac1 and locally suppresses protrusions. 	Fam49/CYRI interacts with Rac1 and locally suppresses protrusions	CYFIP-related Rac interactor, Cell migration, Dictiostelium discoideus, GFP-Trap with Formaldehyde Crosslinking, Lamellipodia, Scar/wave complex	Actin-based protrusions are reinforced through positive feedback, but it is unclear what restricts their size, or limits positive signals when they retract or split. We identify an evolutionarily conserved regulator of actin-based protrusion: CYRI (CYFIP-related Rac interactor) also known as Fam49 (family of unknown function 49). CYRI binds activated Rac1 via a domain of unknown function (DUF1394) shared with CYFIP, defining DUF1394 as a Rac1-binding module. CYRI-depleted cells have broad lamellipodia enriched in Scar/WAVE, but reduced protrusion-retraction dynamics. Pseudopods induced by optogenetic Rac1 activation in CYRI-depleted cells are larger and longer lived. Conversely, CYRI overexpression suppresses recruitment of active Scar/WAVE to the cell edge, resulting in short-lived, unproductive protrusions. CYRI thus focuses protrusion signals and regulates pseudopod complexity by inhibiting Scar/WAVE-induced actin polymerization. It thus behaves like a 'local inhibitor' as predicted in widely accepted mathematical models, but not previously identified in cells. CYRI therefore regulates chemotaxis, cell migration and epithelial polarization by controlling the polarity and plasticity of protrusions.
PXD010395	30250408	Proteomic analysis identifies highly expressed plasma membrane proteins for detection and therapeutic targeting of specific breast cancer subtypes. 	Proteomic analysis identifies highly expressed plasma membrane proteins for detection and therapeutic targeting of specific breast cancer subtypes	Breast Cancer, membrane	In recent years, there has been an emphasis on personalizing breast cancer treatment in order to avoid the debilitating side effects caused by broad-spectrum chemotherapeutic drug treatment. Development of personalized medicine requires the identification of proteins that are expressed by individual tumors. Herein, we reveal the identity of plasma membrane proteins that are overexpressed in estrogen receptor alpha-positive, HER2-positive, and triple negative breast cancer cells. The proteins we identified are involved in maintaining protein structure, intracellular homeostasis, and cellular architecture; enhancing cell proliferation and invasion; and influencing cell migration. These proteins may be useful for breast cancer detection and/or treatment.
PXD009708	30250475	Microscopic and Proteomic Analysis of Dissected Developing Barley Endosperm Layers Reveals the Starchy Endosperm as Prominent Storage Tissue for ER-Derived Hordeins Alongside the Accumulation of Barley Protein Disulfide Isomerase (HvPDIL1-1). 	Using RT-qPCR, proteomics and microscopy to unravel the spatio-temporal expression and subcellular localization of hordoindolines across development in barley endosperm	Barley caryopsis, Golden Promise, Hordoindoline, RT-qPCR, end-product quality, endosperm, grain hardness, label-free shotgun proteomics, laser microdissection, protein bodies, reference genes, spatio-temporal	Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is one of the major food sources for humans and forage sources for animal livestock. The average grain protein content (GPC) of barley ranges between 8 and 12%. Barley hordeins (i.e., prolamins) account for more than 50% of GPC in mature seeds and are important for both grain and flour quality. Barley endosperm is structured into three distinct cell layers: the starchy endosperm, which acts essentially as storage tissue for starch; the subaleurone, which is characterized by a high accumulation of seed storage proteins (SSPs); and the aleurone, which has a prominent role during seed germination. Prolamins accumulate in distinct, ER-derived protein bodies (PBs) and their trafficking route is spatio-temporally regulated. The protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) has been shown to be involved in PB formation. Here, we unravel the spatio-temporal proteome regulation in barley aleurone, subaleurone, and starchy endosperm for the optimization of end-product quality in barley. We used laser microdissection (LMD) for subsequent nanoLC-MS/MS proteomic analyses in two experiments: in Experiment One, we investigated the proteomes of dissected barley endosperm layers at 12 and at >=20 days after pollination (DAP). We found a set of 10 proteins that were present in all tissues at both time points. Among these proteins, the relative protein abundance of D-hordein, B3-hordein and HvPDIL1-1 significantly increased in starchy endosperm between 12 and >=20 DAP, identifying the starchy endosperm as putative major storage tissue. In Experiment Two, we specifically compared the starchy endosperm proteome at 6, 12, and >=20 DAP. Whereas the relative protein abundance of D-hordein and B3-hordein increased between 6 and >=20 DAP, HvPDIL1-1 increased between 6 and 12 DAP, but remained constant at >=20 DAP. Microscopic observations showed that these relative protein abundance alterations were accompanied by additional localization of hordeins at the periphery of starch granules and a partial re-localization of HvPDIL1-1 from PBs to the periphery of starch granules. Our data indicate a spatio-temporal regulation of hordeins and HvPDIL1-1. These results are discussed in relation to the putative role of HvPDIL1-1 in end-product quality in barley.
PXD009716	30252445	glyXtool(MS): An Open-Source Pipeline for Semiautomated Analysis of Glycopeptide Mass Spectrometry Data. 	glyXtoolMS Example Data Sets -  glyXtoolMS: An Open-Source Pipeline for Semiautomated Analysis of Glycopeptide Mass Spectrometry Data	LTQ Orbitrap Elite, glyXtoolMS, glycosylation, human fibrinogen, human immunoglobulin gamma	For glycoproteomic analyses several web tools and standalone software packages have been developed over the recent years. These tools support or replace the time-consuming, cumbersome, and error-prone manual spectra analysis and glycopeptide identification. However, existing software tools are usually tailored to one fragmentation technique and only present the final analysis results. This makes manual inspection and correction of intermediate results difficult or even impossible. We solved this problem by dividing the analysis tasks into modular tools with defined functions, which are executed within a software pipeline with a graphical editor. This gives users a maximum of flexibility and control over the progress of analyses. Here, we present the open-source Python software suite glyXtool(MS), developed for the semiautomated analysis of N- and O-glycopeptide fragmentation data. glyXtool(MS) is built around the pipeline engine of OpenMS (TOPPAS) and provides a glycopeptide analysis toolbox for the analysis, interpretation, and visualization of glycopeptide spectra. The toolbox encompasses (a) filtering of fragment spectra using a scoring scheme for oxonium ions, (b) in silico digest of protein sequences to collect glycopeptide candidates, (c) precursor matching to possible glycan compositions and peptide sequences, and finally, (d) an annotation tool for glycopeptide fragment ions. The resulting analysis file can be visualized by the glyXtool (MS) Evaluator, enabling further manual analysis, including inspection, verification, and various other options. Using higher-energy collisional dissociation data from human immunoglobulin gamma (IgG) and human fibrinogen tryptic digests, we show that glyXtool(MS) enables a fast, flexible, and transparent analysis of N- and O-glycopeptide samples, providing the user a versatile tool even for explorative data analysis. glyXtool(MS) is freely available online on https://github.com/glyXera/glyXtoolMS licensed under the GPL-3.0 open-source license. The test data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009716.
PXD009091	30253806	Dynamics and functional interplay of histone lysine butyrylation, crotonylation, and acetylation in rice under starvation and submergence. 	Histone lysine acetylation, butyrylation, and crotonylation dynamics and functional interplay in rice under starvation and submergence	Histone, Rice, butyrylation, crotonylation	BACKGROUND: Histone lysine acylations by short-chain fatty acids are distinct from the widely studied histone lysine acetylation in chromatin, although both modifications are regulated by primary metabolism in mammalian cells. It remains unknown whether and how histone acylation and acetylation interact to regulate gene expression in plants that have distinct regulatory pathways of primary metabolism. RESULTS: We identify 4 lysine butyrylation (Kbu) sites (H3K14, H4K12, H2BK42, and H2BK134) and 45 crotonylation (Kcr) sites on rice histones by mass spectrometry. Comparative analysis of genome-wide Kbu and Kcr and H3K9ac in combination with RNA sequencing reveals 25,306 genes marked by Kbu and Kcr in rice and more than 95% of H3K9ac-marked genes are marked by both. Kbu and Kcr are enriched at the 5' region of expressed genes. In rice under starvation and submergence, Kbu and Kcr appear to be less dynamic and display changes in different sets of genes compared to H3K9ac. Furthermore, Kbu seems to preferentially poise gene activation by external stresses, rather than internal circadian rhythm which has been shown to be tightly associated with H3K9ac. In addition, we show that rice sirtuin histone deacetylase (SRT2) is involved in the removal of Kcr. CONCLUSION: Kbu, Kcr, and H3K9ac redundantly mark a large number of active genes but display different responses to external and internal signals. Thus, the proportion of rice histone lysine acetylation and acylation is dynamically regulated by environmental and metabolic cues, which may represent an epigenetic mechanism to fine-tune gene expression for plant adaptation.
PXD008857	30254175	Structure of a PSI-LHCI-cyt b6f supercomplex in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii promoting cyclic electron flow under anaerobic conditions. 	PSI supercomplex copurification using PSI His-tag	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, His-tag, PSI, supercomplex	Photosynthetic linear electron flow (LEF) produces ATP and NADPH, while cyclic electron flow (CEF) exclusively drives photophosphorylation to supply extra ATP. The fine-tuning of linear and cyclic electron transport levels allows photosynthetic organisms to balance light energy absorption with cellular energy requirements under constantly changing light conditions. As LEF and CEF share many electron transfer components, a key question is how the same individual structural units contribute to these two different functional modes. Here, we report the structural identification of a photosystem I (PSI)-light harvesting complex I (LHCI)-cytochrome (cyt) b6f supercomplex isolated from the unicellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii under anaerobic conditions, which induces CEF. This provides strong evidence for the model that enhanced CEF is induced by the formation of CEF supercomplexes, when stromal electron carriers are reduced, to generate additional ATP. The additional identification of PSI-LHCI-LHCII complexes is consistent with recent findings that both CEF enhancement and state transitions are triggered by similar conditions, but can occur independently from each other. Single molecule fluorescence correlation spectroscopy indicates a physical association between cyt b6f and fluorescent chlorophyll containing PSI-LHCI supercomplexes. Single particle analysis identified top-view projections of the corresponding PSI-LHCI-cyt b6f supercomplex. Based on molecular modeling and mass spectrometry analyses, we propose a model in which dissociation of LHCA2 and LHCA9 from PSI supports the formation of this CEF supercomplex. This is supported by the finding that a Deltalhca2 knockout mutant has constitutively enhanced CEF.
PXD010430	30254268	Tetrahydrobiopterin modulates ubiquitin conjugation to UBC13/UBE2N and proteasome activity by S-nitrosation. 	Tetrahydrobiopterin modulates ubiquitin conjugation to UBC13/UBE2N and proteasome activity by S-nitrosation	S-nitrosylation, biotin switch	Nitric Oxide (NO) is an intracellular signalling mediator, which affects many biological processes via the posttranslational modification of proteins through S-nitrosation. The availability of NO and NOS-derived reactive oxygen species (ROS) from enzymatic uncoupling are determined by the NO synthase cofactor Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4). Here, using a global proteomics "biotin-switch" approach, we identified components of the ubiquitin-proteasome system to be altered via BH4-dependent NO signalling by protein S-nitrosation. We show S-nitrosation of ubiquitin conjugating E2 enzymes, in particular the catalytic residue C87 of UBC13/UBE2N, leading to impaired polyubiquitylation by interfering with the formation of UBC13~Ub thioester intermediates. In addition, proteasome cleavage activity in cells also seems to be altered by S-nitrosation, correlating with the modification of cysteine residues within the 19S regulatory particle and catalytic subunits of the 20S complex. Our results highlight the widespread impact of BH4 on downstream cellular signalling as evidenced by the effect of a perturbed BH4-dependent NO-Redox balance on critical processes within the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). These studies thereby uncover a novel aspect of NO associated modulation of cellular homeostasis.
PXD009185	30255909	Systematic analysis of synergistic proteome modulations in a drug combination of cisplatin and MLN4924. 	Systematic analysis of synergistic proteome modulations in a drug combination of cisplatin and MLN4924	Synergy	Chemotherapeutic treatment regimens often take advantage of synergistic effects of drug combinations. Anticipating that synergistic effects on the cell biological level likely manifest on the proteome level, the analysis of proteome modulations represents an appropriate strategy to study drug combinations on a molecular level. More specifically, the detection of single proteins exhibiting synergistic abundance changes could be helpful to shed light on key molecules, which contribute in mechanisms facilitating the synergistic interaction and therefore represent potential targets for specific therapeutic approaches. In the reported study we aimed to provide evidence for this assumption and investigated the drug combination of cisplatin and the neddylation inhibitor MLN4924 in HCT-116 cells via cell biological analyses and mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics. From 1789 proteins quantified with two unique peptides, activated RNA polymerase II transcriptional coactivator p15 (SUB1) was highlighted as the most synergistically regulated protein using a synergistic scoring approach. Western blotting and analyses of cellular processes associated with this protein (DNA damage, oxidative stress and apoptosis) revealed supporting evidence for the synergistic regulation. Whereas the distinct role of SUB1 in the investigated drug combination needs to be elucidated in future studies, the presented results demonstrated the benefit and feasibility of synergistic scoring of proteome alterations to highlight proteins that likely contribute to the underlying molecular mechanisms of synergistic effects. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009185.
PXD010860	30256975	Analysis of NRAS RNA G-quadruplex binding proteins reveals DDX3X as a novel interactor of cellular G-quadruplex containing transcripts. 	Interacting proteins of the NRAS RNA G-quadruplex	G4, HeLa, RNA, RNA binding proteins	RNA G-quadruplexes (rG4s) are secondary structures in mRNAs known to influence RNA post-transcriptional mechanisms thereby impacting neurodegenerative disease and cancer. A detailed knowledge of rG4-protein interactions is vital to understand rG4 function. Herein, we describe a systematic affinity proteomics approach that identified 80 high-confidence interactors that assemble on the rG4 located in the 5'-untranslated region (UTR) of the NRAS oncogene. Novel rG4 interactors included DDX3X, DDX5, DDX17, GRSF1 and NSUN5. The majority of identified proteins contained a glycine-arginine (GAR) domain and notably GAR-domain mutation in DDX3X and DDX17 abrogated rG4 binding. Identification of DDX3X targets by transcriptome-wide individual-nucleotide resolution UV-crosslinking and affinity enrichment (iCLAE) revealed a striking association with 5'-UTR rG4-containing transcripts which was reduced upon GAR-domain mutation. Our work highlights hitherto unrecognized features of rG4 structure-protein interactions that highlight new roles of rG4 structures in mRNA post-transcriptional control.
PXD010737	30257202	beta-TrCP- and Casein Kinase II-Mediated Degradation of Cyclin F Controls Timely Mitotic Progression. 	beta-TrCP and Casein Kinase II mediated degradation of cyclin F controls timely mitotic progression	CK2, Cyclin F, mitotic progression	Orderly progressions of events in the cell division cycle are necessary to ensure the replication of DNA and cell division. Checkpoint systems allow the accurate execution of each cell-cycle phase. The precise regulation of the levels of cyclin proteins is fundamental to coordinate cell division with checkpoints, avoiding genome instability. Cyclin F has important functions in regulating the cell cycle during the G2 checkpoint; however, the mechanisms underlying the regulation of cyclin F are poorly understood. Here, we observe that cyclin F is regulated by proteolysis through beta-TrCP. beta-TrCP recognizes cyclin F through a non-canonical degron site (TSGXXS) after its phosphorylation by casein kinase II. The degradation of cyclin F mediated by beta-TrCP occurs at the G2/M transition. This event is required to promote mitotic progression and favors the activation of a transcriptional program required for mitosis.
PXD008727	30257209	Nut Directs p300-Dependent, Genome-Wide H4 Hyperacetylation in Male Germ Cells. 	Nut interactome in round/elongating spermatids	Nut, Spermiogenesis, binding partners, nanoLC-MS/MS	Nuclear protein in testis (Nut) is a universal oncogenic driver in the highly aggressive NUT midline carcinoma, whose physiological function in male germ cells has been unclear. Here we show that expression of Nut is normally restricted to post-meiotic spermatogenic cells, where its presence triggers p300-dependent genome-wide histone H4 hyperacetylation, which is essential for the completion of histone-to-protamine exchange. Accordingly, the inactivation of Nut induces male sterility with spermatogenesis arrest at the histone-removal stage. Nut uses p300 and/or CBP to enhance acetylation of H4 at both K5 and K8, providing binding sites for the first bromodomain of Brdt, the testis-specific member of the BET family, which subsequently mediates genome-wide histone removal. Altogether, our data reveal the detailed molecular basis of the global histone hyperacetylation wave, which occurs before the final compaction of the male genome.
PXD006697	30257219	Synthesizing Signaling Pathways from Temporal Phosphoproteomic Data. 	Synthesizing Signaling Pathways from Temporal Phosphoproteomic Data	EGFR, HEK-293, Temporal Pathway Synthesizer, phosphorylation, time series	We present a method for automatically discovering signaling pathways from time-resolved phosphoproteomic data. The Temporal Pathway Synthesizer (TPS) algorithm uses constraint-solving techniques first developed in the context of formal verification to explore paths in an interaction network. It systematically eliminates all candidate structures for a signaling pathway where a protein is activated or inactivated before its upstream regulators. The algorithm can model more than one hundred thousand dynamic phosphosites and can discover pathway members that are not differentially phosphorylated. By analyzing temporal data, TPS defines signaling cascades without needing to experimentally perturb individual proteins. It recovers known pathways and proposes pathway connections when applied to the human epidermal growth factor and yeast osmotic stress responses. Independent kinase mutant studies validate predicted substrates in the TPS osmotic stress pathway.
PXD011011	30257480	Porcine Breast Extracellular Matrix Hydrogel for Spatial Tissue Culture. 	Porcine LC-MSMS -  Porcine Breast Extracellular Matrix Hydrogel for Spatial Tissue Culture	breast, extracellular matrix proteins, porcine	Porcine mammary fatty tissues represent an abundant source of natural biomaterial for generation of breast-specific extracellular matrix (ECM). Here we report the extraction of total ECM proteins from pig breast fatty tissues, the fabrication of hydrogel and porous scaffolds from the extracted ECM proteins, the structural properties of the scaffolds (tissue matrix scaffold, TMS), and the applications of the hydrogel in human mammary epithelial cell spatial cultures for cell surface receptor expression, metabolomics characterization, acini formation, proliferation, migration between different scaffolding compartments, and in vivo tumor formation. This model system provides an additional option for studying human breast diseases such as breast cancer.
PXD010062	30257877	The Proteome of Pig Spermatozoa Is Remodeled During Ejaculation. 	The proteome of pig spermatozoa is remodelled during ejaculation	artificial insemination, iTRAQ, seminal plasma, sperm-rich ejaculate fraction	Proteins are essential for sperm function, including their fertilizing capacity. Pig spermatozoa, emitted in well-defined ejaculate fractions, vary in their functionality, which could be related to different sperm protein composition. This study aimed (i) to update the porcine sperm proteome and (ii) to identify proteins differentially expressed in mature spermatozoa from cauda epididymis and those delivered in separate ejaculate fractions. Ejaculates from nine mature and fertile boars were manually collected in three separate portions: the first 10 ml of the sperm-rich ejaculate fraction (SRF), the rest of the SRF and the post-SRF. The contents of cauda epididymides of the boars were collected post-mortem by retrograde duct perfusion, generating four different semen sources for each boar. Following centrifugation, the resulting pellets of each semen source were initially pooled and later split to generate two technical replicates per source. The resulting eight sperm samples (two per semen source) were subjected to iTRAQ-based 2D-LC-MS/MS for protein identification and quantification. A total of 1,723 proteins were identified (974 of Sus scrofa taxonomy) and 1,602 of them were also quantified (960 of Sus scrofa taxonomy). After an ANOVA test, 32 Sus scrofa proteins showed quantitative differences (p < 0.01) among semen sources, which was particularly relevant for sperm functionality in the post-SRF. The present study showed that the proteome of boar spermatozoa is remodeled during ejaculation involving proteins clearly implicated in sperm function. The findings provide valuable groundwork for further studies focused on identifying protein biomarkers of sperm fertility.
PXD004757	30257879	Identification of Novel Natural Substrates of Fibroblast Activation Protein-alpha by Differential Degradomics and Proteomics. 	Identification of novel natural substrates of fibroblast activation protein by differential degradomics and proteomics (TAILS dataset)	proteolysis, seprase	Fibroblast activation protein-alpha (FAP) is a cell-surface transmembrane-anchored dimeric protease. This unique, constitutively active serine protease has both dipeptidyl aminopeptidase and endopeptidase activities and can hydrolyze the post-proline bond. FAP expression is very low in adult organs but is upregulated by activated fibroblasts in sites of tissue remodeling, including fibrosis, atherosclerosis, arthritis and tumors. To identify the endogenous substrates of FAP, we immortalized primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) from FAP gene knockout embryos and then stably transduced them to express either enzymatically active or inactive FAP. The MEF secretomes were then analyzed using degradomic and proteomic techniques. Terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates (TAILS)-based degradomics identified cleavage sites in collagens, many other extracellular matrix (ECM) and associated proteins, and lysyl oxidase-like-1, CXCL-5, CSF-1, and C1qT6, that were confirmed in vitro In addition, differential metabolic labeling coupled with quantitative proteomic analysis also implicated FAP in ECM-cell interactions, as well as with coagulation, metabolism and wound healing associated proteins. Plasma from FAP-deficient mice exhibited slower than wild-type clotting times. This study provides a significant expansion of the substrate repertoire of FAP and provides insight into the physiological and potential pathological roles of this enigmatic protease.
PXD009882	30259100	Evaluation of promoter sequences for the secretory production of a Clostridium thermocellum cellulase in Paenibacillus polymyxa. 	Evaluation of promoter sequences for the secretory production of a Clostridium thermocellum cellulase in Paenibacillus polymyxa	Cel8A, heterologous expression, medium optimization, secretome analysis, signal peptide, strain development	Due to their high secretion capacity, Gram-positive bacteria from the genus Bacillus are important expression hosts for the high-yield production of enzymes in industrial biotechnology; however, to date, strains from only few Bacillus species are used for enzyme production at industrial scale. Herein, we introduce Paenibacillus polymyxa DSM 292, a member of a different genus, as a novel host for secretory protein production. The model gene cel8A from Clostridium thermocellum was chosen as an easily detectable reporter gene with industrial relevance to demonstrate heterologous expression and secretion in P. polymyxa. The yield of the secreted cellulase Cel8A protein was increased by optimizing the expression medium and testing several promoter sequences in the expression plasmid pBACOV. Quantitative mass spectrometry was used to analyze the secretome in order to identify promising new promoter sequences from the P. polymyxa genome itself. The most abundantly secreted host proteins were identified, and the promoters regulating the expression of their corresponding genes were selected. Eleven promoter sequences were cloned and tested, including well-characterized promoters from Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus megaterium. The best result was achieved with the promoter for the hypothetical protein PPOLYM_03468 from P. polymyxa. In combination with the optimized expression medium, this promoter enabled the production of 5475 U/l of Cel8A, which represents a 6.2-fold increase compared to the reference promoter PaprE. The set of promoters described in this work covers a broad range of promoter strengths useful for heterologous expression in the new host P. polymyxa.
PXD009600	30259661	Updates of the In-Gel Digestion Method for Protein Analysis by Mass Spectrometry. 	Updated in-gel digestion for protein analysis by mass spectrometry	in-gel digestion, trypsin	The in-gel digestion of proteins for analysis by liquid chromatograph mass spectrometry has been used since the early 1990s. Although several improvements have contributed to increasing the quality of the data obtained, many recent publications still use sub-optimal approaches. Updates of the in-gel digestion protocol has been presented in the study. It has been shown that alternative reducing, alkylating agent reactions, and tryptic digestion buffers increase peptide and protein identification and reduce incubation times. The results indicate that a simultaneous and short, high temperature reduction and alkylation reaction using Tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine hydrochloride and chloroacetamide with a subsequent gel wash improve protein identification and sequence coverage, and diminish peptide side reactions. Additionally, use of 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)piperazine-1-ethanesulfonic acid buffer allows a significant reduction in the digestion time improving trypsin performance and increasing the peptide recovery. The updates of the in-gel digestion protocol described here are efficient and offer flexibility to be incorporated in any proteomic laboratory.
PXD006447	30259924	Robust determination of differential abundance in shotgun proteomics using nonparametric statistics. 	Standard dataset of UPS1 spiked into yeast at various concentrations	UPS1, dilution series, standard	Label-free shotgun mass spectrometry enables the detection of significant changes in protein abundance between different conditions. Due to often limited cohort sizes or replication, large ratios of potential protein markers to number of samples, as well as multiple null measurements pose important technical challenges to conventional parametric models. From a statistical perspective, a scenario similar to that of unlabeled proteomics is encountered in genomics when looking for differentially expressed genes. Still, the difficulty of detecting a large fraction of the true positives without a high false discovery rate is arguably greater in proteomics due to even smaller sample sizes and peptide-to-peptide variability in detectability. These constraints argue for nonparametric (or distribution-free) tests on normalized peptide values, thus minimizing the number of free parameters, as well as for measuring significance with permutation testing. We propose such a procedure with a class-based statistic, no parametric assumptions, and no parameters to select other than a nominal false discovery rate. Our method was tested on a new dataset which is available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006447. The dataset was prepared using a standard proteolytic digest of a human protein mixture at 1.5-fold to 3-fold protein concentration changes and diluted into a constant background of yeast proteins. We demonstrate its superiority relative to other approaches in terms of the realized sensitivity and realized false discovery rates determined by ground truth, and recommend it for detecting differentially abundant proteins from MS data.
PXD010035	30261726	Glycoproteomic Alterations in Drug-Resistant Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer Cells Revealed by Lectin Magnetic Nanoprobe-Based Mass Spectrometry. 	Glycoproteome of Human lung cancer cell by LC-MSMS	Glycoproteom, lung cancer cell	Understanding the functional role of glycosylation-mediated pathogenesis requires deep characterization of glycoproteome, which remains extremely challenging due to the inherently complex nature of glycoproteins. We demonstrate the utility of lectin-magnetic nanoprobe (MNP@lectin) coupled to Orbitrap HCD-CID-MS/MS for complementary glycotope-specific enrichment and site-specific glycosylation analysis of the glycoproteome. By three nanoprobes, MNP@ConA, MNP@AAL, and MNP@SNA, our results revealed the first large-scale glycoproteome of nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with 2290 and 2767 nonredundant glycopeptides confidently identified (Byonic score >=100) in EGFR-TKI-sensitive PC9 and -resistant PC9-IR cells, respectively, especially with more fucosylated and sialylated glycopeptides in PC9-IR cells. The complementary enrichment was demonstrated with only five glycopeptides commonly enriched in three MNP@lectins. Glycotope specificity of 79 and 62% for enrichment was achieved using MNP@AAL and MNP@SNA, respectively. Label-free quantitation revealed predominant fucosylation in PC9-IR cells, suggesting its potential role associated with NSCLC resistance. Moreover, without immunoprecipitation, this multilectin nanoprobe allows the sensitive identification of 51 glycopeptides from 10 of 12 reported sites from onco-protein EGFR. Our results not only demonstrated a sensitive approach to study the vastly under-represented N-glycoprotome but also may pave the way for a glycoproteomic atlas to further explore the site-specific function of glycoproteins associated with drug resistance in NSCLC.
PXD010103	30262884	AP-4 vesicles contribute to spatial control of autophagy via RUSC-dependent peripheral delivery of ATG9A. 	AP-4 vesicles contribute to spatial control of autophagy via RUSC-dependent peripheral delivery of ATG9A	AP-4, Dynamic Organellar Maps, autophagy, human cells, vesicles	Adaptor protein 4 (AP-4) is an ancient membrane trafficking complex, whose function has largely remained elusive. In humans, AP-4 deficiency causes a severe neurological disorder of unknown aetiology. We apply unbiased proteomic methods, including 'Dynamic Organellar Maps', to find proteins whose subcellular localisation depends on AP-4. We identify three transmembrane cargo proteins, ATG9A, SERINC1 and SERINC3, and two AP-4 accessory proteins, RUSC1 and RUSC2. We demonstrate that AP-4 deficiency causes missorting of ATG9A in diverse cell types, including patient-derived cells, as well as dysregulation of autophagy. RUSC2 facilitates the transport of AP-4-derived, ATG9A-positive vesicles from the trans-Golgi network to the cell periphery. These vesicles cluster in close association with autophagosomes, suggesting they are the "ATG9A reservoir" required for autophagosome biogenesis. Our study uncovers ATG9A trafficking as a ubiquitous function of the AP-4 pathway. Furthermore, it provides a potential molecular pathomechanism of AP-4 deficiency, through dysregulated spatial control of autophagy.
PXD010405	30264983	Development of Chemical Proteomics for the Folateome and Analysis of the Kinetoplastid Folateome. 	Development of chemical proteomics for the folateome and analysis of the kinetoplastid folateome - Part 1	folateome folate kinetoplastids Trypanosoma Leishmania	The folate pathway has been extensively studied in a number of organisms, with its essentiality exploited by a number of drugs. However, there has been little success in developing drugs that target folate metabolism in the kinetoplastids. Despite compounds being identified which show significant inhibition of the parasite enzymes, this activity does not translate well into cellular and animal models of disease. Understanding to which enzymes antifolates bind under physiological conditions and how this corresponds to the phenotypic response could provide insight on how to target the folate pathway in these organisms. To facilitate this, we have adopted a chemical proteomics approach to study binding of compounds to enzymes of folate metabolism. Clinical and literature antifolate compounds were immobilized onto resins to allow for "pull down" of the proteins in the "folateome". Using competition studies, proteins, which bind the beads specifically and nonspecifically, were identified in parasite lysate ( Trypanosoma brucei and Leishmania major) for each antifolate compound. Proteins were identified through tryptic digest, tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling of peptides followed by LC-MS/MS. This approach was further exploited by creating a combined folate resin (folate beads). The resin could pull down up to 9 proteins from the folateome. This information could be exploited in gaining a better understanding of folate metabolism in kinetoplastids and other organisms.
PXD010511	30266824	Chemical genetic identification of CDKL5 substrates reveals its role in neuronal microtubule dynamics. 	Chemical genetic identification of CDKL5 substrates reveals its role in neuronal microtubule dynamics	Chemical genetics/ CDKL5/ MAP1S/ EB2/ Microtubule dynamics	Loss-of-function mutations in CDKL5 kinase cause severe neurodevelopmental delay and early-onset seizures. Identification of CDKL5 substrates is key to understanding its function. Using chemical genetics, we found that CDKL5 phosphorylates three microtubule-associated proteins: MAP1S, EB2 and ARHGEF2, and determined the phosphorylation sites. Substrate phosphorylations are greatly reduced in CDKL5 knockout mice, verifying these as physiological substrates. In CDKL5 knockout mouse neurons, dendritic microtubules have longer EB3-labelled plus-end growth duration and these altered dynamics are rescued by reduction of MAP1S levels through shRNA expression, indicating that CDKL5 regulates microtubule dynamics via phosphorylation of MAP1S. We show that phosphorylation by CDKL5 is required for MAP1S dissociation from microtubules. Additionally, anterograde cargo trafficking is compromised in CDKL5 knockout mouse dendrites. Finally, EB2 phosphorylation is reduced in patient-derived human neurons. Our results reveal a novel activity-dependent molecular pathway in dendritic microtubule regulation and suggest a pathological mechanism which may contribute to CDKL5 deficiency disorder.
PXD009374	30266825	Phosphoproteomic screening identifies physiological substrates of the CDKL5 kinase. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic for CDKL5 substrates	CDKL5 substrates, MS2, TMT, phosphoproteomic	Mutations in the gene encoding the protein kinase CDKL5 cause a debilitating neurodevelopmental disease termed CDKL5 disorder. The impact of these mutations on CDKL5 function is poorly understood because the substrates and cellular processes controlled by CDKL5 are unclear. Here, we describe a quantitative phosphoproteomic screening which identified MAP1S, CEP131 and DLG5-regulators of microtubule and centrosome function-as cellular substrates of CDKL5. Antibodies against MAP1S phospho-Ser(900) and CEP131 phospho-Ser(35) confirmed CDKL5-dependent phosphorylation of these targets in human cells. The phospho-acceptor serine residues in MAP1S, CEP131 and DLG5 lie in the motif RPXSA, although CDKL5 can tolerate residues other than Ala immediately C-terminal to the phospho-acceptor serine. We provide insight into the control of CDKL5 activity and show that pathogenic mutations in CDKL5 cause a major reduction in CDKL5 activity in vitro and in cells. These data reveal the first cellular substrates of CDKL5, which may represent important biomarkers in the diagnosis and treatment of CDKL5 disorder, and illuminate the functions of this poorly characterized kinase.
PXD008429	30266865	Quantitative Proteomics of the Mitotic Chromosome Scaffold Reveals the Association of BAZ1B with Chromosomal Axes. 	mitotic chromosome scaffold SMC2ON vs OFF	mitosis	In mitosis, chromosomes achieve their characteristic shape through condensation, an essential process for proper segregation of the genome during cell division. A classical model for mitotic chromosome condensation proposes that non-histone proteins act as a structural framework called the chromosome scaffold. The components of the chromosome scaffold, such as DNA topoisomerase IIalpha (TOP2A) and structural maintenance of chromosomes protein 2 (SMC2), are necessary to generate stable mitotic chromosomes; however, the existence of this scaffold remains controversial. The aim of this study was to determine the protein composition of the chromosome scaffold. We used the DT40 chicken cell line to isolate mitotic chromosomes and extract the associated protein fraction, which could contain the chromosome scaffold. MS revealed a novel component of the chromosome scaffold, bromodomain adjacent to zinc finger 1B (BAZ1B), which was localized to the mitotic chromosome axis. Knocking out BAZ1B caused prophase delay because of altered chromosome condensation timing and mitosis progression errors, and the effect was aggravated if BAZ1A, a BAZ1B homolog, was simultaneously knocked out; however, protein composition of prometaphase chromosomes was normal. Our results suggest that BAZ1 proteins are essential for timely chromosome condensation at mitosis entry. Further characterization of the functional role of BAZ1 proteins would provide new insights into the timing of chromosome condensation.
PXD004312	30266947	A mitochondrial proteome profile indicative of type 2 diabetes mellitus in skeletal muscles. 	A mitochondrial proteome profile of type 2 diabetes mellitus in skeletal muscles	Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), mitochondrial proteome	The pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is closely associated with mitochondrial functions in insulin-responsive tissues. The mitochondrial proteome, compared with the mitochondrial genome, which only contains 37 genes in humans, can provide more comprehensive information for thousands of mitochondrial proteins regarding T2DM-associated mitochondrial functions. However, T2DM-associated protein signatures in insulin-responsive tissues are still unclear. Here, we performed extensive proteome profiling of mitochondria from skeletal muscles in nine T2DM patients and nine nondiabetic controls. A comparison of the mitochondrial proteomes identified 335 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between T2DM and nondiabetic samples. Functional and network analyses of the DEPs showed that mitochondrial metabolic processes were downregulated and mitochondria-associated ER membrane (MAM) processes were upregulated. Of the DEPs, we selected two (NDUFS3 and COX2) for downregulated oxidative phosphorylation and three (CALR, SORT, and RAB1A) for upregulated calcium and protein transport as representative mitochondrial and MAM processes, respectively, and then confirmed their differential expression in independent mouse and human samples. Therefore, we propose that these five proteins be used as a potential protein profile that is indicative of the dysregulation of mitochondrial functions in T2DM, representing downregulated oxidative phosphorylation and upregulated MAM functions.
PXD010169	30267877	Proteomic profiling of the proteolytic events in the secretome of the transformed phenotype of melanocyte-derived cells using Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates. 	Proteomic profiling of the proteolytic events in the secretome of the transformed phenotype of melanocyte-derived cells using Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates	Keywords: secretome, N-terminomics, TAILS, cancer, melanoma	The comprehensive profiling of the repertoire of secreted proteins from cancer cells samples provides information on the signaling events in oncogenesis as well as on the cross-talk between normal and tumoral cells. Moreover, the analysis of post-translational modifications in secreted proteins may unravel biological circuits regulated by irreversible modifications such as proteolytic processing. In this context, we used Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates (TAILS) to perform a system-wide investigation on the N-terminome of the secretomes derived from a paired set of mouse cell lines: Melan-a (a normal melanocyte) and Tm1 (its transformed phenotype). Evaluation of the amino acid identities at the scissile bond in internal peptides revealed significant differences, suggesting distinct proteolytic processes acting in the normal and tumoral secretomes. The mapping and annotation of cleavage sites in the tumoral secretome suggested functional roles of active proteases in central biological processes related to oncogenesis, such as the processing of growth factors, cleavage of extracellular matrix proteins and the shedding of ectopic domains from the cell surface, some of which may represent novel processed forms of the corresponding proteins. In the context of the tumor microenvironment, these results suggest important biological roles of proteolytic processing in murine melanoma secreted proteins.
PXD008643	30269860	The exoproteome profiles of three Staphylococcus saprophyticus strains reveal diversity in protein secretion contents. 	THE EXOPROTEOME PROFILES OF THREE STAPHYLOCOCCUS SAPROPHYTICUS STRAINS REVEAL DIVERSITY IN PROTEIN SECRETION CONTENT	SsaA secretion, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, antigenic proteins, diversity, exoproteome, proteases	Staphylococcus saprophyticus is a gram-positive microorganism responsible for urinary tract infections (UTIs). Although some virulence factors are characterized, such as urease, autolysins, adhesins and hemagglutinins, large-scale proteomic studies have not been performed within this species. We performed the characterization of the exoproteome from three S. saprophyticus strains: the reference strain ATCC 15,305, a non-capsular strain 7108 and the 9325 strain containing a thick capsule which were cultured in BHI medium and culture supernatants were analysed by using mass spectrometry approach. We observed a core of 72 secreted proteins. In addition, it was possible to detect diversity in the protein profiles of the exoproteomes. Interestingly, strain 7108 presented no secretion of three antigenic proteins, including the classical SsaA antigen. In addition, the level of antigenic proteins secreted by strain 9325 was higher than in ATCC 15,305. This result was confirmed by Western blot analysis using anti-SsaA polyclonal antibodies, and no production/ secretion of SsaA was detected in strain 7108. Transcriptional data shows that 7108 strain produces transcripts encoding SsaA, suggesting post-transcriptional regulation occurs in this strain. Moreover, when compared with the other strains that were analyzed, it was possible to detect higher levels of proteases secreted by strain 7108 and higher levels of antigenic proteins and transglycosylases secreted by 9325 strain. The results reveal diversity in protein secretion among strains. This research is an important first step towards understanding the variability in S. saprophyticus exoproteome profile and could be significant in explaining differences among strains.
PXD009321	30269970	Infection-Induced Peroxisome Biogenesis Is a Metabolic Strategy for Herpesvirus Replication. 	Human cytomegalovirus alters the peroxisome proteome	HCMV, PRM, cytomegalovirus, fibroblast, peroxisome, virus	Viral proteins have evolved to target cellular organelles and usurp their functions for virus replication. Despite the knowledge of these critical functions for several organelles, little is known about peroxisomes during infection. Peroxisomes are primarily metabolic organelles with important functions in lipid metabolism. Here, we discovered that the enveloped viruses human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) and herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) induce the biogenesis of and unique morphological changes to peroxisomes to support their replication. Targeted proteomic quantification revealed a global virus-induced upregulation of peroxisomal proteins. Mathematical modeling and microscopy structural analysis show that infection triggers peroxisome growth and fission, leading to increased peroxisome numbers and irregular disc-like structures. HCMV-induced peroxisome biogenesis increased the phospholipid plasmalogen, thereby enhancing virus production. Peroxisome regulation and dependence were not observed for the non-enveloped adenovirus. Our findings uncover a role of peroxisomes in viral pathogenesis, with likely implications for multiple enveloped viruses.
PXD010516	30269983	Mechanisms Preserving Insulin Action during High Dietary Fat Intake. 	Mechanisms preserving insulin action during high dietary fat intake in healthy men	high fat diet	Prolonged intervention studies investigating molecular metabolism are necessary for a deeper understanding of dietary effects on health. Here we provide mechanistic information about metabolic adaptation to fat-rich diets. Healthy, slightly overweight men ingested saturated or polyunsaturated fat-rich diets for 6 weeks during weight maintenance. Hyperinsulinemic clamps combined with leg balance technique revealed unchanged peripheral insulin sensitivity, independent of fatty acid type. Both diets increased fat oxidation potential in muscle. Hepatic insulin clearance increased, while glucose production, de novo lipogenesis, and plasma triacylglycerol decreased. High fat intake changed the plasma proteome in the immune-supporting direction and the gut microbiome displayed changes at taxonomical and functional level with polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA). In mice, eucaloric feeding of human PUFA and saturated fatty acid diets lowered hepatic triacylglycerol content compared with low-fat-fed control mice, and induced adaptations in the liver supportive of decreased gluconeogenesis and lipogenesis. Intake of fat-rich diets thus induces extensive metabolic adaptations enabling disposition of dietary fat without metabolic complications.
PXD008752	30271928	Erythrocytes lacking the Langereis blood group protein ABCB6 are resistant to the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. 	Erythrocytes lacking the Langereis blood group protein ABCB6 are resistant to Plasmodium falciparum malaria parasites	LC-MSMSMS, Malaria, host-pathogen interaction, quantitative proteomics, tandem mass tag	The ATP-binding cassette transporter ABCB6 was recently discovered to encode the Langereis (Lan) blood group antigen. Lan null individuals are asymptomatic, and the function of ABCB6 in mature erythrocytes is not understood. Here, we assessed ABCB6 as a host factor for Plasmodium falciparum malaria parasites during erythrocyte invasion. We show that Lan null erythrocytes are highly resistant to invasion by P. falciparum, in a strain-transcendent manner. Although both Lan null and Jr(a-) erythrocytes harbor excess porphyrin, only Lan null erythrocytes exhibit a P. falciparum invasion defect. Further, the zoonotic parasite P. knowlesi invades Lan null and control cells with similar efficiency, suggesting that ABCB6 may mediate P. falciparum invasion through species-specific molecular interactions. Using tandem mass tag-based proteomics, we find that the only consistent difference in membrane proteins between Lan null and control cells is absence of ABCB6. Our results demonstrate that a newly identified naturally occurring blood group variant is associated with resistance to Plasmodium falciparum.
PXD007048	30275468	Cell-specific proteome analyses of human bone marrow reveal molecular features of age-dependent functional decline. 	Cell-specific proteome analyses of human bone marrow upon aging.	TMT, aging, hematopoietic stem cells, label-free quantification, mesenchymal stem/stromal cells	Diminishing potential to replace damaged tissues is a hallmark for ageing of somatic stem cells, but the mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we present proteome-wide atlases of age-associated alterations in human haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HPCs) and five other cell populations that constitute the bone marrow niche. For each, the abundance of a large fraction of the ~12,000 proteins identified is assessed in 59 human subjects from different ages. As the HPCs become older, pathways in central carbon metabolism exhibit features reminiscent of the Warburg effect, where glycolytic intermediates are rerouted towards anabolism. Simultaneously, altered abundance of early regulators of HPC differentiation reveals a reduced functionality and a bias towards myeloid differentiation. Ageing causes alterations in the bone marrow niche too, and diminishes the functionality of the pathways involved in HPC homing. The data represent a valuable resource for further analyses, and for validation of knowledge gained from animal models.
PXD011152	30277784	Multiplex Immuno-Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry-Parallel Reaction Monitoring (LC-MS-PRM) Quantitation of CD8A, CD4, LAG3, PD1, PD-L1, and PD-L2 in Frozen Human Tissues. 	Multiplex PRM quantitation of CD8a, CD4, LAG3, PD1, PD-L1 and PD-L2	CD4, CD8, LAG3, PD-L1 and PD-L2, PD1, PRM. immuno-oncology	The immune status of tumors critically influences their responsiveness to PD1 blockades and other immune-based therapies. Programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) immunohistochemistry (IHC) is a clinically validated predictive biomarker of response to checkpoint-inhibitor therapy in a limited number of clinical settings but is poorly predictive in most. With emerging evidence that multiple pathways and immune-checkpoint proteins may coordinately contribute to the adaptive immune resistance, the identification and quantitation of multiple immune markers in tumor tissue could help identify the controlling pathways in a given patient, guide the selection of optimal therapy, and monitor response to treatment. We developed and validated a sensitive and robust immuno-liquid chromatography-parallel reaction monitoring assay to simultaneously quantify the expression levels of six immune markers (CD8A, CD4, LAG3, PD1, PD-L1, and PD-L2) using as little as 1-2 mg of fresh frozen tissue. The lower limit of quantitation ranged from 0.07 ng/mg protein for PD1 to 1.0 ng/mg protein for CD4. The intrabatch accuracy was within -16.6% to 15.0% for all proteins at all concentrations, and the variation ranged from 0.8% to 14.7%, while interbatch accuracy was within -6.3% to 8.6%, and the variation ranged from 1.3% to 12.8%. The validated assay was then applied to quantify all six biomarkers in different tissues and was confirmed to have sufficient sensitivity (0.07-1.00 ng/mg protein) and reproducibility (variation ranged from 4.3 to 12.0%). In an analysis of 26 cervical tumors, CD8A and CD4 were detected in all tumors, followed by PD-L1 in 85%, LAG-3 in 65%, PD1 in 50%, and PD-L2 in 35%. The strongest correlations were observed between CD8A and CD4 ( r = 0.88) and CD8A and LAG-3 ( r = 0.86). PD1 was not significantly correlated with any of the other proteins tested. This method can be applied to survey the immune signatures across tumor types and tailored to incorporate additional markers as needed.
PXD008220	30278072	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis identifies novel functional pathways of tumor suppressor DLC1 in estrogen receptor positive breast cancer. 	Phosphoproteome analysis of DLC1 in breast cancer	Breast cancer, DLC1, phosphoproteome	Deleted in Liver Cancer-1 (DLC1), a member of the RhoGAP family of proteins, functions as a tumor suppressor in several cancers including breast cancer. However, its clinical relevance is unclear in breast cancer. In this study, expression of DLC1 was correlated with prognosis using publicly available breast cancer gene expression datasets and quantitative Reverse Transcription PCR in cohorts of Estrogen Receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer. Low expression of DLC1 correlates with poor prognosis in patients with ER+ breast cancer with further decrease in metastatic lesions. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data showed that down regulation of DLC1 is not due to methylation or mutations. To seek further insights in understanding the role of DLC1 in ER+ breast cancer, we stably overexpressed DLC1-full-length (DLC1-FL) in T-47D breast cancer cells; this inhibited cell colony formation significantly in vitro compared to its control counterpart. Label-free global proteomic and TiO2 phosphopeptide enrichment assays (ProteomeXchange identifier PXD008220) showed that 205 and 122 phosphopeptides were unique to DLC1-FL cells and T-47D-control cells, respectively, whereas 6,726 were quantified by phosphoproteomics analysis in both conditions. The top three significant clusters of differentially phosphopeptides identified by DAVID pathway analysis represent cell-cell adhesion, mRNA processing and splicing, and transcription regulation. Phosphoproteomics analysis documented an inverse relation between DLC1 expression and several phosphopeptides including epithelial cell transforming sequence 2 (ECT2). Decreased phosphorylation of ECT2 at the residue T359, critical for its active conformational change, was validated by western blot. In addition, the ECT2 T359-containing phosphopeptide was detected in both basal and luminal patient-derived breast cancers breast cancer phosphoproteomics data on the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) Assay portal. Together, for the first time, this implicates ECT2 phosphorylation in breast cancer, which has been proposed as a therapeutic target in lung cancer. In conclusion, this data suggests that low expression of DLC1 is associated with poor prognosis. Targeting ECT2 phosphopeptides could provide a promising mechanism for controlling poor prognosis seen in DLC1low ER+ breast cancer.
PXD008033	30279501	Cell cycle-resolved chromatin proteomics reveals the extent of mitotic preservation of the genomic regulatory landscape. 	Chromatin protein profiling during the mammalian cell cycle reveals the extent of mitotic preservation of the regulatory landscape	Cell Cycle, Chromatin, Mitotic Bookmarking	Regulation of transcription, replication, and cell division relies on differential protein binding to DNA and chromatin, yet it is unclear which regulatory components remain bound to compacted mitotic chromosomes. By utilizing the buoyant density of DNA-protein complexes after cross-linking, we here develop a mass spectrometry-based approach to quantify the chromatin-associated proteome at separate stages of the cell cycle. While epigenetic modifiers that promote transcription are lost from mitotic chromatin, repressive modifiers generally remain associated. Furthermore, while proteins involved in transcriptional elongation are evicted, most identified transcription factors are retained on mitotic chromatin to varying degrees, including core promoter binding proteins. This predicts conservation of the regulatory landscape on mitotic chromosomes, which we confirm by genome-wide measurements of chromatin accessibility. In summary, this work establishes an approach to study chromatin, provides a comprehensive catalog of chromatin changes during the cell cycle, and reveals the degree to which the genomic regulatory landscape is maintained through mitosis.
PXD010108	30279523	The evolutionary conserved FOXJ1 target gene Fam183b is essential for motile cilia in Xenopus but dispensable for ciliary function in mice. 	FAM183b interactome           .	Protein complex	The transcription factor FOXJ1 is essential for the formation of motile cilia throughout the animal kingdom. Target genes therefore likely constitute an important part of the motile cilia program. Here, we report on the analysis of one of these targets, Fam183b, in Xenopus and mice. Fam183b encodes a protein with unknown function which is conserved from the green algae Chlamydomonas to humans. Fam183b is expressed in tissues harbouring motile cilia in both mouse and frog embryos. FAM183b protein localises to basal bodies of cilia in mIMCD3 cells and of multiciliated cells of the frog larval epidermis. In addition, FAM183b interacts with NUP93, which also localises to basal bodies. During frog embryogenesis, Fam183b was dispensable for laterality specification and brain development, but required for ciliogenesis and motility of epidermal multiciliated cells and nephrostomes, i.e. the embryonic kidney. Surprisingly, mice homozygous for a null allele did not display any defects indicative of disrupted motile ciliary function. The lack of a cilia phenotype in mouse and the limited requirements in frog contrast with high sequence conservation and the correlation of gene expression with the presence of motile cilia. This finding may be explained through compensatory mechanisms at sites where no defects were observed in our FAM183b-loss-of-function studies.
PXD010232	30280388	The hypolipidemic effects of Tamarindus indica fruit pulp extract in normal and diet-induced hypercholesterolemic hamsters are associated with altered levels of serum proteins. 	Hypolipidemic effects of Tamarindus indica fruit pulp extract	Tamarindus indica, fruit pulp extract, hamsters, hypolipidemia, serum proteins	The hypolipidemic effects of Tamarindus indica fruit pulp extract (Ti-FPE) have been earlier reported but the underlying molecular mechanisms are still uncertain. In this study, hamsters fed with Ti-FPE, both in the absence and presence of high-cholesterol diet, were shown to have significantly reduced levels of serum triglyceride, LDL-C and total cholesterol. The Ti-FPE-fed non-hypercholesterolemic hamsters also showed significant enhanced levels of serum apolipoprotein A1, antithrombin III, transferrin and vitamin D binding protein. In diet-induced hypercholesterolemic hamsters, apolipoprotein A1, antithrombin III and transferrin, which were relatively low in levels, became significantly enhanced when the hamsters were fed with Ti-FPE. These Ti-FPE-fed hypercholesterolemic hamsters also showed significant higher levels of serum vitamin D binding protein. When the different treated groups of hamsters were analyzed for the levels of the four serum proteins by ELISA, similar altered abundance were detected. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis of the Ti-FPE modulated serum proteins singled out "Lipid metabolism, molecular transport, small molecule biochemistry" as the top network. Our results suggest that the hypolipidemic effects of Ti-FPE are associated with alterations of serum proteins that are known to be cardioprotective and involved in the metabolism of lipids. The MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the dataset identifier PXD010232.
PXD009487	30281021	Changes in mRNA abundance drive shuttling of RNA binding proteins, linking cytoplasmic RNA degradation to transcription. 	Global changes in mRNA abundance drive differential shuttling of RNA binding proteins, linking cytoplasmic RNA degradation to transcription	RNA binding proteins, TMT, quantitative MS, translocation	Alterations in global mRNA decay broadly impact multiple stages of gene expression, although signals that connect these processes are incompletely defined. Here, we used tandem mass tag labeling coupled with mass spectrometry to reveal that changing the mRNA decay landscape, as frequently occurs during viral infection, results in subcellular redistribution of RNA binding proteins (RBPs) in human cells. Accelerating Xrn1-dependent mRNA decay through expression of a gammaherpesviral endonuclease drove nuclear translocation of many RBPs, including poly(A) tail-associated proteins. Conversely, cells lacking Xrn1 exhibited changes in the localization or abundance of numerous factors linked to mRNA turnover. Using these data, we uncovered a new role for relocalized cytoplasmic poly(A) binding protein in repressing recruitment of TATA binding protein and RNA polymerase II to promoters. Collectively, our results show that changes in cytoplasmic mRNA decay can directly impact protein localization, providing a mechanism to connect seemingly distal stages of gene expression.
PXD008327	30282987	Bi-directional cell-pericellular matrix interactions direct stem cell fate. 	Kinases orchestrate phospho-proteome dynamics during mitotic exit	Cell cycle, kinases, mitosis, phosphatases, phosphoproteomics	Modifiable hydrogels have revealed tremendous insight into how physical characteristics of cells' 3D environment drive stem cell lineage specification. However, in native tissues, cells do not passively receive signals from their niche. Instead they actively probe and modify their pericellular space to suit their needs, yet the dynamics of cells' reciprocal interactions with their pericellular environment when encapsulated within hydrogels remains relatively unexplored. Here, we show that human bone marrow stromal cells (hMSC) encapsulated within hyaluronic acid-based hydrogels modify their surroundings by synthesizing, secreting and arranging proteins pericellularly or by degrading the hydrogel. hMSC's interactions with this local environment have a role in regulating hMSC fate, with a secreted proteinaceous pericellular matrix associated with adipogenesis, and degradation with osteogenesis. Our observations suggest that hMSC participate in a bi-directional interplay between the properties of their 3D milieu and their own secreted pericellular matrix, and that this combination of interactions drives fate.
PXD008647	30283003	Ancient proteins from ceramic vessels at Catalhoeyuk West reveal the hidden cuisine of early farmers. 	Ancient proteins extracted from ceramic residues	Ceramic residues, ancient proteins, archaeology	The analysis of lipids (fats, oils and waxes) absorbed within archaeological pottery has revolutionized the study of past diets and culinary practices. However, this technique can lack taxonomic and tissue specificity and is often unable to disentangle signatures resulting from the mixing of different food products. Here, we extract ancient proteins from ceramic vessels from the West Mound of the key early farming site of Catalhoeyuk in Anatolia, revealing that this community processed mixes of cereals, pulses, dairy and meat products, and that particular vessels may have been reserved for specialized foods (e.g., cow milk and milk whey). Moreover, we demonstrate that dietary proteins can persist on archaeological artefacts for at least 8000 years, and that this approach can reveal past culinary practices with more taxonomic and tissue-specific clarity than has been possible with previous biomolecular techniques.
PXD007252	30283130	Caloric restriction promotes functional changes involving short-chain fatty acid biosynthesis in the rat gut microbiota. 	Caloric restriction and rat fecal microbiota	Metaproteomics, diet, gut, microbiome, rat, stool	Caloric restriction (CR) is known to promote health and longevity, likely via modification of the gut microbiota (GM). However, functional and metabolic changes induced in the GM during CR are still unidentified. Here, we investigated the short- and long-term effects of CR on the rat GM using a metaproteogenomic approach. We show that a switch from ad libitum (AL) low fat diet to CR in young rats is able to induce rapid and deep changes in their GM metaproteomic profile, related to a reduction of the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio and an expansion of lactobacilli. Specifically, we observed a significant change in the expression of the microbial enzymes responsible for short-chain fatty acid biosynthesis, with CR boosting propionogenesis and limiting butyrogenesis and acetogenesis. Furthermore, these CR-induced effects were maintained up to adulthood and started to be reversed after a short-term diet change. We also found that CR alters the abundance of an array of host proteins released in stool, mainly related to epithelial barrier integrity and inflammation. Hence, our results provide thorough information about CR-induced modifications to GM and host functional activity, and might constitute the basis for novel GM-based approaches aimed at monitoring the effectiveness of dietary interventions.
PXD010102	30283482	Filter-Aided Sample Preparation Procedure for Mass Spectrometric Analysis of Plant Histones. 	Sample preparation procedure for mass spectrometric analysis of plant histones	Epigenetics, Filter-aided sample preparation, Histone derivatization, Post-translational modifications	Characterization of histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) is still challenging, and robust histone sample preparation is essential for convincing evaluation of PTMs by mass spectrometry. An effective protocol for extracting plant histone proteins must also avoid excessive co-extraction of the numerous potential interfering compounds, including those related to secondary metabolism. Currently, the co-existence of histone marks is addressed mostly by shotgun proteomic analysis following chemical derivatization of histone lysine residues. Here, we report a straightforward approach for plant histone sample preparation for mass spectrometry, based on filter-aided sample preparation coupled with histone propionylation. The approach offers savings in sample handling and preparation time, enables removal of interfering compounds from the sample, and does not require either precipitation or dialysis of histone extract. We show the comparison of two protocol variants for derivatization of histone proteins, in-solution propionylation in the vial and propionylation on the filter unit. For both protocols, we obtained identical abundances of post-translationally modified histone peptides. Although shorter time is required for histone protein labeling on the filter unit, in-solution derivatization slightly outweighed filter-based variant by lower data variability. Nevertheless, both protocol variants appear to be efficient and convenient approach for preparation of plant histones for mass spectrometric analysis.
PXD010446	30284448	Sequential Fractionation Strategy Identifies Three Missing Proteins in the Mitochondrial Proteome of Commonly Used Cell Lines. 	Sequential Fractionation Strategy Identifies Nine Missing Proteins in The Mitochondrial Proteome of Commonly Used Cell Lines	high-density datasets, missing proteins, mitochondrial proteome, mt-HPP, protein fractionation	Mitochondria are undeniably the cell powerhouse, directly affecting cell survival and fate. Growing evidence suggest that mitochondrial protein repertoire affects metabolic activity and plays an important role in determining cell proliferation/differentiation or quiescence shift. Consequently, the bioenergetic status of a cell is associated with the quality and abundance of the mitochondrial populations and proteomes. Mitochondrial morphology changes in the development of different cellular functions associated with metabolic switches. It is therefore reasonable to speculate that different cell lines do contain different mitochondrial-associated proteins, and the investigation of these pools may well represent a source for mining missing proteins (MPs). A very effective approach to increase the number of IDs through mass spectrometry consists of reducing the complexity of the biological samples by fractionation. The present study aims at investigating the mitochondrial proteome of five phenotypically different cell lines, possibly expressing some of the MPs, through an enrichment-fractionation approach at the organelle and protein level. We demonstrate a substantial increase in the proteome coverage, which, in turn, increases the likelihood of detecting low abundant proteins, often falling in the category of MPs, and resulting, for the present study, in the identification of METTL12, FAM163A, and RGS13. All MS data have been deposited to the MassIVE data repository ( https://massive.ucsd.edu ) with the data set identifier MSV000082409 and PXD010446.
PXD010171	30284757	Analysis of Entamoeba histolytica Membrane Proteome Using Three Extraction Methods. 	Extraction of Entamoeba histolytica membrane proteins using three extraction methods	Entamoeba histolytica, LC-ESI-MS/MS, membrane protein extraction methods, membrane proteome	Entamoeba histolytica membrane proteins are important players toward the pathogenesis of amoebiasis, but the roles of most of the proteins are not fully understood. Since efficient protein extraction method is crucial for a successful MS analysis, three extractions methods are evaluated for the use in studying the membrane proteome of E. histolytica: Two commercial kits (ProteoExtract from Calbiochem and ProteoPrep from Sigma), and a conventional laboratory method. The results show that ProteoExtract and the conventional method gave higher protein yields compared to ProteoPrep. LC-ESI-MS/MS identifies 456, 482, and 551 membrane fraction proteins extracted using ProteoExtract, ProteoPrep, and a conventional method, respectively. In silico analysis predicts 108 (21%), 235 (45%), and 177 (34%) membrane proteins from the extracts of ProteoExtract, ProteoPrep, and the conventional method, respectively. Furthermore, analysis of the cytosolic and membrane fractions shows the highest selectivity of the membrane proteins using the ProteoPrep extraction kit. Overall, this study reports 828 E. histolytica membrane fraction proteins that include 249 predicted membrane proteins. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010171.
PXD014281	30286438	Extensive characterization and differential analysis of endogenous peptides from Bombyx batryticatus using mass spectrometric approach. 	Endogenous Peptides from Bombyx Batryticatus	Bombyx Batryticatus, cysteine tagging, differential analysis, peptidomics	Bombyx batryticatus, the dried larva of Bombyx mori L. (4th-5th instars) infected with Beauveria bassiana Vuill, is an important animal-derived medicine effective against several diseases. The metamorphosis of silkworm can result insignificant changes in the levels of proteins and polypeptides in the 4(th) and 5(th) instar larvae. Here, we performed extensive characterization of Bombyx batryticatus peptides, including polypeptides containing cysteines, using an MS-based data mining strategy. A total of 779 peptides with various PTMs (post-translational modifications) were identified through database search and de novo sequencing. Some of these peptides might have important biological activities. Besides, the differential analysis of polypeptides between the head and body of Bombyx batryticatus was performed to provide a clinical basis for rational use of the drugs derived from it. This study illustrates the abundance and sequences of endogenous Bombyx batryticatus polypeptides, and thus, provides potential candidates for the screening of active compounds for future biological research and drug discovery studies.
PXD010367	30288912	Cell Wall Proteome Investigation of Bread Wheat (Triticum Aestivum) Developing Grain in Endosperm and Outer Layers. 	Cell wall proteome of wheat developing grain	Cell wall, wheat grain	The remodeling of cell wall polysaccharides is controlled by cell wall proteins (CWPs) during the development of wheat grain. This work describes for the first time the cell wall proteomes of the endosperm and outer layers of the wheat developing grain, which have distinct physiological functions and technological uses. Altogether 636 nonredundant predicted CWPs are identified with 337 proteins in the endosperm and 594 proteins in the outer layers, among which 295 proteins are present in both tissues, suggesting both common and tissue specific remodeling activities. These proteins are distributed into eight functional classes. Approximatively a quarter of them were predicted to act on cell wall polysaccharides, with many glycosylhydrolases and also expansin, lyases, and carbohydrate esterases. Therefore, these results provide crucial data to go further in the understanding of relationship between tissue-specific morphogenesis and cell wall remodeling in cereals. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010367.
PXD007644	30290237	Methionine supplementation stimulates mitochondrial respiration. 	Proteomic dissection of substrate nanotopography-sensitive mechanotransductive signalling hubs that foster neuronal differentiation.	NGF, PC12 cells, biomaterial, biophysics, cell mechanics, integrin signalling, mechanotransduction, neuronal differentiation, quantitative proteomics, shot gun proteomics, zirconia nanosubstrates	Mitochondria play essential metabolic functions in eukaryotes. Although their major role is the generation of energy in the form of ATP, they are also involved in maintenance of cellular redox state, conversion and biosynthesis of metabolites and signal transduction. Most mitochondrial functions are conserved in eukaryotic systems and mitochondrial dysfunctions trigger several human diseases. By using multi-omics approach, we investigate the effect of methionine supplementation on yeast cellular metabolism, considering its role in the regulation of key cellular processes. Methionine supplementation induces an up-regulation of proteins related to mitochondrial functions such as TCA cycle, electron transport chain and respiration, combined with an enhancement of mitochondrial pyruvate uptake and TCA cycle activity. This metabolic signature is more noticeable in cells lacking Snf1/AMPK, the conserved signalling regulator of energy homeostasis. Remarkably, snf1Delta cells strongly depend on mitochondrial respiration and suppression of pyruvate transport is detrimental for this mutant in methionine condition, indicating that respiration mostly relies on pyruvate flux into mitochondrial pathways. These data provide new insights into the regulation of mitochondrial metabolism and extends our understanding on the role of methionine in regulating energy signalling pathways.
PXD006181	30291188	Quantitative and functional posttranslational modification proteomics reveals that TREPH1 plays a role in plant touch-delayed bolting. 	Touch-induced phosphoproteome in Arabidopsis thaliana (Q Exactive)	protein phosphorylation, touch	Environmental mechanical forces, such as wind and touch, trigger gene-expression regulation and developmental changes, called "thigmomorphogenesis," in plants, demonstrating the ability of plants to perceive such stimuli. In Arabidopsis, a major thigmomorphogenetic response is delayed bolting, i.e., emergence of the flowering stem. The signaling components responsible for mechanotransduction of the touch response are largely unknown. Here, we performed a high-throughput SILIA (stable isotope labeling in Arabidopsis)-based quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis to profile changes in protein phosphorylation resulting from 40 seconds of force stimulation in Arabidopsis thaliana Of the 24 touch-responsive phosphopeptides identified, many were derived from kinases, phosphatases, cytoskeleton proteins, membrane proteins, and ion transporters. In addition, the previously uncharacterized protein TOUCH-REGULATED PHOSPHOPROTEIN1 (TREPH1) became rapidly phosphorylated in touch-stimulated plants, as confirmed by immunoblots. TREPH1 fractionates as a soluble protein and is shown to be required for the touch-induced delay of bolting and gene-expression changes. Furthermore, a nonphosphorylatable site-specific isoform of TREPH1 (S625A) failed to restore touch-induced flowering delay of treph1-1, indicating the necessity of S625 for TREPH1 function and providing evidence consistent with the possible functional relevance of the touch-regulated TREPH1 phosphorylation. Taken together, these findings identify a phosphoprotein player in Arabidopsis thigmomorphogenesis regulation and provide evidence that TREPH1 and its touch-induced phosphorylation may play a role in touch-induced bolting delay, a major component of thigmomorphogenesis.
PXD009279	30291330	Antiepileptic drug carbamazepine promotes horizontal transfer of plasmid-borne multi-antibiotic resistance genes within and across bacterial genera. 	Proteomic analysis of E. coli K-12 LE392, P. putida KT2440 under exposure of carbamazepine	E. coli, P. putida, SWATH-MS, carbamazepine	Antibiotic resistance is a severe global threat for public health, causing around 700,000 deaths per year. Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is one of the most significant pathways to disseminate antibiotic resistance. It is commonly acknowledged that sub-minimum inhibition concentrations of antibiotics are major contributors in promoting antibiotic resistance through HGT. Pharmaceuticals are occurring in our environments at increased levels, yet little is known whether non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals cause or accelerate the dissemination of antibiotic resistance. Here, we report for the first time that the antiepileptic drug, carbamazepine, promotes conjugative transfer of antibiotic resistance genes. It was seen that environmentally relevant concentrations of carbamazepine (e.g., 0.05 mg/L) significantly enhanced the conjugative transfer of multiresistance genes carried by plasmid within and across bacterial genera. The underlying mechanisms of the enhanced HGT were revealed by detecting oxidative stress and cell membrane permeability, in combination with MinION DNA sequencing, genome-wide RNA sequencing, and proteomic analysis. Carbamazepine induced a series of acute responses, including increased levels of reactive oxygen species, the SOS response; increased cell membrane permeability, and pilus generation. Expressional levels of genes related to these processes were significantly upregulated during carbamazepine exposure. Given that HGT occurs widely among different species in various environments, these findings are an early warning for a wide assessment of the roles of non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals in the spread of antibiotic resistance.
PXD006340	30293061	Parasitoid Jewel Wasp Mounts Multipronged Neurochemical Attack to Hijack a Host Brain. 	Characterization of the venom proteome of the emerald jewel wasp, Ampulex compressa	Ampulex compressa venom venome	The parasitoid emerald jewel wasp Ampulex compressa induces a compliant state of hypokinesia in its host, the American cockroach Periplaneta americana through direct envenomation of the central nervous system (CNS). To elucidate the biochemical strategy underlying venom-induced hypokinesia, we subjected the venom apparatus and milked venom to RNAseq and proteomics analyses to construct a comprehensive "venome," consisting of 264 proteins. Abundant in the venome are enzymes endogenous to the host brain, including M13 family metalloproteases, phospholipases, adenosine deaminase, hyaluronidase, and neuropeptide precursors. The amphipathic, alpha-helical ampulexins are among the most abundant venom components. Also prominent are members of the Toll/NF-kappaB signaling pathway, including proteases Persephone, Snake, Easter, and the Toll receptor ligand Spaetzle. We find evidence that venom components are processed following envenomation. The acidic (pH~4) venom contains unprocessed neuropeptide tachykinin and corazonin precursors and is conspicuously devoid of the corresponding processed, biologically active peptides. Neutralization of venom leads to appearance of mature tachykinin and corazonin, suggesting that the wasp employs precursors as a prolonged time-release strategy within the host brain post-envenomation. Injection of fully processed tachykinin into host cephalic ganglia elicits short-term hypokinesia. Ion channel modifiers and cytolytic toxins are absent in A. compressa venom, which appears to hijack control of the host brain by introducing a "storm" of its own neurochemicals. Our findings deepen understanding of the chemical warfare underlying host-parasitoid interactions and in particular neuromodulatory mechanisms that enable manipulation of host behavior to suit the nutritional needs of opportunistic parasitoid progeny.
PXD011121	30293428	In-Search Assignment of Monoisotopic Peaks Improves the Identification of Cross-Linked Peptides. 	In-Search Assignment of Monoisotopic Peaks Improves the Identification of Cross-Linked Peptides	cross-linking mass spectrometry, data processing	Cross-linking/mass spectrometry has undergone a maturation process akin to standard proteomics by adapting key methods such as false discovery rate control and quantification. A poorly evaluated search setting in proteomics is the consideration of multiple (lighter) alternative values for the monoisotopic precursor mass to compensate for possible misassignments of the monoisotopic peak. Here, we show that monoisotopic peak assignment is a major weakness of current data handling approaches in cross-linking. Cross-linked peptides often have high precursor masses, which reduces the presence of the monoisotopic peak in the isotope envelope. Paired with generally low peak intensity, this generates a challenge that may not be completely solvable by precursor mass assignment routines. We therefore took an alternative route by '"in-search assignment of the monoisotopic peak" in the cross-link database search tool Xi (Xi-MPA), which considers multiple precursor masses during database search. We compare and evaluate the performance of established preprocessing workflows that partly correct the monoisotopic peak and Xi-MPA on three publicly available data sets. Xi-MPA always delivered the highest number of identifications with ~2 to 4-fold increase of PSMs without compromising identification accuracy as determined by FDR estimation and comparison to crystallographic models.
PXD010369	30293968	Spatial Distribution of Endogenous Tissue Protease Activity in Gastric Carcinoma Mapped by MALDI Mass Spectrometry Imaging. 	Spatial distribution of endogenous tissue protease activity in gastric carcinoma mapped by MALDI mass spectrometry imaging	Gastric mouse carcinoma, LC-MS, MALDI, Proteases, SP3	Aberrant protease activity has been implicated in the etiology of various prevalent diseases including neurodegeneration and cancer, in particular metastasis. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) has recently been established as a key technology for bioanalysis of multiple biomolecular classes such as proteins, lipids, and glycans. However, it has not yet been systematically explored for investigation of a tissue's endogenous protease activity. In this study, we demonstrate that different tissues, spray-coated with substance P as a tracer, digest this peptide with different time-course profiles. Furthermore, we reveal that distinct cleavage products originating from substance P are generated transiently and that proteolysis can be attenuated by protease inhibitors in a concentration-dependent manner. To show the translational potential of the method, we analyzed protease activity of gastric carcinoma in mice. Our MSI and quantitative proteomics results reveal differential distribution of protease activity - with strongest activity being observed in mouse tumor tissue, suggesting the general applicability of the workflow in animal pharmacology and clinical studies.
PXD008381	30295032	ProteomeGenerator: A Framework for Comprehensive Proteomics Based on de Novo Transcriptome Assembly and High-Accuracy Peptide Mass Spectral Matching. 	ProteomeGenerator analysis of K052	ProteomeGenerator proteogenomics shotgun K052 non-canonical isoforms	Modern mass spectrometry now permits genome-scale and quantitative measurements of biological proteomes. However, analysis of specific specimens is currently hindered by the incomplete representation of biological variability of protein sequences in canonical reference proteomes and the technical demands for their construction. Here, we report ProteomeGenerator, a framework for de novo and reference-assisted proteogenomic database construction and analysis based on sample-specific transcriptome sequencing and high-accuracy mass spectrometry proteomics. This enables the assembly of proteomes encoded by actively transcribed genes, including sample-specific protein isoforms resulting from non-canonical mRNA transcription, splicing, or editing. To improve the accuracy of protein isoform identification in non-canonical proteomes, ProteomeGenerator relies on statistical target-decoy database matching calibrated using sample-specific controls. Its current implementation includes automatic integration with MaxQuant mass spectrometry proteomics algorithms. We applied this method for the proteogenomic analysis of splicing factor SRSF2 mutant leukemia cells, demonstrating high-confidence identification of non-canonical protein isoforms arising from alternative transcriptional start sites, intron retention, and cryptic exon splicing as well as improved accuracy of genome-scale proteome discovery. Additionally, we report proteogenomic performance metrics for current state-of-the-art implementations of SEQUEST HT, MaxQuant, Byonic, and PEAKS mass spectral analysis algorithms. Finally, ProteomeGenerator is implemented as a Snakemake workflow within a Singularity container for one-step installation in diverse computing environments, thereby enabling open, scalable, and facile discovery of sample-specific, non-canonical, and neomorphic biological proteomes.
PXD010210	30295461	DIA+: A Data-Independent Acquisition Method Combining Multiple Precursor Charges to Improve Peptide Signal. 	DIA+: A novel data-independent acquisition method combines multiple precursor charges to boost peptide signal.	DIA, Hela	Data-independent acquisition methods that acquire fragment ions from virtually any peptide in a sample have expanded the benefits of low-throughput targeted proteomics to proteome-wide analyses. While these methods have increased the reproducibility of peptide quantification across multiple samples, their sensitivity is still limited, and the quantification of complete proteomes remains a challenge. Here we present DIA+, a DIA method that combines signals from identical peptides with different charge states, resulting in improved signal-to-noise, additional number of fragments, and therefore in a higher number of identified and quantified peptides in complex samples.
PXD008580	30297453	PRP4KA, a Putative Spliceosomal Protein Kinase, Is Important for Alternative Splicing and Development in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	iTRAQ-based quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of a prp4ka mutant in Arabidopsis thaliana	iTRAQ, pre-mRNA splicing, prp4ka, quantitative phosphoproteomics	Splicing of precursor messenger RNAs (pre-mRNAs) is an essential step in the expression of most eukaryotic genes. Both constitutive splicing and alternative splicing, which produces multiple messenger RNA (mRNA) isoforms from a single primary transcript, are modulated by reversible protein phosphorylation. Although the plant splicing machinery is known to be a target for phosphorylation, the protein kinases involved remain to be fully defined. We report here the identification of pre-mRNA processing 4 (PRP4) KINASE A (PRP4KA) in a forward genetic screen based on an alternatively spliced GFP reporter gene in Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis). Prp4 kinase is the first spliceosome-associated kinase shown to regulate splicing in fungi and mammals but it has not yet been studied in plants. In the same screen we identified mutants defective in SAC3A, a putative mRNA export factor that is highly coexpressed with PRP4KA in Arabidopsis Whereas the sac3a mutants appear normal, the prp4ka mutants display a pleiotropic phenotype featuring atypical rosettes, late flowering, tall final stature, reduced branching, and lowered seed set. Analysis of RNA-sequencing data from prp4ka and sac3a mutants identified widespread and partially overlapping perturbations in alternative splicing in the two mutants. Quantitative phosphoproteomic profiling of a prp4ka mutant detected phosphorylation changes in several serine/arginine-rich proteins, which regulate constitutive and alternative splicing, and other splicing-related factors. Tests of PRP4KB, the paralog of PRP4KA, indicated that the two genes are not functionally redundant. The results demonstrate the importance of PRP4KA for alternative splicing and plant phenotype, and suggest that PRP4KA may influence alternative splicing patterns by phosphorylating a subset of splicing regulators.
PXD006483	30297752	Mining the cellular inventory of pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzymes with functionalized cofactor mimics. 	Mining the cellular inventory of pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzymes with functionalized cofactor mimics	Pyridoxal phosphate, cofactor, vitamin B6	Pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) is an enzyme cofactor required for the chemical transformation of biological amines in many central cellular processes. PLP-dependent enzymes (PLP-DEs) are ubiquitous and evolutionarily diverse, making their classification based on sequence homology challenging. Here we present a chemical proteomic method for reporting on PLP-DEs using functionalized cofactor probes. We synthesized pyridoxal analogues modified at the 2'-position, which are taken up by cells and metabolized in situ. These pyridoxal analogues are phosphorylated to functional cofactor surrogates by cellular pyridoxal kinases and bind to PLP-DEs via an aldimine bond which can be rendered irreversible by NaBH4 reduction. Conjugation to a reporter tag enables the subsequent identification of PLP-DEs using quantitative, label-free mass spectrometry. Using these probes we accessed a significant portion of the Staphylococcus aureus PLP-DE proteome (73%) and annotate uncharacterized proteins as novel PLP-DEs. We also show that this approach can be used to study structural tolerance within PLP-DE active sites and to screen for off-targets of the PLP-DE inhibitor D-cycloserine.
PXD010783	30297838	C16-ceramide is a natural regulatory ligand of p53 in cellular stress response. 	C16-ceramide is a natural regulatory ligand of p53 in cellular stress response	ceramide, p52, regulatory ligand	Ceramides are important participants of signal transduction, regulating fundamental cellular processes. Here we report the mechanism for activation of p53 tumor suppressor by C16-ceramide. C16-ceramide tightly binds within the p53 DNA-binding domain (Kd ~ 60 nM), in close vicinity to the Box V motif. This interaction is highly selective toward the ceramide acyl chain length with its C10 atom being proximal to Ser240 and Ser241. Ceramide binding stabilizes p53 and disrupts its complex with E3 ligase MDM2 leading to the p53 accumulation, nuclear translocation and activation of the downstream targets. This mechanism of p53 activation is fundamentally different from the canonical p53 regulation through protein-protein interactions or posttranslational modifications. The discovered mechanism is triggered by serum or folate deprivation implicating it in the cellular response to nutrient/metabolic stress. Our study establishes C16-ceramide as a natural small molecule activating p53 through the direct binding.
PXD011060	30297844	Direct protein-lipid interactions shape the conformational landscape of secondary transporters. 	HDX-MS on secondary transporters	conformational dynamics, lipid-protein interactions, membrane proteins, structural biology	Secondary transporters undergo structural rearrangements to catalyze substrate translocation across the cell membrane - yet how such conformational changes happen within a lipid environment remains poorly understood. Here, we combine hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) with molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to understand how lipids regulate the conformational dynamics of secondary transporters at the molecular level. Using the homologous transporters XylE, LacY and GlpT from Escherichia coli as model systems, we discover that conserved networks of charged residues act as molecular switches that drive the conformational transition between different states. We reveal that these molecular switches are regulated by interactions with surrounding phospholipids and show that phosphatidylethanolamine interferes with the formation of the conserved networks and favors an inward-facing state. Overall, this work provides insights into the importance of lipids in shaping the conformational landscape of an important class of transporters.
PXD009590	30298734	Proteogenomics of Adenosine-to-Inosine RNA Editing in the Fruit Fly. 	Proteogenomics of adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing in fruit fly	Drosophila melanogaster, Proteogenomics, RNA editing	Adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing is one of the most common types of RNA editing, a posttranscriptional modification made by special enzymes. We present a proteomic study on this phenomenon for Drosophila melanogaster. Three proteome data sets were used in the study: two taken from public repository and the third one obtained here. A customized protein sequence database was generated using results of genome-wide adenosine-to-inosine RNA studies and applied for identifying the edited proteins. The total number of 68 edited peptides belonging to 59 proteins was identified in all data sets. Eight of them being shared between the whole insect, head, and brain proteomes. Seven edited sites belonging to synaptic vesicle and membrane trafficking proteins were selected for validation by orthogonal analysis by Multiple Reaction Monitoring. Five editing events in cpx, Syx1A, Cadps, CG4587, and EndoA were validated in fruit fly brain tissue at the proteome level using isotopically labeled standards. Ratios of unedited-to-edited proteoforms varied from 35:1 ( Syx1A) to 1:2 ( EndoA). Lys-137 to Glu editing of endophilin A may have functional consequences for its interaction to membrane. The work demonstrates the feasibility to identify the RNA editing event at the proteome level using shotgun proteomics and customized edited protein database.
PXD003401	30300721	DNA Demethylation by DNMT3A and DNMT3B in vitro and of Methylated Episomal DNA in Transiently Transfected Cells. 	Active DNA Demethylation by DNMT3A and DNMT3B - Mechanistic Aspect and In Vivo Evidence	methylation	The DNA methylation program in vertebrates is an essential part of the epigenetic regulatory cascade of development, cell differentiation, and progression of diseases including cancer. While the DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) are responsible for the in vivo conversion of cytosine (C) to methylated cytosine (5mC), demethylation of 5mC on cellular DNA could be accomplished by the combined action of the ten-eleven translocation (TET) enzymes and DNA repair. Surprisingly, the mammalian DNMTs also possess active DNA demethylation activity in vitro in a Ca(2+)- and redox conditions-dependent manner, although little is known about its molecular mechanisms and occurrence in a cellular context. In this study, we have used LC-MS/MS to track down the fate of the methyl group removed from 5mC on DNA by mouse DNMT3B in vitro and found that it becomes covalently linked to the DNA methylation catalytic cysteine of the enzyme. We also show that Ca(2+) homeostasis-dependent but TET1/TET2/TET3/TDG-independent demethylation of methylated episomal DNA by mouse DNMT3A or DNMT3B can occur in transfected human HEK 293 and mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. Based on these results, we present a tentative working model of Ca(2+) and redox conditions-dependent active DNA demethylation by DNMTs. Our study substantiates the potential roles of the vertebrate DNMTs as double-edged swords in DNA methylation-demethylation during Ca(2+)-dependent physiological processes.
PXD010440	30300945	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis reveals common regulatory mechanisms between effector- and PAMP-triggered immunity in plants. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis reveals common regulatory mechanisms of immune components during effector- and PAMP-triggered immunity	PAMPs, Plant immunity, Protein phosphorylation, RBOHD, Reactive oxygen species, bacteria, effectors, fungi	Plant immunity consists of two arms: pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP)-triggered immunity (PTI), induced by surface-localized receptors, and effector-triggered immunity (ETI), induced by intracellular receptors. Despite the little structural similarity, both receptor types activate similar responses with different dynamics. To better understand phosphorylation events during ETI, we employed a phosphoproteomic screen using an inducible expression system of the bacterial effector avrRpt2 in Arabidopsis thaliana, and identified 109 differentially phosphorylated residues of membrane-associated proteins on activation of the intracellular RPS2 receptor. Interestingly, several RPS2-regulated phosphosites overlap with sites that are regulated during PTI, suggesting that these phosphosites may be convergent points of both signaling arms. Moreover, some of these sites are residues of important defense components, including the NADPH oxidase RBOHD, ABC-transporter PEN3, calcium-ATPase ACA8, noncanonical Galpha protein XLG2 and H(+) -ATPases. In particular, we found that S343 and S347 of RBOHD are common phosphorylation targets during PTI and ETI. Our mutational analyses showed that these sites are required for the production of reactive oxygen species during both PTI and ETI, and immunity against avirulent bacteria and a virulent necrotrophic fungus. We provide, for the first time, large-scale phosphoproteomic data of ETI, thereby suggesting crucial roles of common phosphosites in plant immunity.
PXD011033	30301787	Preassembled GPCR signaling complexes mediate distinct cellular responses to ultralow ligand concentrations. 	HEK293 femtomolar GPCR signaling	GPCR, M3R, b2AR, cAMP, compartmentalized signaling, femtomolar, highly sensitive, signaling complex, ultra-low	G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are the largest class of cell surface signaling proteins, participate in nearly all physiological processes, and are the targets of 30% of marketed drugs. Typically, nanomolar to micromolar concentrations of ligand are used to activate GPCRs in experimental systems. We detected GPCR responses to a wide range of ligand concentrations, from attomolar to millimolar, by measuring GPCR-stimulated production of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) with high spatial and temporal resolution. Mathematical modeling showed that femtomolar concentrations of ligand activated, on average, 40% of the cells in a population provided that a cell was activated by one to two binding events. Furthermore, activation of the endogenous beta2-adrenergic receptor (beta2AR) and muscarinic acetylcholine M3 receptor (M3R) by femtomolar concentrations of ligand in cell lines and human cardiac fibroblasts caused sustained increases in nuclear translocation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and cytosolic protein kinase C (PKC) activity, respectively. These responses were spatially and temporally distinct from those that occurred in response to higher concentrations of ligand and resulted in a distinct cellular proteomic profile. This highly sensitive signaling depended on the GPCRs forming preassembled, higher-order signaling complexes at the plasma membrane. Recognizing that GPCRs respond to ultralow concentrations of neurotransmitters and hormones challenges established paradigms of drug action and provides a previously unappreciated aspect of GPCR activation that is quite distinct from that typically observed with higher ligand concentrations.
PXD008891	30301925	Multiplex Biomarker Screening Assay for Urinary Extracellular Vesicles Study: A Targeted Label-Free Proteomic Approach. 	Multiplex Biomarker Screening Assay for Urinary Extracellular Vesicles Study:  A Targeted Label-Free Proteomic Approach	Biomarker, Exosomes, Human urine, Microvesicles, Post-acquisition data extraction	The recent advance in targeted label-free proteomics, SWATH-MS, can provide consistent protein detection and reproducible protein quantitation, which is a considerable advantage for biomarker study of urinary extracellular vesicles. We developed a SWATH-MS workflow with a curated spectral library of 1,145 targets. Application of the workflow across nine replicates of three sample types (exosome-like vesicles (ELVs), microvesicles (MVs) and urine proteins (UPs)) resulted in the quantitation of 888 proteins at FDR <1%. The median-coefficient of variation of the 888 proteins in the ELV sample was 7.7%, indicating excellent reproducibility. Data analysis showed common exosome markers, (i.e. CD9, CD63, ALIX, TSG101 and HSP70) were enriched in urinary ELVs as compared to MVs and UPs. The use of a multiplex biomarker screening assay focused on ELVs was investigated, and perspectives in future applications are discussed.
PXD009582	30304686	Growth of Cyanobacteria Is Constrained by the Abundance of Light and Carbon Assimilation Proteins. 	Proteome allocation strategies under nutrient-limiting conditions in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis	MSGF+, carbon limitation, cellular economy, cyanobacteria, data-dependent acquisition, light limitation, openMS, resource allocation, shotgun proteomics	Cyanobacteria must balance separate demands for energy generation, carbon assimilation, and biomass synthesis. We used shotgun proteomics to investigate proteome allocation strategies in the model cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 as it adapted to light and inorganic carbon (Ci) limitation. When partitioning the proteome into seven functional sectors, we find that sector sizes change linearly with growth rate. The sector encompassing ribosomes is significantly smaller than in E. coli, which may explain the lower maximum growth rate in Synechocystis. Limitation of light dramatically affects multiple proteome sectors, whereas the effect of Ci limitation is weak. Carbon assimilation proteins respond more strongly to changes in light intensity than to Ci. A coarse-grained cell economy model generally explains proteome trends. However, deviations from model predictions suggest that the large proteome sectors for carbon and light assimilation are not optimally utilized under some growth conditions and may constrain the proteome space available to ribosomes.
PXD005985	30305724	Quantitative proteomics analysis identifies MUC1 as an effect sensor of EGFR inhibition. 	SILAC proteomics analysis to discover effect sensors of EGFR inhibition	EGFR SILAC Breast cancer biomarkers erlotinib	Tumor responses to cancer therapeutics are generally monitored every 2-3 months based on changes in tumor size. Dynamic biomarkers that reflect effective engagement of targeted therapeutics to the targeted pathway, so-called "effect sensors", would fulfill a need for non-invasive, drug-specific indicators of early treatment effect. Using a proteomics approach to identify effect sensors, we demonstrated MUC1 upregulation in response to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-targeting treatments in breast and lung cancer models. To achieve this, using semi-quantitative mass spectrometry, we found MUC1 to be significantly and durably upregulated in response to erlotinib, an EGFR-targeting treatment. MUC1 upregulation was regulated transcriptionally, involving PI3K-signaling and STAT3. We validated these results in erlotinib-sensitive human breast and non-small lung cancer cell lines. Importantly, erlotinib treatment of mice bearing SUM149 xenografts resulted in increased MUC1 shedding into plasma. Analysis of MUC1 using serial blood sampling may therefore be a new, relatively non-invasive tool to monitor early and drug-specific effects of EGFR-targeting therapeutics.
PXD008496	30307104	Insight into the sulfur metabolism of Desulfurella amilsii by differential proteomics. 	Differential proteomics of Desulfurella amilsii to explore sulfur reductive metabolism	Desulfurella amilsii, Sulfur reduction, disproportionation, rhodanese-like protein, sulfur reductase, thiosulfate reduction	Many questions regarding proteins involved in microbial sulfur metabolism remain unsolved. For sulfur respiration at low pH, the terminal electron acceptor is still unclear. Desulfurella amilsii is a sulfur-reducing bacterium that respires elemental sulfur (S(0) ) or thiosulfate, and grows by S(0) disproportionation. Due to its versatility, comparative studies on D. amilsii may shed light on microbial sulfur metabolism. Requirement of physical contact between cells and S(0) was analyzed. Sulfide production decreased by around 50% when S(0) was trapped in dialysis membranes, suggesting that contact between cells and S(0) is beneficial, but not strictly needed. Proteome analysis was performed under the aforementioned conditions. A Mo-oxidoreductase suggested from genome analysis to act as sulfur reductase was not detected in any growth condition. Thiosulfate and sulfite reductases showed increased abundance in thiosulfate-reducing cultures, while rhodanese-like sulfurtransferases were highly abundant in all conditions. DsrE and DsrL were abundantly detected during thiosulfate reduction, suggesting a modified mechanism of sulfite reduction. Proteogenomics suggest a different disproportionation pathway from what has been reported. This work points to an important role of rhodaneses in sulfur processes and these proteins should be considered in searches for sulfur metabolism in broader fields like meta-omics.
PXD006127	30309899	The U1 snRNP Subunit LUC7 Modulates Plant Development and Stress Responses via Regulation of Alternative Splicing. 	Analysis of the splicing factor LUC7 in Arabidopsis	LUC7, U1 snRNP, plants, splicing	Introns are removed by the spliceosome, a large macromolecular complex composed of five ribonucleoprotein subcomplexes (U snRNPs). The U1 snRNP, which binds to 5' splice sites, plays an essential role in early steps of the splicing reaction. Here, we show that Arabidopsis thaliana LETHAL UNLESS CBC7 (LUC7) proteins, which are encoded by a three-member gene family in Arabidopsis, are important for plant development and stress resistance. We show that LUC7 is a U1 snRNP accessory protein by RNA immunoprecipitation experiments and LUC7 protein complex purifications. Transcriptome analyses revealed that LUC7 proteins are not only important for constitutive splicing, but also affect hundreds of alternative splicing events. Interestingly, LUC7 proteins specifically promote splicing of a subset of terminal introns. Splicing of LUC7-dependent introns is a prerequisite for nuclear export, and some splicing events are modulated by stress in a LUC7-dependent manner. Taken together, our results highlight the importance of the U1 snRNP component LUC7 in splicing regulation and suggest a previously unrecognized role of a U1 snRNP accessory factor in terminal intron splicing.
PXD011173	30309985	Dishevelled enables casein kinase 1-mediated phosphorylation of Frizzled 6 required for cell membrane localization. 	Human FZD6 phosphorylation LC-MS/MS	FZD6, Frizzled, WNT, WNT-3A, WNT-5A, label-free, phosphorylation, titanuim dioxide	Frizzleds (FZDs) are receptors for secreted lipoglycoproteins of the Wingless/Int-1 (WNT) family, initiating an important signal transduction network in multicellular organisms. FZDs are G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are well known to be regulated by phosphorylation, leading to specific downstream signaling or receptor desensitization. The role and underlying mechanisms of FZD phosphorylation remain largely unexplored. Here, we investigated the phosphorylation of human FZD6 Using MS analysis and a phospho-state- and -site-specific antibody, we found that Ser-648, located in the FZD6 C terminus, is efficiently phosphorylated by casein kinase 1 epsilon (CK1epsilon) and that this phosphorylation requires the scaffolding protein Dishevelled (DVL). In an overexpression system, DVL1, -2, and -3 promoted CK1epsilon-mediated FZD6 phosphorylation on Ser-648. This DVL activity required an intact DEP domain and FZD-mediated recruitment of this domain to the cell membrane. Substitution of the CK1epsilon-targeted phosphomotif reduced FZD6 surface expression, suggesting that Ser-648 phosphorylation controls membrane trafficking of FZD6 Phospho-Ser-648 FZD6 immunoreactivity in human fallopian tube epithelium was predominantly apical, associated with cilia in a subset of epithelial cells, compared with the total FZD6 protein expression, suggesting that FZD6 phosphorylation contributes to asymmetric localization of receptor function within the cell and to epithelial polarity. Given the key role of FZD6 in planar cell polarity, our results raise the possibility that asymmetric phosphorylation of FZD6 rather than asymmetric protein distribution accounts for polarized receptor signaling.
PXD010311	30310166	An extracellular [NiFe] hydrogenase mediating iron corrosion is encoded in a genetically unstable genomic island in Methanococcus maripaludis. 	Proteome Analysis of Methanococcus maripaludis	Methanococcus maripaludis, extracellular hydrogenase, iron corrosion	Certain methanogens deteriorate steel surfaces through a process called microbiologically influenced corrosion (MIC). However, the mechanisms of MIC, whereby methanogens oxidize zerovalent iron (Fe(0)), are largely unknown. In this study, Fe(0)-corroding Methanococcus maripaludis strain OS7 and its derivative (strain OS7mut1) defective in Fe(0)-corroding activity were isolated. Genomic analysis of these strains demonstrated that the strain OS7mut1 contained a 12-kb chromosomal deletion. The deleted region, termed "MIC island", encoded the genes for the large and small subunits of a [NiFe] hydrogenase, the TatA/TatC genes necessary for the secretion of the [NiFe] hydrogenase, and a gene for the hydrogenase maturation protease. Thus, the [NiFe] hydrogenase may be secreted outside the cytoplasmic membrane, where the [NiFe] hydrogenase can make direct contact with Fe(0), and oxidize it, generating hydrogen gas: Fe(0) + 2 H(+) --> Fe(2+) + H2. Comparative analysis of extracellular and intracellular proteomes of strain OS7 supported this hypothesis. The identification of the MIC genes enables the development of molecular tools to monitor epidemiology, and to perform surveillance and risk assessment of MIC-inducing M. maripaludis.
PXD009707	30311792	Candidate Treponema pallidum biomarkers uncovered in urine from individuals with syphilis using mass spectrometry. 	Candidate Treponema pallidum biomarkers uncovered in human urine samples from MSM individuals with syphilis using a multi-platform mass spectrometry approach	Treponema pallidum, antigen test, biomarker discovery, data independent acquisition, syphilis, urine	AIM: A diagnostic test that could detect Treponema pallidum antigens in urine would facilitate the prompt diagnosis of syphilis. MATERIALS & METHODS: Urine from 54 individuals with various clinical stages of syphilis and 6 controls were pooled according to disease stage and interrogated with complementary mass spectrometry techniques to uncover potential syphilis biomarkers. RESULTS & CONCLUSION: In total, 26 unique peptides were uncovered corresponding to four unique T. pallidum proteins that have low genetic sequence similarity to other prokaryotes and human proteins. This is the first account of direct T. pallidum protein detection in human clinical samples using mass spectrometry. The implications of these findings for future diagnostic test development is discussed. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009707.
PXD009740	30312678	Peptide filtering differently affects the performances of XIC-based quantification methods. 	Peptide Filtering and Quantification Methods	extracted ion current, peptide filtering, quantification methods	In bottom-up proteomics, data are acquired on peptides resulting from proteolysis. In XIC-based quantification, the quality of the estimation of protein abundance depends on how peptide data are filtered and on which quantification method is used to express peptide intensity as protein abundance. So far, these two questions have been addressed independently. Here, we studied to what extent the relative performances of the quantification methods depend on the filters applied to peptide intensity data. To this end, we performed a spike-in experiment using Universal Protein Standard to evaluate the performances of five quantification methods in five datasets obtained after application of four peptide filters. Estimated protein abundances were not equally affected by filters depending on the computation mode and the type of data for quantification. Furthermore, we found that filters could have contrasting effects depending on the quantification objective. Intensity modeling proved to be the most robust method, providing the best results in the absence of any filter. However, the different quantification methods can achieve similar performances when appropriate peptide filters are used. Altogether, our findings provide insights into how best to handle intensity data according to the quantification objective and the experimental design. SIGNIFICANCE: We believe that our results are of major importance because they address, as far as we know for the first time, the crossed-effects of peptide intensity data filtering and XIC-based quantification methods on protein quantification. While previous papers have dealt with peptide filtering independently of the quantification method, here we combined four peptide filters (based on peptide sharing between proteins, retention time variability, peptides occurrence and peptide intensity profiles) with five XIC-based quantification methods representing different modes of calculating protein abundances from peptide intensities. For these different combinations, we analyzed the quality of protein quantification in terms of precision, accuracy and linearity of response to increasing protein concentration using a spike-in experiment. We showed that not only filters effect on the estimation of protein abundances depend on the quantification methods but also that quantification methods can reach similar performances when appropriate peptide filters are used. Also, depending on the quantification objective, i.e. absolute or relative, filters can have contrasting effects and we demonstrated that protein quantification by the peptide intensity modeling was the most robust method.
PXD014619	30314768	Prenatal Intra-Amniotic Endotoxin Induces Fetal Gut and Lung Immune Responses and Postnatal Systemic Inflammation in Preterm Pigs. 	Data in support of Prenatal intra-amniotic lipopolysaccharide induces neonatal renal immune activation after preterm birth	Gram-negative infection, acute kidney injury, chorioamnionitis, intrauterine bacterial infection	Prenatal inflammation is a major risk for preterm birth and neonatal morbidity, but its effects on postnatal immunity and organ functions remain unclear. Using preterm pigs as a model for preterm infants, we investigated whether prenatal intra-amniotic (IA) inflammation modulates postnatal systemic immune status and organ functions. Preterm pigs exposed to IA lipopolysaccharide (LPS) for 3 days were compared with controls at birth and postnatal day 5 after formula feeding. IA LPS induced mild chorioamnionitis but extensive intra-amniotic inflammation. There were minor systemic effects at birth (increased blood neutrophil counts), but a few days later, prenatal LPS induced delayed neonatal arousal, systemic inflammation (increased blood leukocytes, plasma cytokines, and splenic bacterial counts), altered serum biochemistry (lower albumin and cholesterol and higher iron and glucose values), and increased urinary protein and sodium excretion. In the gut and lungs, IA LPS-induced inflammatory responses were observed mainly at birth (increased LPS, CXCL8, and IL-1beta levels and myeloperoxidase-positive cell density, multiple increases in innate immune gene expressions, and reduced villus heights), but not on postnatal day 5 (except elevated lung CXCL8 and diarrhea symptoms). Finally, IA LPS did not affect postnatal gut brush-border enzymes, hexose absorption, permeability, or sensitivity to necrotizing enterocolitis on day 5. Short-term IA LPS exposure predisposes preterm pigs to postnatal systemic inflammation after acute fetal gut and lung inflammatory responses.
PXD009660	30315122	A subset of HLA-I peptides are not genomically templated: Evidence for cis- and trans-spliced peptide ligands. 	Trans-splicing of class I HLA bound peptides diversifies the immunopeptidome	HLA, Immunopeptidome, post-translational modification, proteasome, spliced peptides	The diversity of peptides displayed by class I human leukocyte antigen (HLA) plays an essential role in T cell immunity. The peptide repertoire is extended by various posttranslational modifications, including proteasomal splicing of peptide fragments from distinct regions of an antigen to form nongenomically templated cis-spliced sequences. Previously, it has been suggested that a fraction of the immunopeptidome constitutes such cis-spliced peptides; however, because of computational limitations, it has not been possible to assess whether trans-spliced peptides (i.e., the fusion of peptide segments from distinct antigens) are also bound and presented by HLA molecules, and if so, in what proportion. Here, we have developed and applied a bioinformatic workflow and demonstrated that trans-spliced peptides are presented by HLA-I, and their abundance challenges current models of proteasomal splicing that predict cis-splicing as the most probable outcome. These trans-spliced peptides display canonical HLA-binding sequence features and are as frequently identified as cis-spliced peptides found bound to a number of different HLA-A and HLA-B allotypes. Structural analysis reveals that the junction between spliced peptides is highly solvent exposed and likely to participate in T cell receptor interactions. These results highlight the unanticipated diversity of the immunopeptidome and have important implications for autoimmunity, vaccine design, and immunotherapy.
PXD011096	30315162	Epistasis studies reveal redundancy among calcium-dependent protein kinases in motility and invasion of malaria parasites. 	Epistasis studies reveal redundancy among calcium-dependent protein kinases in motility and invasion of malaria parasites	CDPK, Plasmodium berghei, schizont	In malaria parasites, evolution of parasitism has been linked to functional optimisation. Despite this optimisation, most members of a calcium-dependent protein kinase (CDPK) family show genetic redundancy during erythrocytic proliferation. To identify relationships between phospho-signalling pathways, we here screen 294 genetic interactions among protein kinases in Plasmodium berghei. This reveals a synthetic negative interaction between a hypomorphic allele of the protein kinase G (PKG) and CDPK4 to control erythrocyte invasion which is conserved in P. falciparum. CDPK4 becomes critical when PKG-dependent calcium signals are attenuated to phosphorylate proteins important for the stability of the inner membrane complex, which serves as an anchor for the acto-myosin motor required for motility and invasion. Finally, we show that multiple kinases functionally complement CDPK4 during erythrocytic proliferation and transmission to the mosquito. This study reveals how CDPKs are wired within a stage-transcending signalling network to control motility and host cell invasion in malaria parasites.
PXD011572	30318148	Phosphorylation-Mediated IFN-gammaR2 Membrane Translocation Is Required to Activate Macrophage Innate Response. 	Identification of proteins associated with IFN-gammaR2 in macrophages	IFN-gammaR2, macrophages	As a critical step during innate response, the cytoplasmic beta subunit (IFN-gammaR2) of interferon-gamma receptor (IFN-gammaR) is induced and translocates to plasma membrane to join alpha subunit to form functional IFN-gammaR to mediate IFN-gamma signaling. However, the mechanism driving membrane translocation and its significance remain largely unknown. We found, unexpectedly, that mice deficient in E-selectin, an endothelial cell-specific adhesion molecule, displayed impaired innate activation of macrophages upon Listeria monocytogenes infection yet had increased circulating IFN-gamma. Inflammatory macrophages from E-selectin-deficient mice had less surface IFN-gammaR2 and impaired IFN-gamma signaling. BTK elicited by extrinsic E-selectin engagement phosphorylates cytoplasmic IFN-gammaR2, facilitating EFhd2 binding and promoting IFN-gammaR2 trafficking from Golgi to cell membrane. Our findings demonstrate that membrane translocation of cytoplasmic IFN-gammaR2 is required to activate macrophage innate response against intracellular bacterial infection, identifying the assembly of functional cytokine receptors on cell membrane as an important layer in innate activation and cytokine signaling.
PXD010326	30319353	S-palmitoylation Is Required for the Control of Growth Cone Morphology of DRG Neurons by CNP-Induced cGMP Signaling. 	Npr2-mediated cGMP signalling modulates S-palmitoylation and controls growth cone morphology of DRG neurons	AP-MS, cGMP signalling, shotgun	Genetic investigations have demonstrated that a specific form of axonal branching - the bifurcation of afferents from dorsal root ganglia (DRG), cranial sensory ganglia (CSG) and mesencephalic trigeminal neurons (MTN) - is regulated by a cGMP-dependent signaling pathway. This cascade is composed of the ligand C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP), the receptor guanylyl cyclase Npr2, and the cGMP-dependent protein kinase Ialpha (cGKIalpha). In the absence of any one of these components, axons no longer bifurcate, instead they turn in either an ascending or a descending direction. To gain further mechanistic insights into the process of axon bifurcation we applied different cell culture approaches to decipher downstream activities of cGKI in somatosensory growth cones. We demonstrate that CNP induces an enlargement of DRG growth cones via cGKI which is considered as the priming step of axon bifurcation in the spinal cord. This growth cone remodeling was both blocked by pharmacological inhibitors of S-palmitoylation and potentiated by blocking de-palmitoylation. cGKI colocalizes with the palmitoylome and vesicular structures including the endoplasmic reticulum, early endosomes, lysosomes primarily in the central domain of the growth cone as well as with the Golgi apparatus at the level of the soma. Interestingly, an acyl-biotin-exchange chemistry-based screen indicated that 8pCPT-cGMP-induced signaling induces S-palmitoylation of a restricted pool of proteins in the DRG-derived cell line F11. Overall, our data indicate that CNP-induced cGMP signaling via cGKI affects growth cone morphology of somatosensory afferents. Moreover, it also suggests that S-palmitoylation might play a role in this process.
PXD010398	30320547	Dynein-2 intermediate chains play crucial but distinct roles in primary cilia formation and function. 	Human hTERT-RPE1 cell AP-MS Dynein-2 intermediate chains	Human hTERT-RPE1	The dynein-2 microtubule motor is the retrograde motor for intraflagellar transport. Mutations in dynein-2 components cause skeletal ciliopathies, notably Jeune syndrome. Dynein-2 contains a heterodimer of two non-identical intermediate chains, WDR34 and WDR60. Here, we use knockout cell lines to demonstrate that each intermediate chain has a distinct role in cilium function. Using quantitative proteomics, we show that WDR34 KO cells can assemble a dynein-2 motor complex that binds IFT proteins yet fails to extend an axoneme, indicating complex function is stalled. In contrast, WDR60 KO cells do extend axonemes but show reduced assembly of dynein-2 and binding to IFT proteins. Both proteins are required to maintain a functional transition zone and for efficient bidirectional intraflagellar transport. Our results indicate that the subunit asymmetry within the dynein-2 complex is matched with a functional asymmetry between the dynein-2 intermediate chains. Furthermore, this work reveals that loss of function of dynein-2 leads to defects in transition zone architecture, as well as intraflagellar transport.
PXD011587	30320882	Fine-tuning of RBOHF activity is achieved by differential phosphorylation and Ca(2+) binding. 	Phosphorylation of RBOHF by CIPK11 and CIPK26 in vitro	ABA, CIPK, RBOHF, calcium, phosphorylation	RBOHF from Arabidopsis thaliana represents a multifunctional NADPH oxidase regulating biotic and abiotic stress tolerance, developmental processes and guard cell aperture. The molecular components and mechanisms determining RBOHF activity remain to be elucidated. Here we combined protein interaction studies, biochemical and genetic approaches, and pathway reconstitution analyses to identify and characterize proteins that confer RBOHF regulation and elucidated mechanisms that adjust RBOHF activity. While the Ca(2+) sensor-activated kinases CIPK11 and CIPK26 constitute alternative paths for RBOHF activation, the combined activity of CIPKs and the kinase open stomata 1 (OST1) triggers complementary activation of this NADPH oxidase, which is efficiently counteracted through dephosphorylation by the phosphatase ABI1. Within RBOHF, several distinct phosphorylation sites (p-sites) in the N-terminus of RBOHF appear to contribute individually to activity regulation. These findings identify RBOHF as a convergence point targeted by a complex regulatory network of kinases and phosphatases. We propose that this allows for fine-tuning of plant reactive oxygen species (ROS) production by RBOHF in response to different stimuli and in diverse physiological processes.
PXD009529	30321377	Proteomic profiling and functional characterization of post-translational modifications of the fission yeast RNA exosome. 	Global profiling and functional characterization of post-translational modifications of the fission yeast RNA exosome	RNA exosome, fission yeast, gene expression regulation, post-translational modification	The RNA exosome is a conserved multi-subunit complex essential for processing and degradation of several types of RNAs. Although many of the functions of the RNA exosome are well established, whether the activity of this complex is regulated remains unclear. Here we performed a proteomic analysis of the RNA exosome complex purified from Schizosaccharomyces pombe and identified 39 post-translational modifications (PTMs), including phosphorylation, methylation, and acetylation sites. Interestingly, most of the modifications were identified in Dis3, a catalytic subunit of the RNA exosome, as well as in the exosome-associated RNA helicase, Mtr4. Functional analysis of selected PTM sites using modification-deficient and -mimetic versions of exosome subunits revealed substitutions that affected cell growth and exosome functions. Notably, our results suggest that site-specific phosphorylation in the catalytic center of Dis3 and in the helical bundle domain of Mtr4 control their activity. Our findings support a view in which post-translational modifications fine-tune exosome activity and add a layer of regulation to RNA degradation.
PXD010699	30323187	The cryo-EM structure of intraflagellar transport trains reveals how dynein is inactivated to ensure unidirectional anterograde movement in cilia. 	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii flagella cc125 ift139-2 dhc1b-3	flagella cilia intraflagellar transport IFT membrane matrix	Movement of cargos along microtubules plays key roles in diverse cellular processes, from signalling to mitosis. In cilia, rapid movement of ciliary components along the microtubules to and from the assembly site is essential for the assembly and disassembly of the structure itself(1). This bidirectional transport, known as intraflagellar transport (IFT)(2), is driven by the anterograde motor kinesin-2(3) and the retrograde motor dynein-1b (dynein-2 in mammals)(4,5). However, to drive retrograde transport, dynein-1b must first be delivered to the ciliary tip by anterograde IFT(6). Although, the presence of opposing motors in bidirectional transport processes often leads to periodic stalling and slowing of cargos(7), IFT is highly processive(1,2,8). Using cryo-electron tomography, we show that a tug-of-war between kinesin-2 and dynein-1b is prevented by loading dynein-1b onto anterograde IFT trains in an autoinhibited form and by positioning it away from the microtubule track to prevent binding. Once at the ciliary tip, dynein-1b must transition into an active form and engage microtubules to power retrograde trains. These findings provide a striking example of how coordinated structural changes mediate the behaviour of complex cellular machinery.
PXD017753	30323805	Specific Volumetric Weight-Driven Shift in Microbiota Compositions With Saccharifying Activity Change in Starter for Chinese Baijiu Fermentation. 	Metaproteomics of Jiuqu starter	Chinese Baijiu, functional microbes, high-throughput amplicons sequencing, metaproteomics	Chinese starter Jiuqu, traditionally produced by spontaneous fermentation and always squeezed into bricks, serves as a vital saccharifying agent for simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of Chinese Baijiu. It is important to reveal the key saccharifying microbiota and the driving force to improve the quality of Jiuqu. Here we studied the compositions of the microbiota by high-throughput amplicons sequencing analysis in Jiuqu, and revealed eight bacterial and seven fungal genera as the dominant community members. Among them, Lactobacillus, Aspergillus, Pichia, Saccharomyces, Rhizopus were the main contributors of proteins by metaproteomics analysis. Whereas, only Lactobacillus, Pichia, Rhizopus appeared as key actors for saccharification by secreting three glycosidases and two glycosyltransferases, and it indicated they were the key saccharifying microbiota in Jiuqu. Especially, Rhizopus secreted the most abundant glucoamylase. Interestingly, these three active genera significantly decreased and the key saccharifying enzymes were down-expressed, when Jiuqu was produced in diffused shape with a low volumetric weight. Rhizopus microsporus, the main producer of glucoamylase, was positively correlated with volumetric weight of Jiuqu. It indicated volumetric weight was the major driving force of the key saccharifying microbiota in Jiuqu. This work provides deep insights of key saccharifying microbiota, and indicates the main driving force for the key microbe. Furthermore, this finding can contribute to the improvement of saccharifying agent for food fermentation.
PXD008584	30326427	Synthetic Circular RNA Functions as a miR-21 Sponge to Suppress Gastric Carcinoma Cell Proliferation. 	Synthetic circular RNA functions as a miR-21 sponge to suppress gastric carcinoma cell proliferation	Gastric carcinoma, Gene therapy, MicroRNA loss of function, MicroRNA sponge, Synthetic circular RNA	MicroRNA (miR) sponges containing miR binding sequences constitute a potentially powerful molecular therapeutic strategy. Recently, naturally occurring circular RNAs (circRNAs) were shown to function as efficient miR sponges in cancer cells. We hypothesized that synthetic circRNA sponges could achieve therapeutic loss-of-function targeted against specific miRs. Linear RNA molecules containing miR-21 binding sites were transcribed in vitro; after dephosphorylation and phosphorylation, circularization was achieved using 5'-3' end-ligation by T4 RNA ligase 1. circRNA stability was assessed using RNase R and fetal bovine serum. Competitive inhibition of miR-21 activity by a synthetic circRNA sponge was assessed using luciferase reporter, cell proliferation, and cell apoptosis assays in three gastric cancer cell lines. circRNA effects on downstream proteins were also delineated by Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) labeling (data available via ProteomeXchange identifier PRIDE: PXD008584), followed by western blotting. We conclude that artificial circRNA sponges resistant to nuclease digestion can be synthesized using simple enzymatic ligation steps. These sponges inhibit cancer cell proliferation and suppress the activity of miR-21 on downstream protein targets, including the cancer protein DAXX. In summary, synthetic circRNA sponges represent a simple, effective, convenient strategy for achieving targeted loss of miR function in vitro, with potential future therapeutic application in human patients.
PXD009258	30327373	Absolute proteome quantification of highly purified populations of circulating reticulocytes and mature erythrocytes. 	Absolute proteome quantification of highly purified reticulocytes and erythrocytes	Label free quantification, erythrocytes, human primary cells, red blood cells, reticulocytes	Reticulocytes produced in the bone marrow undergo maturation in the bloodstream to give rise to erythrocytes. Although the proteome of circulating red cells has been the subject of several reports, the cellular populations used for these studies were never completely devoid of reticulocytes. In our current study, we used highly purified erythrocyte and reticulocyte populations to quantify the absolute expression levels of the proteins in each cell population. Erythrocytes and reticulocytes were purified in a multistep process involving cellulose chromatography, Percoll gradient centrifugation, and fluorescence cell sorting after thiazole orange labeling. Proteins were analyzed by mass spectrometry from whole cells and erythrocyte plasma membrane (ghosts), leading to the identification and quantification of 2077 proteins, including 654 that were reticulocyte-specific. Absolute quantifications of these proteins were made using the mean corpuscular hemoglobin content of the cells as a standard. For each protein, we calculated the percentage loss during the terminal stages of reticulocyte maturation and the percentage of association with the plasma membrane. In addition, we used modified adenosine triphosphate and adenosine diphosphate molecules that enable the transfer of a biotin molecule to the catalytic sites of kinases to isolate active kinases in the erythrocytes and determined the absolute expression of 75 protein kinases and the modification of their expression during reticulocyte maturation. Our findings represent the first absolute quantification of proteins that are specifically expressed in normal erythrocytes with no detectable contamination by reticulocytes. Our findings thus represent a reference database for the future proteomic analysis of pathological erythrocytes.
PXD010155	30327431	Probing the contribution of individual polypeptide GalNAc-transferase isoforms to the O-glycoproteome by inducible expression in isogenic cell lines. 	Probing the contribution of individual polypeptide GalNAc-transferase isoforms to the O-glycoproteome by inducible expression in isogenic cell lines	GalNAc-transferase, Inducible expression, O-glycosylation, glycoproteomics	The GalNAc-type O-glycoproteome is orchestrated by a large family of polypeptide GalNAc-transferase isoenzymes (GalNAc-Ts) with partially overlapping contributions to the O-glycoproteome besides distinct nonredundant functions. Increasing evidence indicates that individual GalNAc-Ts co-regulate and fine-tune specific protein functions in health and disease, and deficiencies in individual GALNT genes underlie congenital diseases with distinct phenotypes. Studies of GalNAc-T specificities have mainly been performed with in vitro enzyme assays using short peptide substrates, but recently quantitative differential O-glycoproteomics of isogenic cells with and without GALNT genes has enabled a more unbiased exploration of the nonredundant contributions of individual GalNAc-Ts. Both approaches suggest that fairly small subsets of O-glycosites are nonredundantly regulated by specific GalNAc-Ts, but how these isoenzymes orchestrate regulation among competing redundant substrates is unclear. To explore this, here we developed isogenic cell model systems with Tet-On inducible expression of two GalNAc-T genes, GALNT2 and GALNT11, in a knockout background in HEK293 cells. Using quantitative O-glycoproteomics with tandem-mass-tag (TMT) labeling, we found that isoform-specific glycosites are glycosylated in a dose-dependent manner and that induction of GalNAc-T2 or -T11 produces discrete glycosylation effects without affecting the major part of the O-glycoproteome. These results support previous findings indicating that individual GalNAc-T isoenzymes can serve in fine-tuned regulation of distinct protein functions.
PXD010202	30327463	PWWP2A binds distinct chromatin moieties and interacts with an MTA1-specific core NuRD complex. 	Identification of PWWP2A interactors using label-free quantitative affinity enrichment mass spectrometry	AE-MS, AP-MS, Epigenetic Chromatin (B/D-HPP), Histone, Human Proteome Project, MTA1, NuRD, PWWP2A, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), interaction proteomics	Chromatin structure and function is regulated by reader proteins recognizing histone modifications and/or histone variants. We recently identified that PWWP2A tightly binds to H2A.Z-containing nucleosomes and is involved in mitotic progression and cranial-facial development. Here, using in vitro assays, we show that distinct domains of PWWP2A mediate binding to free linker DNA as well as H3K36me3 nucleosomes. In vivo, PWWP2A strongly recognizes H2A.Z-containing regulatory regions and weakly binds H3K36me3-containing gene bodies. Further, PWWP2A binds to an MTA1-specific subcomplex of the NuRD complex (M1HR), which consists solely of MTA1, HDAC1, and RBBP4/7, and excludes CHD, GATAD2 and MBD proteins. Depletion of PWWP2A leads to an increase of acetylation levels on H3K27 as well as H2A.Z, presumably by impaired chromatin recruitment of M1HR. Thus, this study identifies PWWP2A as a complex chromatin-binding protein that serves to direct the deacetylase complex M1HR to H2A.Z-containing chromatin, thereby promoting changes in histone acetylation levels.
PXD010513	30332462	Functional abnormalities in induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-derived cardiomyocytes generated from titin-mutated patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. 	Functional abnormalities in iPSC-CMs generated from titin-mutated patients	calcium transients and contraction., cardiomyocytes, dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-derived (iPSC), titin mutation	AIMS: Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), a myocardial disorder that can result in progressive heart failure and arrhythmias, is defined by ventricular chamber enlargement and dilatation, and systolic dysfunction. Despite extensive research, the pathological mechanisms of DCM are unclear mainly due to numerous mutations in different gene families resulting in the same outcome-decreased ventricular function. Titin (TTN)-a giant protein, expressed in cardiac and skeletal muscles, is an important part of the sarcomere, and thus TTN mutations are the most common cause of adult DCM. To decipher the basis for the cardiac pathology in titin-mutated patients, we investigated the hypothesis that induced Pluripotent Stem Cell (iPSC)-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CM) generated from patients, recapitulate the disease phenotype. The hypothesis was tested by 3 Aims: (1) Investigate key features of the excitation-contraction-coupling machinery; (2) Investigate the responsiveness to positive inotropic interventions; (3) Investigate the proteome profile of the AuP cardiomyocytes using mass-spectrometry (MS). METHODS AND RESULTS: iPSC were generated from the patients' skin fibroblasts. The major findings were: (1) Sarcomeric organization analysis in mutated iPSC-CM showed defects in assembly and maintenance of sarcomeric structure. (2) Mutated iPSC-CM exhibited diminished inotropic and lusitropic responses to beta-adrenergic stimulation with isoproterenol, increased [Ca2+]out and angiotensin-II. Additionally, mutated iPSC-CM displayed prolonged recovery in response to caffeine. These findings may result from defective or lack of interactions of the sarcomeric components with titin through its kinase domain which is absent in the mutated cells. CONCLUSIONS: These findings show that the mutated cardiomyocytes from DCM patients recapitulate abnormalities of the inherited cardiomyopathies, expressed as blunted inotropic response.
PXD011214	30334612	Urinary Glycopeptide Analysis for the Investigation of Novel Biomarkers. 	Urinary glycopeptide analysis for the investigation of novel biomarkers	glycopeptides, glycosylation, posttranslational modifications, protein biomarkers, urine	PURPOSE: Urine is a rich source of potential biomarkers, including glycoproteins. Glycoproteomic analysis remains difficult due to the high heterogeneity of glycans. Nevertheless, recent advances in glycoproteomics software solutions facilitate glycopeptide identification and characterization. The aim is to investigate intact glycopeptides in the urinary peptide profiles of normal subjects using a novel PTM-centric software-Byonic. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The urinary peptide profiles of 238 normal subjects, previously analyzed using CE-MS and CE-MS/MS and/or LC-MS/MS, are subjected to glycopeptide analysis. Additionally, glycopeptide distribution is assessed in a set of 969 patients with five different cancer types: bladder, prostate and pancreatic cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, and renal cell carcinoma. RESULTS: A total of 37 intact O-glycopeptides and 23 intact N-glycopeptides are identified in the urinary profiles of 238 normal subjects. Among the most commonly identified O-glycoproteins are Apolipoprotein C-III and insulin-like growth factor II, while titin among the N-glycoproteins. Further statistical analysis reveals that three O-glycopeptides and five N-glycopeptides differed significantly in their abundance among the different cancer types, comparing to normal subjects. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Through the established glycoproteomics workflow, intact O- and N-glycopeptides in human urine are identified and characterized, providing novel insights for further exploration of the glycoproteome with respect to specific diseases.
PXD010585	30336044	Large-Scale Proteomic Identification of Targets of Cellular miR-197 Downregulated by Enterovirus A71. 	A large-scale proteomic identification of targets of cellular miR-197 downregulated by enterovirus A71	SILAC, TargetScan, enterovirus A71, miR-197, microRNA, viral replication	MicroRNAs are noncoding RNA species comprising 18-23 nucleotides that regulate host-virus interaction networks. Here, we show that enterovirus A71 infection in human rhabdomyosarcoma (RD) is regulated by miR-197 expression. Transfection of miR-197 mimic into RD cells inhibited virus replication by interfering with the viral RNA synthesis. We employed a combination of mass-spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics with the stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) approach for the identification of the miR-197 target genes in RD cells and to investigate the differential expression of the prospective target proteins. A total of 1822 proteins were repeatedly identified in miR-197-transfected RD cells, 106 of which were predicted to have seed sites by TargetScan. Notably, seven of eight selected genes potentially related to viral replication and immune response were validated as direct miR-197 targets, using a luciferase 3'-untranslated region (UTR) reporter assay. The expression levels of three selected endogenous molecules (ITGAV, ETF1, and MAP2K1/MEK1) were significantly reduced when RD cells were transfected with a miR-197 mimic. Our results provide a comprehensive database of miR-197 targets, which might provide better insights into the understanding of host-virus interaction.
PXD007732	30336977	The proteomic study of serially passaged human skin fibroblast cells uncovers down-regulation of the chromosome condensin complex proteins involved in replicative senescence. 	The proteomic study of serially passaged human skin fibroblast cells uncovers down-regulation of SMC4 involved in replicative senescence	SMC4, human skin fibroblasts, proteomic study, replicative senescence, serially passaged	Dermal fibroblast is one of the major constitutive cells of skin and plays a central role in skin senescence. The replicative senescence of fibroblasts may cause skin aging, bad wound healing, skin diseases and even cancer. In this study, a label-free quantitative proteomic approach was employed to analyzing the serial passaged human skin fibroblast (CCD-1079Sk) cells, resulting in 3371 proteins identified. Of which, 280 proteins were significantly changed in early passage (6 passages, P6), middle passage (12 passages, P12) and late passage (21 passages, P21), with a time-dependent decrease or increase tendency. Bioinformatic analysis demonstrated that the chromosome condensin complex, including structural maintenance of chromosomes protein 2 (SMC2) and structural maintenance of chromosomes protein 4 (SMC4), were down-regulated in the serially passaged fibroblast cells. The qRT-PCR and Western Blot experiments confirmed that the expression of these two proteins were significantly down-regulated in a time-dependent manner in the subculture of human skin fibroblasts (HSFb cells). In summary, we used serially passaged human skin fibroblast cells coupled with quantitative proteomic approach to profile the protein expression pattern in the temporal progress of replicative senescence in HSFb cells and revealed that the down-regulation of the chromosome condensin complex subunits, such as SMC2 and SMC4, may play an important role in the fibroblast senescence.
PXD011123	30337525	SMYD2 glutathionylation contributes to degradation of sarcomeric proteins. 	In-vitro glutathionylation of SMYD2	click chemistry, cysteine, glutathionylation, purified protein	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) contribute to the etiology of multiple muscle-related diseases. There is emerging evidence that cellular stress can lead to destabilization of sarcomeres, the contractile unit of muscle. However, it is incompletely understood how cellular stress induces structural destabilization of sarcomeres. Here we report that glutathionylation of SMYD2 contributes to a loss of myofibril integrity and degradation of sarcomeric proteins mediated by MMP-2 and calpain 1. We used a clickable glutathione approach in a cardiomyocyte cell line and found selective glutathionylation of SMYD2 at Cys13. Biochemical analysis demonstrated that SMYD2 upon oxidation or glutathionylation at Cys13 loses its interaction with Hsp90 and N2A, a domain of titin. Upon dissociation from SMYD2, N2A or titin is degraded by activated MMP-2, suggesting a protective role of SMYD2 in sarcomere stability. Taken together, our results support that SMYD2 glutathionylation is a novel molecular mechanism by which ROS contribute to sarcomere destabilization.
PXD010075	30339940	Functional characterization of RNA fragments using high-throughput interactome screening. 	Protein interactome of small RNA fragments: identification and functional implications	RNA fragments, RNA-protein interaction, protein interactome	Populations of small eukaryotic RNAs, in addition to relatively well recognized molecules such as miRNAs or siRNAs, also contain fragments derived from all classes of constitutively expressed non-coding RNAs. It has been recently demonstrated that the formation and accumulation of RNA fragments (RFs) is cell-/tissue-specific and depends on internal and external stimuli. Unfortunately, the mechanisms underlying RF biogenesis and function remain unclear. To better understand them, we employed RNA pull-down and mass spectrometry methods to characterize the interactions of seven RFs originating from tRNA, snoRNA and snRNA. By integrating our results with publicly available data on physical protein-protein interactions, we constructed an RF interactome network. We determined that the RF interactome comprises proteins generally different from those that interact with their parental full length RNAs. Proteins captured by the RFs were involved in mRNA splicing, tRNA processing, DNA recombination/replication, protein biosynthesis and carboxylic acid metabolism. Our data suggest that RFs can be endogenous aptamer-like molecules and potential players in recently revealed RNA-protein regulatory networks. SIGNIFICANCE: In the recent decade it has become evident that RNAs with well-known functions (for example tRNA, snoRNA or rRNA) can be cleaved to yield short fragments, whose role in cells remains only partially characterized. At the same time, unconventional interactions between mRNA and proteins without RNA-binding domains have been demonstrated, revealing novel layers of possible RNA-mediated regulation. Considering the above, we hypothesized that RNA fragments (RFs) can be endogenous aptamer-like molecules that unconventionally interact with proteins. In this study we identified protein partners of seven selected RFs. We found that RFs bind different set of proteins than their parental full length RNAs and identified proteins differentially bound by the particular RFs. These observations suggest biological relevance of the discovered interactions. Our data provide a novel perspective on the significance of RFs and point to this pool of molecules as to a rich collection of potential components of the recently discovered RNA-protein regulatory networks.
PXD011309	30340394	Identification of Potential Plasma Biomarkers for Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Using Tandem Mass Tag Quantitative Proteomics. 	Identification of potential plasma biomarkers for abdominal aortic aneurysm using tandem mass tag quantitative proteomics	Plasma proteomics, TMT, abdominal aortic aneurysm, cardiovascular diseases, immunodepletion, tandem mass tags	Plasma biomarkers that identify abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) rupture risk would greatly assist in stratifying patients with small aneurysms. Identification of such biomarkers has hitherto been unsuccessful over a range of studies using different methods. The present study used an alternative proteomic approach to find new, potential plasma AAA biomarker candidates. Pre-fractionated plasma samples from twelve patients with AAA and eight matched controls without aneurysm were analyzed by mass spectrometry applying a tandem mass tag (TMT) technique. Eight proteins were differentially regulated in patients compared to controls, including decreased levels of the enzyme bleomycin hydrolase. The down-regulation of this enzyme was confirmed in an extended validation study using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The TMT-based proteomic approach thus identified novel potential plasma biomarkers for AAA.
PXD010675	30340407	Peanut Stunt Virus and Its Satellite RNA Trigger Changes in Phosphorylation in N. benthamiana Infected Plants at the Early Stage of the Infection. 	Peanut stunt virus-satellite RNA triggers changes in phosphorylation in N. benthamiana infected plants at the early stage of the infection	Nicotiana benthamiana, RNA, Signaling, peanut stunt virus, phosphoproteome, plant-virus interactions, satellite RNA, virus infection	Signaling in host plants is an integral part of a successful infection by pathogenic RNA viruses. Therefore, identifying early signaling events in host plants that play an important role in establishing the infection process will help our understanding of the disease process. In this context, phosphorylation constitutes one of the most important post-translational protein modifications, regulating many cellular signaling processes. In this study, we aimed to identify the processes affected by infection with Peanut stunt virus (PSV) and its satellite RNA (satRNA) in Nicotiana benthamiana at the early stage of pathogenesis. To achieve this, we performed proteome and phosphoproteome analyses on plants treated with PSV and its satRNA. The analysis of the number of differentially phosphorylated proteins showed strong down-regulation in phosphorylation in virus-treated plants (without satRNA). Moreover, proteome analysis revealed more down-regulated proteins in PSV and satRNA-treated plants, which indicated a complex dependence between proteins and their modifications. Apart from changes in photosynthesis and carbon metabolism, which are usually observed in virus-infected plants, alterations in proteins involved in RNA synthesis, transport, and turnover were observed. As a whole, this is the first community (phospho)proteome resource upon infection of N. benthamiana with a cucumovirus and its satRNA and this resource constitutes a valuable data set for future studies.
PXD010634	30341083	Whole Proteome Profiling of N-Myristoyltransferase Activity and Inhibition Using Sortase A. 	Profiling N-myristoyltransferase activity and inhibition in breast cancer cells (MD-MB-231) using Sortase-A labelling	N-myristoylation, NMT, Sortase A, SrtA	N-myristoylation is the covalent addition of a 14-carbon saturated fatty acid (myristate) to the N-terminal glycine of specific protein substrates by N-myristoyltransferase (NMT) and plays an important role in protein regulation by controlling localization, stability, and interactions. We developed a novel method for whole-proteome profiling of free N-terminal glycines through labeling with S. Aureus sortase A (SrtA) and used it for assessment of target engagement by an NMT inhibitor. Analysis of the SrtA-labeling pattern with an engineered biotinylated depsipeptide SrtA substrate (Biotin-ALPET-Haa, Haa = 2-hydroxyacetamide) enabled whole proteome identification and quantification of de novo generated N-terminal Gly proteins in response to NMT inhibition by nanoLC-MS/MS proteomics, and was confirmed for specific substrates across multiple cell lines by gel-based analyses and ELISA. To achieve optimal signal over background noise we introduce a novel and generally applicable improvement to the biotin/avidin affinity enrichment step by chemically dimethylating commercial NeutrAvidin resin and combining this with two-step LysC on-bead/trypsin off-bead digestion, effectively eliminating avidin-derived tryptic peptides and enhancing identification of enriched peptides. We also report SrtA substrate specificity in whole-cell lysates for the first time, confirming SrtA promiscuity beyond its recognized preference for N-terminal glycine, and its usefulness as a tool for unbiased labeling of N-terminal glycine-containing proteins. Our new methodology is complementary to metabolic tagging strategies, providing the first approach for whole proteome gain-of signal readout for NMT inhibition in complex samples which are not amenable to metabolic tagging.
PXD008036	30342273	Unveiling the olfactory proteostatic disarrangement in Parkinson's disease by proteome-wide profiling. 	Olfactory proteomics in Parkinson disease	Parkinson, olfactory bulb	Olfactory dysfunction is one of the earliest features in Lewy-type alpha-synucleinopathies (LTSs) such as Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms associated to smell impairment are poorly understood. Applying mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics in postmortem olfactory bulbs across limbic, early-neocortical, and neocortical LTS stages of parkinsonian patients, a proteostasis impairment, was observed, identifying 268 differentially expressed proteins between controls and PD phenotypes. In addition, network-driven proteomics revealed a modulation in ERK1/2, MKK3/6, and PDK1/PKC signaling axes. Moreover, a cross-disease study of selected olfactory molecules in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases revealed different protein derangements in the modulation of secretagogin (SCGN), calcyclin-binding protein (CACYBP), and glucosamine 6 phosphate isomerase 2 (GNPDA2) between PD and AD. An inverse correlation between GNPDA2 and alpha-synuclein protein levels was also reflected in PD cerebrospinal fluid. Interestingly, PD patients exhibited significantly lower serum GNPDA2 levels than controls (n = 82/group). Our study provides important avenues for understanding the olfactory bulb proteostasis imbalance in PD, deciphering mechanistic clues to the equivalent smell deficits observed in AD and PD pathologies.
PXD008153	30342519	Module-detection approaches for the integration of multilevel omics data highlight the comprehensive response of Aspergillus fumigatus to caspofungin. 	Integration of multilevel OMICs data based on the identification of regulatory modules from protein-protein interaction networks	Aspergillus fumigatus, LC-MS, caspofungin, secretome	BACKGROUND: Omics data provide deep insights into overall biological processes of organisms. However, integration of data from different molecular levels such as transcriptomics and proteomics, still remains challenging. Analyzing lists of differentially abundant molecules from diverse molecular levels often results in a small overlap mainly due to different regulatory mechanisms, temporal scales, and/or inherent properties of measurement methods. Module-detecting algorithms identifying sets of closely related proteins from protein-protein interaction networks (PPINs) are promising approaches for a better data integration. RESULTS: Here, we made use of transcriptome, proteome and secretome data from the human pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus challenged with the antifungal drug caspofungin. Caspofungin targets the fungal cell wall which leads to a compensatory stress response. We analyzed the omics data using two different approaches: First, we applied a simple, classical approach by comparing lists of differentially expressed genes (DEGs), differentially synthesized proteins (DSyPs) and differentially secreted proteins (DSePs); second, we used a recently published module-detecting approach, ModuleDiscoverer, to identify regulatory modules from PPINs in conjunction with the experimental data. Our results demonstrate that regulatory modules show a notably higher overlap between the different molecular levels and time points than the classical approach. The additional structural information provided by regulatory modules allows for topological analyses. As a result, we detected a significant association of omics data with distinct biological processes such as regulation of kinase activity, transport mechanisms or amino acid metabolism. We also found a previously unreported increased production of the secondary metabolite fumagillin by A. fumigatus upon exposure to caspofungin. Furthermore, a topology-based analysis of potential key factors contributing to drug-caused side effects identified the highly conserved protein polyubiquitin as a central regulator. Interestingly, polyubiquitin UbiD neither belonged to the groups of DEGs, DSyPs nor DSePs but most likely strongly influenced their levels. CONCLUSION: Module-detecting approaches support the effective integration of multilevel omics data and provide a deep insight into complex biological relationships connecting these levels. They facilitate the identification of potential key players in the organism's stress response which cannot be detected by commonly used approaches comparing lists of differentially abundant molecules.
PXD009678	30343426	Multi-omics metabolism analysis on irradiation-induced oxidative stress to Rhodotorula glutinis. 	Multi-omics metabolism analysis on irradiation-induced oxidative stress to Rhodotorula glutinis	Rhodotorula glutinis, irradiation, multi-omics analysis, stress response	Oxidative stress is induced in many organisms by various natural abiotic factors including irradiation. It has been demonstrated that it significantly improves growth rate and lipid production of Rhodotorula glutinis. However, the specific mechanism of how irradiation influences the metabolism of R. glutinis remains still unavailable. To investigate and better understand the mechanisms involved in irradiation-induced stress resistance in R. glutinis, a multi-omics metabolism analysis was implemented. The results confirmed that irradiation indeed not only improved cell biomass but also accelerated the production of carotenoids and lipids, especially neutral lipid. Compared with the control, metabolome profiling in the group exposed to irradiation exhibited an obvious difference in the activation of the tricarboxylic acid cycle and triglyceride (TAG) production. The results of proteome analysis (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009678) showed that 423 proteins were changed significantly, and proteins associated with protein folding and transport, the Hsp40 and Sec12, were obviously upregulated, indicating that cells responded to irradiation by accelerating the protein folding and transport of correctly folded proteins as well as enhanced the degradation of misfolded proteins. A significant upregulation of the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway was observed which revealed that increased carotenoid content is a cellular defense mechanism against oxidative stress generated by irradiation. Therefore, the results of comprehensive omics analysis provide intensive insights on the response mechanism of R. glutinis to irradiation-induced oxidative stress which could be helpful for using irradiation as an effective strategy to enhance the joint production of the neutral lipid and carotene.
PXD010124	30343899	Modular Organization and Assembly of SWI/SNF Family Chromatin Remodeling Complexes. 	Human BAF complex (HA-DPF2 pulldown and SS18-Flag pulldown)	BAF complex, BS3 crosslinking, hSWI/SNF	Mammalian SWI/SNF (mSWI/SNF) ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complexes are multi-subunit molecular machines that play vital roles in regulating genomic architecture and are frequently disrupted in human cancer and developmental disorders. To date, the modular organization and pathways of assembly of these chromatin regulators remain unknown, presenting a major barrier to structural and functional determination. Here, we elucidate the architecture and assembly pathway across three classes of mSWI/SNF complexes-canonical BRG1/BRM-associated factor (BAF), polybromo-associated BAF (PBAF), and newly defined ncBAF complexes-and define the requirement of each subunit for complex formation and stability. Using affinity purification of endogenous complexes from mammalian and Drosophila cells coupled with cross-linking mass spectrometry (CX-MS) and mutagenesis, we uncover three distinct and evolutionarily conserved modules, their organization, and the temporal incorporation of these modules into each complete mSWI/SNF complex class. Finally, we map human disease-associated mutations within subunits and modules, defining specific topological regions that are affected upon subunit perturbation.
PXD010990	30344004	Real-Time Molecular Diagnosis of Tumors Using Water-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Mass Spectrometry Technology. 	Real-time molecular diagnosis of tumors using water-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry technology	Ambient Ionization Mass spectrometry, Cancer, Diagnostic, Laser microprobe, Molecular signatures, Non-invasive, Real-time, Sarcoma, SpiderMass, Surgery	Histopathological diagnosis of biopsy samples and margin assessment of surgical specimens are challenging aspects in sarcoma. Using dog patient tissues, we assessed the performance of a recently developed technology for fast ex vivo molecular lipid-based diagnosis of sarcomas. The instrument is based on mass spectrometry (MS) molecular analysis through a laser microprobe operating under ambient conditions using excitation of endogenous water molecules. Classification models based on cancer/normal/necrotic, tumor grade, and subtypes showed a minimum of 97.63% correct classification. Specific markers of normal, cancer, and necrotic regions were identified by tandem MS and validated by MS imaging. Real-time detection capabilities were demonstrated by ex vivo analysis with direct interrogation of classification models.
PXD010750	30344098	Ubiquitin-Independent Disassembly by a p97 AAA-ATPase Complex Drives PP1 Holoenzyme Formation. 	Ubiquitin-independent disassembly by a p97 AAA-ATPase complex drives PP1 holoenzyme formation	AAA ATPase, VCP/p97, protein biogenesis, protein phosphatase-1, protein unfolding, ubiquitin	The functional diversity of protein phosphatase-1 (PP1), with its countless substrates, relies on the ordered assembly of alternative PP1 holoenzymes. Here, we show that newly synthesized PP1 is first held by its partners SDS22 and inhibitor-3 (I3) in an inactive complex, which needs to be disassembled by the p97 AAA-ATPase to promote exchange to substrate specifiers. Unlike p97-mediated degradative processes that require the Ufd1-Npl4 ubiquitin adapters, p97 is targeted to PP1 by p37 and related adapter proteins. Reconstitution with purified components revealed direct interaction of the p37 SEP domain with I3 without the need for ubiquitination, and ATP-driven pulling of I3 into the central channel of the p97 hexamer, which triggers dissociation of I3 and SDS22. Thus, we establish regulatory ubiquitin-independent protein complex disassembly as part of the functional arsenal of p97 and define an unanticipated essential step in PP1 biogenesis that illustrates the molecular challenges of ordered subunit exchange.
PXD040708	30346787	HST-MRM-MS: A Novel High-Sample-Throughput Multiple Reaction Monitoring Mass Spectrometric Method for Multiplex Absolute Quantitation of Hepatocellular Carcinoma Serum Biomarker. 	HST-MRM-MS: A Novel High-Sample-Throughput Multiple Reaction Monitoring Mass Spectrometric Method for Multiplex Absolute Quantitation of Hepatocellular Carcinoma Serum Biomarker	quantification clinical biomarker multiple reaction monitoring dimethyl labeling isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification	Absolute quantification of clinical biomarkers by mass spectrometry (MS) has been challenged due to low sample-throughput of current multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) methods. For this problem to be overcome, in this work, a novel high-sample-throughput multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometric (HST-MRM-MS) quantification approach is developed to achieve simultaneous quantification of 24 samples. Briefly, triplex dimethyl reagents (L, M, and H) and eight-plex iTRAQ reagents were used to label the N- and C-termini of the Lys C-digested peptides, respectively. The triplex dimethyl labeling produces three coelute peaks in MRM traces, and the iTRAQ labeling produces eight peaks in MS2, resulting in 24 (3x8) channels in a single experiment. HST-MRM-MS has shown good accuracy ( R(2) > 0.98 for absolute quantification), reproducibility (RSD < 15%), and linearity (2-3 orders of magnitude). Moreover, the novel method has been successfully applied in quantifying serum biomarkers in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)-related serum samples. In conclusion, HST-MRM-MS is an accurate, high-sample-throughput, and broadly applicable MS-based absolute quantification method.
PXD007263	30346940	Revealing the cellular degradome by mass spectrometry analysis of proteasome-cleaved peptides. 	Defining the cellular proteolytic landscape cross time points	Degradation, degradome, ubiquitin	Cellular function is critically regulated through degradation of substrates by the proteasome. To enable direct analysis of naturally cleaved proteasomal peptides under physiological conditions, we developed mass spectrometry analysis of proteolytic peptides (MAPP), a method for proteasomal footprinting that allows for capture, isolation and analysis of proteasome-cleaved peptides. Application of MAPP to cancer cell lines as well as primary immune cells revealed dynamic modulation of the cellular degradome in response to various stimuli, such as proinflammatory signals. Further, we performed analysis of minute amounts of clinical samples by studying cells from the peripheral blood of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). We found increased degradation of histones in patient immune cells, thereby suggesting a role of aberrant proteasomal degradation in the pathophysiology of SLE. Thus, MAPP offers a broadly applicable method to facilitate the study of the cellular-degradation landscape in various cellular conditions and diseases involving changes in proteasomal degradation, including protein aggregation diseases, autoimmunity and cancer.
PXD023017	30347487	The assembly pathway of complex I in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Complexome profiling of mitochondrial complexes isolated from seedlings or mature leaves	OXPHOS, biogenesis, complexome profiling, mitochondria	All present-day mitochondria originate from a single endosymbiotic event that gave rise to the last eukaryotic common ancestor more than a billion years ago. However, to date, many aspects of mitochondrial evolution have remained unresolved. Comparative genomics and proteomics have revealed a complex evolutionary origin for many mitochondrial components. To understand the evolution of the respiratory chain, we have examined both the components and the mechanisms of the assembly pathway of complex I. Complex I represents the first enzyme in the respiratory chain, and complex I deficiencies have dramatic consequences in both animals and plants. The complex is located in the mitochondrial inner membrane and possesses two arms: one embedded in the inner membrane and one protruding in the matrix. Here, we describe the assembly pathway of complex I in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Using a proteomics approach called complexome profiling, we have resolved the different steps in the assembly process in plants. We propose a model for the stepwise assembly of complex I, including every subunit. We then compare this pathway with the corresponding pathway in humans and find that complex I assembly in plants follows a different, and likely ancestral, pathway compared with the one in humans. We show that the main evolutionary changes in complex I structure and assembly in humans occurred at the level of the membrane arm, whereas the matrix arm remained rather conserved.
PXD011118	30348809	A Novel Germline Variant in CSF3R Reduces N-Glycosylation and Exerts Potent Oncogenic Effects in Leukemia. 	A novel germline variant in CSF3R highlights the potent oncogenic effects of loss of N-glycosylation and its implication for therapeutic intervention	CSF3R, GCSFR, glycosylation, myeloid leukemia, receptor activation	: Mutations in the colony-stimulating factor 3 receptor (CSF3R) have been identified in the vast majority of patients with chronic neutrophilic leukemia and are present in other kinds of leukemia, such as acute myeloid leukemia. Here, we studied the function of novel germline variants in CSF3R at amino acid N610. These N610 substitutions were potently oncogenic and activated the receptor independently of its ligand GCSF. These mutations activated the JAK-STAT signaling pathway and conferred sensitivity to JAK inhibitors. Mass spectrometry revealed that the N610 residue is part of a consensus N-linked glycosylation motif in the receptor, usually linked to complex glycans. N610 was also the primary site of sialylation of the receptor. Membrane-proximal N-linked glycosylation was critical for maintaining the ligand dependence of the receptor. Mutation of the N610 site prevented membrane-proximal N-glycosylation of CSF3R, which then drove ligand-independent cellular expansion. Kinase inhibitors blocked growth of cells with an N610 mutation. This study expands the repertoire of oncogenic mutations in CSF3R that are therapeutically targetable and provides insight into the function of glycans in receptor regulation. SIGNIFICANCE: This study reveals the critical importance of membrane-proximal N-linked glycosylation of CSF3R for the maintenance of ligand dependency in leukemia.
PXD009640	30348815	SNAREs SYP121 and SYP122 Mediate the Secretion of Distinct Cargo Subsets. 	Arabidopsis SNAREs SYP121 and SYP122 mediate the secretion of distinct cargo 2 subsets	SNARE, Secreted proteins, apoplast., cell wall, syntaxin	SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) proteins drive vesicle fusion and contribute to homoeostasis, pathogen defense, cell expansion, and growth in plants. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), two homologous Qa-SNAREs, SYNTAXIN OF PLANTS121 (SYP121) and SYP122, facilitate the majority of secretory traffic to the plasma membrane, and the single mutants are indistinguishable from wild-type plants in the absence of stress, implying a redundancy in their functions. Nonetheless, several studies suggest differences among the secretory cargo of these SNAREs. To address this issue, we conducted an analysis of the proteins secreted by cultured wild-type, syp121, and syp122 mutant Arabidopsis seedlings. Here, we report that a number of cargo proteins were associated differentially with traffic mediated by SYP121 and SYP122. The data also indicated important overlaps between the SNAREs. Therefore, we conclude that the two Qa-SNAREs mediate distinct but complementary secretory pathways during vegetative plant growth.
PXD010963	30349051	A distinct isoform of ZNF207 controls self-renewal and pluripotency of human embryonic stem cells. 	Locus-specific proteomics identification of OCT4 regulators	OCT4, TALEN, cross-linking	Self-renewal and pluripotency in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) depends upon the function of a remarkably small number of master transcription factors (TFs) that include OCT4, SOX2, and NANOG. Endogenous factors that regulate and maintain the expression of master TFs in hESCs remain largely unknown and/or uncharacterized. Here, we use a genome-wide, proteomics approach to identify proteins associated with the OCT4 enhancer. We identify known OCT4 regulators, plus a subset of potential regulators including a zinc finger protein, ZNF207, that plays diverse roles during development. In hESCs, ZNF207 partners with master pluripotency TFs to govern self-renewal and pluripotency while simultaneously controlling commitment of cells towards ectoderm through direct regulation of neuronal TFs, including OTX2. The distinct roles of ZNF207 during differentiation occur via isoform switching. Thus, a distinct isoform of ZNF207 functions in hESCs at the nexus that balances pluripotency and differentiation to ectoderm.
PXD011297	30350613	Calibration Using a Single-Point External Reference Material Harmonizes Quantitative Mass Spectrometry Proteomics Data between Platforms and Laboratories. 	Single-point Calibration	external reference, harmonization, signal calibration	Mass spectrometry (MS) measurements are not inherently calibrated. Researchers use various calibration methods to assign meaning to arbitrary signal intensities and improve precision. Internal calibration (IC) methods use internal standards (IS) such as synthesized or recombinant proteins or peptides to calibrate MS measurements by comparing endogenous analyte signal to the signal from known IS concentrations spiked into the same sample. However, recent work suggests that using IS as IC introduces quantitative biases that affect comparison across studies because of the inability of IS to capture all sources of variation present throughout an MS workflow. Here, we describe a single-point external calibration strategy to calibrate signal intensity measurements to a common reference material, placing MS measurements on the same scale and harmonizing signal intensities between instruments, acquisition methods, and sites. We demonstrate data harmonization between laboratories and methodologies using this generalizable approach.
PXD007653	30352176	Organellar Proteomics and Phospho-Proteomics Reveal Subcellular Reorganization in Diet-Induced Hepatic Steatosis. 	Proteomics identifies organelle specific phosphorylation and reveals major subcellular reorganization in the progression of NAFLD	Diabetes, Steatosis, liver, organelle protoemics	Lipid metabolism is highly compartmentalized between cellular organelles that dynamically adapt their compositions and interactions in response to metabolic challenges. Here, we investigate how diet-induced hepatic lipid accumulation, observed in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), affects protein localization, organelle organization, and protein phosphorylation in vivo. We develop a mass spectrometric workflow for protein and phosphopeptide correlation profiling to monitor levels and cellular distributions of ~6,000 liver proteins and ~16,000 phosphopeptides during development of steatosis. Several organelle contact site proteins are targeted to lipid droplets (LDs) in steatotic liver, tethering organelles orchestrating lipid metabolism. Proteins of the secretory pathway dramatically redistribute, including the mis-localization of the COPI complex and sequestration of the Golgi apparatus at LDs. This correlates with reduced hepatic protein secretion. Our systematic in vivo analysis of subcellular rearrangements and organelle-specific phosphorylation reveals how nutrient overload leads to organellar reorganization and cellular dysfunction.
PXD010941	30352994	Discovery of RNA-binding proteins and characterization of their dynamic responses by enhanced RNA interactome capture. 	Enhanced RNA Interactome capture (eRIC) and RNA Interactome capture (RIC) of Jurkat cells (DSMZ, ACC-282).	RBPome, RBPs, RIC, RNA interactome, RNA-binding proteins, eRIC	Following the realization that eukaryotic RNA-binding proteomes are substantially larger than anticipated, we must now understand their detailed composition and dynamics. Methods such as RNA interactome capture (RIC) have begun to address this need. However, limitations of RIC have been reported. Here we describe enhanced RNA interactome capture (eRIC), a method based on the use of an LNA-modified capture probe, which yields numerous advantages including greater specificity and increased signal-to-noise ratios compared to existing methods. In Jurkat cells, eRIC reduces the rRNA and DNA contamination by >10-fold compared to RIC and increases the detection of RNA-binding proteins. Due to its low background, eRIC also empowers comparative analyses of changes of RNA-bound proteomes missed by RIC. For example, in cells treated with dimethyloxalylglycine, which inhibits RNA demethylases, eRIC identifies m6A-responsive RNA-binding proteins that escape RIC. eRIC will facilitate the unbiased characterization of RBP dynamics in response to biological and pharmacological cues.
PXD007643	30354151	Increased Sensitivity of Mass Spectrometry by Alkaline Two-Dimensional Liquid Chromatography: Deep Cover of the Human Proteome in Gene-Centric Mode. 	UPS-2 -  Increased Sensitivity of Mass Spectrometry by Alkaline Two-Dimensional Liquid Chromatography: Deep Cover of the Human Proteome in Gene-Centric Mode	Human Proteome Project, accuracy, elected reaction monitoring, sensitivity, shotgun, specificity	Currently, great interest is paid to the identification of "missing" proteins that have not been detected in any biological material at the protein level (PE1). In this paper, using the Universal Proteomic Standard sets 1 and 2 (UPS1 and UPS2, respectively) as an example, we characterized mass spectrometric approaches from the point of view of sensitivity (Sn), specificity (Sp), and accuracy (Ac). The aim of the paper was to show the utility of a mass spectra approach for protein detection. This sets consists of 48 high-purity human proteins without single aminoacid polymorphism (SAP) or post translational modification (PTM). The UPS1 set consists of the same 48 proteins at 5 pmols each, and in UPS2, proteins were grouped into 5 groups in accordance with their molar concentration, ranging from 10(-11) to 10(-6) M. Single peptides from the 92% and 96% of all sets of proteins could be detected in a pure solution of UPS2 and UPS1, respectively, by selected reaction monitoring with stable isotope-labeled standards (SRM-SIS). We also found that, in the presence of a biological matrix such as Escherichia coli extract or human blood plasma (HBP), SRM-SIS makes it possible to detect from 63% to 79% of proteins in the UPS2 set (sensitivity) with the highest specificity (~100%) and an accuracy of 80% by increasing the sensitivity of shotgun and selected reaction monitoring combined with a stable-isotope-labeled peptide standard (SRM-SIS technology) by fractionating samples using reverse-phase liquid chromatography under alkaline conditions (2D-LC_alk). It is shown that this technique of sample fractionation allows the SRM-SIS to detect 98% of the single peptides from the proteins present in the pure solution of UPS2 (47 out of 48 proteins). When the extracts of E. coli or Pichia pastoris are added as biological matrixes to the UPS2, 46, and 45 out of 48 proteins (~95%) can be detected, respectively, using the SRM-SIS combined with 2D-LC_alk. The combination of the 2D-LC_alk SRM-SIS and shotgun technologies allows us to increase the sensitivity up to 100% in the case of the proteins of the UPS2 set. The usage of that technology can be a solution for identifying the so-called "missing" proteins and, eventually, creating the deep proteome of a particular chromosome of tissue or organs. Experimental data have been deposited in the PeptideAtlas SRM Experiment Library with the dataset identifier PASS01192 and the PRIDE repository with the dataset identifier PXD007643.
PXD007544	30354243	LRP1 (Low-Density Lipoprotein Receptor-Related Protein 1) Regulates Smooth Muscle Contractility by Modulating Ca(2+) Signaling and Expression of Cytoskeleton-Related Proteins. 	Novel role of LRP1 in the regulation of smooth muscle contractile function by regulating cytoskeletal dynamics and Ca2+ signaling.	LRP1, aorta, cardiovascular, dda, shotgun	Objective- Mutations affecting contractile-related proteins in the ECM (extracellular matrix), microfibrils, or vascular smooth muscle cells can predispose the aorta to aneurysms. We reported previously that the LRP1 (low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1) maintains vessel wall integrity, and smLRP1(-/-) mice exhibited aortic dilatation. The current study focused on defining the mechanisms by which LRP1 regulates vessel wall function and integrity. Approach and Results- Isometric contraction assays demonstrated that vasoreactivity of LRP1-deficient aortic rings was significantly attenuated when stimulated with vasoconstrictors, including phenylephrine, thromboxane receptor agonist U-46619, increased potassium, and L-type Ca(2+) channel ligand FPL-64176. Quantitative proteomics revealed proteins involved in actin polymerization and contraction were significantly downregulated in aortas of smLRP1(-/-) mice. However, studies with calyculin A indicated that although aortic muscle from smLRP1(-/-) mice can contract in response to calyculin A, a role for LRP1 in regulating the contractile machinery is not revealed. Furthermore, intracellular calcium imaging experiments identified defects in calcium release in response to a RyR (ryanodine receptor) agonist in smLRP1(-/-) aortic rings and cultured vascular smooth muscle cells. Conclusions- These results identify a critical role for LRP1 in modulating vascular smooth muscle cell contraction by regulating calcium signaling events that potentially protect against aneurysm development.
PXD009417	30355487	Active Ribosome Profiling with RiboLace. 	Proteomics of MCF7 cells (LC-MS/MS Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid)	MCF7, POL-seq, RNA-seq, RiboLace, polysome profiling, translation	Ribosome profiling, or Ribo-seq, is based on large-scale sequencing of RNA fragments protected from nuclease digestion by ribosomes. Thanks to its unique ability to provide positional information about ribosomes flowing along transcripts, this method can be used to shed light on mechanistic aspects of translation. However, current Ribo-seq approaches lack the ability to distinguish between fragments protected by either ribosomes in active translation or inactive ribosomes. To overcome this possible limitation, we developed RiboLace, a method based on an original puromycin-containing molecule capable of isolating active ribosomes by means of an antibody-free and tag-free pull-down approach. RiboLace is fast, works reliably with low amounts of input material, and can be easily and rapidly applied both in vitro and in vivo, thereby generating a global snapshot of active ribosome footprints at single nucleotide resolution.
PXD003616	30355671	Clostridial Butyrate Biosynthesis Enzymes Are Significantly Depleted in the Gut Microbiota of Nonobese Diabetic Mice. 	Mouse_T1D_microbiota -  Clostridial Butyrate Biosynthesis Enzymes Are Significantly Depleted in the Gut Microbiota of Nonobese Diabetic Mice	butyrate, diabetes, gut microbiota, metaproteomics	Increasing evidence suggests that the intestinal microbiota is involved in the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes (T1D). Here we sought to determine which gut microbial taxa and functions vary between nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice and genetically modified NOD mice protected from T1D (Ealpha16/NOD) at 10 weeks of age in the time window between insulitis development and T1D onset. The gut microbiota of NOD mice were investigated by analyzing stool samples with a metaproteogenomic approach, comprising both 16S rRNA gene sequencing and microbial proteome profiling through high-resolution mass spectrometry. A depletion of Firmicutes (particularly, several members of Lachnospiraceae) in the NOD gut microbiota was observed compared to the level in the Ealpha16/NOD mice microbiota. Moreover, the analysis of proteins actively produced by the gut microbiota revealed different profiles between NOD and Ealpha16/NOD mice, with the production of butyrate biosynthesis enzymes being significantly reduced in diabetic mice. Our results support a model for gut microbiota influence on T1D development involving bacterium-produced metabolites as butyrate.IMPORTANCE Alterations of the gut microbiota early in age have been hypothesized to impact T1D autoimmune pathogenesis. In the NOD mouse model, protection from T1D has been found to operate via modulation of the composition of the intestinal microbiota during a critical early window of ontogeny, although little is known about microbiota functions related to T1D development. Here, we show which gut microbial functions are specifically associated with protection from T1D in the time window between insulitis development and T1D onset. In particular, we describe that production of butyrate biosynthesis enzymes is significantly reduced in NOD mice, supporting the hypothesis that modulating the gut microbiota butyrate production may influence T1D development.
PXD010614	30356046	Multi-hierarchical profiling the structure-activity relationships of engineered nanomaterials at nano-bio interfaces. 	Structure-Activity Relationships of ENMs	ENMs, SAR, metabolomics	Increasing concerns over the possible risks of nanotechnology necessitates breakthroughs in structure-activity relationship (SAR) analyses of engineered nanomaterials (ENMs) at nano-bio interfaces. However, current nano-SARs are often based on univariate assessments and fail to provide tiered views on ENM-induced bio-effects. Here we report a multi-hierarchical nano-SAR assessment for a representative ENM, Fe2O3, by metabolomics and proteomics analyses. The established nano-SAR profile allows the visualizing of the contributions of seven basic properties of Fe2O3 to its diverse bio-effects. For instance, although surface reactivity is responsible for Fe2O3-induced cell migration, the inflammatory effects of Fe2O3 are determined by aspect ratio (nanorods) or surface reactivity (nanoplates). These nano-SARs are examined in THP-1 cells and animal lungs, which allow us to decipher the detailed mechanisms including NLRP3 inflammasome pathway and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1-dependent signaling. This study provides more insights for nano-SARs, and may facilitate the tailored design of ENMs to render them desired bio-effects.
PXD011010	30356053	Slc7a5 regulates Kv1.2 channels and modifies functional outcomes of epilepsy-linked channel mutations. 	Identification of proteins associated with Kv1.2 potassium channels.	Kv1.2, LCMSMS, potassium channel	Kv1.2 is a prominent voltage-gated potassium channel that influences action potential generation and propagation in the central nervous system. We explored multi-protein complexes containing Kv1.2 using mass spectrometry followed by screening for effects on Kv1.2. We report that Slc7a5, a neutral amino acid transporter, has a profound impact on Kv1.2. Co-expression with Slc7a5 reduces total Kv1.2 protein, and dramatically hyperpolarizes the voltage-dependence of activation by -47 mV. These effects are attenuated by expression of Slc3a2, a known binding partner of Slc7a5. The profound Slc7a5-mediated current suppression is partly explained by a combination of gating effects including accelerated inactivation and a hyperpolarizing shift of channel activation, causing channels to accumulate in a non-conducting state. Two recently reported Slc7a5 mutations linked to neurodevelopmental delay exhibit a localization defect and have attenuated effects on Kv1.2. In addition, epilepsy-linked gain-of-function Kv1.2 mutants exhibit enhanced sensitivity to Slc7a5.
PXD009198	30356069	Amplification of the Melanocortin-1 Receptor in Nephrotic Syndrome Identifies a Target for Podocyte Cytoskeleton Stabilization. 	MC1R stabilize the actin cytoskeleton	MC1R, TMT, glomerula, nephrotic syndrome, phosphoproteomics, podocytes	The melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) in podocytes has been suggested as the mediator of the ACTH renoprotective effect in patients with nephrotic syndrome with the mechanism of action beeing stabilization of the podocyte actin cytoskeleton. To understand how melanocortin receptors are regulated in nephrotic syndrome and how they are involved in restoration of filtration barrier function, melanocortin receptor expression was evaluated in patients and a rat model of nephrotic syndrome in combination with cell culture analysis. Phosphoproteomics was applied and identified MC1R pathways confirmed using biochemical analysis. We found that glomerular MC1R expression was increased in nephrotic syndrome, both in humans and in a rat model. A MC1R agonist protected podocytes from protamine sulfate induced stress fiber loss with the top ranked phoshoproteomic MC1R activated pathway beeing actin cytoskeleton signaling. Actin stabilization through the MC1R consisted of ERK1/2 dependent phosphorylation and inactivation of EGFR signaling with stabilization of synaptopodin and stressfibers in podocytes. These results further explain how patients with nephrotic syndrome show responsiveness to MC1R receptor activation by decreasing EGFR signaling and as a consequence restore filtration barrier function by stabilizing the podocyte actin cytoskeleton.
PXD011058	30356100	Nuclear lactate dehydrogenase A senses ROS to produce alpha-hydroxybutyrate for HPV-induced cervical tumor growth. 	Nuclear Lactate Dehydrogenase A Senses ROS to Produce alpha-Hydroxybutyrate for HPV-Induced Cervical Tumor Growth	Cervical cancer, HPV, Redox proteomics	It is well known that high-risk human papilloma virus (HR-HPV) infection is strongly associated with cervical cancer and E7 was identified as one of the key initiators in HPV-mediated carcinogenesis. Here we show that lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) preferably locates in the nucleus in HPV16-positive cervical tumors due to E7-induced intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation. Surprisingly, nuclear LDHA gains a non-canonical enzyme activity to produce alpha-hydroxybutyrate and triggers DOT1L (disruptor of telomeric silencing 1-like)-mediated histone H3K79 hypermethylation, resulting in the activation of antioxidant responses and Wnt signaling pathway. Furthermore, HPV16 E7 knocking-out reduces LDHA nuclear translocation and H3K79 tri-methylation in K14-HPV16 transgenic mouse model. HPV16 E7 level is significantly positively correlated with nuclear LDHA and H3K79 tri-methylation in cervical cancer. Collectively, our findings uncover a non-canonical enzyme activity of nuclear LDHA to epigenetically control cellular redox balance and cell proliferation facilitating HPV-induced cervical cancer development.
PXD009874	30358407	Toward the Quantitative Characterization of Arginine Phosphorylations in Staphylococcus aureus. 	Toward the quantitative characterization of arginine phosphorylations in Staphylococcus aureus	SILAC quantification, Staphylococcus aureus, amino acid metabolism, arginine phosphorylation, hydrogen peroxide, oxidative stress, phosphopeptide enrichment, quantification, spectral library, virulence	The Gram-positive bacterium Staphylococcus aureus plays an important role as an opportunistic pathogen and causative agent of nosocomial infections. As pathophysiological research gained insights into host-specific adaptation and a broad range of virulence mechanisms, S. aureus evolved as a model organism for human pathogens. Hence the investigation of staphylococcal proteome expression and regulation supports the understanding of the pathogenicity and relevant physiology of this organism. This study focused on the analysis of protein regulation by reversible protein phosphorylation, in particular, on arginine residues. Therefore, both proteome and phosphoproteome of S. aureus COL wild type were compared with the arginine phosphatase deletion mutant S. aureus COL DeltaptpB under control and stress conditions in a quantitative manner. A gel-free approach, adapted to the special challenges of arginine phosphorylations, was applied to analyze the phosphoproteome of exponential growing cells after oxidative stress caused by sublethal concentrations of H2O2. Together with phenotypic characterization of S. aureus COL DeltaptpB, this study disclosed first insights into the physiological role of arginine phosphorylations in Gram-positive pathogens. A spectral library based quantification of phosphopeptides finally allowed us to link arginine phosphorylation to staphylococcal oxidative stress response, amino acid metabolism, and virulence.
PXD011067	30359274	iTRAQ-based quantitative analysis of age-specific variations in salivary proteome of caries-susceptible individuals. 	iTRAQ-based quantitative analysis of age-specific variation in salivary proteome of caries-susceptible individuals	MRM, Salivary proteome, age, dental caries, iTRAQ	BACKGROUND: Human saliva is a protein-rich, easily accessible source of potential biomarkers for the diagnosis of oral and systemic diseases. However, little is known about the changes in salivary proteome associated with aging of patients with dental caries. Here, we applied isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) in combination with multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (MRM-MS) to characterize the salivary proteome profiles of subjects of different ages, presenting with and without caries, with the aim of identifying age-related biomarkers for dental caries. METHODS: Unstimulated whole saliva samples were collected from 40 caries-free and caries-susceptible young adults and elderly individuals. Salivary proteins were extracted, reduced, alkylated, digested with trypsin and then analyzed using iTRAQ-coupled LC-MS/MS, followed by GO annotation, biological pathway analysis, hierarchical clustering analysis, and protein-protein interaction analysis. Candidate verification was then conducted using MRM-MS. RESULTS: Among 658 salivary proteins identified using tandem mass spectrometry, 435 proteins exhibited altered expression patterns in different age groups with and without caries. Of these proteins, 96 displayed age-specific changes among caries-susceptible adults and elderly individuals, and were mainly associated with salivary secretion pathway, while 110 age-specific proteins were identified among healthy individuals. It was found that the age factor caused significant variations and played an important role in both healthy and cariogenic salivary proteomes. Subsequently, a total of 136 target proteins with complex protein-protein interactions, including 14 age-specific proteins associated with caries, were further successfully validated using MRM analysis. Moreover, non-age-specific proteins (histatin-1 and BPI fold-containing family B member 1) were verified to be important candidate biomarkers for common dental caries. CONCLUSIONS: Our proteomic analysis performed using the discovery-through-verification pipeline revealed distinct variations caused by age factor in both healthy and cariogenic salivary proteomes, highlighting the significance of age in the great potential of saliva for caries diagnosis and biomarker discovery.
PXD008884	30359315	Mapping of equine mesenchymal stromal cell surface proteomes for identification of specific markers using proteomics and gene expression analysis: an in vitro cross-sectional study. 	Data in support of the equine mesenchymal stem cell surface proteome for mining for new surface markers	horse stem cells membrane	BACKGROUND: Stem cells have great potential for tissue regeneration, but before stem cell populations can be used in the clinic, it is crucial that the stem cells have been definitely characterized by a set of specific markers. Although there have been attempts to identify a set of immunophenotypic markers to characterize equine mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), immunophenotyping of equine MSCs is still challenging due to the limited availability of suitable antibodies of high quality and consistent performance across different laboratories. The aim of this study was to evaluate a strategy for mapping the equine MSCs surface proteome by use of biotin-enrichment and mass spectrometry (MS) analysis and mine the proteome for potential equine MSCs surface markers belonging to the cluster of differentiation protein group. Gene expression analysis was used for verification. METHODS: Equine MSCs derived from bone marrow (BM) (n = 3) and adipose tissue (AT) (n = 3) were expanded to P3 and either used for (1) cell differentiation into mesodermal lineages (chondrogenic and osteogenic), (2) enrichment of the MSCs surface proteins by biotinylation followed by in-gel digest of the isolated proteins and nanoLC-MS/MS analysis to unravel the enriched cell surface proteome, and (3) RNA isolation and quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase PCR analysis of the CD29, CD44, CD90, CD105, CD166, CD34, CD45, and CD79a gene expression. RESULTS: A total of 1239 proteins at 1% FDR were identified by MS analysis of the enriched MSCs surface protein samples. Of these proteins, 939 were identified in all six biological samples. The identified proteins included 19 proteins appointed to the cluster of differentiation classification system as potential cell surface targets. The protein and gene expression pattern was positive for the commonly used positive MSCs markers CD29, CD44, CD90, CD105, and CD166, and lacked the negative MSCs markers CD34, CD45, and CD79a. CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study show that enrichment of the MSCs surface proteome by biotinylation followed by MS analysis is a valuable alternative to immunophenotyping of surface markers, when suitable antibodies are not available. Further, they support gene expression analysis as a valuable control analysis to verify the data.
PXD007097	30359441	Proteomic analysis of Lactobacillus casei GCRL163 cell-free extracts reveals a SecB homolog and other biomarkers of prolonged heat stress. 	Effects of thermal stress on Lactobacillus casei GCRL163	Lactic acid bacteria, bioreactors, heat stress, quantitative proteomics	Prolonged heat stress is one of the harsh conditions Lactobacillus casei strains encounter as non-starter lactic acid bacteria in dairy product manufacture. To understand the physiological and molecular mechanisms through which Lb. casei GCRL163 adapts to persistent elevated temperature, label-free quantitative proteomics of cell-free extracts was used to characterize the global responses of the strain cultured anaerobically in bioreactors at 30 to 45degreesC, pH 6.5, together with GC-MS for fatty acid methyl ester analysis at different growth phases. At higher growth temperatures, repression of energy-consuming metabolic pathways, such as fatty acid, nucleotide and amino acid biosynthesis, was observed, while PTS- and ABC-type transporter systems associated with uptake of nitrogen and carbon sources were up-regulated. Alkaline shock protein Asp23_2 was only detected at 45degreesC, expressed at high abundance, and presumptive alpha-L-fucosidase only at 40 and 45degreesC, with highly increased abundance (log2-fold change of 7) at 45degreesC. We identified a novel SecB homolog as a protein export chaperone putatively involved in posttranslational translocation systems, which was down-regulated as growth temperature increased and where the modelled 3D-structure shared architectural similarities with the Escherichia coli SecB protein. Membrane lipid analyses revealed temporal changes in fatty acid composition, cyclization of oleic acid to cyclopropane and novel cyclopentenyl moieties, and reduced synthesis of vaccenic acid, at higher temperatures. An 18kDa alpha-crystallin domain, Hsp20 family heat shock protein was more highly up-regulated in response to heat stress compared to other molecular chaperones, suggesting this protein could be a useful biomarker of prolonged heat stress in Lb. casei GCRL163.
PXD009220	30361445	Integrative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Profiling of Testis from Wip1 Phosphatase-Knockout Mice: Insights into Mechanisms of Reduced Fertility. 	Integrative proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of testis from Wip1-knockout mice: insights into mechanisms of reduced fertility	Fertility, Knockout mice, Phosphoproteomic, Testis, Wip1	Mice lacking wild-type p53-induced phosphatase 1 (Wip1) display male reproductive defects including smaller testes, subfertility and spermatogenesis defects at the round- and elongating-spermatid stages. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these abnormalities remain unclear. Here we examined the proteome and phosphoproteome of testes from Wip1-knockout mice using a quantitative proteomic approach. From a total of 6872 proteins and 4280 phosphorylation sites identified, 58 proteins and 159 phosphorylation sites were found to be differentially regulated compared with wild type mice. Pathway enrichment analyses revealed that these regulated proteins and phosphosites were mainly involved in adherens/tight junctions, apoptosis, inflammatory response, spermatogenesis, sperm motility, and cytoskeletal assembly and depolymerization. Wip1-knockout mice showed decreased expression of junction-associated proteins (occludin, ZO-1, and N-cadherin) and impaired integrity of the blood-testis barrier. In addition, Wip1 deficiency was associated with elevated levels of cytokines and germ cell apoptosis in the testis. These results suggest that proinflammatory cytokines may impair the blood-testis barrier dynamics by decreasing the expression of junction-associated proteins, which could lead to subfertility and spermatogenesis defects. Collectively, these findings help to explain the low reproductive function caused by Wip1 deletion and provide novel insights into our understanding of causes of male infertility.
PXD010002	30361475	Structural dynamics of the E6AP/UBE3A-E6-p53 enzyme-substrate complex. 	Structural dynamics of the E6AP/UBE3A-E6-p53 enzyme-substrate complex	E6 oncoprotein, E6AP/UBE3A, XL-MS, p53, papillomavirus, ubiquitin	Deregulation of the ubiquitin ligase E6AP is causally linked to the development of human disease, including cervical cancer. In complex with the E6 oncoprotein of human papillomaviruses, E6AP targets the tumor suppressor p53 for degradation, thereby contributing to carcinogenesis. Moreover, E6 acts as a potent activator of E6AP by a yet unknown mechanism. However, structural information explaining how the E6AP-E6-p53 enzyme-substrate complex is assembled, and how E6 stimulates E6AP, is largely missing. Here, we develop and apply different crosslinking mass spectrometry-based approaches to study the E6AP-E6-p53 interplay. We show that binding of E6 induces conformational rearrangements in E6AP, thereby positioning E6 and p53 in the immediate vicinity of the catalytic center of E6AP. Our data provide structural and functional insights into the dynamics of the full-length E6AP-E6-p53 enzyme-substrate complex, demonstrating how E6 can stimulate the ubiquitin ligase activity of E6AP while facilitating ubiquitin transfer from E6AP onto p53.
PXD008680	30361699	Reticular adhesions are a distinct class of cell-matrix adhesions that mediate attachment during mitosis. 	U2OS Adhesion Isolations +/- CytochalasinD and Neomycin	CytoD, Reticular, U2OS	Adhesion to the extracellular matrix persists during mitosis in most cell types. However, while classical adhesion complexes, such as focal adhesions, do and must disassemble to enable mitotic rounding, the mechanisms of residual mitotic cell-extracellular matrix adhesion remain undefined. Here, we identify 'reticular adhesions', a class of adhesion complex that is mediated by integrin alphavbeta5, formed during interphase, and preserved at cell-extracellular matrix attachment sites throughout cell division. Consistent with this role, integrin beta5 depletion perturbs mitosis and disrupts spatial memory transmission between cell generations. Reticular adhesions are morphologically and dynamically distinct from classical focal adhesions. Mass spectrometry defines their unique composition, enriched in phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(4,5)P2)-binding proteins but lacking virtually all consensus adhesome components. Indeed, reticular adhesions are promoted by PtdIns(4,5)P2, and form independently of talin and F-actin. The distinct characteristics of reticular adhesions provide a solution to the problem of maintaining cell-extracellular matrix attachment during mitotic rounding and division.
PXD009127	30362214	Transcriptomic and proteomic insight into the mechanism of cyclooctasulfur- versus thiosulfate-oxidation by the chemolithoautotroph Sulfurimonas denitrificans. 	Transcriptomic and Proteomic Insight into the Mechanism of Cyclooctasulfur- versus Thiosulfate-Oxidation by the Chemolithoautotroph Sulfurimonas denitrificans	Campylobacteria, Epsilonproteobacteria, Oxidation, Sulfur	Chemoautotrophic bacteria belonging to the genus Sulfurimonas (class Campylobacteria) were previously identified as key players in the turnover of zero-valence sulfur, a central intermediate in the marine sulfur cycle. S. denitrificans was further shown to be able to oxidize cyclooctasulfur (S8 ). However, at present the mechanism of activation and metabolism of cyclooctasulfur is not known. Here, we assessed the transcriptome and proteome of S. denitrificans grown with either thiosulfate or S8 as the electron donor. While the overall expression profiles under the two growth conditions were rather similar, distinct differences were observed that could be attributed to the utilization of S8 . This included a higher abundance of expressed genes related to surface attachment in the presence of S8 , and the differential regulation of the sulfur-oxidation multienzyme complex (SOX), which in S. denitrificans is encoded in two gene clusters: soxABXY 1 Z 1 and soxCDY 2 Z 2 . While the proteins of both clusters were present with thiosulfate, only proteins of the soxCDY 2 Z 2 were detected at significant levels with S8 . Based on these findings a model for the oxidation of S8 is proposed. Our results have implications for interpreting metatranscriptomic and -proteomic data and for the observed high level of diversification of soxY 2 Z 2 among sulfur-oxidizing Campylobacteria.
PXD009604	30362762	Identification of Novel Dense-Granule Proteins in Toxoplasma gondii by Two Proximity-Based Biotinylation Approaches. 	Toxoplasma GRA protein identification	APEX, BirA, GRA, Toxoplasma	Toxoplasma gondii is an opportunistic pathogen infecting humans and a variety of vertebrate animals. Secretory dense-granule proteins (GRAs) play diverse roles in the mediation of host-parasite interactions and facilitate parasitism, but many of them still remain to be identified. Here, we used two proximity-based protein labeling techniques to identify novel GRA proteins. Taking GRA1 as bait, transgenic strains expressing GRA1-BirA* or GRA1-APEX were constructed to biotinylate GRAs. Using these methods, a total of 46 proteins were identified, 20 of which were known GRA proteins. Among these 46, 17 were identified by both strategies, and 14 out of the 17 were known GRAs. The other three were all confirmed to localize to dense granules. Nonetheless a significant portion of the proteins were only identified by either APEX or BirA*, indicating that there are differences between these methods. Of the 26 novel GRAs, 5 were validated as bona fide GRAs by localization studies. The majority of these novel GRAs are only present in coccidian parasites and are likely dispensable for parasite growth in vitro; they may play roles during animal infections. The identification of novel GRAs laid the foundation for further studies investigating the mechanisms underlying parasite-host interactions.
PXD011373	30363997	Gynura procumbens Improved Fertility of Diabetic Rats: Preliminary Study of Sperm Proteomic. 	The effect of aqueous extract Gynura procumbens on fertility of diabetes induced male rats using proteomic approach	Gynura procumbens, diabetes mellitus, fertility	Gynura procumbens (GP) is a medicinal herb that has long been known as anti-inflammatory and antihyperglycaemic. Recently, this herbal extract has been associated with a profertility effect, suggesting its applicability in treating both diabetes and male infertility. In this study, the effects of GP aqueous extract (GPAE) on diabetic rats were investigated through evaluating testes histology and androgen hormone levels as well as the implantation sites of female rats on copulation with the treated male rats. Three dosages of GPAE were used (150, 300, and 450 mg/kg), and there were three control groups [normal, diabetic, and metformin-treated diabetic]. Testes histology, androgen hormone levels, and number of implantation sites of the GPAE-treated groups matched those of the normal group in contrast to the diabetic and metformin-treated diabetic controls. Sperm proteomics analysis identified 666 proteins, but only 88 were consistently found in all the control and 450-mg/kg GPAE-treated groups. Four proteins, including cysteine-rich secretory protein 1, carboxylesterase 5A, zona pellucida binding protein, and phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein 1, were significantly upregulated with GPAE treatment compared with the diabetic control, matching the protein levels of the normal group. These proteins were mainly involved in sperm maturation, sperm capacitation, and sperm-egg interaction, suggesting that GP treatment was able to restore the fertility of male diabetic rats at molecular protein level. In conclusion, GP treatment effectively treats infertility of male diabetic rats, possibly through the upregulation of proteins related to sperm maturation and sperm-egg interaction.
PXD009808	30364692	Raw N-glycan mass spectrometry imaging data on formalin-fixed mouse kidney. 	Raw N-glycan MALDI mass spectrometry imaging data on formalin-fixed mouse kidney	MALDI, N-glycan, formalin-fixed, kidney, mass spectrometry imaging	Provided is the annotated raw data for N-glycan mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) annotations in thin cross-sections of formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded murine kidney. Relevant meta-data have been provided in this brief and the raw MSI data can be accessed using ProteomeXchange with the PRoteomics IDEntifications (PRIDE) identifier PXD009808. This brief is the first in a set of submissions from our group which will make raw data publicly accessible for existing and future MSI studies.
PXD004873	30365225	Identification of Protein Abundance Changes in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Tissues Using PCT-SWATH. 	76 human liver tissue proteomes by PCT-SWATH	Hepatocellular carcinoma, PCT-SWATH, liver	PURPOSE: To rapidly identify protein abundance changes in biopsy-level fresh-frozen hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The pressure-cycling technology (PCT) is applied and sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH-MS) workflow is optimized to analyze 38 biopsy-level tissue samples from 19 HCC patients. Each proteome is analyzed with 45 min LC gradient. MCM7 is validated using immunohistochemistry (IHC). RESULTS: A total of 11 787 proteotypic peptides from 2579 SwissProt proteins are quantified with high confidence. The coefficient of variation (CV) of peptide yield using PCT is 32.9%, and the R(2) of peptide quantification is 0.9729. Five hundred forty-one proteins showed significant abundance change between the tumor area and its adjacent benign area. From 24 upregulated pathways and 13 suppressed ones, enhanced biomolecule synthesis and suppressed small molecular metabolism in liver tumor tissues are observed. Protein changes based on alpha-fetoprotein expression and hepatitis B virus infection are further analyzed. The data altogether highlight 16 promising tumor marker candidates. The upregulation of minichromosome maintenance complex component 7 (MCM7) is further observed in multiple HCC tumor tissues by IHC. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The practicality of rapid proteomic analysis of biopsy-level fresh-frozen HCC tissue samples with PCT-SWATH has been demonstrated and promising tumor marker candidates including MCM7 are identified.
PXD012822	30365312	Targeted LC-MS/MS Reveals Similar Contents of alpha-Amylase/Trypsin-Inhibitors as Putative Triggers of Nonceliac Gluten Sensitivity in All Wheat Species except Einkorn. 	Targeted LCMS/MS Reveals Similar Contents of alphaAmylase/ Trypsin-Inhibitors as Putative Triggers of Nonceliac Gluten Sensitivity in All Wheat Species except Einkorn	modern and ancient wheats, nonceliac gluten sensitivity, stable isotope dilution assay, alpha-amylase/trypsin-inhibitor	Amylase/trypsin-inhibitors (ATIs) are putative triggers of nonceliac gluten sensitivity, but contents of ATIs in different wheat species were not available. Therefore, the predominant ATIs 0.19 + 0.53, 0.28, CM2, CM3, and CM16 in eight cultivars each of common wheat, durum wheat, spelt, emmer, and einkorn grown under the same environmental conditions were quantitated by targeted liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and stable isotope dilution assays using specific marker peptides as internal standards. The results were compared to a label-free untargeted LC-MS/MS analysis, in which protein concentrations were determined by intensity based absolute quantitation. Both approaches yielded similar results. Spelt and emmer had higher ATI contents than common wheat, with durum wheat in between. Only three of eight einkorn cultivars contained ATIs in very low concentrations. The distribution of ATI types was characteristic for hexaploid, tetraploid, and diploid wheat species and suitable as species-specific fingerprint. The results point to a better tolerability of einkorn for NCGS patients, because of very low total ATI contents.
PXD010952	30365498	Proteome and microbiota analysis reveals alterations of liver-gut axis under different stocking density of Peking ducks. 	Duck liver TMT	Duck, Liver, ProteomeXchange project tag: Liver (B/D-HPP), TMT	This study aimed to determine the impact of stocking density on the liver proteome and cecal microbiota of Peking ducks. A total of 1,200 21-day-old ducks were randomly assigned to 5 stocking density groups of 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 ducks/m2, with 6 replicates for each group. At 40 days of age, duck serum and pectorals were collected for biochemical tests; liver and cecal contents of ducks were gathered for proteome and microbiota analysis, respectively. Serum MDA increased while pectorals T-AOC reduced linearly with enhancing stocking density. Duck lipid metabolism was altered under different stocking density as well. Serum LDL-C increased linearly with increasing stocking density. Proteome analysis revealed fatty acid biosynthesis proteins such as acyl-CoA synthetase family member 2 and fatty acid oxidation related proteins including acyl-CoA dehydrogenase long chain and acyl-coenzyme A oxidase were enriched in high stocking density group. Additionally, high stocking density increased oxidative response associated proteins such as DDRGK domain containing 1. Furthermore, increasing stocking density diminished proteins of anti-oxidant capacity including regucalcin and catalase. 16S rDNA analysis revealed that higher stocking density was accompanied with decreased microbial diversity, as well as depletion of anti-inflammatory bacterial taxa, including Bacteroidales, Butyricimonas and Alistipe. Besides, reduced bile acid metabolism-associated bacteria such as Ruminococcaceae, Clostridiales and Desulfovibrionaceae were found in the high-density group. Both proteome and 16S rDNA results showed inflammation and chronic liver disease trend in the high-density group, which suggests the involvement of the liver-gut axis in oxidative stress.
PXD010342	30365505	Inhibition of histone methyltransferase EZH2 in Schistosoma mansoni in vitro by GSK343 reduces egg laying and decreases the expression of genes implicated in DNA replication and noncoding RNA metabolism. 	Inhibition of histone methyltransferase EZH2 in Schistosoma mansoni by GSK343 decreases the expression of genes implicated in DNA replication and ncRNA metabolism	EZH2, GSK343, RNA-seq, Schistosoma mansoni	BACKGROUND: The possibility of emergence of praziquantel-resistant Schistosoma parasites and the lack of other effective drugs demand the discovery of new schistosomicidal agents. In this context the study of compounds that target histone-modifying enzymes is extremely promising. Our aim was to investigate the effect of inhibition of EZH2, a histone methyltransferase that is involved in chromatin remodeling processes and gene expression control; we tested different developmental forms of Schistosoma mansoni using GKS343, a selective inhibitor of EZH2 in human cells. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Adult male and female worms and schistosomula were treated with different concentrations of GSK343 for up to two days in vitro. Western blotting showed a decrease in the H3K27me3 histone mark in all three developmental forms. Motility, mortality, pairing and egg laying were employed as schistosomicidal parameters for adult worms. Schistosomula viability was evaluated with propidium iodide staining and ATP quantification. Adult worms showed decreased motility when exposed to GSK343. Also, an approximate 40% reduction of egg laying by GSK343-treated females was observed when compared with controls (0.1% DMSO). Scanning electron microscopy showed the formation of bulges and bubbles throughout the dorsal region of GSK343-treated adult worms. In schistosomula the body was extremely contracted with the presence of numerous folds, and growth was markedly slowed. RNA-seq was applied to identify the metabolic pathways affected by GSK343 sublethal doses. GSK343-treated adult worms showed significantly altered expression of genes related to transmembrane transport, cellular homeostasis and egg development. In females, genes related to DNA replication and noncoding RNA metabolism processes were downregulated. Schistosomula showed altered expression of genes related to cell adhesion and membrane synthesis pathways. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The results indicated that GSK343 presents in vitro activities against S. mansoni, and the characterization of EZH2 as a new potential molecular target establishes EZH2 inhibitors as part of a promising new group of compounds that could be used for the development of schistosomicidal agents.
PXD011183	30366120	Identification of nephropathy predictors in urine from children with a recent diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. 	Urinary proteomics by 2DE and LC-MS/MS	diabetic nephropathy, predictive biomarkers, type 1 diabetes, urine	Despite research progresses, the chance to accurately predict the risk for diabetic nephropathy (DN) is still poor. So far, the first evidence of DN is micro-albuminuria, which is detected only 10-20 years after the onset of diabetes. Our goal is to develop new predictive tools of nephropathy starting from urine, which can be easily obtained using noninvasive procedures and it is directly related to kidney. Since it is reasonable to suppose that, in predisposed patients, the mechanisms leading to nephropathy start acting since the diabetes onset, urine from children with recent diagnosis of type 1 diabetes was subjected to proteomic analysis in comparison to age-matched controls. Targeted confirmation was performed on children with a longer history of diabetes using Western Blotting and applying a urinary lipidomic approach. To definitively understand whether the observed alterations could be related to diabetic nephropathy, urine from diabetic adults with or without albuminuria was also examined. For the first time, lipid metabolisms of prostaglandin and ceramide, which are significantly and specifically modified in association with DN, are shown to be already altered in children with a recent diabetes diagnosis. Future studies on larger cohorts are needed to improve the validity and generalizability of these findings. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD011183 Submission details: Project Name: Urinary proteomics by 2DE and LC-MS/MS. Project accession: PXD011183 Project DOI: https://doi.org/10.6019/PXD011183 SIGNIFICANCE: Nephropathy is a very common diabetic complication. Once established, its progression can only be slowed down but full control or remission is achieved in very few cases, thus posing a large burden on worldwide health. The first evidence of diabetic nephropathy (DN) is micro-albuminuria, but only 30% of patients with micro-albuminuria progress to proteinuria, while in some patients it spontaneously reverts to normo-albuminuria. Thus, there is clear need for biomarkers that can accurately predict the risk to develop DN. Herein, by applying proteomic and lipidomic approaches on urine samples, we show that alteration of prostaglandin and ceramide metabolisms specifically occurs in association with DN. Interestingly, we demonstrate that the modification of these metabolic pathways is an early event in diabetic patients, suggesting the identified changed proteins as possible predictive biomarkers of diabetes-induced renal function decline.
PXD067397	30366121	Identification and characterization of the zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) sperm proteome. 	Identification and characterization of the zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) sperm proteome	Avian sperm Passerines Sexual reproduction Sperm proteins Positive selection	Spermatozoa exhibit remarkable variability in size, shape, and performance. Our understanding of the molecular basis of this variation, however, is limited, especially in avian taxa. The zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) is a model organism in the study of avian sperm biology and sperm competition. Using LC-MS based proteomics, we identify and describe 494 proteins of the zebra finch sperm proteome (ZfSP). Gene ontology and associated bioinformatics analyses revealed a rich repertoire of proteins essential to sperm structure and function, including proteins linked to metabolism and energetics, as well as tubulin binding and microtubule related functions. The ZfSP also contained a number of immunity and defense proteins and proteins linked to sperm motility and sperm-egg interactions. Additionally, while most proteins in the ZfSP appear to be evolutionarily constrained, a small subset of proteins are evolving rapidly. Finally, in a comparison with the sperm proteome of the domestic chicken, we found an enrichment of proteins linked to catalytic activity and cytoskeleton related processes. As the first described passerine sperm proteome, and one of only two characterized avian sperm proteomes, the ZfSP provides a significant step towards a platform for studies of the molecular basis of sperm function and evolution in birds. SIGNIFICANCE: Using highly purified spermatozoa and LC-MS proteomics, we characterise the sperm proteome of the Zebra finch; the main model species for the avian order Passeriformes, the largest and most diverse of the avian clades. As the first described passerine sperm proteome, and one of only two reported avian sperm proteomes, these results will facilitate studies of sperm biology and mechanisms of fertilisation in passerines, as well as comparative studies of sperm evolution and reproduction across birds and other vertebrates.
PXD010538	30368041	Nitric oxide contributes to protein homeostasis by S-nitrosylations of the chaperone HSPA8 and the ubiquitin ligase UBE2D. 	Protein expression in MOCK and neuronal nitric oxide synthase 1 (NOS1) transduced SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells on stimulation with rapamycin or serum free starvation	Rapamycin, SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma, neuronal NOS, starvation	Upregulations of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in the rodent brain have been associated with neuronal aging. To address underlying mechanisms we generated SH-SY5Y neuronal cells constitutively expressing nNOS at a level similar to mouse brain (nNOS+ versus MOCK). Initial experiments revealed S-nitrosylations (SNO) of key players of protein homeostasis: heat shock cognate HSC70/HSPA8 within its nucleotide-binding site, and UBE2D ubiquitin conjugating enzymes at the catalytic site cysteine. HSPA8 is involved in protein folding, organelle import/export and chaperone-mediated LAMP2a-dependent autophagy (CMA). A set of deep redox and full proteome analyses, plus analysis of autophagy, CMA and ubiquitination with rapamycin and starvation as stimuli confirmed the initial observations and revealed a substantial increase of SNO modifications in nNOS+ cells, in particular targeting protein networks involved in protein catabolism, ubiquitination, carbohydrate metabolism and cell cycle control. Importantly, NO-independent reversible oxidations similarly occurred in both cell lines. Functionally, nNOS caused an accumulation of proteins, including CMA substrates and loss of LAMP2a. UBE2D activity and proteasome activity were impaired, resulting in dysregulations of cell cycle checkpoint proteins. The observed changes of protein degradation pathways caused an expansion of the cytoplasm, large lysosomes, slowing of the cell cycle and suppression of proliferation suggesting a switch of the phenotype towards aging, supported by downregulations of neuronal progenitor markers but increase of senescence-associated proteins. Hence, upregulation of nNOS in neuronal cells imposes aging by SNOing of key players of ubiquitination, chaperones and of substrate proteins leading to interference with crucial steps of protein homeostasis.
PXD010713	30370674	Characterisation of infection associated microRNA and protein cargo in extracellular vesicles of Theileria annulata infected leukocytes. 	Bovine extracellular vesicle LC-MSMS C4PR_LIV	Cow, Extracellular vesicles, Theileria annulata	The protozoan parasites Theileria annulata and Theileria parva are unique amongst intracellular eukaryotic pathogens as they induce a transformation-like phenotype in their bovine host cell. T. annulata causes tropical theileriosis, which is frequently fatal, with infected leukocytes becoming metastatic and forming foci in multiple organs resulting in destruction of the lymphoid system. Exosomes, a subset of extracellular vesicles (EV), are critical in metastatic progression in many cancers. Here, we characterised the cargo of EV from a control bovine lymphosarcoma cell line (BL20) and BL20 infected with T. annulata (TBL20) by comparative mass spectrometry and microRNA (miRNA) profiling (data available via ProteomeXchange, identifier PXD010713 and NCBI GEO, accession number GSE118456, respectively). Ingenuity pathway analysis that many infection-associated proteins essential to migration and extracellular matrix digestion were upregulated in EV from TBL20 cells compared with BL20 controls. An altered repertoire of host miRNA, many with known roles in tumour and/or infection biology, was also observed. Focusing on the tumour suppressor miRNA, bta-miR-181a and bta-miR-181b, we identified putative messenger RNA targets and confirmed the interaction of bta-miR181a with ICAM-1. We propose that EV and their miRNA cargo play an important role in the manipulation of the host cell phenotype and the pathobiology of Theileria infection.
PXD011239	30370771	Differential Quantitative Determination of Site-Specific Intact N-Glycopeptides in Serum Haptoglobin between Hepatocellular Carcinoma and Cirrhosis Using LC-EThcD-MS/MS. 	Intact N-glycopeptides in Serum Haptoglobin between HCC and Cirrhosis	Human Proteome Project, LC-EThcD-MS/MS, Liver, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), Serum, haptoglobin	Intact N-glycopeptide analysis remains challenging due to the complexity of glycopeptide structures, low abundance of glycopeptides in protein digests, and difficulties in data interpretation/quantitation. Herein, we developed a workflow that involved advanced methodologies, the EThcD-MS/MS fragmentation method and data interpretation software, for differential analysis of the microheterogeneity of site-specific intact N-glycopeptides of serum haptoglobin between early hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and liver cirrhosis. Haptoglobin was immunopurified from 20 muL of serum in patients with early HCC, liver cirrhosis, and healthy controls, respectively, followed by trypsin/GluC digestion, glycopeptide enrichment, and LC-EThcD-MS/MS analysis. Identification and differential quantitation of site-specific N-glycopeptides were performed using a combination of Byonic and Byologic software. In total, 93, 87, and 68 site-specific N-glycopeptides were identified in early HCC, liver cirrhosis, and healthy controls, respectively, with high confidence. The increased variety of N-glycopeptides in liver diseases compared to healthy controls was due to increased branching with hyper-fucosylation and sialylation. Differential quantitation analysis showed that 5 site-specific N-glycopeptides on sites N184 and N241 were significantly elevated in early HCC compared to cirrhosis ( p < 0.05) and normal controls ( p <= 0.001). The result demonstrates that the workflow provides a strategy for detailed profiles of N-glycopeptides of patient samples as well as for relative quantitation to determine the level changes in site-specific N-glycopeptides between disease states.
PXD009579	30370930	Deciphering key proteins of oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.) fruit mesocarp development by proteomics and chemometrics. 	Proteome profiles of oil palm fruit mesocarp	Elaeis guineensis, fruit	Palm oil is an edible vegetable oil derived from lipid-rich fleshy mesocarp tissue of oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.) fruit and is of global economic and nutritional relevance. While the understanding of oil biosynthesis in plants is improving, the fundamentals of oil biosynthesis in oil palm still require further investigations. To gain insight into the systemic mechanisms that govern oil synthesis during oil palm fruit ripening, the proteomics approach combining gel-based electrophoresis and mass spectrometry was used to profile protein changes and classify the patterns of protein accumulation during these complex physiological processes. Protein profiles from different stages of fruit ripening at 10, 12, 14, 15, 16, 18 and 20 weeks after anthesis (WAA) were analysed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE). The proteome data were then visualised using a multivariate statistical analysis of principal component analysis (PCA) to get an overview of the proteome changes during the development of oil palm mesocarp. A total of 68 differentially expressed protein spots were successfully identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation-time of flight (MALDI-TOF/TOF) and functionally classified using ontology analysis. Proteins related to lipid production, energy, secondary metabolites and amino acid metabolism are the most significantly changed proteins during fruit development representing potential candidates for oil yield improvement endeavors. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009579. This study provides important proteome information for protein regulation during oil palm fruit ripening and oil synthesis.
PXD009649	30373637	Chromatin-mediated regulators of meiotic recombination revealed by proteomics of a recombination hotspot. 	Proteomic analysis of the Ade6-M26 meiotic recombination hotspot in the fission yeast schizosaccharomyces pombe	meiotic recombination hotspot m26 affinity purification	BACKGROUND: Meiotic recombination hotspots control the frequency and distribution of Spo11 (Rec12)-initiated recombination in the genome. Recombination occurs within and is regulated in part by chromatin structure, but relatively few of the many chromatin remodeling factors and histone posttranslational modifications (PTMs) have been interrogated for a role in the process. RESULTS: We developed a chromatin affinity purification and mass spectrometry-based approach to identify proteins and histone PTMs that regulate recombination hotspots. Small (4.2 kbp) minichromosomes (MiniCs) bearing the fission yeast ade6-M26 hotspot or a basal recombination control were purified approximately 100,000-fold under native conditions from meiosis; then, associated proteins and histone PTMs were identified by mass spectrometry. Proteins and PTMs enriched at the hotspot included known regulators (Atf1, Pcr1, Mst2, Snf22, H3K14ac), validating the approach. The abundance of individual histones varied dynamically during meiotic progression in hotspot versus basal control MiniCs, as did a subset of 34 different histone PTMs, implicating these as potential regulators. Measurements of basal and hotspot recombination in null mutants confirmed that additional, hotspot-enriched proteins are bona fide regulators of hotspot activation within the genome. These chromatin-mediated regulators include histone H2A-H2B and H3-H4 chaperones (Nap1, Hip1/Hir1), subunits of the Ino80 complex (Arp5, Arp8), a DNA helicase/E3 ubiquitin ligase (Rrp2), components of a Swi2/Snf2 family remodeling complex (Swr1, Swc2), and a nucleosome evictor (Fft3/Fun30). CONCLUSIONS: Overall, our findings indicate that a remarkably diverse collection of chromatin remodeling factors and histone PTMs participate in designating where meiotic recombination occurs in the genome, and they provide new insight into molecular mechanisms of the process.
PXD009442	30373788	Common Metabolic Pathways Implicated in Resistance to Chemotherapy Point to a Key Mitochondrial Role in Breast Cancer. 	Linezolid  suppresses growth of tumours dervived from triple negative breast cancer, cancer chemoresistant and cancer stem-like cells through the induction of mitochondrial dysfunction	Antibiotics, Autophagy, Cancer, Cancer stem cells, ROS, Therapy resistance	Cancer cells are known to reprogram their metabolism to adapt to adverse conditions dictated by tumor growth and microenvironment. A subtype of cancer cells with stem-like properties, known as cancer stem cells (CSC), is thought to be responsible for tumor recurrence. In this study, we demonstrated that CSC and chemoresistant cells derived from triple negative breast cancer cells display an enrichment of up- and downregulated proteins from metabolic pathways that suggests their dependence on mitochondria for survival. Here, we selected antibiotics, in particular - linezolid, inhibiting translation of mitoribosomes and inducing mitochondrial dysfunction. We provided the first in vivo evidence demonstrating that linezolid suppressed tumor growth rate, accompanied by increased autophagy. In addition, our results revealed that bactericidal antibiotics used in combination with autophagy blocker decrease tumor growth. This study puts mitochondria in a spotlight for cancer therapy and places antibiotics as effective agents for eliminating CSC and resistant cells.
PXD010879	30374463	Extraction and biomolecular analysis of dermal interstitial fluid collected with hollow microneedles. 	ISF Rat Characterization -  Extraction and biomolecular analysis of dermal interstitial fluid collected with hollow microneedles	ISF, Interstitial, Rat	Dermal interstitial fluid (ISF) is an underutilized information-rich biofluid potentially useful in health status monitoring applications whose contents remain challenging to characterize. Here, we present a facile microneedle approach for dermal ISF extraction with minimal pain and no blistering for human subjects and rats. Extracted ISF volumes were sufficient for determining transcriptome, and proteome signatures. We noted similar profiles in ISF, serum, and plasma samples, suggesting that ISF can be a proxy for direct blood sampling. Dynamic changes in RNA-seq were recorded in ISF from induced hypoxia conditions. Finally, we report the first isolation and characterization, to our knowledge, of exosomes from dermal ISF. The ISF exosome concentration is 12-13 times more enriched when compared to plasma and serum and represents a previously unexplored biofluid for exosome isolation. This minimally invasive extraction approach can enable mechanistic studies of ISF and demonstrates the potential of ISF for real-time health monitoring applications.
PXD009685	30374844	Chloroplast proteome analysis of Nicotiana tabacum overexpressing TERF1 under drought stress condition. 	characterization of the chloroplast proteome of tobacco overexpressing TERF1	TERF1, chloroplast proteome, iTRAQ	BACKGROUND: Chloroplast is indispensable for plant response to environmental stresses, growth and development, whose function is regulated by different plant hormones. The chloroplast proteome is encoded by chloroplast genome and nuclear genome, which play essential roles in plant photosynthesis, metabolism and other biological processes. Ethylene response factors (ERFs) are key transcription factors in activating the ethylene signaling pathway and plant response to abiotic stress. But we know little about how ethylene regulates plastid function under drought stress condition. In this study we utilized tobacco overexpressing tomato ethylene responsive factor 1 (TERF1), an ERF transcription factor isolated from tomato, to investigate its effects on the plastid proteome under drought stress condition by method of iTRAQ technology. RESULTS: Results show that TERF1 represses the genes encoding the photosynthetic apparatus at both transcriptional and translational level, but the genes involved in carbon fixation are significantly induced by TERF1. TERF1 regulates multiple retrograde signaling pathways, providing a new mechanism for regulating nuclear gene expression. TERF1 also regulates plant utilization of phosphorus (Pi) and nitrogen (N). We find that several metabolic and signaling pathways related with Pi are significantly repressed and gene expression analysis shows that TERF1 significantly represses the Pi transport from root to shoot. However, the N metabolism is upregulated by TERF1 as shown by the activation of different amino acids biosynthesis pathways due to the induction of glutamine synthetase and stabilization of nitrate reductase although the root-to-shoot N transport is also reduced. TERF1 also regulates other core metabolic pathways and secondary metabolic pathways that are important for plant growth, development and response to environmental stresses. Gene set linkage analysis was applied for the upregulated proteins by TERF1, showing some new potential for regulating plant response to drought stress by TERF1. CONCLUSIONS: Our research reveals effects of ethylene signaling on plastid proteome related with two key biological processes, including photosynthesis and nutrition utilization. We also provide a new mechanism to regulate nuclear gene expression by ERF1 transcription factor through retrograde signals in chloroplast. These results can enrich our knowledge about ERF1 transcription factor and function of ethylene signaling pathway.
PXD011602	30375150	Ribosome profiles and riboproteomes of healthy and Potato virus A- and Agrobacterium-infected Nicotiana benthamiana plants. 	LC-MSMS of RIBOPROTEOMES OF HEALTHY, POTATO VIRUS A- AND AGROBACTERIUM -INFECTED NICOTIANA BENTHAMIANA PLANTS	Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Nicotiana benthamiana, Ribosome, healthy plants, plant, potato virus a	Nicotiana benthamiana is an important model plant for plant-microbe interaction studies. Here, we compared ribosome profiles and riboproteomes of healthy and infected N. benthamiana plants. We affinity purified ribosomes from transgenic leaves expressing a FLAG-tagged ribosomal large subunit protein RPL18B of Arabidopsis thaliana. Purifications were prepared from healthy plants and plants that had been infiltrated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens carrying infectious cDNA of Potato virus A (PVA) or firefly luciferase gene, referred to here as PVA- or Agrobacterium-infected plants, respectively. Plants encode a number of paralogous ribosomal proteins (r-proteins). The N. benthamiana riboproteome revealed approximately 6600 r-protein hits representing 424 distinct r-proteins that were members of 71 of the expected 81 r-protein families. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD011602. The data indicated that N. benthamiana ribosomes are heterogeneous in their r-protein composition. In PVA-infected plants, the number of identified r-protein paralogues was lower than in Agrobacterium-infected or healthy plants. A. tumefaciens proteins did not associate with ribosomes, whereas ribosomes from PVA-infected plants co-purified with viral cylindrical inclusion protein and helper component proteinase, reinforcing their possible role in protein synthesis during virus infection. In addition, viral NIa protease-VPg, RNA polymerase NIb and coat protein were occasionally detected. Infection did not affect the proportions of ribosomal subunits or the monosome to polysome ratio, suggesting that no overall alteration in translational activity took place on infection with these pathogens. The riboproteomic data of healthy and pathogen-infected N. benthamiana will be useful for studies on the specific use of r-protein paralogues to control translation in infected plants.
PXD009643	30375330	Organisms with alternative genetic codes resolve unassigned codons via mistranslation and ribosomal rescue. 	Organisms with alternative genetic codes resolve unassigned codons via mistranslation and ribosomal rescue	E coli	Organisms possessing genetic codes with unassigned codons raise the question of how cellular machinery resolves such codons and how this could impact horizontal gene transfer. Here, we use a genomically recoded Escherichia coli to examine how organisms address translation at unassigned UAG codons, which obstruct propagation of UAG-containing viruses and plasmids. Using mass spectrometry, we show that recoded organisms resolve translation at unassigned UAG codons via near-cognate suppression, dramatic frameshifting from at least -3 to +19 nucleotides, and rescue by ssrA-encoded tmRNA, ArfA, and ArfB. We then demonstrate that deleting tmRNA restores expression of UAG-ending proteins and propagation of UAG-containing viruses and plasmids in the recoded strain, indicating that tmRNA rescue and nascent peptide degradation is the cause of impaired virus and plasmid propagation. The ubiquity of tmRNA homologs suggests that genomic recoding is a promising path for impairing horizontal gene transfer and conferring genetic isolation in diverse organisms.
PXD011126	30375385	M-Phase Phosphoprotein 9 regulates ciliogenesis by modulating CP110-CEP97 complex localization at the mother centriole. 	interacting proteins for MPP9 -  M-Phase Phosphoprotein 9 regulates ciliogenesis by modulating CP110-CEP97 complex localization at the mother centriole	MPP9, interacting proteins	The primary cilium is elongated from the mother centriole and has diverse signaling roles during development and disease. The CP110-CEP97 complex functions as a negative regulator of ciliogenesis, although the mechanisms regulating its mother centriole localization are poorly understood. Here we show that M-Phase Phosphoprotein 9 (MPP9) is recruited by Kinesin Family Member 24 (KIF24) to the distal end of mother centriole where it forms a ring-like structure and recruits CP110-CEP97 by directly binding CEP97. Loss of MPP9 causes abnormal primary cilia formation in growing cells and mouse kidneys. After phosphorylation by Tau Tubulin Kinase 2 (TTBK2) at the beginning of ciliogenesis, MPP9 is targeted for degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system, which facilitates the removal of CP110 and CEP97 from the distal end of the mother centriole. Thus, MPP9 acts as a regulator of ciliogenesis by regulating the localization of CP110-CEP97 at the mother centriole.
PXD006926	30375416	The Lhx1-Ldb1 complex interacts with Furry to regulate microRNA expression during pronephric kidney development. 	Xenopus A6 cells nanoLC-MS/MS -  The Lhx1-Ldb1 complex interacts with Furry to regulate microRNA expression during pronephric kidney development	A6, Xenopus laevie, kidney epithelial cells, nanoLC-MS/MS	The molecular events driving specification of the kidney have been well characterized. However, how the initial kidney field size is established, patterned, and proportioned is not well characterized. Lhx1 is a transcription factor expressed in pronephric progenitors and is required for specification of the kidney, but few Lhx1 interacting proteins or downstream targets have been identified. By tandem-affinity purification, we isolated FRY like transcriptional coactivator (Fryl), one of two paralogous genes, fryl and furry (fry), have been described in vertebrates. Both proteins were found to interact with the Ldb1-Lhx1 complex, but our studies focused on Lhx1/Fry functional roles, as they are expressed in overlapping domains. We found that Xenopus embryos depleted of fry exhibit loss of pronephric mesoderm, phenocopying the Lhx1-depleted animals. In addition, we demonstrated a synergism between Fry and Lhx1, identified candidate microRNAs regulated by the pair, and confirmed these microRNA clusters influence specification of the kidney. Therefore, our data shows that a constitutively-active Ldb1-Lhx1 complex interacts with a broadly expressed microRNA repressor, Fry, to establish the kidney field.
PXD010145	30375456	Acid bone lysate activates TGFbeta signalling in human oral fibroblasts. 	Acid bone lysates: what we eliminate by preparing demineralized bone matrix	acid bone lysates, bone matrix, growth factors	Demineralized bone matrix is a widely used allograft from which not only the inorganic mineral but also embedded growth factors are removed by hydrochloric acid (HCl). The cellular response to the growth factors released during the preparation of demineralized bone matrix, however, has not been studied. Here we investigated the in vitro impact of acid bone lysate (ABL) prepared from porcine cortical bone chips on oral fibroblasts. Proteomic analysis of ABL revealed a large spectrum of bone-derived proteins including TGF-beta1. Whole genome microarrays and RT-PCR together with the pharmacologic blocking of TGF-beta receptor type I kinase with SB431542 showed that ABL activates the TGF-beta target genes interleukin 11, proteoglycan 4, and NADPH oxidase 4. Interleukin 11 expression was confirmed at the protein level by ELISA. Immunofluorescence and Western blot showed the nuclear localization of Smad2/3 and increased phosphorylation of Smad3 with ABL, respectively. This effect was independent of whether ABL was prepared from mandible, calvaria or tibia. These results demonstrate that TGF-beta is a major growth factor that is removed upon the preparation of demineralized bone matrix.
PXD011170	30375590	Chemoproteomic fishing identifies arzanol as a positive modulator of brain glycogen phosphorylase. 	Arzanol Biomolecular Targets -  Chemoproteomic fishing identifies arzanol as a positive modulator of brain glycogen phosphorylase	Arzanol, brain Glycogen Phosphorylase, chemical proteomics	The interactome of arzanol was investigated by MS-based chemical proteomics, a pioneering technology for small molecule target discovery. Brain glycogen phosphorylase (bGP), a key regulator of glucose metabolism so far refractory to small molecule modulation, was identified as the main high-affinity target of arzanol. Competitive affinity-based proteomics, DARTS, molecular docking, surface plasmon resonance and in vitro biological assays provided molecular mechanistic insights into the arzanol-enzyme interaction, qualifying this positive modulator of bGP for further studies in the realm of neurodegeneration and cancer.
PXD009277	30376339	Development of a Parallel Reaction Monitoring-MS Method To Quantify IGF Proteins in Dogs and a Case of Nonislet Cell Tumor Hypoglycemia. 	Development of a parallel reaction monitoring-MS method to quantify IGF proteins in dogs: application to a canine case study of NICTH syndrome	Dog proteomics, IGF, NICTH, PRM	Nonislet-cell tumor hypoglycemia (NICTH) is a rare paraneoplastic phenomenon well described in dogs and humans. Tumors associated with NICTH secrete incompletely processed forms of insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF-II), commonly named big IGF-II. These forms have increased bioavailability and interact with the insulin and IGF-I receptor causing hypoglycemia and growth-promoting effects. Immunoassays designed for human samples have been used to measure canine IGF-I and -II, but they possess some limitations. In addition, there are no validated methods for measurement of big IGF-II in dogs. In the present study, a targeted parallel reaction monitoring MS-based method previously developed for cats has been optimized and applied to simultaneously quantify the serum levels of IGF-I, IGF-II, and IGFBP-3, and for the first time, the levels of big IGF-II in dogs. This method allows the absolute quantification of IGF proteins using a mixture of QPrEST proteins previously designed for humans. The method possesses good linearity and repeatability and has been used to evaluate the IGF-system in a dog with NICTH syndrome. In this dog, the levels of big IGF-II decreased by 80% and the levels of IGF-I and IGFBP-3 increased approximately 20- and 4-times, respectively, after removal of the tumor.
PXD010598	30377224	Modulation of Cl(-) signaling and ion transport by recruitment of kinases and phosphatases mediated by the regulatory protein IRBIT. 	Regulation of Cl- signaling and ion transport by IRBIT-mediated recruitment of multiple kinases and phosphatases	IRBIT, Ion Channel, Phosphorylation	IRBIT is a multifunctional protein that controls the activity of various epithelial ion transporters including NBCe1-B. Interaction with IRBIT increases NBCe1-B activity and exposes two cryptic Cl(-)-sensing GXXXP sites that enable regulation of NBCe1-B by intracellular Cl(-) (Cl(-) in). Here, phosphoproteomic analysis revealed that IRBIT controlled five phosphorylation sites in NBCe1-B that determined both the active conformation of the transporter and its regulation by Cl(-) in Mutational analysis suggested that the phosphorylation status of Ser(232), Ser(233), and Ser(235) was regulated by IRBIT and determined whether NBCe1 transporters are in active or inactive conformations. The absence of phosphorylation at Ser(232), Ser(233), or Ser(235) produced NBCe1-B in the conformations pSer(233)/pSer(235), pSer(232)/pSer(235), or pSer(232)/pSer(233), respectively. The activity of the pSer(233)/pSer(235) form was similar to that of IRBIT-activated NBCe1-B, but it was insensitive to inhibition by Cl(-) in The properties of the pSer(232)/pSer(235) form were similar to those of wild-type NBCe1-B, whereas the pSer(232)/pSer(233) form was partially active, further activated by IRBIT, but retained inhibition by Cl(-) in Furthermore, IRBIT recruited the phosphatase PP1 and the kinase SPAK to control phosphorylation of Ser(65), which affected Cl(-) in sensing by the (32)GXXXP(36) motif. IRBIT also recruited the phosphatase calcineurin and the kinase CaMKII to control phosphorylation of Ser(12), which affected Cl(-) in sensing by the (194)GXXXP(198) motif. Ser(232), Ser(233), and Ser(235) are conserved in all NBCe1 variants and affect their activity. These findings reveal how multiple kinase and phosphatase pathways use phosphorylation sites to fine-tune a transporter, which have important implications for epithelial fluid and HCO3 (-) secretion.
PXD009812	30377236	HCN Regulates Cellular Processes through Posttranslational Modification of Proteins by S-cyanylation. 	Proteomic analysis in Arabidopsis tissues reveals hydrogen cyanide regulation of intracellular processes through posttranslational modification of proteins by S-cyanylation	Arabidopsis root cyanylation cyanoalanine synthase	Hydrogen cyanide (HCN) is coproduced with ethylene in plant cells and is primarily enzymatically detoxified by the mitochondrial beta-CYANOALANINE SYNTHASE (CAS-C1). Permanent or transient depletion of CAS-C1 activity in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) results in physiological alterations in the plant that suggest that HCN acts as a gasotransmitter molecule. Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis of mitochondrially enriched samples isolated from the wild type and cas-c1 mutant revealed significant changes in protein content, identifying 451 proteins that are absent or less abundant in cas-c1 and 353 proteins that are only present or more abundant in cas-c1 Gene ontology classification of these proteins identified proteomic changes that explain the root hairless phenotype and the altered immune response observed in the cas-c1 mutant. The mechanism of action of cyanide as a signaling molecule was addressed using two proteomic approaches aimed at identifying the S-cyanylation of Cys as a posttranslational modification of proteins. Both the 2-imino-thiazolidine chemical method and the direct untargeted analysis of proteins using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry identified a set of 163 proteins susceptible to S-cyanylation that included SEDOHEPTULOSE 1,7-BISPHOSPHATASE (SBPase), the PEPTIDYL-PROLYL CIS-TRANS ISOMERASE 20-3 (CYP20-3), and ENOLASE2 (ENO2). In vitro analysis of these enzymes showed that S-cyanylation of SBPase Cys(74), CYP20-3 Cys(259), and ENO2 Cys(346) residues affected their enzymatic activity. Gene Ontology classification and protein-protein interaction cluster analysis showed that S-cyanylation is involved in the regulation of primary metabolic pathways, such as glycolysis, and the Calvin and S-adenosyl-Met cycles.
PXD009748	30377253	Soluble Siglec-14 glycan-recognition protein is generated by alternative splicing and suppresses myeloid inflammatory responses. 	Proximity labeling and identification of the proteins that interact with Siglec-14 on THP-1 cells	Siglec-14, THP-1, cis-ligand, proximity labeling	Human sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like lectin 14 (Siglec-14) is a glycan-recognition protein that is expressed on myeloid cells, recognizes bacterial pathogens, and elicits pro-inflammatory responses. Although Siglec-14 is a transmembrane protein, a soluble form of Siglec-14 is also present in human blood. However, the mechanism that generates soluble Siglec-14 and what role this protein form may play remain unknown. Here, investigating the generation and function of soluble Siglec-14, we found that soluble Siglec-14 is derived from an alternatively spliced mRNA that retains intron 5, containing a termination codon and thus preventing the translation of exon 6, which encodes Siglec-14's transmembrane domain. We also note that the translated segment in intron 5 encodes a unique C-terminal 7-amino acid extension, which allowed the specific antibody-mediated detection of this isoform in human blood. Moreover, soluble Siglec-14 dose-dependently suppressed pro-inflammatory responses of myeloid cells that expressed membrane-bound Siglec-14, likely by interfering with the interaction between membrane-bound Siglec-14 and Toll-like receptor 2 on the cell surface. We also found that intron 5 contains a G-rich segment that assumes an RNA tertiary structure called a G-quadruplex, which may regulate the efficiency of intron 5 splicing. Taken together, we propose that soluble Siglec-14 suppresses pro-inflammatory responses triggered by membrane-bound Siglec-14.
PXD008574	30377279	Aspartyl Protease 5 Matures Dense Granule Proteins That Reside at the Host-Parasite Interface in Toxoplasma gondii. 	Aspartyl Protease 5 matures virulence factors found at the host-parasite interface in Toxoplasma gondii	ASP5, N-terminome, TAILS, Toxoplasma, effector	Toxoplasma gondii infects approximately 30% of the world's population, causing disease primarily during pregnancy and in individuals with weakened immune systems. Toxoplasma secretes and exports effector proteins that modulate the host during infection, and several of these proteins are processed by the Golgi-associated aspartyl protease 5 (ASP5). Here, we identify ASP5 substrates by selectively enriching N-terminally derived peptides from wild-type and Deltaasp5 parasites. We reveal more than 2,000 unique Toxoplasma N-terminal peptides, mapping to both natural N termini and protease cleavage sites. Several of these peptides mapped directly downstream of the characterized ASP5 cleavage site, arginine-arginine-leucine (RRL). We validate candidates as true ASP5 substrates, revealing they are not processed in parasites lacking ASP5 or in wild-type parasites following mutation of the motif from RRL to ARL. All identified ASP5 substrates are dense granule proteins, and interestingly, none appear to be exported, thus differing from the analogous system in related Plasmodium spp. Instead we show that the majority of substrates reside within the parasitophorous vacuole (PV), and its membrane (the PVM), including two kinases and one phosphatase. We show that genetic deletion of WNG2 leads to attenuation in a mouse model, suggesting that this putative kinase is a new virulence factor in Toxoplasma Collectively, these data constitute the first in-depth analyses of ASP5 substrates and shed new light on the role of ASP5 as a maturase of dense granule proteins during the Toxoplasma lytic cycle.IMPORTANCEToxoplasma gondii is one of the most successful human parasites. Central to its success is the arsenal of virulence proteins introduced into the infected host cell. Several of these virulence proteins require direct maturation by the aspartyl protease ASP5, and all require ASP5 for translocation into the host cell, yet the true number of ASP5 substrates and complete repertoire of effectors is currently unknown. Here we selectively enrich N-terminally derived peptides using Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates (TAILS) and use quantitative proteomics to reveal novel ASP5 substrates. We identify, using two different enrichment techniques, new ASP5 substrates and their specific cleavage sites. ASP5 substrates include two kinases and one phosphatase that reside at the host-parasite interface, which are important for infection.
PXD010427	30379851	Identification of Plasmodium falciparum nuclear proteins by mass spectrometry and proposed protein annotation. 	Identification of nuclear Plasmodium falciparum proteins via mass spectrometry and proposed annotation	plasmodium nucleus proteins proteome annotation shotgun LC-MS/MS	The nuclear proteome of Plasmodium falciparum results from the continual shuttle of proteins between the cell cytoplasm-nucleus and vice versa. Using shotgun proteomics tools, we explored the nuclear proteins of mixed populations of Plasmodium falciparum extracted from infected erythrocytes. We combined GeLC-MS/MS and 2D-LC-MS/MS with a peptide ion exclusion procedure in order to increase the detection of low abundant proteins such as those involved in gene expression. We have identified 446 nuclear proteins covering all expected nuclear protein families involved in gene regulation. All structural ribosomal (40S and 60S) proteins were identified which is consistent with the nuclear localization of ribosomal biogenesis. Proteins involved in the translation machinery were also found suggesting that translational events might occur in the nucleus in P. falciparum as previously hypothesized in eukaryotes. These data were compared to the protein list established by PlasmoDB and submitted to Plasmobase a recently reported Plasmodium annotation website to propose new functional putative annotation of several unknown proteins found in the nuclear extracts.
PXD010662	30381327	Identification of a Specific Translational Machinery via TCTP-EF1A2 Interaction Regulating NF1-associated Tumor Growth by Affinity Purification and Data-independent Mass Spectrometry Acquisition (AP-DIA). 	TCTP-interacting proteins in normal and tumor Schwann cells	TCTP, interactomics	Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is an autosomal dominant disease that predisposes individuals to developing benign neurofibromas and malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNST). The mechanism of NF1-tumorigenesis or the curatives have not been established. Using unique trascriptome and proteome integration method, iPEACH (1), we previously identified translationally controlled tumor protein (TCTP) as a novel biological target for NF1-associated tumors (2). Here, we identified specific TCTP-interacting proteins by sequential affinity purification and data-independent mass spectrometry acquisition (AP-DIA/SWATH) to investigate the role of TCTP in NF1-associated malignant tumors. TCTP mainly interacts with proteins related to protein synthesis and especially to elongation factor complex components, including EF1A2, EF1B, EF1D, EF1G, and valyl-tRNA synthetase (VARS), in NF1-deficient malignant tumor cells. Interestingly, TCTP preferentially binds to EF1A2 (normally found only in neural and skeletal-muscle cells and several cancer cells), rather than EF1A1 despite the high homologies (98%) in their sequences. The docking simulation and further validations to study the interaction between TCTP and EF1A2 revealed that TCTP directly binds with EF1A2 via the contact areas of EF1A2 dimerization. Using unique and common sequences between EF1A2 and EF1A1 in AP-DIA/SWATH, we quantitatively validated the interaction of EF1A2 and TCTP/other elongation factors and found that TCTP coordinates the translational machinery of elongation factors via the association with EF1A2. These data suggest that TCTP activates EF1A2-dependent translation by mediating complex formation with other elongation factors. Inhibiting the TCTP-EF1A2 interaction with EF1A2 siRNAs or a TCTP inhibitor, artesunate, significantly down-regulated the factors related to protein translation and caused dramatic suppression of growth/translation in NF1-associated tumors. Our findings demonstrate that a specific protein translation machinery related to the TCTP-EF1A2 interaction is functionally implicated in the tumorigenesis and progression of NF1-associated tumors and could represent a therapeutic target.
PXD010978	30384195	Heterologous expression and characterization of a novel serine protease from Daphnia magna: A possible role in susceptibility to toxic cyanobacteria. 	D. magna CT448 protease specificity	CT448 PICS Protease Specificity	Mass developments of toxin-producing cyanobacteria are frequently observed in freshwater ecosystems due to eutrophication and global warming. These mass developments can partly be attributed to cyanobacterial toxins, such as protease inhibitors (PIs), which inhibit digestive serine proteases of Daphnia, the major herbivore of phytoplankton and cyanobacteria. To date, mechanisms of this inhibition in the gut of the crustacean Daphnia magna are not known. Here, we characterize a single serine protease, chymotrypsin 448 (CT448), which is present in the gut of the crustacean D. magna. Sequence alignments with human serine proteases revealed that CT448 has a putative N-terminal pro-peptide which is extended compared to the mammalian homologs and within this pro-peptide two N-linked glycosylation motifs were found. CT448 was heterologously expressed in Sf21 insect cells using a baculovirus expression system for optimized protein production and secretion into the medium. The protein was purified via a one-step affinity chromatography, which resulted in a protein yield of 3.45 mg/l medium. The inactive precursor (zymogen) could be activated by tryptic digestion. This is the first example of a recombinant expression of an active crustacean serine protease, which functions in the gut of Daphnia. Proteomic identification of protease cleavage sites (PICS) and hydrolysation of various synthetic substrates showed that CT448 is a chymotrypsin-like elastase. In this study, we confirm that CT448 is a target of cyanobacterial protease inhibitors. Local evolutionary modifications of CT448 might render this proteolytic enzyme less susceptible against cyanobacterial secondary metabolites and might improve the fitness of Daphnia during cyanobacterial blooms.
PXD008499	30385413	Valorisation of the microalgae Nannochloropsis gaditana biomass by proteomic approach in the context of circular economy. 	Proteomics characterization of the non-model microorganism: Nannochloropsis gaditana.	Microalgae, Nannochloropsis gaditana, non-model organism	Nannochloropsis gaditana is a non-flagellated microalgae that has been widely used for different purposes, mostly related with the industrial production of biofuels or aquiculture. However, in order to increase the economic viability of the obtained microalgae biomass from a production plant coupled to a coal power plant, a proteomic approach was initiated by using fresh and atomized microalgae samples, as the main used commercial forms. Above 51,000 high quality spectra were obtained per sample in the MS/MS analysis of whole proteome of N. gaditana, yielding above 7,500 peptides, leading the identification of 1,950 proteins, from the N. gaditana protein database, where 655 proteins were presented in all the replicates. The identified proteins were categorized according to gene ontology classification by molecular function and biological process. In this study, it has been described the first proteomic analysis of the microalgae N. gaditana under industrial conditions containing an important number of identified proteins. A significative presence of proteins with a potential role in different agri-food and biomedical applications was detected and studied being the core of future N. gaditana research to expand the current biotechnological applications of this microalga. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY: Three quarters of the planet earth correspond to seas and oceans, however its potential biotechnological use is still unknown. We described the first proteomic description of the microalgae N. gaditana under industrial conditions. Following the spirit of the EU initiatives of blue growth and the statements of circular economy, CO2 waste from a coal plant power has been transformed in a resource for microalgae biomass production, common product presentations were evaluated by proteomic, and its potential use of identified proteins in Agri-food and Biomedicine has been revealed.
PXD014239	30385415	Venom proteome of Bungarus sindanus (Sind krait) from Pakistan and in vivo cross-neutralization of toxicity using an Indian polyvalent antivenom. 	Venom proteome of Pakistani Bungarus sindanus (Sind krait)	Cross-neutralization, ELISA, Immunoreactivity, Snake venom, VINS antivenom, challenge-rescue experiment	The proteome of the Pakistani B. sindanus venom was investigated with reverse-phase HPLC and nano-ESI-LCMS/MS analysis. At least 36 distinct proteins belonging to 8 toxin protein families were identified. Three-finger toxin (3FTx), phospholipase A2 (including beta-bungarotoxin A-chains) and Kunitz-type serine protease inhibitor (KSPI) were the most abundant, constituting ~95% of total venom proteins. The other toxin proteins of low abundance are snake venom metalloproteinase (SVMP), L-amino acid oxidase (LAAO), acetylcholinesterase (AChE), vespryn and cysteine-rich secretory protein (CRiSP). The venom was highly lethal to mice with LD50 values of 0.04 mug/g (intravenous) and 0.15 mug/g (subcutaneous). The 3FTx proteins are diverse, comprising kappa-neurotoxins, neurotoxin-like protein, non-conventional toxins and muscarinic toxin-like proteins. Kappa-neurotoxins and beta-bungarotoxins represent the major toxins that mediate neurotoxicity in B. sindanus envenoming. Alpha-bungarotoxin, commonly present in the Southeast Asian krait venoms, was undetected. The Indian VINS Polyvalent Antivenom (VPAV) was immunoreactive toward the venom, and it moderately cross-neutralized the venom lethality (potency = 0.25 mg/ml). VPAV was able to reverse the neurotoxicity and prevent death in experimentally envenomed mice, but the recovery time was long. The unique toxin composition of B. sindanus venom may be considered in the formulation of a more effective pan-regional, polyspecific antivenom. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Bungarus sindanus, an endemic krait species distributed mainly in the Sindh Province of Pakistan is a cause of snake envenomation. Its specific antivenom is, however, lacking. The proteomic study of its venom revealed a substantial presence of kappa-bungarotoxins and beta-bungarotoxins. The toxin profile corroborates the potent neurotoxicity and lethality of the venom tested in vivo. The heterologous Indian VINS polyvalent antivenom (VPAV) cross-reacted with B. sindanus venom and cross-neutralized the venom neurotoxicity and lethality in mice, albeit the efficacy was moderate. The findings imply that B. sindanus and the phylogenetically related B. caeruleus of India share certain venom epitopes. Research should be advanced to improve the efficacy spectrum of a pan-regional polyspecific antivenom.
PXD010012	30385480	Online Parallel Accumulation-Serial Fragmentation (PASEF) with a Novel Trapped Ion Mobility Mass Spectrometer. 	Online parallel accumulation - serial fragmentation (PASEF) with a novel trapped ion mobility mass spectrometer	PASEF, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, TIMS, Technological, benchmarking, ion mobility, machine learning	In bottom-up proteomics, peptides are separated by liquid chromatography with elution peak widths in the range of seconds, whereas mass spectra are acquired in about 100 microseconds with time-of-flight (TOF) instruments. This allows adding ion mobility as a third dimension of separation. Among several formats, trapped ion mobility spectrometry (TIMS) is attractive because of its small size, low voltage requirements and high efficiency of ion utilization. We have recently demonstrated a scan mode termed parallel accumulation - serial fragmentation (PASEF), which multiplies the sequencing speed without any loss in sensitivity (Meier et al., PMID: 26538118). Here we introduce the timsTOF Pro instrument, which optimally implements online PASEF. It features an orthogonal ion path into the ion mobility device, limiting the amount of debris entering the instrument and making it very robust in daily operation. We investigate different precursor selection schemes for shotgun proteomics to optimally allocate in excess of 100 fragmentation events per second. More than 600,000 fragmentation spectra in standard 120 min LC runs are achievable, which can be used for near exhaustive precursor selection in complex mixtures or accumulating the signal of weak precursors. In 120 min single runs of HeLa digest, MaxQuant identified more than 6,000 proteins without matching to a library and with high quantitative reproducibility (R > 0.97). Online PASEF achieves a remarkable sensitivity with more than 2,500 proteins identified in 30 min runs of only 10 ng HeLa digest. We also show that highly reproducible collisional cross sections can be acquired on a large scale (R > 0.99). PASEF on the timsTOF Pro is a valuable addition to the technological toolbox in proteomics, with a number of unique operating modes that are only beginning to be explored.
PXD011256	30385786	Reciprocal inhibition of YAP/TAZ and NF-kappaB regulates osteoarthritic cartilage degradation. 	Analysis of YAP1 phosphorylation sites induced by TAK1		Osteoarthritis is one of the leading causes of pain and disability in the aged population due to articular cartilage damage. This warrants investigation of signaling mechanisms that could protect cartilage from degeneration and degradation. Here we show in a murine model of experimental osteoarthritis that YAP activation by transgenic overexpression or by deletion of its upstream inhibitory kinases Mst1/2 preserves articular cartilage integrity, whereas deletion of YAP in chondrocytes promotes cartilage disruption. Our work shows that YAP is both necessary and sufficient for the maintenance of cartilage homeostasis in osteoarthritis. Mechanistically, inflammatory cytokines, such as TNFalpha or IL-1beta, trigger YAP/TAZ degradation through TAK1-mediated phosphorylation. Furthermore, YAP directly interacts with TAK1 and attenuates NF-kappaB signaling by inhibiting substrate accessibility of TAK1. Our study establishes a reciprocal antagonism between Hippo-YAP/TAZ and NF-kappaB signaling in regulating the induction of matrix-degrading enzyme expression and cartilage degradation during osteoarthritis pathogenesis.
PXD007656	30387297	Estimating the Reliability of Low-Abundant Signals and Limited Replicate Measurements through MS2 Peak Area in SWATH. 	SWATH-MS in quality control of biologicals: Towards confident label-free and non-targeted quantification with single injection? - An illustration with plasma residuals profiling in human immunoglobulin.	Immunoglobulin, SWATH MS, TripleTOF5600, biologicals, single injection	Sequential windows acquisition of all theoretical fragment ions mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS) provides large-scale protein quantification with high accuracy and selectivity. Nevertheless, reliable quantification of low-abundant signals in complex samples remains challenging, as recently illustrated in a multicenter benchmark study of different label-free software tools. Here, the SWATH Replicates Analysis 2.0 template from Sciex is used to highlight that the relationship between the MS2 peak area and the variability can be described by a function. This functional relationship appears to be largely insensitive to variation in samples or acquisition conditions, suggesting a device-intrinsic property. By using a power regression, it is shown that the MS2 peak area can be used to predict the quantification repeatability without relying on replicate injections, thus contributing to high-throughput confident quantification of low-abundant signals with SWATH-MS.
PXD002021	30387612	Global Ion Suppression Limits the Potential of Mass Spectrometry Based Phosphoproteomics. 	Exploiting the multiplexing capabilities of tandem mass tags for high-throughput estimation of cellular protein abundances by mass spectrometry	HEK cells, S. Pombe, TMT, absolute quantification, iBAQ	Mass spectrometry based proteomics has become the method of choice for pinpointing and monitoring thousands of post-translational modifications, predominately phosphorylation sites, in cellular signaling studies. Critical for achieving this analytical depth is the enrichment of phosphorylated peptides prior to liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. Despite the high prevalence of this modification, the numbers of identified phosphopeptides lag behind those achieved for unmodified peptides, and the cause for this still remains controversial. Here, we use an effective phosphatase protocol that considerably improves global ionization efficiency and, therefore, the overall sensitivity and coverage of standard phosphoproteomics studies. We demonstrate the power of our method on the model system of Salmonella-infected macrophages by extending the current quantitative picture of immune signaling pathways involved in infection. In combination with sensitive, label-free targeted MS for phosphorylation site validation, our approach is ideally suited to exploring cellular phosphorylation based signaling networks in high detail.
PXD030410	30389664	HRD1-ERAD controls production of the hepatokine FGF21 through CREBH polyubiquitination. 	HRD1-ERAD controls production of the hepatokine FGF21 through CREBH polyubiquitination	CREBH, ER-associated degradation, FGF21, HRD1, multi-organ crosstalk	The endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation (ERAD) is responsible for recognizing and retro-translocating protein substrates, misfolded or not, from the ER for cytosolic proteasomal degradation. HMG-CoA Reductase (HMGCR) Degradation protein-HRD1-was initially identified as an E3 ligase critical for ERAD. However, its physiological functions remain largely undefined. Herein, we discovered that hepatic HRD1 expression is induced in the postprandial condition upon mouse refeeding. Mice with liver-specific HRD1 deletion failed to repress FGF21 production in serum and liver even in the refeeding condition and phenocopy the FGF21 gain-of-function mice showing growth retardation, female infertility, and diurnal circadian behavior disruption. HRD1-ERAD facilitates the degradation of the liver-specific ER-tethered transcription factor CREBH to downregulate FGF21 expression. HRD1-ERAD catalyzes polyubiquitin conjugation onto CREBH at lysine 294 for its proteasomal degradation, bridging a multi-organ crosstalk in regulating growth, circadian behavior, and female fertility through regulating the CREBH-FGF21 regulatory axis.
PXD009648	30389668	The kinetochore module Okp1(CENP-Q)/Ame1(CENP-U) is a reader for N-terminal modifications on the centromeric histone Cse4(CENP-A). 	Cross-linking/mass spectrometry analysis of the AOC complex	Ame1, CENP-A, Cross-linking/mass spectrometry, Okp1, centromere, protein interaction	Kinetochores are supramolecular assemblies that link centromeres to microtubules for sister chromatid segregation in mitosis. For this, the inner kinetochore CCAN/Ctf19 complex binds to centromeric chromatin containing the histone variant CENP-A, but whether the interaction of kinetochore components to centromeric nucleosomes is regulated by posttranslational modifications is unknown. Here, we investigated how methylation of arginine 37 (R37Me) and acetylation of lysine 49 (K49Ac) on the CENP-A homolog Cse4 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae regulate molecular interactions at the inner kinetochore. Importantly, we found that the Cse4 N-terminus binds with high affinity to the Ctf19 complex subassembly Okp1/Ame1 (CENP-Q/CENP-U in higher eukaryotes), and that this interaction is inhibited by R37Me and K49Ac modification on Cse4. In vivo defects in cse4-R37A were suppressed by mutations in OKP1 and AME1, and biochemical analysis of a mutant version of Okp1 showed increased affinity for Cse4. Altogether, our results demonstrate that the Okp1/Ame1 heterodimer is a reader module for posttranslational modifications on Cse4, thereby targeting the yeast CCAN complex to centromeric chromatin.
PXD011139	30389913	Myh10 deficiency leads to defective extracellular matrix remodeling and pulmonary disease. 	Myh10 deficiency leads to defective extracellular matrix remodeling and pulmonary disease	ECM remodeling, MMP, Myh10/NM IIB, THBS, emphysema, lung development	Impaired alveolar formation and maintenance are features of many pulmonary diseases that are associated with significant morbidity and mortality. In a forward genetic screen for modulators of mouse lung development, we identified the non-muscle myosin II heavy chain gene, Myh10. Myh10 mutant pups exhibit cyanosis and respiratory distress, and die shortly after birth from differentiation defects in alveolar epithelium and mesenchyme. From omics analyses and follow up studies, we find decreased Thrombospondin expression accompanied with increased matrix metalloproteinase activity in both mutant lungs and cultured mutant fibroblasts, as well as disrupted extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling. Loss of Myh10 specifically in mesenchymal cells results in ECM deposition defects and alveolar simplification. Notably, MYH10 expression is downregulated in the lung of emphysema patients. Altogether, our findings reveal critical roles for Myh10 in alveologenesis at least in part via the regulation of ECM remodeling, which may contribute to the pathogenesis of emphysema.
PXD010512	30389936	NuRD-interacting protein ZFP296 regulates genome-wide NuRD localization and differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells. 	NuRD-interacting protein ZFP296 regulates genome-wide NuRD localization and differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells	ESC, NPC, NuRD, ZFP296	The nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD) complex plays an important role in gene expression regulation, stem cell self-renewal, and lineage commitment. However, little is known about the dynamics of NuRD during cellular differentiation. Here, we study these dynamics using genome-wide profiling and quantitative interaction proteomics in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and neural progenitor cells (NPCs). We find that the genomic targets of NuRD are highly dynamic during differentiation, with most binding occurring at cell-type specific promoters and enhancers. We identify ZFP296 as an ESC-specific NuRD interactor that also interacts with the SIN3A complex. ChIP-sequencing in Zfp296 knockout (KO) ESCs reveals decreased NuRD binding both genome-wide and at ZFP296 binding sites, although this has little effect on the transcriptome. Nevertheless, Zfp296 KO ESCs exhibit delayed induction of lineage-specific markers upon differentiation to embryoid bodies. In summary, we identify an ESC-specific NuRD-interacting protein which regulates genome-wide NuRD binding and cellular differentiation.
PXD009880	30391543	Deficiency of the mitochondrial sulfide regulator ETHE1 disturbs cell growth, glutathione level and causes proteome alterations outside mitochondria. 	LC-MS/MS proteomics of ETHE1 deficient patient fibroblasts_Study-1	ETHE1 deficiency, LC-MS/MS ethylmalonic acid encephalopathy, TMT labeling, patient fibroblasts	The mitochondrial enzyme ETHE1 is a persulfide dioxygenase essential for cellular sulfide detoxification, and its deficiency causes the severe and complex inherited metabolic disorder ethylmalonic encephalopathy (EE). In spite of well-described clinical symptoms of the disease, detailed cellular and molecular characterization is still ambiguous. Cellular redox regulation has been described to be influenced in ETHE1 deficient cells, and to clarify this further we applied image cytometry and detected decreased levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) in cultivated EE patient fibroblast cells. Cell growth initiation of the EE patient cells was impaired, whereas cell cycle regulation was not. Furthermore, Seahorse metabolic analyzes revealed decreased extracellular acidification, i. e. decreased lactate formation from glycolysis, in the EE patient cells. TMT-based large-scale proteomics was subsequently performed to broadly elucidate cellular consequences of the ETHE1 deficiency. More than 130 proteins were differentially regulated, of which the majority were non-mitochondrial. The proteomics data revealed a link between ETHE1-deficiency and down-regulation of several ribosomal proteins and LIM domain proteins important for cellular maintenance, and up-regulation of cell surface glycoproteins. Furthermore, several proteins of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) were perturbed including proteins influencing disulfide bond formation (e.g. protein disulfide isomerases and peroxiredoxin 4) and calcium-regulated proteins. The results indicate that decreased level of reduced GSH and alterations in proteins of ribosomes, ER and of cell adhesion lie behind the disrupted cell growth of the EE patient cells.
PXD010115	30392668	Quantification of the soluble Receptor of Advanced Glycation End-Products (sRAGE) by LC-MS after enrichment by strong cation exchange (SCX) solid-phase extraction (SPE) at the protein level. 	Quantification of the Soluble Receptor of Advanced Glycation End-Products (sRAGE) by LC-MS Without the Use of Affinity Enrichment	SCX fractionation, human serum, sRAGE	The study of low abundant proteins contributes to increasing our knowledge about (patho)physiological processes and may lead to the identification and clinical application of disease markers. However, studying these proteins is challenging as high-abundant proteins complicate their analysis. Antibodies are often used to enrich proteins from biological matrices prior to their analysis, though antibody-free approaches have been described for some proteins as well. Here we report an antibody-free workflow on the basis of strong cation exchange (SCX) enrichment and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) for quantification of the soluble Receptor of Advanced Glycation End-products (sRAGE), a promising biomarker in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). sRAGE was quantified in serum at clinically relevant low to sub ng mL(-1) levels. The method was validated according to U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European Medicines Agency (EMA) guidelines and was compared to an antibody-based LC-MS sRAGE method. The SCX-based method builds upon the bipolar charge distribution of sRAGE, which has a highly basic N-terminal part and an acidic C-terminal part resulting in an overall neutral isoelectric point (pI). The highly basic N-terminal part (pIcalculated = 10.3) allowed for sRAGE to be enriched by SCX at pH 10, a pH at which most serum proteins do not bind. This study shows that ion exchange-based enrichment is a viable approach for the LC-MS analysis of several low abundant proteins following a thorough analysis of their physical-chemical properties.
PXD011510	30392929	Critical Role of the UBL Domain in Stimulating the E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Activity of UHRF1 toward Chromatin. 	Critical role of the UBL-domain in stimulating the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of UHRF1 towards chromatin	DNA methylation, Histone modification, UHRF1, Ubiquitin-like fold, chromatin, ubiquitylation	The RING E3 ubiquitin ligase UHRF1 controls DNA methylation through its ability to target the maintenance DNA methyltransferase DNMT1 to newly replicated chromatin. DNMT1 recruitment relies on ubiquitylation of histone H3 by UHRF1; however, how UHRF1 deposits ubiquitin onto the histone is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the ubiquitin-like domain (UBL) of UHRF1 is essential for RING-mediated H3 ubiquitylation. Using chemical crosslinking and mass spectrometry, biochemical assays, and recombinant chromatin substrates, we show that the UBL participates in structural rearrangements of UHRF1 upon binding to chromatin and the E2 ubiquitin conjugating enzyme UbcH5a/UBE2D1. Similar to ubiquitin, the UBL exerts its effects through a hydrophobic patch that contacts a regulatory surface on the "backside" of the E2 to stabilize the E2-E3-chromatin complex. Our analysis of the enzymatic mechanism of UHRF1 uncovers an unexpected function of the UBL domain and defines a new role for this domain in DNMT1-dependent inheritance of DNA methylation.
PXD011574	30394099	Multiparameter Optimization of Two Common Proteomics Quantification Methods for Quantifying Low-Abundance Proteins. 	Multi-parameter optimization of two common proteomics quantification methods for quantifying low-abundance proteins	label-free quantification, low-abundance proteins, quantitative proteomics, tandem mass tags	Quantitative proteomics has been extensively applied in the screening of differentially regulated proteins in various research areas for decades, but its sensitivity and accuracy have been a bottleneck for many applications. Every step in the proteomics workflow can potentially affect the quantification of low-abundance proteins, but a systematic evaluation of their effects has not been done yet. In this work, to improve the sensitivity and accuracy of label-free quantification and tandem mass tags (TMT) labeling in quantifying low-abundance proteins, multiparameter optimization was carried out using a complex 2-proteome artificial sample mixture for a series of steps from sample preparation to data analysis, including the desalting of peptides, peptide injection amount for LC-MS/MS, MS1 resolution, the length of LC-MS/MS gradient, AGC targets, ion accumulation time, MS2 resolution, precursor coisolation threshold, data analysis software, statistical calculation methods, and protein fold changes, and the best settings for each parameter were defined. The suitable cutoffs for detecting low-abundance proteins with at least 1.5-fold and 2-fold changes were identified for label-free and TMT methods, respectively. The use of optimized parameters will significantly improve the overall performance of quantitative proteomics in quantifying low-abundance proteins and thus promote its application in other research areas.
PXD011487	30394753	Proteogenomic Analyses of Cellular Lysates Using a Phenol-Guanidinium Thiocyanate Reagent. 	Proteomic Profiling of HEK293-F cell and human peripheral blood neutrophil proteins extracted by conventional direct extraction and phenol-guanidinium isothiocyanate (P/GTC)-based extraction methods	HEK293 cell, neutrophil, phenol-guanidinium isothiocyanate	Protein and RNA profiles are highly informative when generating a comprehensive understanding of the dynamics of complex biological systems. Quantitative correlations between protein and RNA profiles are not always high, yet simultaneous acquisition of both profiles remains challenging, in part because of the limited availability of samples and the inconvenience of separately preparing protein and RNA fractions. In a previous study, protein, DNA, and RNA fractions were simultaneously prepared from the same sample using phenol-guanidinium isothiocyanate reagent (P/GTC), although the performance of P/GTC-extracts in proteogenomic analyses remains poorly understood. We therefore evaluated the performance of the P/GTC-extraction method in proteogenomic analyses using standard HEK293-F cells and human peripheral blood neutrophils. The latter cell type is renowned for its extreme vulnerability to protein/RNA degradation, reflecting high protease and RNase activities. Our data indicate that the P/GTC extraction method provides superior protein profiles from neutrophil and HEK293-F cell samples for simultaneous preparation of RNA and protein, as compared with those from conventional protein extraction methods. The P/GTC extraction method therefore provides a powerful and robust tool for a broad range of proteogenomic studies.
PXD008351	30395972	Quantitative proteomics reveals mitochondrial respiratory chain as a dominant target for carbon ion radiation: Delayed reactive oxygen species generation caused DNA damage. 	Human AHH1 cells heavy ion irradiation LC-MSMS	AHH1 cells, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, heavy ion radiation	Heavy ion radiotherapy has shown great promise for cancer therapy. Understanding the cellular response mechanism to heavy ion radiation is required to explore measures of overcoming devastating side effects. Here, we performed a quantitative proteomic analysis to investigate the mechanism of carbon ion irradiation on human AHH-1 lymphoblastoid cells. We identified 4602 proteins and quantified 4569 proteins showing high coverage in the mitochondria. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008351. After stringent filtering, 290 proteins were found to be significantly up-regulated and 16 proteins were down-regulated. Functional analysis revealed that these up-regulated proteins were enriched in the process of DNA damage repair, mitochondrial ribosome, and particularly mitochondrial respiratory chain, accounting for approximately 50% of the accumulated proteins. Bioinformatics and functional analysis demonstrated that these up-regulated mitochondrial respiratory chain proteins enhanced ATP production and simultaneously reactive oxygen species release. More importantly, increased reactive oxygen species led to secondary organelle injury and lagged DNA double-strand breaks. Consistently, the expression of antioxidant enzymes was up-regulated for free radical scavenging. The mechanism of lagged secondary injury originated from disturbances in the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Our results provided a novel target for cell self-repair against heavy ion radiation-induced cellular damage.
PXD009706	30401937	Proteomics as a new tool to study fingermark ageing in forensics. 	Fingermark Proteomics -  Proteomics as a new tool to study fingermark ageing in forensics	Fingermarks	Fingermarks are trace evidence of great forensic importance, and their omnipresence makes them pivotal in crime investigation. Police and law enforcement authorities have exploited fingermarks primarily for personal identification, but crucial knowledge on when fingermarks were deposited is often lacking, thereby hindering crime reconstruction. Biomolecular constituents of fingermark residue, such as amino acids, lipids and proteins, may provide excellent means for fingermark age determination, however robust methodologies or detailed knowledge on molecular mechanisms in time are currently not available. Here, we address fingermark age assessment by: (i) drafting a first protein map of fingermark residue, (ii) differential studies of fresh and aged fingermarks and (iii), to mimic real-world scenarios, estimating the effects of donor contact with bodily fluids on the identification of potential age biomarkers. Using a high-resolution mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach, we drafted a characteristic fingermark proteome, of which five proteins were identified as promising candidates for fingermark age estimation. This study additionally demonstrates successful identification of both endogenous and contaminant proteins from donors that have been in contact with various bodily fluids. In summary, we introduce state-of-the-art proteomics as a sensitive tool to monitor fingermark aging on the protein level with sufficient selectivity to differentiate potential age markers from body fluid contaminants.
PXD011494	30403372	Germline VRC01 antibody recognition of a modified clade C HIV-1 envelope trimer and a glycosylated HIV-1 gp120 core. 	Recombinant HIV-1 426c Env Tryptic Digest Glycan Identifications and Semi-Quantification	426c, CryoEM, EndoH, GLVRC01, Glycan, HIV, HIV-1, Human Immunodeficiency Virus, Immunogen, Mannose, Oligosaccharide, VRC01, VRC01GL, Vaccine, Xray Crystallography, gp120	VRC01 broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) target the CD4-binding site (CD4BS) of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) envelope glycoprotein (Env). Unlike mature antibodies, corresponding VRC01 germline precursors poorly bind to Env. Immunogen design has mostly relied on glycan removal from trimeric Env constructs and has had limited success in eliciting mature VRC01 bnAbs. To better understand elicitation of such bnAbs, we characterized the inferred germline precursor of VRC01 in complex with a modified trimeric 426c Env by cryo-electron microscopy and a 426c gp120 core by X-ray crystallography, biolayer interferometry, immunoprecipitation, and glycoproteomics. Our results show VRC01 germline antibodies interacted with a wild-type 426c core lacking variable loops 1-3 in the presence and absence of a glycan at position Asn276, with the latter form binding with higher affinity than the former. Interactions in the presence of an Asn276 oligosaccharide could be enhanced upon carbohydrate shortening, which should be considered for immunogen design.
PXD010841	30404163	A Comparative Quantitative LC-MS/MS Profiling Analysis of Human Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma, Adjacent-Normal Tissue, and Patient-Derived Tumour Xenografts. 	A comparative quantitative LC-MS/MS profiling analysis of human pancreatic adenocarcinoma, adjacent-normal tissue, and patient-derived tumour xenografts	pancreatic cancer	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the deadliest cancers worldwide; it develops in a relatively symptom-free manner, leading to rapid disease progression and metastasis, leading to a 5-year survival rate of less than 5%. A lack of dependable diagnostic markers and rapid development of resistance to conventional therapies are among the problems associated with management of the disease. A better understanding of pancreatic tumour biology and discovery of new potential therapeutic targets are important goals in pancreatic cancer research. This study describes the comparative quantitative LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis of the membrane-enriched proteome of 10 human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas, 9 matched adjacent-normal pancreas and patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) in mice (10 at F1 generation and 10 F2). Quantitative label-free LC-MS/MS data analysis identified 129 proteins upregulated, and 109 downregulated, in PDAC, compared to adjacent-normal tissue. In this study, analysing peptide MS/MS data from the xenografts, great care was taken to distinguish species-specific peptides definitively derived from human sequences, or from mice, which could not be distinguished. The human-only peptides from the PDXs are of particular value, since only human tumour cells survive, and stromal cells are replaced during engraftment in the mouse; this list is, therefore, enriched in tumour-associated proteins, some of which might be potential therapeutic or diagnostic targets. Using human-specific sequences, 32 proteins were found to be upregulated, and 113 downregulated in PDX F1 tumours, compared to primary PDAC. Differential expression of CD55 between PDAC and normal pancreas, and expression across PDX generations, was confirmed by Western blotting. These data indicate the value of using PDX models in PDAC research. This study is the first comparative proteomic analysis of PDAC which employs PDX models to identify patient tumour cell-associated proteins, in an effort to find robust targets for therapeutic treatment of PDAC.
PXD011471	30404448	Single Amino Acid Variant Discovery in Small Numbers of Cells. 	Single amino acid variant     .	Panc-1	We have performed deep proteomic profiling down to as few as 9 Panc-1 cells using sample fractionation, TMT multiplexing, and a carrier/reference strategy. Off line fractionation of the TMT-labeled sample pooled with TMT-labeled carrier Panc-1 whole cell proteome was achieved using alkaline reversed phase spin columns. The fractionation in conjunction with the carrier/reference (C/R) proteome allowed us to detect 47 414 unique peptides derived from 6261 proteins, which provided a sufficient coverage to search for single amino acid variants (SAAVs) related to cancer. This high sample coverage is essential in order to detect a significant number of SAAVs. In order to verify genuine SAAVs versus false SAAVs, we used the SAVControl pipeline and found a total of 79 SAAVs from the 9-cell Panc-1 sample and 174 SAAVs from the 5000-cell Panc-1 C/R proteome. The SAAVs as sorted into high confidence and low confidence SAAVs were checked manually. All the high confidence SAAVs were found to be genuine SAAVs, while half of the low confidence SAAVs were found to be false SAAVs mainly related to PTMs. We identified several cancer-related SAAVs including KRAS, which is an important oncoprotein in pancreatic cancer. In addition, we were able to detect sites involved in loss or gain of glycosylation due to the enhanced coverage available in these experiments where we can detect both sites of loss and gain of glycosylation.
PXD011378	30404931	Surface Exposure and Packing of Lipoproteins into Outer Membrane Vesicles Are Coupled Processes in Bacteroides. 	Surface exposure and packing of lipoproteins into Outer Membrane Vesicles are coupled processes in Bacteroides.	Bacteroides. LC-MS, OMVs	Outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) are spherical structures derived from the outer membranes (OMs) of Gram-negative bacteria. Bacteroides spp. are prominent components of the human gut microbiota, and OMVs produced by these species are proposed to play key roles in gut homeostasis. OMV biogenesis in Bacteroides is a poorly understood process. Here, we revisited the protein composition of Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron OMVs by mass spectrometry. We confirmed that OMVs produced by this organism contain large quantities of glycosidases and proteases, with most of them being lipoproteins. We found that most of these OMV-enriched lipoproteins are encoded by polysaccharide utilization loci (PULs), such as the sus operon. We examined the subcellular locations of the components of the Sus system and found a split localization; the alpha-amylase SusG is highly enriched in OMVs, while the oligosaccharide importer SusC remains mostly in the OM. We found that all OMV-enriched lipoproteins possess a lipoprotein export sequence (LES), and we show that this signal mediates translocation of SusG from the periplasmic face of the OM toward the extracellular milieu. Mutations in the LES motif caused defects in surface exposure and recruitment of SusG into OMVs. These experiments link, for the first time, surface exposure to recruitment of proteins into OMVs. We also show that surface-exposed SusG in OMVs is active and rescues the growth of bacterial cells incapable of growing on starch as the only carbon source. Our results support the role of OMVs as "public goods" that can be utilized by other organisms with different metabolic capabilities.IMPORTANCE Species from the Bacteroides genus are predominant members of the human gut microbiota. OMVs in Bacteroides have been shown to be important for the homeostasis of complex host-commensal relationships, mainly involving immune tolerance and protection from disease. OMVs carry many enzymatic activities involved in the cleavage of complex polysaccharides and have been proposed as public goods that can provide growth to other bacterial species by release of polysaccharide breakdown products into the gut lumen. This work shows that the presence of a negatively charged rich amino acid motif (LES) is required for efficient packing of the surface-exposed alpha-amylase SusG into OMVs. Our findings strongly suggest that surface exposure is coupled to packing of Bacteroides lipoproteins into OMVs. This is the first step in the generation of tailor-made probiotic interventions that can exploit LES-related sequences to generate Bacteroides strains displaying proteins of interest in OMVs.
PXD010629	30405130	CDC20B is required for deuterosome-mediated centriole production in multiciliated cells. 	Identification of CDC20/CDC20B partners in HEK cells demonstrates that CDC20, but not CDC20B, interacts with multiple APC/C components	CDC20, CDC20B, HEK cells, PLK1, Separase, cell cycle, centriole, deuterosome, motile cilia	Multiciliated cells (MCCs) harbor dozens to hundreds of motile cilia, which generate hydrodynamic forces important in animal physiology. In vertebrates, MCC differentiation involves massive centriole production by poorly characterized structures called deuterosomes. Here, single-cell RNA sequencing reveals that human deuterosome stage MCCs are characterized by the expression of many cell cycle-related genes. We further investigated the uncharacterized vertebrate-specific cell division cycle 20B (CDC20B) gene, which hosts microRNA-449abc. We show that CDC20B protein associates to deuterosomes and is required for centriole release and subsequent cilia production in mouse and Xenopus MCCs. CDC20B interacts with PLK1, a kinase known to coordinate centriole disengagement with the protease Separase in mitotic cells. Strikingly, over-expression of Separase rescues centriole disengagement and cilia production in CDC20B-deficient MCCs. This work reveals the shaping of deuterosome-mediated centriole production in vertebrate MCCs, by adaptation of canonical and recently evolved cell cycle-related molecules.
PXD011228	30405629	Comparative Glycomics of Immunoglobulin A and G From Saliva and Plasma Reveals Biomarker Potential. 	IgA deglycosylation to identify glycosylation sites	IgA, colostrum, plasma, saliva, secretory IgA	The N-glycosylation of immunoglobulin (Ig) G, the major antibody in the circulation of human adults, is well known for its influence on antibody effector functions and its alterations with various diseases. In contrast, knowledge on the role of glycans attached to IgA, which is a key immune defense agent in secretions, is very scarce. In this study we aimed to characterize the glycosylation of salivary (secretory) IgA, including the IgA joining chain (JC), and secretory component (SC) and to compare IgA and IgG glycosylation between human plasma and saliva samples to gain a first insight into oral cavity-specific antibody glycosylation. Plasma and whole saliva were collected from 19 healthy volunteers within a 2-h time window. IgG and IgA were affinity-purified from the two biofluids, followed by tryptic digestion and nanoLC-ESI-QTOF-MS(/MS) analysis. Saliva-derived IgG exhibited a slightly lower galactosylation and sialylation as compared to plasma-derived IgG. Glycosylation of IgA1, IgA2, and the JC showed substantial differences between the biofluids, with salivary proteins exhibiting a higher bisection, and lower galactosylation and sialylation as compared to plasma-derived IgA and JC. Additionally, all seven N-glycosylation sites, characterized on the SC of secretory IgA in saliva, carried highly fucosylated and fully galactosylated diantennary N-glycans. This study lays the basis for future research into the functional role of salivary Ig glycosylation as well as its biomarker potential.
PXD011042	30406044	Proteomic Profiling of Burkholderia thailandensis During Host Infection Using Bio-Orthogonal Noncanonical Amino Acid Tagging (BONCAT). 	Proteomic profiling of Burkholderia thailandensis during host infection	BONCAT, Burkholderia thailandensis	Burkholderia pseudomallei and B. mallei are the causative agents of melioidosis and glanders, respectively, and are often fatal to humans and animals. Owing to the high fatality rate, potential for spread by aerosolization, and the lack of efficacious therapeutics, B. pseudomallei and B. mallei are considered biothreat agents of concern. In this study, we investigate the proteome of Burkholderia thailandensis, a closely related surrogate for the two more virulent Burkholderia species, during infection of host cells, and compare to that of B. thailandensis in culture. Studying the proteome of Burkholderia spp. during infection is expected to reveal molecular mechanisms of intracellular survival and host immune evasion; but proteomic profiling of Burkholderia during host infection is challenging. Proteomic analyses of host-associated bacteria are typically hindered by the overwhelming host protein content recovered from infected cultures. To address this problem, we have applied bio-orthogonal noncanonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) to B. thailandensis, enabling the enrichment of newly expressed bacterial proteins from virtually any growth condition, including host cell infection. In this study, we show that B. thailandensis proteins were selectively labeled and efficiently enriched from infected host cells using BONCAT. We also demonstrate that this method can be used to label bacteria in situ by fluorescent tagging. Finally, we present a global proteomic profile of B. thailandensis as it infects host cells and a list of proteins that are differentially regulated in infection conditions as compared to bacterial monoculture. Among the identified proteins are quorum sensing regulated genes as well as homologs to previously identified virulence factors. This method provides a powerful tool to study the molecular processes during Burkholderia infection, a much-needed addition to the Burkholderia molecular toolbox.
PXD011944	30408962	Multiplex Assay for Quantification of Acute Phase Proteins and Immunoglobulin A in Dried Blood Spots. 	Multiplex assay for quantification of acute phase proteins and immunoglobulin A in dried blood spots	acute phase proteins, dried blood spots, immune response, inflammation markers, selected reaction monitoring, targeted quantitative proteomics	Inflammation is the first line defense mechanism against infection, tissue damage, or cancer development. However, inappropriate inflammatory response may also trigger diseases. The quantification of inflammatory proteins is essential to distinguish between harmful and beneficial immune response. Currently used immunoanalytical assays may suffer specificity issues due to antigen-antibody interaction and possible cross-reactivity of antibody with other protein species. In addition, immunoanalytical assays typically require invasive blood sampling and additional logistics; they are relatively costly and highly challenging to multiplex. We present a multiplex assay based on selected reaction monitoring (SRM) for quantification of seven acute-phase proteins (i.e., SAA1, SAA2-isoform1, SAA4, CRP, A1AT-isoform1, A1AG1, A1AG2) and the adaptive immunity effector IGHA1 in dried blood spots. This type of sample is readily available from all human subjects including newborns. The study utilizes proteotypic isotopically labeled peptides with trypsin-cleavable tag and presents optimized and reproducible workflow and several important practical remarks regarding quantitative SRM assays development. The panel of inflammatory proteins was quantified with sequence specificity capable to differentiate protein isoforms with intra- and interday precision (<16.4% coefficient of variation (CV) and <14.3% CV, respectively). Quantitative results were correlated with immuno-nephelometric assay (typically greater than 0.9 Pearson's R).
PXD009244	30409303	Label-free tissue proteomics can classify oral squamous cell carcinoma from healthy tissue in a stage-specific manner. 	Quantitative Label Free Ultra Definition Mass-Spectrometry Provides Novel Data on the Proteomic Signature of Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma	Label-free proteomics, OSCC, Tissue proteomics, Tongue cancer	OBJECTIVES: No prognostic or predictive biomarkers for oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) exist. We aimed to discover novel proteins, altered in OSCC, to be further investigated as potential biomarkers, and to improve understanding about pathways involved in OSCC. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Proteomic signatures of seven paired healthy and OSCC tissue samples were identified using ultra-definition quantitative mass spectrometry, then analysed and compared using Anova, principal component analysis, hierarchical clustering and OPLS-DA modelling. A selection of significant proteins that were also altered in the serum from a previous study (PMID: 28632724) were validated immunohistochemically on an independent cohort (n = 66) to confirm immunopositivity and location within tumour tissue. Ingenuity Pathways Analysis was employed to identify altered pathways. RESULTS: Of 829 proteins quantified, 257 were significant and 72 were able to classify healthy vs OSCC using OPLS-DA modelling. We identified 19 proteins not previously known to be upregulated in OSCC, including prosaposin and alpha-taxilin. KIAA1217 and NDRG1 were upregulated in stage IVa compared with stage I tumours. Altered pathways included calcium signalling, cellular movement, haematological system development and function, and immune cell trafficking, and involved NF-kB and MAPK networks. CONCLUSIONS: We found a set of proteins reliably separating OSCC tumour from healthy tissue, and multiple proteins differing between stage I and stage IVa OSCC. These potential biomarkers can be studied and validated in larger cohorts.
PXD010780	30409808	Formyl-methionine as an N-degron of a eukaryotic N-end rule pathway. 	Yeast N-terminome SILAC -  Formyl-methionine as an N-degron of a eukaryotic N-end rule pathway	Formyl, N-terminome, SILAC	In bacteria, nascent proteins bear the pretranslationally generated N-terminal (Nt) formyl-methionine (fMet) residue. Nt-fMet of bacterial proteins is a degradation signal, termed fMet/N-degron. By contrast, proteins synthesized by cytosolic ribosomes of eukaryotes were presumed to bear unformylated Nt-Met. Here we found that the yeast formyltransferase Fmt1, although imported into mitochondria, could also produce Nt-formylated proteins in the cytosol. Nt-formylated proteins were strongly up-regulated in stationary phase or upon starvation for specific amino acids. This up-regulation strictly required the Gcn2 kinase, which phosphorylates Fmt1 and mediates its retention in the cytosol. We also found that the Nt-fMet residues of Nt-formylated proteins act as fMet/N-degrons and identified the Psh1 ubiquitin ligase as the recognition component of the eukaryotic fMet/N-end rule pathway, which destroys Nt-formylated proteins.
PXD010313	30410018	A rice Serine/Threonine receptor-like kinase regulates arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis at the peri-arbuscular membrane. 	Oryza sativa AM fungi interaction	FASP, Oryza sativa, membrane enrichment, periarbuscular membrane	In terrestrial ecosystems most plant species live in mutualistic symbioses with nutrient-delivering arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. Establishment of AM symbioses includes transient, intracellular formation of fungal feeding structures, the arbuscules. A plant-derived peri-arbuscular membrane (PAM) surrounds the arbuscules, mediating reciprocal nutrient exchange. Signaling at the PAM must be well coordinated to achieve this dynamic cellular intimacy. Here, we identify the PAM-specific Arbuscular Receptor-like Kinase 1 (ARK1) from maize and rice to condition sustained AM symbiosis. Mutation of rice ARK1 causes a significant reduction in vesicles, the fungal storage structures, and a concomitant reduction in overall root colonization by the AM fungus Rhizophagus irregularis. Arbuscules, although less frequent in the ark1 mutant, are morphologically normal. Co-cultivation with wild-type plants restores vesicle and spore formation, suggesting ARK1 function is required for the completion of the fungal life-cycle, thereby defining a functional stage, post arbuscule development.
PXD009850	30410026	HLA-B57 micropolymorphism defines the sequence and conformational breadth of the immunopeptidome. 	Impacts of HLA-B57 micropolymorphism (MRM)	HLA-B57, Immunopeptidome, MHC, MRM	Immunophenotypic differences between closely related human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles have been associated with divergent clinical outcomes in infection, autoimmunity, transplantation and drug hypersensitivity. Here we explore the impact of micropolymorphism on peptide antigen presentation by three closely related HLA molecules, HLA-B*57:01, HLA-B*57:03 and HLA-B*58:01, that are differentially associated with the HIV elite controller phenotype and adverse drug reactions. For each allotype, we mine HLA ligand data sets derived from the same parental cell proteome to define qualitative differences in peptide presentation using classical peptide binding motifs and an unbiased statistical approach. The peptide repertoires show marked qualitative overlap, with 982 peptides presented by all allomorphs. However, differences in peptide abundance, HLA-peptide stability, and HLA-bound conformation demonstrate that HLA micropolymorphism impacts more than simply the range of peptide ligands. These differences provide grounds for distinct immune reactivity and insights into the capacity of micropolymorphism to diversify immune outcomes.
PXD011061	30410062	Bi-directional signaling by membrane-bound KitL induces proliferation and coordinates thymic endothelial cell and thymocyte expansion. 	Bi-directional signaling by membrane-bound KitL induces proliferation and co-ordinates thymic endothelial cell and thymocyte expansion	Kit ligand, bi-directional signalling, thymocyte expansion	The ligand for the c-Kit receptor, KitL, exists as a membrane-associated (mKitL) and a soluble form (sKitL). KitL functions outside c-Kit activation have not been identified. We show that co-culture of c-Kit- and mKitL-expressing NIH3T3 cells results in signaling through mKitL: c-Kit-bound mKitL recruits calcium-modulating cyclophilin ligand (CAML) to selectively activate Akt, leading to CREB phosphorylation, mTOR pathway activation, and increased cell proliferation. Activation of mKitL in thymic vascular endothelial cells (VECs) induces mKitL- and Akt-dependent proliferation, and genetic ablation of mKitL in thymic VECs blocks their c-Kit responsiveness and proliferation during neonatal thymic expansion. Therefore, mKitL-c-Kit form a bi-directional signaling complex that acts in the developing thymus to coordinate thymic VEC and early thymic progenitor (ETP) expansion by simultaneously promoting ETP survival and VEC proliferation. This mechanism may be relevant to both normal tissues and malignant tumors that depend on KitL-c-Kit signaling for their proliferation.
PXD009809	30411469	The global regulator Crc orchestrates the metabolic robustness underlying oxidative stress resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	Detailed map of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa Crc regulon using a new parameter for tracking post-transcriptional regulation	P. aeruginosa, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, post-transcriptional regulation	The remarkable metabolic versatility of bacteria of the genus Pseudomonas enable their survival across very diverse environmental conditions. P. aeruginosa, one of the most relevant opportunistic pathogens, is a prime example of this adaptability. The interplay between regulatory networks that mediate these metabolic and physiological features is just starting to be explored in detail. Carbon catabolite repression, governed by the Crc protein, controls the availability of several enzymes and transporters involved in the assimilation of secondary carbon sources. Yet, the regulation exerted by Crc on redox metabolism of P. aeruginosa (hence, on the overall physiology) had hitherto been unexplored. In this study, we address the intimate connection between carbon catabolite repression and metabolic robustness of P. aeruginosa PAO1. In particular, we explored the interplay between oxidative stress, metabolic rearrangements in central carbon metabolism and the cellular redox state. By adopting a combination of quantitative physiology experiments, multiomic analyses, transcriptional patterns of key genes, measurement of metabolic activities in vitro and direct quantification of redox balances both in the wild-type strain and in an isogenic Deltacrc derivative, we demonstrate that Crc orchestrates the overall response of P. aeruginosa to oxidative stress via reshaping of the core metabolic architecture in this bacterium.
PXD009144	30411850	Identification of Proteomic Markers in Head and Neck Cancer Using MALDI-MS Imaging, LC-MS/MS, and Immunohistochemistry. 	Identification of proteomic markers in head and neck cancer using MALDI-MS Imaging, LC-MS/MS and IHC	MALDI-MS Imaging, biomarker, cancer, immunohistochemistry	PURPOSE: The heterogeneity of squamous cell carcinoma tissue greatly complicates diagnosis and individualized therapy. Therefore, characterizing the heterogeneity of tissue spatially and identifying appropriate biomarkers is crucial. MALDI-MS imaging (MSI) is capable of analyzing spatially resolved tissue biopsies on a molecular level. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: MALDI-MSI is used on snap frozen and formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue samples from patients with head and neck cancer (HNC) to analyze m/z values localized in tumor and nontumor regions. Peptide identification is performed using LC-MS/MS and immunohistochemistry (IHC). RESULTS: In both FFPE and frozen tissue specimens, eight characteristic masses of the tumor's epithelial region are found. Using LC-MS/MS, the peaks are identified as vimentin, keratin type II, nucleolin, heat shock protein 90, prelamin-A/C, junction plakoglobin, and PGAM1. Lastly, vimentin, nucleolin, and PGAM1 are verified with IHC. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The combination of MALDI-MSI, LC-MS/MS, and subsequent IHC furnishes a tool suitable for characterizing the molecular heterogeneity of tissue. It is also suited for use in identifying new representative biomarkers to enable a more individualized therapy.
PXD006353	30411858	UFLC-Derived CSF Extracellular Vesicle Origin and Proteome. 	An optimised method for CSF extracellular vesicle extraction and comparative proteomic analysis	Extracellular vesicles, cerebrospinal fluid	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) extracellular vesicles (EVs) show promise as a source of neurological disease biomarkers, although their precise origin is poorly understood. Current extraction techniques produce disappointing yield and purity. This study describes the application of ultrafiltration LC (UFLC) to CSF-EVs, compared with ultracentrifugation (UC), and explores CSF-EV origin. EVs are extracted from human CSF by UC and UFLC and characterized using nanoparticle tracking analysis, electron microscopy, and immunoblotting. EV and CSF proteomes are analyzed by LC-MS/MS. UFLC-isolated particles have size, morphology, and marker expression characteristic of EVs. UFLC provides greater EV yield (UFLC 7.90 x 10(8)  +/- SD 1.31 x 10(8) EVs mL(-1) CSF, UC 1.06 x 10(8)  +/- 0.57 x 10(8) p < 0.001). UFLC enhances purity, proteomic depth (UFLC 622 +/- 49, UC 298 +/- 50, p = 0.001), and consistency of quantification (CV 17% vs 23%). EVs contain more intracellular proteins (Odds ratio [OR] 2.63 p < 0.001) and fewer plasma proteins than CSF (OR 0.60, p < 0.001). CSF and EV-enriched proteomes show overrepresentation of brain-specific proteins (EV OR 3.18, p < 0.001; CSF OR 3.37, p < 0.001). Overrepresentation of cerebral white matter (OR 1.99, p = 0.015) and choroid plexus proteins (OR 1.87, p<0.001) is observed in EVs. UFLC improves yield and purity of CSF-EVs. The EV-enriched proteome better reflects the intracellular and white matter proteome than whole CSF.
PXD010998	30412263	Proteomic Analysis of Larval Integument in a Dominant Obese Translucent (Obs) Silkworm Mutant. 	larval integument of silkworm LC-MSMS	larval integument, silkworm	The dominant obese translucent (Obs) mutant of the silkworm (Bombyx mori) results in a short and stout larval body, translucent phenotype, and abnormal pigmentation in the integument. The Obs mutant also displays deficiency in ecdysis and metamorphosis. In the present study, to gain an understanding of multiple Obs phenotypes, we investigated the phenotypes of Obs and performed a comparative analysis of the larval integument proteomes of Obs and normal silkworms. The phenotypic analysis revealed that the Obs larvae were indeed short and fat, and that chitin and uric acid content were lower but melanin content was higher in the Obs mutant. Proteomic analysis revealed that 244 proteins were significantly differentially expressed between Obs and normal silkworms, some of which were involved in uric acid metabolism and melanin pigmentation. Twenty-six proteins were annotated as cuticular proteins, including RR motif-rich cuticular proteins (CPR), glycine-rich cuticular protein (CPG), hypothetical cuticular protein (CPH), cuticular protein analogous to peritrophins (CPAPs), and the chitin_bind_3 motif proteins, and accounted for over 84% of the abundance of the total significantly differentially expressed proteins. Moreover, 22 of the 26 cuticular proteins were downregulated in the Obs mutant. Comparative proteomic analysis suggested that the multiple phenotypes of the Obs mutant might be related to changes in the expression of proteins that participate in cuticular formation, uric acid metabolism, and melanin pigmentation. These results could lay a basis for further identification of the gene responsible for the Obs mutant. The data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010998.
PXD009601	30415698	The Diverged Trypanosome MICOS Complex as a Hub for Mitochondrial Cristae Shaping and Protein Import. 	Diverged Trypanosome MICOS as a Hub for Mitochondrial Cristae Shaping and Protein Import	MICOS, Mitochondria, TMT, Trypanosoma brucei, cristae, intermembrane space, label-free, protein import	The mitochondrial contact site and cristae organization system (MICOS) is a multiprotein complex responsible for cristae formation. Even though cristae are found in all mitochondria capable of oxidative phosphorylation, only Mic10 and Mic60 appear to be conserved throughout eukaryotes. The remaining 4 or 5 known MICOS subunits are specific to the supergroup Opisthokonta, which includes yeast and mammals that are the only organisms in which this complex has been analyzed experimentally. We have isolated the MICOS from Trypanosoma brucei, a member of the supergroup Excavata that is profoundly diverged from opisthokonts. We show that it is required for the maintenance of the unique discoidal cristae that typify excavates, such as euglenids and kinetoplastids, the latter of which include trypanosomes. The trypanosome MICOS consists of 9 subunits, most of which are essential for normal growth. Unlike in opisthokonts, it contains two distinct Mic10 orthologs and an unconventional putative Mic60 that lacks a mitofilin domain. Interestingly, one of the essential trypanosomatid-specific MICOS subunits called TbMic20 is a thioredoxin-like protein that appears to be involved in import of intermembrane space proteins, including respiratory chain complex assembly factors. This result points to trypanosome MICOS coordinating cristae shaping and population of its membrane with proteins involved in respiration, the latter via the catalytic activity of TbMic20. Thus, trypanosome MICOS allows us to define which of its features are conserved in all eukaryotes and decipher those that represent lineage-specific adaptations.
PXD009224	30415967	Chemical Cross-Linking Enables Drafting ClpXP Proximity Maps and Taking Snapshots of In Situ Interaction Networks. 	Chemical cross-linking enables drafting ClpXP proximity maps and taking snapshots of in vivo interaction networks	ClpP, ClpXP, chemical cross-linking, co-IP, interacting proteins	Detection of dynamic protein-protein interactions within complexes and networks remains a challenging task. Here, we show by the example of the proteolytic ClpXP complex the utility of combined chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometry (XL-MS) to map interactions within ClpP and ClpX as well as across the enigmatic ClpX hexamer-ClpP heptamer interface. A few hot-spot lysines located in signature loops in ClpX were shown to be in proximity to several structural regions of ClpP providing an initial draft of the ClpX-ClpP interaction. Application of XL-MS further confirmed that Listeria monocytogenes ClpX interacts with the heterooligomeric ClpP1/2 complex solely via the ClpP2 apical site. Moreover, cellular interaction networks of human and bacterial proteases were elucidated via in situ chemical cross-linking followed by an antibody-based pull-down against ClpP. A subsequent mass spectrometric analysis demonstrated an up to 3-fold higher coverage compared with co-immunoprecipitation without cross-linker revealing unprecedented insight into intracellular ClpXP networks.
PXD009025	30417587	Quantification of Calcyclin and Heat Shock Protein 90 in Sera from Women with and without Preeclampsia by Mass Spectrometry. 	Quantification of calcyclin and heat shock protein 90 in sera from women with and without preeclampsia by mass spectrometry	HSP90, PRM, S100A6, placenta, preeclampsia, serum	PURPOSE: The objective of present study is to determine serum levels and placental distribution of two interacting proteins calcyclin and heat shock protein 90 in preeclampsia. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Maternal serum levels of calcyclin and heat shock protein 90 are compared throughout pregnancy from the first trimester till term among women with preeclampsia (n = 43) and age-matched normotensive pregnant controls (n = 46). A serum-based 2D LC-MS assay using Parallel Reaction Monitoring is applied to quantify both calcyclin and heat shock protein 90. RESULTS: Serum levels of calcyclin are significantly lower in patients with preeclampsia in the second trimester of pregnancy as compared to controls (p < 0.05). Serum levels of heat shock protein 90 are significantly higher in patients with preeclampsia in the third trimester as compared to controls (p < 0.001). CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Both interacting proteins calcyclin and heat shock protein 90 are notably changed in preeclamptic patients compared to controls. Calcyclin is already decreased before the onset of preeclampsia in the second trimester and HSP90 is strongly increased in the third trimester. This suggests that these proteins may play a role in the pathogenesis of preeclampsia and ought to be investigated in large cohort studies as molecular biomarkers.
PXD011388	30418631	IRES-dependent ribosome repositioning directs translation of a +1 overlapping ORF that enhances viral infection. 	IRES-dependent ribosome repositioning directs translation of a +1 overlapping ORF that enhances viral infection	CrPV, Drosophila, IRES, translation, virus	RNA structures can interact with the ribosome to alter translational reading frame maintenance and promote recoding that result in alternative protein products. Here, we show that the internal ribosome entry site (IRES) from the dicistrovirus Cricket paralysis virus drives translation of the 0-frame viral polyprotein and an overlapping +1 open reading frame, called ORFx, via a novel mechanism whereby a subset of ribosomes recruited to the IRES bypasses 37 nucleotides downstream to resume translation at the +1-frame 13th non-AUG codon. A mutant of CrPV containing a stop codon in the +1 frame ORFx sequence, yet synonymous in the 0-frame, is attenuated compared to wild-type virus in a Drosophila infection model, indicating the importance of +1 ORFx expression in promoting viral pathogenesis. This work demonstrates a novel programmed IRES-mediated recoding strategy to increase viral coding capacity and impact virus infection, highlighting the diversity of RNA-driven translation initiation mechanisms in eukaryotes.
PXD010143	30418648	Trypanosomes can initiate nuclear export co-transcriptionally. 	Trypanosomes can initiate nuclear export co-transcriptionally	trypanosomes	The nuclear envelope serves as important messenger RNA (mRNA) surveillance system. In yeast and human, several control systems act in parallel to prevent nuclear export of unprocessed mRNAs. Trypanosomes lack homologues to most of the involved proteins and their nuclear mRNA metabolism is non-conventional exemplified by polycistronic transcription and mRNA processing by trans-splicing. We here visualized nuclear export in trypanosomes by intra- and intermolecular multi-colour single molecule FISH. We found that, in striking contrast to other eukaryotes, the initiation of nuclear export requires neither the completion of transcription nor splicing. Nevertheless, we show that unspliced mRNAs are mostly prevented from reaching the nucleus-distant cytoplasm and instead accumulate at the nuclear periphery in cytoplasmic nuclear periphery granules (NPGs). Further characterization of NPGs by electron microscopy and proteomics revealed that the granules are located at the cytoplasmic site of the nuclear pores and contain most cytoplasmic RNA-binding proteins but none of the major translation initiation factors, consistent with a function in preventing faulty mRNAs from reaching translation. Our data indicate that trypanosomes regulate the completion of nuclear export, rather than the initiation. Nuclear export control remains poorly understood, in any organism, and the described way of control may not be restricted to trypanosomes.
PXD010260	30419021	Novel protein signatures suggest progression to muscular invasiveness in bladder cancer. 	Muscular invasiveness in bladder cancer	Q-Exactive-HF, bladder cancer, label-free proteomics	Patients with bladder cancer need frequent controls over long follow-up time due to high recurrence rate and risk of conversion to muscle invasive cancer with poor prognosis. We identified cancer-related molecular signatures in apparently healthy bladder in patients with subsequent muscular invasiveness during follow-up. Global proteomics of the normal tissue biopsies revealed specific proteome fingerprints in these patients prior to subsequent muscular invasiveness. In these presumed normal samples, we detected modulations of proteins previously associated with different cancer types. This study indicates that analyzing apparently healthy tissue of a cancer-invaded organ may suggest disease progression.
PXD011215	30419953	Trichinella britovi muscle larvae and adult worms: stage-specific and common antigens detected by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis-based immunoblotting. 	Trichinella britovi: muscle larvae, adult worm - LC-MS/MS	2-DE, Trichinella britovi, adult worm, immunoblotting, muscle larvae	BACKGROUND: Trichinella britovi is the second most common species of Trichinella that may affect human health. As an early diagnosis of trichinellosis is crucial for effective treatment, it is important to identify sensitive, specific and common antigens of adult T. britovi worms and muscle larvae. The present study was undertaken to uncover the stage-specific and common proteins of T. britovi that may be used in specific diagnostics. METHODS: Somatic extracts obtained from two developmental stages, muscle larvae (ML) and adult worms (Ad), were separated using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) coupled with immunoblot analysis. The positively-visualized protein spots specific for each stage were identified through liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-LC/MS). RESULTS: A total of 272 spots were detected in the proteome of T. britovi adult worms (Ad) and 261 in the muscle larvae (ML). The somatic extracts from Ad and ML were specifically recognized by T. britovi-infected swine sera at 10 days post infection (dpi) and 60 dpi, with a total of 70 prominent protein spots. According to immunoblotting patterns and LC-MS/MS results, the immunogenic spots recognized by different pig T. britovi-infected sera were divided into three groups for the two developmental stages: adult stage-specific proteins, muscle larvae stage-specific proteins, and proteins common to both stages. Forty-five Ad proteins (29 Ad-specific and 16 common) and thirteen ML proteins (nine ML-specific and four common) cross-reacted with sera at 10 dpi. Many of the proteins identified in Ad (myosin-4, myosin light chain kinase, paramyosin, intermediate filament protein B, actin-depolymerizing factor 1 and calreticulin) are involved in structural and motor activity. Among the most abundant proteins identified in ML were 14-3-3 protein zeta, actin-5C, ATP synthase subunit d, deoxyribonuclease-2-alpha, poly-cysteine and histide-tailed protein, enolase, V-type proton ATPase catalytic and serine protease 30. Heat-shock protein, intermediate filament protein ifa-1 and intermediate filament protein B were identified in both proteomes. CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this study represents the first immunoproteomic identification of the antigenic proteins of adult worms and muscle larvae of T. britovi. Our results provide a valuable basis for the development of diagnostic methods. The identification of common components for the two developmental stages of T. britovi may be useful in the preparation of parasitic antigens in recombinant forms for diagnostic use.
PXD007828	30420298	PPARgamma maintains the metabolic heterogeneity and homeostasis of renal tubules. 	PPARs and c-Myc regulate metabolism of renal tubules	Nrf2, PPARgamma, PPAR, c-Myc, glycolysis, kidney, lipid metabolism, renal distal tubules, renal proximal tubules	BACKGROUND: The renal tubules, which have distant metabolic features and functions in different segments, reabsorb >99% of approximately 180 l of water and 25,000 mmol of Na (+) daily. Defective metabolism in renal tubules is involved in the pathobiology of kidney diseases. However, the mechanisms underlying the metabolic regulation in renal tubules remain to be defined. METHODS: We quantitatively compared the proteomes of the isolated proximal tubules (PT) and distal tubules (DT) from C57BL/6 mouse using tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling-based quantitative mass spectrometry. Bioinformatics analysis of the differentially expressed proteins revealed the significant differences between PT and DT in metabolism pathway. We also performed in vitro and in vivo assays to investigate the molecular mechanism underlying the distant metabolic features in PT and DT. FINDINGS: We demonstrate that the renal proximal tubule (PT) has high expression of lipid metabolism enzymes, which is transcriptionally upregulated by abundantly expressed PPARalpha/gamma. In contrast, the renal distal tubule (DT) has elevated glycolytic enzyme expression, which is mediated by highly expressed c-Myc. Importantly, PPARgamma transcriptionally enhances the protease iRhom2 expression in PT, which suppresses EGF expression and secretion and subsequent EGFR-dependent glycolytic gene expression and glycolysis. PPARgamma inhibition reduces iRhom2 expression and increases EGF and GLUT1 expression in PT in mice, resulting in renal tubule hypertrophy, tubulointerstitial fibrosis and damaged kidney functions, which are rescued by 2-deoxy-d-glucose treatment. INTERPRETATION: These findings delineate instrumental mechanisms underlying the active lipid metabolism and suppressed glycolysis in PT and active glycolysis in DT and reveal critical roles for PPARs and c-Myc in maintaining renal metabolic homeostasis. FUND: This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grants 81572076 and 81873932; to Q.Z.), the Applied Development Program of the Science and Technology Committee of Chongqing (cstc2014yykfB10003; Q.Z.), the Program of Populace Creativities Workshops of the Science and Technology Committee of Chongqing (Q.Z.), the special demonstration programs for innovation and application of techniques (cstc2018jscx-mszdX0022) from the Science and Technology Committee of Chongqing (Q.Z.).
PXD009463	30420452	Importance of Pyruvate Sensing and Transport for the Resuscitation of Viable but Nonculturable Escherichia coli K-12. 	Resuscitation from the viable but nonculturable state of Escherichia coli: the importance of a pyruvate sensing network	heterogeneity, metabolism, oxidative stress, scavenging	Escherichia coli and many other bacterial species can enter into a viable but nonculturable (VBNC) state, which is a survival strategy adopted by cells exposed to adverse environmental conditions. Pyruvate is known to be one factor that promotes resuscitation of VBNC cells. Here we studied the role of a pyruvate-sensing network, composed of the histidine kinase-response regulator systems BtsS/BtsR and YpdA/YpdB and the target gene btsT, encoding the high-affinity pyruvate/H(+) symporter BtsT, in the resuscitation of VBNC E. coli K-12 cells after exposure to cold for 120 days. Analysis of the proteome of VBNC cells revealed upregulation, relative to exponentially growing cells, of BtsT and other proteins involved in pyruvate metabolism. Provision of pyruvate stimulated protein and DNA biosynthesis, and thus resuscitation, in wild-type but not btsSR ypdAB mutant VBNC cells. This result was corroborated by time-dependent tracking of the resuscitation of individual VBNC E. coli cells observed in a microfluidic system. Finally, transport assays revealed that (14)C-labeled pyruvate was rapidly taken up into VBNC cells by BtsT. These results provide the first evidence that pyruvate is taken up as a carbon source for the resuscitation of VBNC E. coli cells.IMPORTANCE Viable but nonculturable (VBNC) bacteria do not form colonies in standard medium but otherwise retain their metabolic activity and can express toxic proteins. Many bacterial genera, including Escherichia, Vibrio, and Listeria, have been shown to enter the VBNC state upon exposure to adverse conditions, such as low temperature, radiation, and starvation. Ultimately, these organisms pose a public health risk with potential implications for the pharmaceutical and food industries, as dormant organisms are especially difficult to selectively eliminate and VBNC bacteria can be resuscitated if placed in an environment with appropriate nutrition and temperature. Here we used a microfluidic system to monitor the resuscitation of single VBNC cells over time. We provide new molecular insights into the initiation of resuscitation by demonstrating that VBNC E. coli cells rapidly take up pyruvate with an inducible high-affinity transporter, whose expression is triggered by the BtsSR-YpdAB sensing network.
PXD012394	30420486	PTMiner: Localization and Quality Control of Protein Modifications Detected in an Open Search and Its Application to Comprehensive Post-translational Modification Characterization in Human Proteome. 	Modification localization and quality control for open database search results	localization	The open (mass tolerant) search of tandem mass spectra of peptides shows great potential in the comprehensive detection of post-translational modifications (PTMs) in shotgun proteomics. However, this search strategy has not been widely used by the community, and one bottleneck of it is the lack of appropriate algorithms for automated and reliable post-processing of the coarse and error-prone search results. Here we present PTMiner, a software tool for confident filtering and localization of modifications (mass shifts) detected in an open search. After mass-shift-grouped false discovery rate (FDR) control of peptide-spectrum matches (PSMs), PTMiner uses an empirical Bayesian method to localize modifications through iterative learning of the prior probabilities of each type of modification occurring on different amino acids. The performance of PTMiner was evaluated on three data sets, including simulated data, chemically synthesized peptide library data and modified-peptide spiked-in proteome data. The results showed that PTMiner can effectively control the PSM FDR and accurately localize the modification sites. At 1% real false localization rate (FLR), PTMiner localized 93%, 84 and 83% of the modification sites in the three data sets, respectively, far higher than two open search engines we used and an extended version of the Ascore localization algorithm. We then used PTMiner to analyze a draft map of human proteome containing 25 million spectra from 30 tissues, and confidently identified over 1.7 million modified PSMs at 1% FDR and 1% FLR, which provided a system-wide view of both known and unknown PTMs in the human proteome.
PXD010944	30420655	REX1 is the critical target of RNF12 in imprinted X chromosome inactivation in mice. 	REX1 is the critical target of RNF12 in imprinted X chromosome inactivation in mice.	REX1, RNF12, SILAC, XCI	In mice, imprinted X chromosome inactivation (iXCI) of the paternal X in the pre-implantation embryo and extraembryonic tissues is followed by X reactivation in the inner cell mass (ICM) of the blastocyst to facilitate initiation of random XCI (rXCI) in all embryonic tissues. RNF12 is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that plays a key role in XCI. RNF12 targets pluripotency protein REX1 for degradation to initiate rXCI in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and loss of the maternal copy of Rnf12 leads to embryonic lethality due to iXCI failure. Here, we show that loss of Rex1 rescues the rXCI phenotype observed in Rnf12(-/-) ESCs, and that REX1 is the prime target of RNF12 in ESCs. Genetic ablation of Rex1 in Rnf12(-/-) mice rescues the Rnf12(-/-) iXCI phenotype, and results in viable and fertile Rnf12(-/-):Rex1(-/-) female mice displaying normal iXCI and rXCI. Our results show that REX1 is the critical target of RNF12 in XCI.
PXD008251	30424486	Paraquat-Mediated Oxidative Stress in Anopheles gambiae Mosquitoes Is Regulated by An Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) Stress Response. 	Ribosomal/nucleolar stress induction regulates tert-butyl hydroperoxide (tBHP) mediated oxidative stress in Anopheles gambiae midguts	Anopheles gambiae, Malaria, nucleolar stress, oxidative stress, ribosomal stress, tert butyl hydroperoxide	Paraquat is a potent superoxide (O2(-))-inducing agent that is capable of inducing an oxidative imbalance in the mosquito midgut. This oxidative imbalance can super-stress the malaria parasite, leading to arrested development in the mosquito midgut and reduced transmission. While several studies have explored the effect of paraquat on malaria parasites, a fundamental understanding of the mosquito response to this compound remains unknown. Here, we quantified the mosquito midgut proteomic response to a paraquat-laced sugar meal, and found that An. gambiae midguts were enriched in proteins that are indicative of cells under endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. We also carried out qRT-PCR analyses for nine prominent thioredoxin (Trx) and glutathione (GSH)-dependent genes in mosquito midguts post P. falciparum blood meal ingestion to evaluate the concordance between transcripts and proteins under different oxidative stress conditions. Our data revealed an absence of significant upregulation in the Trx and GSH-dependent genes following infected blood meal ingestion. These data suggest that the intrinsic tolerance of the mosquito midgut to paraquat-mediated oxidative stress is through an ER stress response. These data indicate that mosquitoes have at least two divergent pathways of managing the oxidative stress that is induced by exogenous compounds, and outline the potential application of paraquat-like drugs to act selectively against malaria parasite development in mosquito midguts, thereby blocking mosquito-to-human transmission.
PXD011479	30428365	Global profiling of megalocytivirus-induced proteins in tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis) spleen identifies cellular processes essential to viral infection. 	Global profiling of megalocytivirus-induced proteins in tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis) spleen identifies cellular processes essential to viral infection	Cynoglossus semilaevis, immune defense, megalocytivirus, ubiquitin proteasome system, viral infection	Megalocytivirus is a DNA virus with a broad host range among farmed fish including tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis). In this study, label-free proteomics was performed to examine protein expression in tongue sole spleen induced by megalocytivirus at 8 and 12 days post infection (dpi). Compared to uninfected control fish, virus-infected fish displayed 315 up-regulated proteins and 111 down-regulated proteins at 8 dpi, and 48 up-regulated proteins and 43 down-regulated proteins at 12 dpi. The expressions of five differentially expressed proteins were confirmed by Western blot. The differentially expressed proteins were enriched in the pathways and processes associated with innate immune response and viral infection. Interference with the expression of two up-regulated proteins of the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS), i.e. proteasome assembly chaperone 2 and proteasome maturation protein, significantly reduced viral propagation in fish, whereas overexpression of these two proteins significantly enhanced viral propagation. Consistently, inhibition of the functioning of proteasome significantly impaired viral replication in vivo. This study provided the first global protein profile responsive to megalocytivirus in tongue sole, and revealed an essential role of UPS in viral infection.
PXD008624	30429481	An E2-ubiquitin thioester-driven approach to identify substrates modified with ubiquitin and ubiquitin-like molecules. 	E2~dID: A versatile approach to identify substrates modified with ubiquitin and ubiquitin-like molecules by specific E3 enzymes	AP-MS, TMT, Ubiquitin	Covalent modifications of proteins with ubiquitin and ubiquitin-like molecules are instrumental to many biological processes. However, identifying the E3 ligase responsible for these modifications remains a major bottleneck in ubiquitin research. Here, we present an E2-thioester-driven identification (E2~dID) method for the targeted identification of substrates of specific E2 and E3 enzyme pairs. E2~dID exploits the central position of E2-conjugating enzymes in the ubiquitination cascade and provides in vitro generated biotinylated E2~ubiquitin thioester conjugates as the sole source for ubiquitination in extracts. This enables purification and mass spectrometry-based identification of modified proteins under stringent conditions independently of the biological source of the extract. We demonstrate the sensitivity and specificity of E2-dID by identifying and validating substrates of APC/C in human cells. Finally, we perform E2~dID with SUMO in S. cerevisiae, showing that this approach can be easily adapted to other ubiquitin-like modifiers and experimental models.
PXD010660	30429547	Distinct proteostasis circuits cooperate in nuclear and cytoplasmic protein quality control. 	Nuclear versus cytoplasmic VHL interactomes	AP-MS, Orbitrap, SILAC	Protein misfolding is linked to a wide array of human disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and type II diabetes(1,2). Protective cellular protein quality control (PQC) mechanisms have evolved to selectively recognize misfolded proteins and limit their toxic effects(3-9), thus contributing to the maintenance of the proteome (proteostasis). Here we examine how molecular chaperones and the ubiquitin-proteasome system cooperate to recognize and promote the clearance of soluble misfolded proteins. Using a panel of PQC substrates with distinct characteristics and localizations, we define distinct chaperone and ubiquitination circuitries that execute quality control in the cytoplasm and nucleus. In the cytoplasm, proteasomal degradation of misfolded proteins requires tagging with mixed lysine 48 (K48)- and lysine 11 (K11)-linked ubiquitin chains. A distinct combination of E3 ubiquitin ligases and specific chaperones is required to achieve each type of linkage-specific ubiquitination. In the nucleus, however, proteasomal degradation of misfolded proteins requires only K48-linked ubiquitin chains, and is thus independent of K11-specific ligases and chaperones. The distinct ubiquitin codes for nuclear and cytoplasmic PQC appear to be linked to the function of the ubiquilin protein Dsk2, which is specifically required to clear nuclear misfolded proteins. Our work defines the principles of cytoplasmic and nuclear PQC as distinct, involving combinatorial recognition by defined sets of cooperating chaperones and E3 ligases. A better understanding of how these organelle-specific PQC requirements implement proteome integrity has implications for our understanding of diseases linked to impaired protein clearance and proteostasis dysfunction.
PXD011501	30433779	Chemical Profiling of the Endoplasmic Reticulum Proteome Using Designer Labeling Reagents. 	Simultaneous chemical proteomics of Nuclear, mitochondira and ER	ER, HeLa cell, Nuclear, chemical proteomics, mitochondria	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an organelle that performs a variety of essential cellular functions via interactions with other organelles. Despite its important role, chemical tools for profiling the composition and dynamics of ER proteins remain very limited because of the labile nature of these proteins. Here, we developed ER-localizable reactive molecules (called ERMs) as tools for ER-focused chemical proteomics. ERMs can spontaneously localize in the ER of living cells and selectively label ER-associated proteins with a combined affinity and imaging tag, enabling tag-mediated ER protein enrichment and identification with liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Using this method, we performed proteomic analysis of the ER of HeLa cells and newly assigned three proteins, namely, PAICS, TXNL1, and PPIA, as ER-associated proteins. The ERM probes could be used simultaneously with the nucleus- and mitochondria-localizable reactive molecules previously developed by our group, which enabled orthogonal organellar chemoproteomics in a single biological sample. Moreover, quantitative analysis of the dynamic changes in ER-associated proteins in response to tunicamycin-induced ER stress was performed by combining ER-specific labeling with SILAC (stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture)-based quantitative MS technology. Our results demonstrated that ERM-based chemical proteomics provides a powerful tool for labeling and profiling ER-related proteins in living cells.
PXD007035	30442762	Mutations in LZTR1 drive human disease by dysregulating RAS ubiquitination. 	Loss-of-function of ubiquitin ligase adaptor LZTR1 triggers human disease by dysregulating RAS ubiquitination	Noonan syndrome, RAS signalling, schwannomatosis, ubiquitin	The leucine zipper-like transcriptional regulator 1 (LZTR1) protein, an adaptor for cullin 3 (CUL3) ubiquitin ligase complex, is implicated in human disease, yet its mechanism of action remains unknown. We found that Lztr1 haploinsufficiency in mice recapitulates Noonan syndrome phenotypes, whereas LZTR1 loss in Schwann cells drives dedifferentiation and proliferation. By trapping LZTR1 complexes from intact mammalian cells, we identified the guanosine triphosphatase RAS as a substrate for the LZTR1-CUL3 complex. Ubiquitome analysis showed that loss of Lztr1 abrogated Ras ubiquitination at lysine-170. LZTR1-mediated ubiquitination inhibited RAS signaling by attenuating its association with the membrane. Disease-associated LZTR1 mutations disrupted either LZTR1-CUL3 complex formation or its interaction with RAS proteins. RAS regulation by LZTR1-mediated ubiquitination provides an explanation for the role of LZTR1 in human disease.
PXD011280	30442766	LZTR1 is a regulator of RAS ubiquitination and signaling. 	BioID proximity biotinylation-MS analysis of human main RAS GTPases in K-562 CML cells	BioID, CML, LC-MS, RAS GTPases	In genetic screens aimed at understanding drug resistance mechanisms in chronic myeloid leukemia cells, inactivation of the cullin 3 adapter protein-encoding leucine zipper-like transcription regulator 1 (LZTR1) gene led to enhanced mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway activity and reduced sensitivity to tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Knockdown of the Drosophila LZTR1 ortholog CG3711 resulted in a Ras-dependent gain-of-function phenotype. Endogenous human LZTR1 associates with the main RAS isoforms. Inactivation of LZTR1 led to decreased ubiquitination and enhanced plasma membrane localization of endogenous KRAS (V-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog). We propose that LZTR1 acts as a conserved regulator of RAS ubiquitination and MAPK pathway activation. Because LZTR1 disease mutations failed to revert loss-of-function phenotypes, our findings provide a molecular rationale for LZTR1 involvement in a variety of inherited and acquired human disorders.
PXD010988	30443594	Thanatin targets the intermembrane protein complex required for lipopolysaccharide transport in Escherichia coli. 	Thanatin Targets the Inter-Membrane Protein Complex Required for Lipopolysaccharide  Transport in Escherichia coli	DDA, E.coli, Gram-negative ESKAPE pathogens, Lpt complex, OMPTA (outer membrane-targeting antibiotics), interaction mapping, macrocyclic peptidomimetic antibiotics, photo crosslinking, photoaffinity labeling	With the increasing resistance of many Gram-negative bacteria to existing classes of antibiotics, identifying new paradigms in antimicrobial discovery is an important research priority. Of special interest are the proteins required for the biogenesis of the asymmetric Gram-negative bacterial outer membrane (OM). Seven Lpt proteins (LptA to LptG) associate in most Gram-negative bacteria to form a macromolecular complex spanning the entire envelope, which transports lipopolysaccharide (LPS) molecules from their site of assembly at the inner membrane to the cell surface, powered by adenosine 5'-triphosphate hydrolysis in the cytoplasm. The periplasmic protein LptA comprises the protein bridge across the periplasm, which connects LptB2FGC at the inner membrane to LptD/E anchored in the OM. We show here that the naturally occurring, insect-derived antimicrobial peptide thanatin targets LptA and LptD in the network of periplasmic protein-protein interactions required to assemble the Lpt complex, leading to the inhibition of LPS transport and OM biogenesis in Escherichia coli.
PXD010910	30444341	Plasma Functionalization of Polycaprolactone Nanofibers Changes Protein Interactions with Cells, Resulting in Increased Cell Viability. 	Plasma functionalization of PCL nanofibers changes protein interactions with cells resulting in increased cell viability	Functionalized plasma, HFF, SynaptG2Si, nanofibres	The surface properties of electrospun scaffolds can greatly influence protein adsorption and, thus, strongly dictate cell-material interactions. In this study, we aim to investigate possible correlations between the surface properties of argon, nitrogen, and ammonia and helium plasma-functionalized polycaprolactone (PCL) nanofibers (NFs) and their cellular interactions by examining the protein corona patterns of the plasma-treated NFs as well as the cell membrane proteins involved in cell proliferation. As a result of the performed plasma treatments, PCL NFs morphology was preserved, while wettability was improved profoundly after all treatments because of the incorporation of polar surface groups. Depending on the discharge gas, different types of groups are incorporated, which influenced the resultant cell-material interactions. Argon plasma-functionalized PCL NFs, only enriched by oxygen-containing functional groups, were found to show the best cell-material interactions, followed by N2 and He/NH3 plasma-treated samples. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry clearly indicated an increased protein retention compared with non-treated PCL NFs. The nine proteins retained best on plasma-treated NF are important mediators of extracellular matrix interaction, illustrating the importance thereof for cell proliferation and the viability of cells. Finally, 92 proteins that can be used to differentiate how the different plasma treatments are clustered and subjected to a gene ontology study, illustrating the importance of keratinization and extracellular matrix organization.
PXD027003	30444866	Identification and characterization of Loa loa antigens responsible for cross-reactivity with rapid diagnostic tests for lymphatic filariasis. 	Filariasis test strip (FTS) antibody recognition of Brugia malayi glycoproteins	BmES, Brugia malayi, LC-ESI MS/MS, excretory, filariasis, secretory	The Global Program to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis (LF) relies on rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) to determine where annual mass drug administration for LF is required and when it can be stopped. These tests detect a Wuchereria bancrofti glycoprotein in the blood of infected persons via a carbohydrate moiety recognized by the monoclonal antibodies AD12 and DH6.5. Loiasis cross-reactivity with LF RDTs has recently been recognized as a serious obstacle to LF elimination in loiasis-endemic areas. To better understand the nature of this cross-reactivity, we used the DH6.5 antibody to immunoaffinity purify Loa loa antigens from the sera of individuals with a positive RDT due to loiasis. Immunoblot analysis revealed many circulating AD12/DH6.5-reactive antigens, and proteomic analysis identified multiple L. loa proteins in LF RDT-positive loiasis sera. These included both secreted and somatic proteins, suggesting that they may be released by dying L. loa adult worms and/or microfilariae. Unlike the single high molecular weight W. bancrofti circulating filarial antigen that is reliably present in the blood of persons with bancroftian filariasis, reactive L. loa antigens appeared to be only transiently present in the blood of a subset of persons with loiasis. These key differences between the circulating antigens of W. bancrofti and L. loa can be used to differentiate positive results generated by both species and may lead to improved diagnostic tests for LF and loiasis.
PXD005681	30445039	Food Perception Primes Hepatic ER Homeostasis via Melanocortin-Dependent Control of mTOR Activation. 	Mouse Liver LC-MSMS -  Food Perception Primes Hepatic ER Homeostasis via Melanocortin-Dependent Control of mTOR Activation	Liver, Phosphoproteome, SILAC	Adaptation of liver to the postprandial state requires coordinated regulation of protein synthesis and folding aligned with changes in lipid metabolism. Here we demonstrate that sensory food perception is sufficient to elicit early activation of hepatic mTOR signaling, Xbp1 splicing, increased expression of ER-stress genes, and phosphatidylcholine synthesis, which translate into a rapid morphological ER remodeling. These responses overlap with those activated during refeeding, where they are maintained and constantly increased upon nutrient supply. Sensory food perception activates POMC neurons in the hypothalamus, optogenetic activation of POMC neurons activates hepatic mTOR signaling and Xbp1 splicing, whereas lack of MC4R expression attenuates these responses to sensory food perception. Chemogenetic POMC-neuron activation promotes sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) subserving the liver, and norepinephrine evokes the same responses in hepatocytes in vitro and in liver in vivo as observed upon sensory food perception. Collectively, our experiments unravel that sensory food perception coordinately primes postprandial liver ER adaption through a melanocortin-SNA-mTOR-Xbp1s axis. VIDEO ABSTRACT.
PXD008346	30445460	Genomes of trombidid mites reveal novel predicted allergens and laterally transferred genes associated with secondary metabolism. 	Genomes of trombidid mites reveal novel predicted allergens and laterally-transferred genes associated with secondary metabolism	Genome, Trombidid mites, scrub typhus	Background: Trombidid mites have a unique life cycle in which only the larval stage is ectoparasitic. In the superfamily Trombiculoidea ("chiggers"), the larvae feed preferentially on vertebrates, including humans. Species in the genus Leptotrombidium are vectors of a potentially fatal bacterial infection, scrub typhus, that affects 1 million people annually. Moreover, chiggers can cause pruritic dermatitis (trombiculiasis) in humans and domesticated animals. In the Trombidioidea (velvet mites), the larvae feed on other arthropods and are potential biological control agents for agricultural pests. Here, we present the first trombidid mites genomes, obtained both for a chigger, Leptotrombidium deliense, and for a velvet mite, Dinothrombium tinctorium. Results: Sequencing was performed using Illumina technology. A 180 Mb draft assembly for D. tinctorium was generated from two paired-end and one mate-pair library using a single adult specimen. For L. deliense, a lower-coverage draft assembly (117 Mb) was obtained using pooled, engorged larvae with a single paired-end library. Remarkably, both genomes exhibited evidence of ancient lateral gene transfer from soil-derived bacteria or fungi. The transferred genes confer functions that are rare in animals, including terpene and carotenoid synthesis. Thirty-seven allergenic protein families were predicted in the L. deliense genome, of which nine were unique. Preliminary proteomic analyses identified several of these putative allergens in larvae. Conclusions: Trombidid mite genomes appear to be more dynamic than those of other acariform mites. A priority for future research is to determine the biological function of terpene synthesis in this taxon and its potential for exploitation in disease control.
PXD006156	30445466	RNF8 mediates NONO degradation following UV-induced DNA damage to properly terminate ATR-CHK1 checkpoint signaling. 	RNF8 mediates NONO degradation following UV-induced DNA damage to properly terminate ATR-CHK1 checkpoint signaling	DNA damage, E3 ligase, RNF8, substrate identification	RNF8 plays a critical role in DNA damage response (DDR) to initiate ubiquitination-dependent signaling. To better characterize the role of RNF8 in UV-induced DDR, we searched for novel substrates of RNF8 and identified NONO as one intriguing substrate. We found that: (i) RNF8 ubiquitinates NONO and (ii) UV radiation triggers NONO ubiquitination and its subsequent degradation. Depletion of RNF8 inhibited UV-induced degradation of NONO, suggesting that RNF8 targets NONO for degradation in response to UV damage. In addition, we found that 3 NONO lysine residues (positions 279, 290 and 295) are important for conferring its instability in UV-DDR. Depletion of RNF8 or expression of NONO with lysine to arginine substitutions at positions 279, 290 and 295 prolonged CHK1 phosphorylation over an extended period of time. Furthermore, expression of the stable mutant, but not wild-type NONO, induced a prolonged S phase following UV exposure. Stable cell lines expressing the stable NONO mutant showed increased UV sensitivity in a clonogenic survival assay. Since RNF8 recruitment to the UV-damaged sites is dependent on ATR, we propose that RNF8-mediated NONO degradation and subsequent inhibition of NONO-dependent chromatin loading of TOPBP1, a key activator of ATR, function as a negative feedback loop critical for turning off ATR-CHK1 checkpoint signaling in UV-DDR.
PXD007060	30446640	Endothelial cell rearrangements during vascular patterning require PI3-kinase-mediated inhibition of actomyosin contractility. 	Cell rearrangement during angiogenesis requires suppression of actomyosin at cell-cell contacts via PI3-kinase.	Mascot, Mice, Pescal, Phosphoproteomics, QExactive-Plus	Angiogenesis is a dynamic process relying on endothelial cell rearrangements within vascular tubes, yet the underlying mechanisms and functional relevance are poorly understood. Here we show that PI3Kalpha regulates endothelial cell rearrangements using a combination of a PI3Kalpha-selective inhibitor and endothelial-specific genetic deletion to abrogate PI3Kalpha activity during vessel development. Quantitative phosphoproteomics together with detailed cell biology analyses in vivo and in vitro reveal that PI3K signalling prevents NUAK1-dependent phosphorylation of the myosin phosphatase targeting-1 (MYPT1) protein, thereby allowing myosin light chain phosphatase (MLCP) activity and ultimately downregulating actomyosin contractility. Decreased PI3K activity enhances actomyosin contractility and impairs junctional remodelling and stabilization. This leads to overstretched endothelial cells that fail to anastomose properly and form aberrant superimposed layers within the vasculature. Our findings define the PI3K/NUAK1/MYPT1/MLCP axis as a critical pathway to regulate actomyosin contractility in endothelial cells, supporting vascular patterning and expansion through the control of cell rearrangement.
PXD010349	30449674	Perturbation-Based Proteomic Correlation Profiling as a Target Deconvolution Methodology. 	Affinity purification using compound-immobilized beads	compound-immobilized beads, label-free quantitation	Molecular target identification of small molecules, so-called target deconvolution, is a major obstacle to phenotype-based drug discovery. Here, we developed an approach called perturbation-based proteomic correlation profiling (PPCP) utilizing the correlation between protein quantity and binding activity of compounds under cellular perturbation by gene silencing and successfully identified lanosterol synthase as a molecular target of TGF-beta pathway inhibitor. This PPCP concept was extended to the use of a cell line panel and provides a new option for target deconvolution.
PXD010247	30451371	Extracellular Vesicles from Neurosurgical Aspirates Identifies Chaperonin Containing TCP1 Subunit 6A as a Potential Glioblastoma Biomarker with Prognostic Significance. 	Proteome profiling of extracellular vesicles from neurosurgical aspirates identifies CCT6A as a potential glioblastoma biomarker with prognostic significance	Biomarker, Brain, CCT6A, Exosomes, Extracellular Vesicles, Glioblastoma, Glioma, Tumour	Glioblastoma, WHO-grade IV glioma, carries a dismal prognosis owing to its infiltrative growth and limited treatment options. Glioblastoma-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs; 30-1000 nm membranous particles) influence the microenvironment to mediate tumor aggressiveness and carry oncogenic cargo across the blood-brain barrier into the circulation. As such, EVs are biomarker reservoirs with enormous potential for assessing glioblastoma tumors in situ. Neurosurgical aspirates are rich sources of EVs, isolated directly from glioma microenvironments. EV proteomes enriched from glioblastoma (n = 15) and glioma grade II-III (n = 7) aspirates are compared and 298 differentially-abundant proteins (p-value < 0.00496) are identified using quantitative LC-MS/MS. Along with previously reported glioblastoma-associated biomarkers, levels of all eight subunits of the key molecular chaperone, T-complex protein 1 Ring complex (TRiC), are higher in glioblastoma-EVs, including CCT2, CCT3, CCT5, CCT6A, CCT7, and TCP1 (p < 0.00496). Analogous increases in TRiC transcript levels and DNA copy numbers are detected in silico; CCT6A has the greatest induction of expression and amplification in glioblastoma and shows a negative association with survival (p = 0.006). CCT6A is co-localized with EGFR at 7p11.2, with a strong tendency for co-amplification (p < 0.001). Immunohistochemistry corroborates the CCT6A proteomics measurements and indicated a potential link between EGFR and CCT6A tissue expression. Putative EV-biomarkers described here should be further assessed in peripheral blood.
PXD011654	30451507	Web-Based Search Tool for Visualizing Instrument Performance Using the Triple Knockout (TKO) Proteome Standard. 	A web-based search tool for visualizing instrument performance using the Triple Knockout (TKO) proteome standard	SPS-MS3, Shiny, TKO, TMT, TVT, iTRAQ, interference	Multiplexing strategies are at the forefront of mass-spectrometry-based proteomics, with SPS-MS3 methods becoming increasingly commonplace. A known caveat of isobaric multiplexing is interference resulting from coisolated and cofragmented ions that do not originate from the selected precursor of interest. The triple knockout (TKO) standard was designed to benchmark data collection strategies to minimize interference. However, a limitation to its widespread use has been the lack of an automated analysis platform. We present a TKO Visualization Tool (TVT). The TVT viewer allows for automated, web-based, database searching of the TKO standard, returning traditional figures of merit, such as peptide and protein counts, scan-specific ion accumulation times, as well as the TKO-specific metric, the IFI (interference-free index). Moreover, the TVT viewer allows for plotting of two TKO standards to assess protocol optimizations, compare instruments, or measure degradation of instrument performance over time. We showcase the TVT viewer by probing the selection of (1) stationary phase resin, (2) MS2 isolation window width, and (3) number of synchronous precursor selection (SPS) ions for SPS-MS3 analysis. Using the TVT viewer will allow the proteomics community to search and compare TKO results to optimize user-specific data collection workflows.
PXD011311	30451861	Translation of non-standard codon nucleotides reveals minimal requirements for codon-anticodon interactions. 	Translation of non-standard codon nucleotides reveals minimal requirements for codon-anticodon interactions	codon-anticodon interactions, decoding, nucleotide modifications, ribosome, translation elongation	The precise interplay between the mRNA codon and the tRNA anticodon is crucial for ensuring efficient and accurate translation by the ribosome. The insertion of RNA nucleobase derivatives in the mRNA allowed us to modulate the stability of the codon-anticodon interaction in the decoding site of bacterial and eukaryotic ribosomes, allowing an in-depth analysis of codon recognition. We found the hydrogen bond between the N(1) of purines and the N(3) of pyrimidines to be sufficient for decoding of the first two codon nucleotides, whereas adequate stacking between the RNA bases is critical at the wobble position. Inosine, found in eukaryotic mRNAs, is an important example of destabilization of the codon-anticodon interaction. Whereas single inosines are efficiently translated, multiple inosines, e.g., in the serotonin receptor 5-HT2C mRNA, inhibit translation. Thus, our results indicate that despite the robustness of the decoding process, its tolerance toward the weakening of codon-anticodon interactions is limited.
PXD009573	30454645	Targeting CDK9 Reactivates Epigenetically Silenced Genes in Cancer. 	SMARCA4_Phosphopeptide        .	BRG1, CDK9, Epigenetics	Cyclin-dependent kinase 9 (CDK9) promotes transcriptional elongation through RNAPII pause release. We now report that CDK9 is also essential for maintaining gene silencing at heterochromatic loci. Through a live cell drug screen with genetic confirmation, we discovered that CDK9 inhibition reactivates epigenetically silenced genes in cancer, leading to restored tumor suppressor gene expression, cell differentiation, and activation of endogenous retrovirus genes. CDK9 inhibition dephosphorylates the SWI/SNF protein BRG1, which contributes to gene reactivation. By optimization through gene expression, we developed a highly selective CDK9 inhibitor (MC180295, IC50 = 5 nM) that has broad anti-cancer activity in vitro and is effective in in vivo cancer models. Additionally, CDK9 inhibition sensitizes to the immune checkpoint inhibitor alpha-PD-1 in vivo, making it an excellent target for epigenetic therapy of cancer.
PXD008803	30454663	Far-reaching cellular consequences of tat deletion in Escherichia coli revealed by comprehensive proteome analyses. 	Dynamics of the Escherichia coli proteome in response to the deletion of the Tat pathway	Escherichia coli, Stress responses, Tat pathway	In Escherichia coli, the Twin-arginine translocation (Tat) pathway secretes a set of folded proteins with important physiological functions to the periplasm and outer membrane. The loss of Tat secretion impairs outer membrane integrity and leads to decreased cell growth. Only recently, the Tat pathway has gained more attention due to its essential role in bacterial virulence and applications in the production of fully folded heterologous proteins. In this study, we investigated the influence of the deletion of all active Tat pathway components on the E. coli cells. The comprehensive proteomic analysis revealed activation of several stress responses and experimentally confirmed the dependence of certain proteins on the Tat system for export. We observed that a tat deletion triggers protein aggregation, membrane vesiculation, synthesis of colanic acid and biofilm formation. Furthermore, the mislocalization of Tat-dependent proteins disturbs iron and molybdenum homeostasis and impairs the cell envelope integrity. The results show that the functional Tat pathway is important for the physiological stability and that its dysfunction leads to a series of severe changes in E. coli cells.
PXD009583	30455363	Carcinogenic Helicobacter pylori Strains Selectively Dysregulate the In Vivo Gastric Proteome, Which May Be Associated with Stomach Cancer Progression. 	Helicobacter pylori infection dysregulates gastric proteome	Helicobacter pylor, gastric proteome	Helicobacter pylori is the strongest risk factor for gastric cancer. Initial interactions between H. pylori and its host originate at the microbial-gastric epithelial cell interface, and contact between H. pylori and gastric epithelium activates signaling pathways that drive oncogenesis. One microbial constituent that increases gastric cancer risk is the cag pathogenicity island, which encodes a type IV secretion system that translocates the effector protein, CagA, into host cells. We previously demonstrated that infection of Mongolian gerbils with a carcinogenic cag(+)H. pylori strain, 7.13, recapitulates many features of H. pylori-induced gastric cancer in humans. Therefore, we sought to define gastric proteomic changes induced by H. pylori that are critical for initiation of the gastric carcinogenic cascade. Gastric cell scrapings were harvested from H. pylori-infected and uninfected gerbils for quantitative proteomic analyses using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ). Quantitative proteomic analysis of samples from two biological replicate experiments quantified a total of 2764 proteins, 166 of which were significantly altered in abundance by H. pylori infection. Pathway mapping identified significantly altered inflammatory and cancer-signaling pathways that included Rab/Ras signaling proteins. Consistent with the iTRAQ results, RABEP2 and G3BP2 were significantly up-regulated in vitro, ex vivo in primary human gastric monolayers, and in vivo in gerbil gastric epithelium following infection with H. pylori strain 7.13 in a cag-dependent manner. Within human stomachs, RABEP2 and G3BP2 expression in gastric epithelium increased in parallel with the severity of premalignant and malignant lesions and was significantly elevated in intestinal metaplasia and dysplasia, as well as gastric adenocarcinoma, compared with gastritis alone. These results indicate that carcinogenic strains of H. pylori induce dramatic and specific changes within the gastric proteome in vivo and that a subset of altered proteins within pathways with oncogenic potential may facilitate the progression of gastric carcinogenesis in humans.
PXD010088	30456372	Transformation-induced stress at telomeres is counteracted through changes in the telomeric proteome including SAMHD1. 	Transformation-induced stress at telomeres is counteracted through changes in the telomeric proteome including SAMHD1	Quantitative proteomics, SAMHD1, replication stress, telomeres, transformation	Telomeres play crucial roles during tumorigenesis, inducing cellular senescence upon telomere shortening and extensive chromosome instability during telomere crisis. However, it has not been investigated if and how cellular transformation and oncogenic stress alter telomeric chromatin composition and function. Here, we transform human fibroblasts by consecutive transduction with vectors expressing hTERT, the SV40 early region, and activated H-RasV12. Pairwise comparisons of the telomeric proteome during different stages of transformation reveal up-regulation of proteins involved in chromatin remodeling, DNA repair, and replication at chromosome ends. Depletion of several of these proteins induces telomere fragility, indicating their roles in replication of telomeric DNA. Depletion of SAMHD1, which has reported roles in DNA resection and homology-directed repair, leads to telomere breakage events in cells deprived of the shelterin component TRF1. Thus, our analysis identifies factors, which accumulate at telomeres during cellular transformation to promote telomere replication and repair, resisting oncogene-borne telomere replication stress.
PXD010524	30456423	Immobilization of a Ce(IV)-substituted polyoxometalate on ethylenediamine-functionalized graphene oxide for selective extraction of phosphoproteins. 	Immobilization of Ce(IV)-substituted polyoxometalate on ethylenediamine-functionalized graphene oxide for the isolation of intact phosphoproteins	isolation  phosphoproteins	A sorbent for selective extraction of phosphoproteins was obtained by immobilization of a Ce(IV)-substituted polyoxometalate on ethylenediamine-functionalized graphene oxide (CeEGO). The resulting composites exhibit an adsorption capacity of 981 mg g(-1) for beta-casein due to the synergistic effect of metal-affinity interaction between Ce(IV) and phosphate groups and pi-stacking interaction between the polyoxometalate framework and the phosphate groups. The results of LC-MS and SDS-PAGE analysis show that the CeEGO composites can be applied to the extraction of phosphoproteins from protein mixture, and as little as 50 mug mL(-1) of the phosphoprotein beta-casein can be detected by SDS-PAGE. It was also applied to the extraction of beta-casein from spiked biological samples such as drinking milk, whole blood and swine heart tissue extract. Graphical abstract An efficient sorbent is obtained by immobilization of a Ce(IV)-substituted polyoxometalate on ethylenediamine-functionalized graphene oxide (CeEGO). The resulting composites exhibit highly selective capture capacity towards phosphoproteins due to the synergistic effect of metal-affinity interaction between Ce(IV) and phosphate groups and pi-stacking interaction between the polyoxometalate framework and the phosphate groups.
PXD010352	30457570	Complementary proteomics strategies capture an ataxin-1 interactome in Neuro-2a cells. 	Complementary proteomics strategies identify the ataxin-1 interactome in Neuro-2a cells	Ataxin-1, BioID, GFP-trap, LC - MSMS, Neuro-2a, interactome	Ataxin-1 mutation, arising from a polyglutamine (polyQ) tract expansion, is the underlying genetic cause of the late-onset neurodegenerative disease Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). To identify protein partners of polyQ-ataxin-1 in neuronal cells under control or stress conditions, here we report our complementary proteomics strategies of proximity-dependent biotin identification (BioID) and affinity purification (via GFP-Trap pulldown) in Neuro-2a cells expressing epitope-tagged forms of ataxin-1[85Q]. These approaches allowed our enrichment of proximal proteins and interacting partners, respectively, with the subsequent protein identification performed by liquid chromatography-MS/MS. Background proteins, not dependent on the presence of the polyQ-ataxin-1 protein, were additionally defined by their endogenous biotinylation (for the BioID protocol) or by their non-specific interaction with GFP only (in the GFP-Trap protocol). All datasets were generated from biological replicates. Following the removal of the identified background proteins from the acquired protein lists, our experimental design has captured a comprehensive polyQ-ataxin-1 proximal and direct protein partners under normal and stress conditions. Data are available via ProteomeXchange, with identifier PXD010352.
PXD009594	30457989	Loss of the Mia40a oxidoreductase leads to hepato-pancreatic insufficiency in zebrafish. 	Loss of the Mia40a oxidoreductase leads to hepato-pancreatic insufficiency in the zebrafish	Danio rerio, MIA pathway, dimethyl labeling (DML), mitochondria	Development and function of tissues and organs are powered by the activity of mitochondria. In humans, inherited genetic mutations that lead to progressive mitochondrial pathology often manifest during infancy and can lead to death, reflecting the indispensable nature of mitochondrial biogenesis and function. Here, we describe a zebrafish mutant for the gene mia40a (chchd4a), the life-essential homologue of the evolutionarily conserved Mia40 oxidoreductase which drives the biogenesis of cysteine-rich mitochondrial proteins. We report that mia40a mutant animals undergo progressive cellular respiration defects and develop enlarged mitochondria in skeletal muscles before their ultimate death at the larval stage. We generated a deep transcriptomic and proteomic resource that allowed us to identify abnormalities in the development and physiology of endodermal organs, in particular the liver and pancreas. We identify the acinar cells of the exocrine pancreas to be severely affected by mutations in the MIA pathway. Our data contribute to a better understanding of the molecular, cellular and organismal effects of mitochondrial deficiency, important for the accurate diagnosis and future treatment strategies of mitochondrial diseases.
PXD009476	30459171	Mapping the O-glycoproteome using site-specific extraction of O-linked glycopeptides (EXoO). 	Site-specific Extraction of O-linked glycopeptides (EXoO) Maps Landscape of In Vivo O-linked Glycoproteome	EXoO, O-linked, Site-specific, glycosylation, in vivo	Protein glycosylation is one of the most abundant post-translational modifications. However, detailed analysis of O-linked glycosylation, a major type of protein glycosylation, has been severely impeded by the scarcity of suitable methodologies. Here, a chemoenzymatic method is introduced for the site-specific extraction of O-linked glycopeptides (EXoO), which enabled the mapping of over 3,000 O-linked glycosylation sites and definition of their glycans on over 1,000 proteins in human kidney tissues, T cells, and serum. This large-scale localization of O-linked glycosylation sites demonstrated that EXoO is an effective method for defining the site-specific O-linked glycoproteome in different types of sample. Detailed structural analysis of the sites identified revealed conserved motifs and topological orientations facing extracellular space, the cell surface, the lumen of the Golgi, and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). EXoO was also able to reveal significant differences in the O-linked glycoproteome of tumor and normal kidney tissues pointing to its broader use in clinical diagnostics and therapeutics.
PXD010069	30459217	Human Stress-inducible Hsp70 Has a High Propensity to Form ATP-dependent Antiparallel Dimers That Are Differentially Regulated by Cochaperone Binding. 	Hsp70 ATP-dependent dimerization and Chaperone/Co-chaperone Interactions	Chip, Hsp70, Tomm34, co-chaperone, dimer	Eukaryotic protein homeostasis (proteostasis) is largely dependent on the action of highly conserved Hsp70 molecular chaperones. Recent evidence indicates that, apart from conserved molecular allostery, Hsp70 proteins have retained and adapted the ability to assemble as functionally relevant ATP-bound dimers throughout evolution. Here, we have compared the ATP-dependent dimerization of DnaK, human stress-inducible Hsp70, Hsc70 and BiP Hsp70 proteins, showing that their dimerization propensities differ, with stress-inducible Hsp70 being predominantly dimeric in the presence of ATP. Structural analyses using hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, native electrospray ionization mass spectrometry and small-angle X-ray scattering revealed that stress-inducible Hsp70 assembles in solution as an antiparallel dimer with the intermolecular interface closely resembling the ATP-bound dimer interfaces captured in DnaK and BiP crystal structures. ATP-dependent dimerization of stress-inducible Hsp70 is necessary for its efficient interaction with Hsp40, as shown by experiments with dimerization-deficient mutants. Moreover, dimerization of ATP-bound Hsp70 is required for its participation in high molecular weight protein complexes detected ex vivo, supporting its functional role in vivo As human cytosolic Hsp70 can interact with tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain containing cochaperones, we tested the interaction of Hsp70 ATP-dependent dimers with Chip and Tomm34 cochaperones. Although Chip associates with intact Hsp70 dimers to form a larger complex, binding of Tomm34 disrupts the Hsp70 dimer and this event plays an important role in Hsp70 activity regulation. In summary, this study provides structural evidence of robust ATP-dependent antiparallel dimerization of human inducible Hsp70 protein and suggests a novel role of TPR domain cochaperones in multichaperone complexes involving Hsp70 ATP-bound dimers.
PXD011187	30459281	Phosphoproteome and gene expression profiling of ALK inhibition in neuroblastoma cell lines reveals conserved oncogenic pathways. 	Phosphoproteome and gene expression profiling of ALK inhibition in neuroblastoma cells lines reveals conserved oncogenic pathways	ALK inhibition, Phosphoproteome, neuroblastoma, oncogenic, pathways	Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) is a tyrosine kinase receptor that is a clinical target of major interest in cancer. Mutations and rearrangements in ALK trigger the activation of the encoded receptor and its downstream signaling pathways. ALK mutations have been identified in both familial and sporadic neuroblastoma cases as well as in 30 to 40% of relapses, which makes ALK a bona fide target in neuroblastoma therapy. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) that target ALK are currently in clinical use for the treatment of patients with ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer. However, monotherapy with the ALK inhibitor crizotinib has been less encouraging in neuroblastoma patients with ALK alterations, raising the question of whether combinatorial therapy would be more effective. In this study, we established both phosphoproteomic and gene expression profiles of ALK activity in neuroblastoma cells exposed to first- and third-generation ALK TKIs, to identify the underlying molecular mechanisms and identify relevant biomarkers, signaling networks, and new therapeutic targets. This analysis has unveiled various important leads for novel combinatorial treatment strategies for patients with neuroblastoma and an increased understanding of ALK signaling involved in this disease.
PXD006404	30459283	Integrated proximal proteomics reveals IRS2 as a determinant of cell survival in ALK-driven neuroblastoma. 	Proteomics analysis of ALK signaling in neuroblastoma cells	ALK signaling, neuroblastoma	Oncogenic anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) is one of the few druggable targets in neuroblastoma, and therapy resistance to ALK-targeting tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) comprises an inevitable clinical challenge. Therefore, a better understanding of the oncogenic signaling network rewiring driven by ALK is necessary to improve and guide future therapies. Here, we performed quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics on neuroblastoma cells treated with one of three clinically relevant ALK TKIs (crizotinib, LDK378, or lorlatinib) or an experimentally used ALK TKI (TAE684) to unravel aberrant ALK signaling pathways. Our integrated proximal proteomics (IPP) strategy included multiple signaling layers, such as the ALK interactome, phosphotyrosine interactome, phosphoproteome, and proteome. We identified the signaling adaptor protein IRS2 (insulin receptor substrate 2) as a major ALK target and an ALK TKI-sensitive signaling node in neuroblastoma cells driven by oncogenic ALK. TKI treatment decreased the recruitment of IRS2 to ALK and reduced the tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS2. Furthermore, siRNA-mediated depletion of ALK or IRS2 decreased the phosphorylation of the survival-promoting kinase Akt and of a downstream target, the transcription factor FoxO3, and reduced the viability of three ALK-driven neuroblastoma cell lines. Collectively, our IPP analysis provides insight into the proximal architecture of oncogenic ALK signaling by revealing IRS2 as an adaptor protein that links ALK to neuroblastoma cell survival through the Akt-FoxO3 signaling axis.
PXD009018	30459284	IFN-gamma-inducible antiviral responses require ULK1-mediated activation of MLK3 and ERK5. 	ULK1 IFNgamma Proteomics      .	ULK1 interferon gamma proteomics	It is well established that activation of the transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) is required for the interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-mediated antiviral response. Here, we found that IFN-gamma receptor stimulation also activated Unc-51-like kinase 1 (ULK1), an initiator of Beclin-1-mediated autophagy. Furthermore, the interaction between ULK1 and the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase MLK3 (mixed lineage kinase 3) was necessary for MLK3 phosphorylation and downstream activation of the kinase ERK5. This autophagy-independent activity of ULK1 promoted the transcription of key antiviral IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) and was essential for IFN-gamma-dependent antiviral effects. These findings define a previously unknown IFN-gamma pathway that appears to be a key element of the antiviral response.
PXD008601	30459334	Quantitative metaproteomics of medieval dental calculus reveals individual oral health status. 	Quantitative metaproteomics of medieval dental calculus reveals individual oral health status	Calculus, Metaproteomics	The composition of ancient oral microbiomes has recently become accessible owing to advanced biomolecular methods such as metagenomics and metaproteomics, but the utility of metaproteomics for such analyses is less explored. Here, we use quantitative metaproteomics to characterize the dental calculus associated with the remains of 21 humans retrieved during the archeological excavation of the medieval (ca. 1100-1450 CE) cemetery of Tjaerby, Denmark. We identify 3671 protein groups, covering 220 bacterial species and 81 genera across all medieval samples. The metaproteome profiles of bacterial and human proteins suggest two distinct groups of archeological remains corresponding to health-predisposed and oral disease-susceptible individuals, which is supported by comparison to the calculus metaproteomes of healthy living individuals. Notably, the groupings identified by metaproteomics are not apparent from the bioarchaeological analysis, illustrating that quantitative metaproteomics has the potential to provide additional levels of molecular information about the oral health status of individuals from archeological contexts.
PXD005785	30459560	Diverse Protein Profiles in CNS Myeloid Cells and CNS Tissue From Lipopolysaccharide- and Vehicle-Injected APPSWE/PS1DeltaE9 Transgenic Mice Implicate Cathepsin Z in Alzheimer's Disease. 	The effect of chronic inflammation on molecular pathways of long-term potentiation in an APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer Disease	LPS, LTP, brain, neuroinflammation	Neuroinflammation, characterized by chronic activation of the myeloid-derived microglia, is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Systemic inflammation, typically resulting from infection, has been linked to the progression of AD due to exacerbation of the chronic microglial reaction. However, the mechanism and the consequences of this exacerbation are largely unknown. Here, we mimicked systemic inflammation in AD with weekly intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of APPSWE/PS1DeltaE9 transgenic mice with E. coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from 9 to 12 months of age, corresponding to the period with the steepest increase in amyloid pathology. We found that the repeated LPS injections ameliorated amyloid pathology in the neocortex while increasing the neuroinflammatory reaction. To elucidate mechanisms, we analyzed the proteome of the hippocampus from the same mice as well as in unique samples of CNS myeloid cells. The repeated LPS injections stimulated protein pathways of the complement system, retinoid receptor activation and oxidative stress. CNS myeloid cells from transgenic mice showed enrichment in pathways of amyloid-beta clearance and elevated levels of the lysosomal protease cathepsin Z, as well as amyloid precursor protein, apolipoprotein E and clusterin. These proteins were found elevated in the proteome of both LPS and vehicle injected transgenics, and co-localized to CD11b(+) microglia in transgenic mice and in primary murine microglia. Additionally, cathepsin Z, amyloid precursor protein, and apolipoprotein E appeared associated with amyloid plaques in neocortex of AD cases. Interestingly, cathepsin Z was expressed in microglial-like cells and co-localized to CD68(+) microglial lysosomes in AD cases, and it was expressed in perivascular cells in AD and control cases. Taken together, our results implicate systemic LPS administration in ameliorating amyloid pathology in early-to-mid stage disease in the APPSWE/PS1DeltaE9 mouse and attract attention to the potential disease involvement of cathepsin Z expressed in CNS myeloid cells in AD.
PXD009622	30460208	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Antibiotics Resistance Function of Outer Membrane Proteins in Aeromonas hydrophila. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Antibiotics Resistance Function of Outer Membrane Proteins in Aeromonas hydrophila	Aeromonas hydrophila, Outer Membrane Proteins, Antibiotics resistance	Outer membrane proteins (OMPs) play essential roles in antibiotic resistance, particularly in Gram-negative bacteria; however, they still have many unidentified functions regarding their behavior in response to antibiotic stress. In the current work, quantitative tandem mass tag labeling-based mass spectrometry was used to compare the outer membrane related proteins between an oxytetracycline-resistant (OXY-R) and its original control stain (OXY-O) in Aeromonas hydrophila. Consequently, a total of 261 commonly altered proteins in two biological repeats were identified including 29 proteins that increased and 28 that decreased. Gene ontology analysis showed that the expression of transport proteins was significantly reduced, and translation-related proteins were downregulated in the OXY-R strain. After using western blotting to validate selected altered proteins, eight OMP-related genes were knocked out and their roles in antibiotic resistance were further evaluated. The survival assays showed that some mutants such as DeltaAHA_4281, DeltaAHA_2766, DeltaAHA_2282, DeltaAHA_1181, and DeltaAHA_1280 affected the susceptibility of A. hydrophila to antimicrobials. Moreover, the minimum inhibitory concentration assay showed that these candidate mutants also respond differently to other types of antibiotics. Our results reveal several novel outer membrane related proteins of A. hydrophila that play important roles in antibiotic resistance, and as such, may be helpful for screening studies to identify novel drug targets.
PXD009610	30460336	Comparative Characterization of Osteoclasts Derived From Murine Bone Marrow Macrophages and RAW 264.7 Cells Using Quantitative Proteomics. 	Comparative characterization of osteoclasts derived from murine bone marrow macrophages and RAW 264.7 cells using quantitative proteomics	RAW264.7, bone marrow macrophages, osteoclast	Osteoclasts are bone-resorbing cells differentiated from macrophage/monocyte precursors in response to macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) and receptor activator of NF-kappaB ligand (RANKL). In vitro models are principally based on primary bone marrow macrophages (BMMs), but RAW 264.7 cells are frequently used because they are widely available, easy to culture, and more amenable to genetic manipulation than primary cells. Increasing evidence, however, has shown that the vastly different origins of these two cell types may have important effects on cell behavior. In particular, M-CSF is a prerequisite for the differentiation of BMMs, by promoting survival and proliferation and priming the cells for RANKL induction. RAW 264.7 cells readily form osteoclasts in the presence of RANKL, but M-CSF is not required. Based on these key differences, we sought to understand their functional implications and how it might affect osteoclast differentiation and related signaling pathways. Using a robust and high-throughput proteomics strategy, we quantified the global protein changes in osteoclasts derived from BMMs and RAW 264.7 cells at 1, 3, and 5 days of differentiation. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD009610. Correlation analysis of the proteomes demonstrated low concordance between the two cell types (R(2) =~ 0.13). Bioinformatics analysis indicate that RANKL-dependent signaling was intact in RAW 264.7 cells, but biological processes known to be dependent on M-CSF were significantly different, including cell cycle control, cytoskeletal organization, and apoptosis. RAW 264.7 cells exhibited constitutive activation of Erk and Akt that was dependent on the activity of Abelson tyrosine kinase, and the timing of Erk and Akt activation was significantly different between BMMs and RAW 264.7 cells. Our findings provide the first evidence for major discrepancies between BMMs and RAW 264.7 cells, indicating that careful consideration is needed when using the RAW 264.7 cell line for studying M-CSF-dependent signaling and functions. (c) 2018 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research. (c) 2018 The Authors. JBMR Plus published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
PXD010329	30462291	Inosine induces context-dependent recoding and translational stalling. 	Inosine induces context-dependent recoding and translational stalling	A-to-I editing, ADAR, RNA modification, epitranscriptome, mRNA-translation	RNA modifications are present in all classes of RNAs. They control the fate of mRNAs by affecting their processing, translation, or stability. Inosine is a particularly widespread modification in metazoan mRNA arising from deamination of adenosine catalyzed by the RNA-targeting adenosine deaminases ADAR1 or ADAR2. Inosine is commonly thought to be interpreted as guanosine by cellular machines and during translation. Here, we systematically test ribosomal decoding using mass spectrometry. We show that while inosine is primarily interpreted as guanosine it can also be decoded as adenosine, and rarely even as uracil. Decoding of inosine as adenosine and uracil is context-dependent. In addition, mass spectrometry analysis indicates that inosine causes ribosome stalling especially when multiple inosines are present in the codon. Indeed, ribosome profiling data from human tissues confirm inosine-dependent ribosome stalling in vivo. To our knowledge this is the first study where decoding of inosine is tested in a comprehensive and unbiased way. Thus, our study shows novel, unanticipated functions for inosines in mRNAs, further expanding coding potential and affecting translational efficiency.
PXD010296	30462917	Assessing Automated Sample Preparation Technologies for High-Throughput Proteomics of Frozen Well Characterized Tissues from Swedish Biobanks. 	ASSESSING AUTOMATED SAMPLE PREPARATION TECHNOLOGIES FOR HIGH-THROUGHPUT PROTEOMICS OF FROZEN WELL CHARACTERIZED TISSUES FROM SWEDISH BIOBANKS	Barocycler, Bioruptor, Bravo AssayMAP, clinical proteomics, tissue	Large cohorts of carefully collected clinical tissue materials play a central role in acquiring sufficient depth and statistical power to discover disease-related mechanisms and biomarkers of clinical significance. Manual preparation of such large sample cohorts requires experienced laboratory personnel. This carries other possible downsides such as low throughput, high risk of errors, and low reproducibility. In this work, three automated technologies for high-throughput proteomics of frozen sectioned tissues were compared. The instruments evaluated included the Bioruptor for tissue disruption and protein extraction; the Barocycler, which is able to disrupt tissues and digest the proteins; and the AssayMAP Bravo, a microchromatography platform for protein digestion, peptide desalting, and fractionation. Wide varieties of tissue samples from rat spleen, malignant melanoma, and pancreatic tumors were used for the assessment. The three instruments displayed reproducible and consistent results, as was proven by high correlations and low coefficients of variation between technical replicates and even more importantly, between replicates that were processed in different batches or at different time points. The results from this study allowed us to integrate these technologies into an automated sample preparation workflow for large-scale proteomic studies that are currently ongoing. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD010296 and PXD011295.
PXD008203	30463002	Recruitment of Cytosolic J-Proteins by TOM Receptors Promotes Mitochondrial Protein Biogenesis. 	Receptor-mediated recruitment of cytosolic J-proteins to the mitochondrial outer membrane promotes assembly of preprotein translocases	SILAC, cytosolic J-proteins, mitochondria	Mitochondria possess elaborate machineries for the import of proteins from the cytosol. Cytosolic factors like Hsp70 chaperones and their co-chaperones, the J-proteins, guide proteins to the mitochondrial surface. The translocase of the mitochondrial outer membrane (TOM) forms the entry gate for preproteins. How the proteins are delivered to mitochondrial preprotein receptors is poorly understood. We identify the cytosolic J-protein Xdj1 as a specific interaction partner of the central receptor Tom22. Tom22 recruits Xdj1 to the mitochondrial surface to promote import of preproteins and assembly of the TOM complex. Additionally, we find that the receptor Tom70 binds a different cytosolic J-protein, Djp1. Our findings suggest that cytosolic J-proteins target distinct TOM receptors and promote the biogenesis of mitochondrial proteins.
PXD006769	30464169	Integrated mapping of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in a patient-derived xenograft model of glioblastoma. 	Phosphotyrosine profiling of in vivo signaling changes in erlotinib-treated glioblastoma flank xenografts	EGFR, Glioblastoma, erlotinib, tyrosine phosphorylation, xenografts	Therapeutic options for the treatment of glioblastoma remain inadequate despite concerted research efforts in drug development. Therapeutic failure can result from poor permeability of the blood-brain barrier, heterogeneous drug distribution, and development of resistance. Elucidation of relationships among such parameters could enable the development of predictive models of drug response in patients and inform drug development. Complementary analyses were applied to a glioblastoma patient-derived xenograft model in order to quantitatively map distribution and resulting cellular response to the EGFR inhibitor erlotinib. Mass spectrometry images of erlotinib were registered to histology and magnetic resonance images in order to correlate drug distribution with tumor characteristics. Phosphoproteomics and immunohistochemistry were used to assess protein signaling in response to drug, and integrated with transcriptional response using mRNA sequencing. This comprehensive dataset provides simultaneous insight into pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics and indicates that erlotinib delivery to intracranial tumors is insufficient to inhibit EGFR tyrosine kinase signaling.
PXD008050	30466060	A novel role for NUPR1 in the keratinocyte stress response to UV oxidized phospholipids. 	UVA and to UV-oxidized lipids proteomic regulation of the human keratinocytes	UV, keratinocytes, oxidized lipids	Ultraviolet light is the dominant environmental oxidative skin stressor and a major skin aging factor. We studied which oxidized phospholipid (OxPL) mediators would be generated in primary human keratinocytes (KC) upon exposure to ultraviolet A light (UVA) and investigated the contribution of OxPL to UVA responses. Mass spectrometric analysis immediately or 24 h post UV stress revealed significant changes in abundance of 173 and 84 lipid species, respectively. We identified known and novel lipid species including known bioactive and also potentially reactive carbonyl containing species. We found indication for selective metabolism and degradation of selected reactive lipids. Exposure to both UVA and to in vitro UVA - oxidized phospholipids activated, on transcriptome and proteome level, NRF2/antioxidant response signaling, lipid metabolizing enzyme expression and unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling. We identified NUPR1 as an upstream regulator of UVA/OxPL transcriptional stress responses and found this protein to be expressed in the epidermis. Silencing of NUPR1 resulted in augmented expression of antioxidant and lipid detoxification genes and disturbed the cell cycle, making it a potential key factor in skin reactive oxygen species (ROS) responses intimately involved in aging and pathology.
PXD009592	30466063	A Proteomics Approach to Profiling the Temporal Translational Response to Stress and Growth. 	A proteomics approach to profiling the temporal translational response to stress and growth	Synthesis, Translation, Translatome	To quantify dynamic protein synthesis rates, we developed MITNCAT, a method combining multiplexed isobaric mass tagging with pulsed SILAC (pSILAC) and bio-orthogonal non-canonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) to label newly synthesized proteins with azidohomoalanine (Aha), thus enabling high temporal resolution across multiple conditions in a single analysis. MITNCAT quantification of protein synthesis rates following induction of the unfolded protein response revealed global down-regulation of protein synthesis, with stronger down-regulation of glycolytic and protein synthesis machinery proteins, but up-regulation of several key chaperones. Waves of temporally distinct protein synthesis were observed in response to epidermal growth factor, with altered synthesis detectable in the first 15 min. Comparison of protein synthesis with mRNA sequencing and ribosome footprinting distinguished protein synthesis driven by increased transcription versus increased translational efficiency. Temporal delays between ribosome occupancy and protein synthesis were observed and found to correlate with altered codon usage in significantly delayed proteins.
PXD009798	30466483	Specialisation events of fungal metacommunities exposed to a persistent organic pollutant are suggestive of augmented pathogenic potential. 	Specialisation events of fungal metacommunities exposed to a persistent organic pollutant are suggestive of augmented pathogenic potential	LC-MS, PCP, biocide, carbon and nitrogen metabolisms, metacommunity, pathogenic, secreted proteins	BACKGROUND: The impacts of man-made chemicals, in particular of persistent organic pollutants, are multifactorial as they may affect the integrity of ecosystems, alter biodiversity and have undesirable effects on many organisms. We have previously demonstrated that the belowground mycobiota of forest soils acts as a buffer against the biocide pollutant pentachlorophenol. However, the trade-offs made by mycobiota to mitigate this pollutant remain cryptic. RESULTS: Herein, we demonstrate using a culture-dependent approach that exposure to pentachlorophenol led to alterations in the composition and functioning of the metacommunity, many of which were not fully alleviated when most of the biocide was degraded. Proteomic and physiological analyses showed that the carbon and nitrogen metabolisms were particularly affected. This dysregulation is possibly linked to the higher pathogenic potential of the metacommunity following exposure to the biocide, supported by the secretion of proteins related to pathogenicity and reduced susceptibility to a fungicide. Our findings provide additional evidence for the silent risks of environmental pollution, particularly as it may favour the development of pathogenic trade-offs in fungi, which may impose serious threats to animals and plant hosts.
PXD006692	30467300	Proteome Investigation of Rat Lungs subjected to Ex Vivo Perfusion (EVLP). 	Proteomic Investigation of EVLP Tissue Lung Lobes	EVLP, Lung	Ex vivo lung perfusion (EVLP) is an emerging procedure that allows organ preservation, assessment and reconditioning, increasing the number of marginal donor lungs for transplantation. However, physiological and airflow measurements are unable to unveil the molecular mechanisms responsible of EVLP beneficial effects on lung graft and monitor the proper course of the treatment. Thus, it is urgent to find specific biomarkers that possess these requirements but also accurate and reliable techniques that identify them. The purpose of this study is to give an overview on the potentiality of shotgun proteomic platforms in characterizing the status and the evolution of metabolic pathways during EVLP in order to find new potential EVLP-related biomarkers. A nanoLC-MS/MS system was applied to the proteome analysis of lung tissues from an optimized rat model in three experimental groups: native, pre- and post-EVLP. Technical and biological repeatability were evaluated and, together with clustering analysis, underlined the good quality of data produced. In-house software and bioinformatics tools allowed the label-free extraction of differentially expressed proteins among the three examined conditions and the network visualization of the pathways mainly involved. These promising findings encourage further proteomic investigations of the molecular mechanisms behind EVLP procedure.
PXD009791	30467419	Distinct editing functions of natural HLA-DM allotypes impact antigen presentation and CD4(+) T cell activation. 	HLA-DM allotypes -  Distinct editing functions of natural HLA-DM allotypes impact antigen presentation and CD4+ T cell activation	Antigen presentation/ MHC class II/ Immunopeptidome/ Peptide editing/ Polymorphism	Classical human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules of the major histocompatibility class II (MHCII) complex present peptides for the development, surveillance and activation of CD4(+) T cells. The nonclassical MHCII-like protein HLA-DM (DM) catalyzes the exchange and loading of peptides onto MHCII molecules, thereby shaping MHCII immunopeptidomes. Natural variations of DM in both chains of the protein (DMA and DMB) have been hypothesized to impact peptide presentation, but no evidence for altered function has been reported. Here we define the presence of DM allotypes in human populations covered by the 1000 Genomes Project and probe their activity. The functional properties of several allotypes are investigated and show strong enhancement of peptide-induced T cell activation for a particular combination of DMA and DMB. Biochemical evidence suggests a broader pH activity profile for the new variant relative to that of the most commonly expressed DM allotype. Immunopeptidome analysis indicates that the compartmental activity of the new DM heterodimer extends beyond the late endosome and suggests that the natural variation of DM has profound effects on adaptive immunity when antigens bypass the canonical processing pathway.
PXD013288	30471193	Alternative digestion approaches improve histone modification mapping by mass spectrometry in clinical samples. 	Histone PTM profiling during the cell cycle	LC/MS, cell cycle, cell proliferation, histone post-translational modifications	PURPOSE: Profiling histone posttranslational modifications (PTMs) in clinical samples holds great potential for the identification of epigenetic biomarkers and the discovery of novel epigenetic targets. MS-based approaches to analyze histone PTMs in clinical samples usually rely on SDS-PAGE separation following histone enrichment in order to eliminate detergents and further isolate histones. However, this limits the digestions options and hence the modification coverage. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN AND RESULTS: The aim of this study is the implementation of a procedure involving acetone protein precipitation followed by histone enrichment through a C18 StageTip column to obtain histone preparations suitable for various in-solution digestion protocols. Among them, the Arg-C digestion, which allows profiling histone H4 modifications, and the Prop-PIC method, which improves the detection of short and hydrophilic peptides, are tested. This approach is validated on different types of samples, including formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded pathology tissues, and employed to profile histone H4 modifications in cancer samples and normal tissues, identifying previously reported differences, as well as novel ones. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This protocol widens the number of applications available in the toolbox of clinical epigenomics, allowing the investigation of a larger spectrum of histone marks in patient samples.
PXD010389	30472255	Comparative exoproteome profiling of an invasive and a commensal Staphylococcus haemolyticus isolate. 	Comparative exoproteome profiling of an invasive and a commensal Staphylococcus haemolyticus isolate	Membrane vesicles, Staphylococcus haemolyticus, secretome.	Staphylococcus haemolyticus is a skin commensal emerging as an opportunistic pathogen. Nosocomial isolates of S. haemolyticus are the most antibiotic resistant members of the coagulase negative staphylococci (CoNS), but information about other S. haemolyticus virulence factors is scarce. Bacterial membrane vesicles (MVs) are one mediator of virulence by enabling secretion and long distance delivery of bacterial effector molecules while protecting the cargo from proteolytic degradation from the environment. We wanted to determine if the MV protein cargo of S. haemolyticus is strain specific and enriched in certain MV associated proteins compared to the totalsecretome. The present study shows that both clinical and commensal S. haemolyticus isolates produce membrane vesicles. The MV cargo of both strains was enriched in proteins involved in adhesion and acquisition of iron. The MV cargo of the clinical strain was further enriched in antimicrobial resistance proteins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010389. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Clinical isolates of Staphylococcus haemolyticus are usually multidrug resistant, their main virulence factor is formation of biofilms, both factors leading to infections that are difficult to treat. We show that both clinical and commensal S. haemolyticus isolates produce membrane vesicles. Identification of staphylococcal membrane vesicles can potentially be used in novel approaches to combat staphylococcal infections, such as development of vaccines.
PXD007690	30474317	Frontal Cortex Proteome Perturbation after Juvenile Rat Secondhand Smoke Exposure. 	Effect of Juvenile Environmental Tobacco Smoke Exposure on the Rat Frontal Cortex Neuroproteome	Brain, Cortex, Development, Frontal, HDMSe, Juvenile, Neuroproteome, Secondhand Smoke, at, tobacco	Secondhand smoke remains a global concern for children's health. Epidemiological studies implicate exposure to secondhand smoke as a major risk factor for behavioral disorders, yet biological causation remains unclear. Model studies have mainly focused on secondhand smoke impacts to prenatal neurodevelopment, yet juvenile exposure represents a separate risk. Using ion mobility-enhanced data-independent mass spectrometry, the effect of juvenile secondhand smoke exposure on the prefrontal cortex, a principal part of the brain involved in behavioral control, is characterized. The produced dataset includes 800 significantly responsive proteins within the juvenile orbital frontal cortex, with 716 showing an increase in abundance. The neuroproteomic response reflects a prominent perturbation within the glutamatergic synaptic system, suggesting aberrant, disorganized excitation as observed underlying psychiatric disorders. Also disclosed are impacts to GABAergic and dopaminergic systems. Overall, the dataset provides a wealth of detail, facilitating further targeted research into the causal mechanisms underlying behavioral disorders associated with juvenile exposure to secondhand smoke and other environmental pollutants. All MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange consortium with identifier PXD011744.
PXD011199	30475625	Colonic Proteome Signature in Immunoproteasome-Deficient Stressed Mice and Its Relevance for Irritable Bowel Syndrome. 	Colonic proteome signature in immunoproteasome-deficient stressed mice and its relevance for irritable bowel syndrome	Colonic proteome, Immunoproteasome, Irritable bowel syndrome, Water avoidance stress.	A role for immunoproteasome in the regulation of intestinal permeability has been previously suggested both in mice during water avoidance stress (WAS) and in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Here, we provide evidence that the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) contributes to the pathophysiology of IBS. Indeed, we report that colonic proteome is altered in WAS mice and that beta2i subunit deficiency modifies the proteome response that is associated with a limitation of colonic hyperpermeability. Interestingly, we show specific alterations of proteins involved in UPS, mitochondrial, and energy metabolism. We also report changes in the pattern of colonic ubiquitome in diarrhea-predominant IBS (IBS-D) patients and particularly a reduced expression of ubiquitinated proteins involved in the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) inflammatory signaling pathway. All these data suggest that immunoproteasome targeting may represent a new therapeutic strategy for the treatment of IBS patients with increased intestinal permeability.
PXD010831	30476274	MIR sequences recruit zinc finger protein ZNF768 to expressed genes. 	MIR sequences recruit zinc finger protein ZNF768 to expressed genes	Elongator, Zinc finger protein, gene regulation, heptad-repeats, mammalian interspersed repeats, placentalia	Mammalian-wide interspersed repeats (MIRs) are retrotransposed elements of mammalian genomes. Here, we report the specific binding of zinc finger protein ZNF768 to the sequence motif GCTGTGTG (N20) CCTCTCTG in the core region of MIRs. ZNF768 binding is preferentially associated with euchromatin and promoter regions of genes. Binding was observed for genes expressed in a cell type-specific manner in human B cell line Raji and osteosarcoma U2OS cells. Mass spectrometric analysis revealed binding of ZNF768 to Elongator components Elp1, Elp2 and Elp3 and other nuclear factors. The N-terminus of ZNF768 contains a heptad repeat array structurally related to the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II. This array evolved in placental animals but not marsupials and monotreme species, displays species-specific length variations, and possibly fulfills CTD related functions in gene regulation. We propose that the evolution of MIRs and ZNF768 has extended the repertoire of gene regulatory mechanisms in mammals and that ZNF768 binding is associated with cell type-specific gene expression.
PXD022056	30476874	Chlorination and oxidation of the extracellular matrix protein laminin and basement membrane extracts by hypochlorous acid and myeloperoxidase. 	Label-free mass spectrometry analysis of laminin with induced oxidations and chlorination's facilitated with hypochlorous acid and myeloperoxidase treatments.	ECM, chlorination, extracellular matrix proteins, inflammation., laminin, oxidation	Basement membranes are specialized extracellular matrices that underlie arterial wall endothelial cells, with laminin being a key structural and biologically-active component. Hypochlorous acid (HOCl), a potent oxidizing and chlorinating agent, is formed in vivo at sites of inflammation via the enzymatic action of myeloperoxidase (MPO), released by activated leukocytes. Considerable data supports a role for MPO-derived oxidants in cardiovascular disease and particularly atherosclerosis. These effects may be mediated via extracellular matrix damage to which MPO binds. Herein we detect and quantify sites of oxidation and chlorination on isolated laminin-111, and laminin in basement membrane extracts (BME), by use of mass spectrometry. Increased modification was detected with increasing oxidant exposure. Mass mapping indicated selectivity in the sites and extent of damage; Met residues were most heavily modified. Fewer modifications were detected with BME, possibly due to the shielding effects. HOCl oxidised 30 (of 56 total) Met and 7 (of 24) Trp residues, and chlorinated 33 (of 99) Tyr residues; 3 Tyr were dichlorinated. An additional 8 Met and 10 Trp oxidations, 14 chlorinations, and 18 dichlorinations were detected with the MPO/H2O2/Cl(-) system when compared to reagent HOCl. Interestingly, chlorination was detected at Tyr2415 in the integrin-binding region; this may decrease cellular adhesion. Co-localization of MPO-damaged epitopes and laminin was detected in human atherosclerotic lesions. These data indicate that laminin is extensively modified by MPO-derived oxidants, with structural and functional changes. These modifications, and compromised cell-matrix interactions, may promote endothelial cell dysfunction, weaken the structure of atherosclerotic lesions, and enhance lesion rupture.
PXD008931	30477445	Comprehensive proteome analyses of lysine acetylation in tea leaves by sensing nitrogen nutrition. 	Comprehensive Proteome Analyses of Lysine Acetylation in Tea leaves by sensing Nitrogen nutrition	PTM, acetylation, acetylome, metabolism, nitrogen, resupply, starvation, tea	BACKGROUND: N(epsilon)-Acetylation of lysine residues, a frequently occurring post-translational modification, plays important functions in regulating physiology and metabolism. However, the information of global overview of protein acetylome under nitrogen-starvation/resupply in tea (Camellia sinensis) leaves was limited. And the full function of lysine acetylated proteins of tea plants in nitrogen absorption and assimilation remains unclear. RESULTS: Here, we performed the global review of lysine acetylome in tea leaves under nitrogen (N)-starvation/resupply, using peptide prefractionation, immunoaffinity enrichment, and coupling with high sensitive LC-MS/MS combined with affinity purification analysis. Altogether, 2229 lysine acetylation sites on 1286 proteins were identified, of which 16 conserved motifs in E(*)K(ac)K, K(ac*)K, K(ac*)R, K(ac*)HK, K(ac*)N, K(ac*)S, K(ac*)T, K(ac*)D, were extracted from 2180 acetylated peptides. Approximately, 36.76% of the acetylated lysines were located in the regions of ordered secondary structures. The most of the identified lysine acetylation proteins were located in the chloroplast (39%) and cytoplasm (29%). The largest group of acetylated proteins consisted of many enzymes, such as ATP synthase, ribosomal proteins and malate dehydrogenase [NADP], which were related to metabolism (38%) in the biological process. These acetylated proteins were mainly enriched in three primary protein complexes of photosynthesis: photosystem I, photosystem II and the cytochrome b6/f complex. And some acetylated proteins related to glycolysis and secondary metabolite biosynthesis were increased/decreased under N-resupply. Moreover, the PPI (protein-protein interaction) analysis revealed that the diverse interactions of identified acetylated proteins mainly involved in photosynthesis and ribosome. CONCLUSION: The results suggested that lysine acetylated proteins might play regulating roles in metabolic process in tea leaves. The critical regulatory roles mainly involved in diverse aspects of metabolic processes, especially in photosynthesis, glycolysis and secondary metabolism. A lot of proteins related to the photosynthesis and glycolysis were found to be acetylated, including LHCA1, LHCA3, LHCB6, psaE, psaD, psaN, GAPDH, PEPC, ENL and petC. And some proteins related to flavonoids were also found to be acetylated, including PAL, DFR, naringenin 3-dioxygenase and CHI. The provided data may serve as important resources for exploring the physiological, biochemical, and genetic role of lysine acetylation in tea plants. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008931.
PXD011136	30478271	Amino acids stimulate the endosome-to-Golgi trafficking through Ragulator and small GTPase Arl5. 	Uncovering nutrient-regulated surface proteins using stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) proteomics	SILAC, Surface protein, membrane trafficking	The endosome-to-Golgi or endocytic retrograde trafficking pathway is an important post-Golgi recycling route. Here we show that amino acids (AAs) can stimulate the retrograde trafficking and regulate the cell surface localization of certain Golgi membrane proteins. By testing components of the AA-stimulated mTORC1 signaling pathway, we demonstrate that SLC38A9, v-ATPase and Ragulator, but not Rag GTPases and mTORC1, are essential for the AA-stimulated trafficking. Arl5, an ARF-like family small GTPase, interacts with Ragulator in an AA-regulated manner and both Arl5 and its effector, the Golgi-associated retrograde protein complex (GARP), are required for the AA-stimulated trafficking. We have therefore identified a mechanistic connection between the nutrient signaling and the retrograde trafficking pathway, whereby SLC38A9 and v-ATPase sense AA-sufficiency and Ragulator might function as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor to activate Arl5, which, together with GARP, a tethering factor, probably facilitates the endosome-to-Golgi trafficking.
PXD011195	30478310	VDAC2 enables BAX to mediate apoptosis and limit tumor development. 	VDAC2 promotes BAX apoptotic activity	Apoptosis, BAK, BAX, BCL-2, cancer, mitochondria, voltage-dependent anion channel.	Intrinsic apoptosis is critical to prevent tumor formation and is engaged by many anti-cancer agents to eliminate tumor cells. BAX and BAK, the two essential mediators of apoptosis, are thought to be regulated through similar mechanisms and act redundantly to drive apoptotic cell death. From an unbiased genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 screen, we identified VDAC2 (voltage-dependent anion channel 2) as important for BAX, but not BAK, to function. Genetic deletion of VDAC2 abrogated the association of BAX and BAK with mitochondrial complexes containing VDAC1, VDAC2, and VDAC3, but only inhibited BAX apoptotic function. Deleting VDAC2 phenocopied the loss of BAX in impairing both the killing of tumor cells by anti-cancer agents and the ability to suppress tumor formation. Together, our studies show that efficient BAX-mediated apoptosis depends on VDAC2, and reveal a striking difference in how BAX and BAK are functionally impacted by their interactions with VDAC2.
PXD011271	30478341	Transmission of Cricket paralysis virus via exosome-like vesicles during infection of Drosophila cells. 	Transmission of Cricket paralysis virus via exosome-like vesicles during infection of Drosophila cells	CrPV, Drosophila, exosomes, virus	Viruses are classically characterized as being either enveloped or nonenveloped depending on the presence or absence of a lipid bi-layer surrounding their proteinaceous capsid. In recent years, many studies have challenged this view by demonstrating that some nonenveloped viruses (e.g. hepatitis A virus) can acquire an envelope during infection by hijacking host cellular pathways. In this study, we examined the role of exosome-like vesicles (ELVs) during infection of Drosophilia melanogaster S2 cells by Cricket paralysis virus (CrPV). Utilizing quantitative proteomics, we demonstrated that ELVs can be isolated from both mock- and CrPV-infected S2 cells that contain distinct set of proteins compared to the cellular proteome. Moreover, 40 proteins increased in abundance in ELVs derived from CrPV-infected cells compared to mock, suggesting specific factors associate with ELVs during infection. Interestingly, peptides from CrPV capsid proteins (ORF2) and viral RNA were detected in ELVs from infected cells. Finally, ELVs from CrPV-infected cells are infectious suggesting that CrPV may hijack ELVs to acquire an envelope during infection of S2 cells. This study further demonstrates the diverse strategies of nonenveloped viruses from invertebrates to vertebrates to acquire an envelope in order to evade the host response or facilitate transmission.
PXD009370	30478982	PCNA and JNK1-Stat3 pathways respectively promotes and inhibits diabetes-associated centrosome amplification by targeting at the ROCK1/14-3-3sigma complex in human colon cancer HCT116 cells. 	PCNA and JNK1-Stat3 pathways respectively promotes and inhibits centrosome amplification by targeting at the ROCK1/14-3-3 complex	14-3-3, High glucose, Insulin, JNK, NPM, PCNA, Palmitic acid., ROCK1, Stat3	We have recently reported that type 2 diabetes promotes centrosome amplification via enhancing the expression, biding, and centrosome translocation of rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 1 (ROCK1)/14-3-3sigma complex in HCT116 cells. In the functional proteomic study, we further investigated the molecular pathways underlying the centrosome amplification using HCT116 cells. We found that treatment of HCT116 cells with high glucose, insulin, and palmitic acid triggered the centrosome amplification and increased the expressions of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), nucleophosmin (NPM), and 14-3-3sigma. Individual knockdown of PCNA, NPM, or 14-3-3sigma inhibited the centrosome amplification. Knockdown of PCNA inhibited the treatment-increased expression of ROCK1, whereas knockdown of ROCK1 did not affect the PCNA expression. High glucose, insulin, and palmitic acid also increased the expressions of c-Jun N-terminal kinase-1 (JNK1) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3), individual knockdown of which upregulated the treatment-increased expression of 14-3-3sigma and promoted the centrosome amplification. In contrast, overexpression of JNK1 inhibited the centrosome amplification. Knockdown of Stat3 enhanced the centrosome translocation of 14-3-3sigma. Moreover, we showed that knockdown of JNK1 inhibited the treatment-increased expression of Stat3. Knockdown of PCNA, JNK1, or Stat3 did not have an effect on NPM and vice versa. In conclusion, our results suggest that PCNA and JNK1-Stat3 pathways respectively promotes and feedback inhibits the centrosome amplification by targeting at the ROCK1/14-3-3sigma complex, and NPM serves as an independent signal for the centrosome amplification.
PXD011653	30481031	TKO6: A Peptide Standard To Assess Interference for Unit-Resolved Isobaric Labeling Platforms. 	TKO6: A Peptide Standard to Assess Interference for Unit-Resolved Isobaric Labeling Platforms	SPS-MS3, TKO, TMT, iTRAQ, interference	Protein abundance profiling using isobaric labeling is a well-established quantitative mass spectrometry technique. However, ratio distortion resulting from coisolated and cofragmented ions, commonly referred to as interference, remains a drawback of this strategy. Tribrid mass spectrometers, such as the Orbitrap Fusion and the Orbitrap Fusion Lumos with a triple mass analyzer configuration, facilitate methods (namely, SPS-MS3) that can help alleviate interference. However, few standards are available to measure interference and thereby aid in method development. Here we introduce the TKO6 standard that assesses ion interference and is designed specifically for data acquired at low (unit) mass resolution. We use TKO6 to compare interference in MS2- versus MS3-based quantitation methods, data acquisition methods of different lengths, and ion-trap-based tandem mass tag reporter ion analysis (IT-MS3) with conventional Orbitrap-based analysis (OT-MS3). We show that the TKO6 standard is a valuable tool for assessing quantification accuracy in isobaric-tag-based analyses.
PXD010934	30481034	Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry To Quantify Protein Levels in FFPE Tumor Biopsies for Molecular Diagnostics. 	Data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry to quantify protein levels in FFPE tumor biopsies for molecular diagnostics	DIA, FFPE, cancer	Mass spectrometry-based protein quantitation is currently used to measure therapeutically relevant protein biomarkers in CAP/CLIA setting to predict likely responses of known therapies. Selected reaction monitoring (SRM) is the method of choice due to its outstanding analytical performance. However, data-independent acquisition (DIA) is now emerging as a proteome-scale clinical assay. We evaluated the ability of DIA to profile the patient-specific proteomes of sample-limited tumor biopsies and to quantify proteins of interest in a targeted fashion using formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor biopsies ( n = 12) selected from our clinical laboratory. DIA analysis on the tumor biopsies provided 3713 quantifiable proteins including actionable biomarkers currently in clinical use, successfully separated two gastric cancers from colorectal cancer specimen solely on the basis of global proteomic profiles, and identified subtype-specific proteins with prognostic or diagnostic value. We demonstrate the potential use of DIA-based quantitation to inform therapeutic decision-making using TUBB3, for which clinical cutoff expression levels have been established by SRM. Comparative analysis of DIA-based proteomic profiles and mRNA expression levels found positively and negatively correlated protein-gene pairs, a finding consistent with previously reported results from fresh-frozen tumor tissues.
PXD010604	30484658	Hippocampal Proteomic Alteration in Triple Transgenic Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease and Implication of PINK 1 Regulation in Donepezil Treatment. 	Hippocampal proteomic alteration in triple transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease: insights into the role of PINK 1 proteins in donepezil treatment Hippocampal proteomic alteration in triple transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease: insigh	Alzheimer's disease (AD), Amyloid beta (Abeta), Donepezil, PINK1, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP)	Donepezil is a clinically approved acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI) for cognitive improvement in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Donepezil has been used as a first-line agent for the symptomatic treatment of AD, but its ability to modify disease pathology and underlying mechanisms is not clear. We investigated the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of donepezil in AD-related triple transgenic (APPSwe/PSEN1M146V/MAPTP301L) mouse model (3xTg-AD). Mice (8-month old) were treated with donepezil (1.3 mg/kg) for 4 months and evaluated by behavioral tests for assessment of cognitive functions, and the hippocampal tissues were examined by protein analysis and quantitative proteomics. Behavioral tests showed that donepezil significantly improved the cognitive capabilities of 3xTg-AD mice. The levels of soluble and insoluble amyloid beta proteins (Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42) and senile plaques were reduced in the hippocampus. Golgi staining of the hippocampus showed that donepezil prevented dendritic spine loss in hippocampal neurons of 3xTg-AD mice. Proteomic studies of the hippocampal tissues identified 3131 proteins with altered expression related to AD pathology, of which 262 could be significantly reversed with donepezil treatment. Bioinformatics with functional analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network mapping showed that donepezil significantly elevated the protein levels of PINK 1, NFASC, MYLK2, and NRAS in the hippocampus, and modulated the biological pathways of axon guidance, mitophagy, mTOR, and MAPK signaling. The substantial upregulation of PINK 1 with donepezil was further verified by Western blotting. Donepezil exhibited neuroprotective effects via multiple mechanisms. In particular, PINK 1 is related to mitophagy and cellular protection from mitochondrial dysfunction, which might play important roles in AD pathogenesis and represent a potential therapeutic target.
PXD011526	30484663	Ultraviolet Photodissociation of ESI- and MALDI-Generated Protein Ions on a Q-Exactive Mass Spectrometer. 	Ultraviolet Photodissociation of ESI and MALDI generated protein ions on a Q-Exactive mass spectrometer	MALDI, MS/MS, Q-Exactive, UVPD	The identification of molecular ions produced by MALDI or ESI strongly relies on their fragmentation to structurally informative fragments. The widely diffused fragmentation techniques for ESI multiply charged ions are either incompatible (ECD and ETD) or show lower efficiency (CID, HCD), with the predominantly singly charged peptide and protein ions formed by MALDI. In-source decay has been successfully adopted to sequence MALDI-generated ions, but it further increases spectral complexity, and it is not compatible with mass-spectrometry imaging. Excellent UVPD performances, in terms of number of fragment ions and sequence coverage, has been demonstrated for electrospray ionization for multiple proteomics applications. UVPD showed a much lower charge-state dependence, and so protein ions produced by MALDI may exhibit equal propensity to fragment. Here we report UVPD implementation on an Orbitrap Q-Exactive Plus mass spectrometer equipped with an ESI/EP-MALDI. UVPD of MALDI-generated ions was benchmarked against MALDI-ISD, MALDI-HCD, and ESI-UVPD. MALDI-UVPD outperformed MALDI-HCD and ISD, efficiently sequencing small proteins ions. Moreover, the singly charged nature of MALDI-UVPD avoids the bioinformatics challenges associated with highly congested ESI-UVPD mass spectra. Our results demonstrate the ability of UVPD to further improve tandem mass spectrometry capabilities for MALDI-generated protein ions. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD011526.
PXD010894	30485286	LC-MS/MS analysis of the dog serum phosphoproteome reveals novel and conserved phosphorylation sites: Phosphoprotein patterns in babesiosis caused by Babesia canis, a case study. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of the dog serum phosphoproteome reveals novel and conserved phosphorylation sites:  phosphoprotein patterns in babesiosis caused by Babesia canis, a case study	Babesiosis, Phosphopeptide enrichment, Phosphoproteomics, Phosphorylation sites, serum phosphopeptides	Phosphorylation is the most commonly studied protein post-translational modification (PTM) in biological systems due to its importance in controlling cell division, survival, growth, etc. Despite the thorough research in phosphoproteomics of cells and tissues there is little information on circulating phosphoproteins. We compared serum from 10 healthy dogs and 10 dogs affected by B. canis-caused babesiosis with no organ dysfunctions by employing gel-free LC-MS/MS analysis of individual samples and tandem mass tag (TMT) label-based quantitative analyses of pools, both supported by phosphopeptide enrichment. Results showed a moderate number of phosphorylated proteins (50-55), with 89 phosphorylation sites not previously published for dogs although a number of them matched phosphorylation sites found in mammalian orthologs. Three phosphopeptides showed significant variation in babesiosis-affected dog sera compared to controls: Serum amyloid A (SAA) phosphorylated at serine 101 (up-regulation), kininogen 1 phosphorylated at threonine 326, and fibrinogen alpha phosphorylated at both threonine 20 and serine 22 (down-regulation). 71.9% of the detected phosphorylated sites were phosphoserine, 16.8% phosphothreonine and only 11.2% phosphotyrosine residues. TMT label-based quantitative analysis showed alpha-2-HS-glycoprotein / Fetuin A to be the most abundant phosphoprotein (50-70% of all phosphoproteins) followed by kininogen-1 (10-20%). The alterations of phosphorylated proteins observed in canine babesiosis caused by Babesia canis suggest new insights into the largely neglected role of extracellular protein phosphorylation in health and disease, encouraging urgent further research on this area. To the best of our knowledge the present study represents the first attempt to characterize canine serum phosphoproteome.
PXD009434	30485523	Sulfated hyaluronic acid and dexamethasone possess a synergistic potential in the differentiation of osteoblasts from human bone marrow stromal cells. 	Synergistic potential of sulfated hyaluronic acid and dexamethasone	Sulfated hyluronic acid, dexamethasone, hBMSC, osteoblasts	The development of novel bioactive biomaterials is urgently needed to meet the needs of an aging population. Both sulfated hyaluronic acid and dexamethasone are candidates for the functionalization of bone grafts, as they have been shown to enhance the differentiation of osteoblasts from bone marrow stromal cells in vitro and in vivo. However, the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Furthermore, studies combining different approaches to assess synergistic potentials are rare. In this study, we aim to gain insights into the mode of action of both sulfated hyaluronic acid and dexamethasone by a comprehensive analysis of the cellular fraction, released matrix vesicles, and the extracellular matrix, combining classical biochemical assays with mass spectrometry-based proteomics, supported by novel bioinformatical computations. We found elevated differentiation levels for both treatments, which were further enhanced by a combination of sulfated hyaluronic acid and dexamethasone. Single treatments revealed specific effects on osteogenic differentiation. Dexamethasone activates signalling pathways involved in the differentiation of osteoblasts, for example, CXC-motif chemokine receptor type 4 and mitogen-activated protein kinases. The effects of sulfated hyaluronic acid were predominantly linked to an alteration in the composition of the extracellular matrix, affecting the synthesis, secretion, and/or activity of fibrillary (fibronectin and thrombospondin-2) and nonfibrillary (transglutaminase-2, periostin, and lysyloxidase) extracellular matrix components, including proteases and their inhibitors (matrix metalloproteinase-2, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3). The effects were treatment specific, and less additive or contrary effects were found. Thus, we anticipate that the synergistic action of the treatment-specific effects is the key driver in elevated osteogenesis.
PXD011312	30487426	Mapping the Proteome of the Synaptic Cleft through Proximity Labeling Reveals New Cleft Proteins. 	Mapping the proteome of the synaptic cleft through peroxidase-based reporter protein SynCAM1-HRP	LC MS/MS, SynCAM1, proximity labeling, synapse composition, synaptic cleft, synaptomics	Synapses are specialized neuronal cell-cell contacts that underlie network communication in the mammalian brain. Across neuronal populations and circuits, a diverse set of synapses is utilized, and they differ in their molecular composition to enable heterogenous connectivity patterns and functions. In addition to pre- and post-synaptic specializations, the synaptic cleft is now understood to be an integral compartment of synapses that contributes to their structural and functional organization. Aiming to map the cleft proteome, this study applied a peroxidase-mediated proximity labeling approach and used the excitatory synaptic cell adhesion protein SynCAM 1 fused to horseradish peroxidase (HRP) as a reporter in cultured cortical neurons. This reporter marked excitatory synapses as measured by confocal microcopy and was targeted to the edge zone of the synaptic cleft as determined using 3D dSTORM super-resolution imaging. Proximity labeling with a membrane-impermeant biotin-phenol compound restricted labeling to the cell surface, and Label-Free Quantitation (LFQ) mass spectrometry combined with ratiometric HRP tagging of membrane vs. synaptic surface proteins was used to identify the proteomic content of excitatory clefts. Novel cleft candidates were identified, and Receptor-type tyrosine-protein phosphatase zeta was selected and successfully validated. This study supports the robust applicability of peroxidase-mediated proximity labeling for synaptic cleft proteomics and its potential for understanding synapse heterogeneity in health and changes in diseases such as psychiatric disorders and addiction.
PXD009118	30487605	Trophoblast organoids as a model for maternal-fetal interactions during human placentation. 	Secretome of trophoblast organoids	LC-MS, Trophoblast organoids, secretion, solid phase extraction	The placenta is the extraembryonic organ that supports the fetus during intrauterine life. Although placental dysfunction results in major disorders of pregnancy with immediate and lifelong consequences for the mother and child, our knowledge of the human placenta is limited owing to a lack of functional experimental models(1). After implantation, the trophectoderm of the blastocyst rapidly proliferates and generates the trophoblast, the unique cell type of the placenta. In vivo, proliferative villous cytotrophoblast cells differentiate into two main sub-populations: syncytiotrophoblast, the multinucleated epithelium of the villi responsible for nutrient exchange and hormone production, and extravillous trophoblast cells, which anchor the placenta to the maternal decidua and transform the maternal spiral arteries(2). Here we describe the generation of long-term, genetically stable organoid cultures of trophoblast that can differentiate into both syncytiotrophoblast and extravillous trophoblast. We used human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing to confirm that the organoids were derived from the fetus, and verified their identities against four trophoblast-specific criteria(3). The cultures organize into villous-like structures, and we detected the secretion of placental-specific peptides and hormones, including human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) and pregnancy-specific glycoprotein (PSG) by mass spectrometry. The organoids also differentiate into HLA-G(+) extravillous trophoblast cells, which vigorously invade in three-dimensional cultures. Analysis of the methylome reveals that the organoids closely resemble normal first trimester placentas. This organoid model will be transformative for studying human placental development and for investigating trophoblast interactions with the local and systemic maternal environment.
PXD010308	30487799	Site-Specific N-Glycan Characterization of Grass Carp Serum IgM. 	Grass carp serum IgM LC-ESI-MS/MS and MALDI-MS	LC-MS/MS), MALDI-MS, grass carp, immunoglobulin M	Immunoglobulin M (IgM) is the major antibody in teleost fish and plays an important role in humoral adaptive immunity. The N-linked carbohydrates presenting on IgM have been well documented in higher vertebrates, but little is known regarding site-specific N-glycan characteristics in teleost IgM. In order to characterize these site-specific N-glycans, we conducted the first study of the N-glycans of each glycosylation site of the grass carp serum IgM. Among the four glycosylation sites, the Asn-262, Asn-303, and Asn-426 residues were efficiently glycosylated, while Asn-565 at the C-terminal tailpiece was incompletely occupied. A striking decrease in the level of occupancy at the Asn-565 glycosite was observed in dimeric IgM compared to that in monomeric IgM, and no glycan occupancy of Asn-565 was observed in tetrameric IgM. Glycopeptide analysis with liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry revealed mainly complex-type glycans with substantial heterogeneity, with neutral; monosialyl-, disialyl- and trisialylated; and fucosyl-and non-fucosyl-oligosaccharides conjugated to grass carp serum IgM. Glycan variation at a single site was greatest at the Asn-262 glycosite. Unlike IgMs in other species, only traces of complex-type and no high-mannose glycans were found at the Asn-565 glycosite. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization analysis of released glycans confirmed the overwhelming majority of carbohydrates were of the complex-type. These results indicate that grass carp serum IgM exhibits unique N-glycan features and highly processed oligosaccharides attached to individual glycosites.
PXD010413	30489082	Discovery and Quantification of Nonhuman Proteins in Human Milk. 	Discovery and quantification of non-human proteins in human milk	human milk, non-human peptides, non-human proteins, parallel reaction monitoring, shotgun proteomics	The question whether and which nonhuman peptides or proteins are present in human milk was raised many decades ago. However, due to cross-reactivity or nonspecific antibody recognition, the accuracy of detection by immunochemical methods has been a concern. Additionally, the relative low-abundance of nonhuman peptides/proteins in the complex milk sample makes them a challenging target to detect. Here, by deep proteome profiling, we detected several nonhuman peptides, which could be grouped as nonhuman proteins. We next estimated their concentration in human milk by combining data-dependent shotgun proteomics and parallel reaction monitoring. First, we fractionated human milk at the protein level and were able to detect 1577 human proteins. Additionally, we identified 109 nonhuman peptides, of which 71 were grouped into 36 nonhuman proteins. In the next step, we targeted 37 nonhuman peptides and nine of them could be repeatedly quantified in human milk samples. Peptides/proteins originating from bovine milk products were the dominant nonhuman proteins observed, notably bovine caseins (alpha-S1-, alpha-S2-, beta-, kappa-caseins) and beta-lactoglobulin. The method we present here can be expanded to investigate more about nonhuman peptides and proteins in human milk and give a better understanding of how human milk plays a role in allergy prevention.
PXD004650	30489083	Site-Specific K63 Ubiquitinomics Provides Insights into Translation Regulation under Stress. 	Site-specific K63 ubiquitinomics reveals stabilization of ribosomes in response to oxidative stress	K63 ubiquitin, oxidative stress, translation regulation, ubiquitinomics	During oxidative stress, K63-linked polyubiquitin chains modify a variety of proteins including ribosomes. Knowledge of the precise sites of K63 ubiquitin is key to understand its function during the response to stress. To identify the sites of K63 ubiquitin, we developed a new mass spectrometry based method that quantified >1100 K63 ubiquitination sites in yeast that responded to oxidative stress induced by H2O2. We determined that under stress, K63 ubiquitin-modified proteins were involved in several cellular functions including ion transport, protein trafficking, and translation. The most abundant ubiquitin sites localized to the head of the 40S subunit of the ribosome, modified assembled polysomes, and affected the binding of translation factors. The results suggested a new pathway of post-initiation control of translation during oxidative stress and illustrated the importance of high-resolution mapping of noncanonical ubiquitination events.
PXD011242	30489086	Proteomic Profiling of Human Hepatic Stellate Cell Line LX2 Responses to Irradiation and TGF-beta1. 	Quantitative Proteomics analysis of LX-2 Responses to Irradiation and TGF-beta1 Description	Hepatic stellate cell, Irradiation, iTRAQ	Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) are the main target of radiation damage and primarily contribute to the development of radiation-induced liver fibrosis. However, the molecular events underlying the radiation-induced activation of HSCs are not fully elucidated. In the present study, human HSC line LX2 was treated with X-ray irradiation and/or TGF-beta1, and profibrogenic molecules were evaluated. The iTRAQ LC-MS/MS technology was performed to identify global protein expression profiles in LX2 following exposure to different stimuli. Irradiation or TGF-beta1 alone increased expression of alpha-SMA, collagen 1, CTGF, PAI-1, and fibronectin. Irradiation and TGF-beta1 cooperatively induced expression of these profibrotic markers. In total, 102, 137, 155 dysregulated proteins were identified in LX2 cell samples affected by irradiation, TGF-beta1, or cotreatment, respectively. Bioinformatic analyses showed that the three differentially expressed protein sets were commonly associated with cell cycle and protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum. The expression of a set of proteins was properly validated: CDC20, PRC1, KIF20A, CCNB1, SHCBP, TACC3 were upregulated upon irradiation or irradiation and TGF-beta1 costimulation, whereas SPARC and THBS1 were elevated by TGF-beta1 or TGF-beta1 plus irradiation treatment. Furthermore, CDC20 inhibition suppressed expression of profibrotic markers in irradiated and TGF-beta1-stimulated LX2 cells. Detailed data on potential molecular mechanisms causing the radiation-induced HSC activation presented here would be instrumental in developing radiotherapy strategies that minimize radiation-induced liver fibrosis.
PXD007555	30496192	Protein variability in cerebrospinal fluid and its possible implications for neurological protein biomarker research. 	Protein variability in cerebrospinal fluid and its possible implications for neurological protein biomarker research	CSF, coefficient of variation (CV), interindividual, intraindividual, variability	Cerebrospinal fluid is investigated in biomarker studies for various neurological disorders of the central nervous system due to its proximity to the brain. Currently, only a limited number of biomarkers have been validated in independent studies. The high variability in the protein composition and protein abundance of cerebrospinal fluid between as well as within individuals might be an important reason for this phenomenon. To evaluate this possibility, we investigated the inter- and intraindividual variability in the cerebrospinal fluid proteome globally, with a specific focus on disease biomarkers described in the literature. Cerebrospinal fluid from a longitudinal study group including 12 healthy control subjects was analyzed by label-free quantification (LFQ) via LC-MS/MS. Data were quantified via MaxQuant. Then, the intra- and interindividual variability and the reference change value were calculated for every protein. We identified and quantified 791 proteins, and 216 of these proteins were abundant in all samples and were selected for further analysis. For these proteins, we found an interindividual coefficient of variation of up to 101.5% and an intraindividual coefficient of variation of up to 29.3%. Remarkably, these values were comparably high for both proteins that were published as disease biomarkers and other proteins. Our results support the hypothesis that natural variability greatly impacts cerebrospinal fluid protein biomarkers because high variability can lead to unreliable results. Thus, we suggest controlling the variability of each protein to distinguish between good and bad biomarker candidates, e.g., by utilizing reference change values to improve the process of evaluating potential biomarkers in future studies.
PXD009933	30497457	Proteomic profiling of senescent human diploid fibroblasts treated with gamma-tocotrienol. 	proteomic analysis of gamma-tocotienol(GT3)-treated human diploid fibroblasts (HDFs)	HDFs, LCMS/MS	BACKGROUND: Replicative senescence of human diploid fibroblasts (HDFs) has been used as a model to study mechanisms of cellular aging. Gamma-tocotrienol (gammaT3) is one of the members of vitamin E family which has been shown to increase proliferation of senescent HDFs. However, the modulation of protein expressions by gammaT3 in senescent HDFs remains to be elucidated. Therefore, this study aimed to determine the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in young and senescent HDFs; and in vehicle- and gammaT3-treated senescent HDFs using label-free quantitative proteomics. METHODS: Whole proteins were extracted and digested in-gel with trypsin. Peptides were detected by Orbitrap liquid chromatography mass spectrometry. Mass spectra were identified and quantitated by MaxQuant software. The data were further filtered and analyzed statistically using Perseus software to identify DEPs. Functional annotations of DEPs were performed using Panther Classification System. RESULTS: A total of 1217 proteins were identified in young and senescent cells, while 1218 proteins in vehicle- and gammaT3-treated senescent cells. 11 DEPs were found in young and senescent cells which included downregulation of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptor beta and upregulation of tubulin beta-2A chain protein expressions in senescent cells. 51 DEPs were identified in vehicle- and gammaT3-treated senescent cells which included upregulation of 70 kDa heat shock protein, triosephosphate isomerase and malate dehydrogenase protein expressions in gammaT3-treated senescent cells. CONCLUSIONS: PDGF signaling and cytoskeletal structure may be dysregulated in senescent HDFs. The pro-proliferative effect of gammaT3 on senescent HDFs may be mediated through the stimulation of cellular response to stress and carbohydrate metabolism. The expressions and roles of these proteins in relation to cellular senescence are worth further investigations. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009933.
PXD006818	30498012	Secretome Dynamics in a Gram-Positive Bacterial Model. 	S.lividans TK24 sigma-factor deletions	Streptomyces, sigma factor	Protein secretion is a central biological process in all organisms. Most studies dissecting bacterial secretion mechanisms have focused on Gram-negative cell envelopes such as that of Escherichia coli However, proteomics analyses in Gram negatives is hampered by their outer membrane. Here we studied protein secretion in the Gram-positive bacterium Streptomyces lividans TK24, in which most of the secretome is released in the growth medium. We monitored changes of the secretome as a function of growth phase and medium. We determined distinct protein classes of "house-keeping" secreted proteins that do not change their appearance or abundance in the various media and growth phases. These comprise mainly enzymes involved in cell wall maintenance and basic transport. In addition, we detected significant abundance and content changes to a sub-set of the proteome, as a function of growth in the different media. These did not depend on the media being minimal or rich. Transcriptional regulation but not changes in export machinery components can explain some of these changes. However, additional downstream mechanisms must be important for selective secretome funneling. These observations lay the foundations of using S. lividans as a model organism to study how metabolism is linked to optimal secretion and help develop rational optimization of heterologous protein production.
PXD011241	30498210	Mutant p53s generate pro-invasive niches by influencing exosome podocalyxin levels. 	Exosomes of p53 mutant H1299 cells	Cancer, H1299, Podocalyxin, p53	Mutant p53s (mutp53) increase cancer invasiveness by upregulating Rab-coupling protein (RCP) and diacylglycerol kinase-alpha (DGKalpha)-dependent endosomal recycling. Here we report that mutp53-expressing tumour cells produce exosomes that mediate intercellular transfer of mutp53's invasive/migratory gain-of-function by increasing RCP-dependent integrin recycling in other tumour cells. This process depends on mutp53's ability to control production of the sialomucin, podocalyxin, and activity of the Rab35 GTPase which interacts with podocalyxin to influence its sorting to exosomes. Exosomes from mutp53-expressing tumour cells also influence integrin trafficking in normal fibroblasts to promote deposition of a highly pro-invasive extracellular matrix (ECM), and quantitative second harmonic generation microscopy indicates that this ECM displays a characteristic orthogonal morphology. The lung ECM of mice possessing mutp53-driven pancreatic adenocarcinomas also displays increased orthogonal characteristics which precedes metastasis, indicating that mutp53 can influence the microenvironment in distant organs in a way that can support invasive growth.
PXD010226	30499115	Membrane proteome characterization of periodontal ligament cell sets from deciduous and permanent teeth. 	PDL cellS from human deciduous and permanent teeth LC-MS/MS	Periodontal ligament, deciduous teeth, membranome	BACKGROUND: Physiological roles for the periodontal ligament (PDL) include tooth eruption and anchorage, force absorption, and provision of proprioceptive information. Despite the advances in understanding the biology of PDL cells, there is a lack of information regarding the molecular signature of deciduous (DecPDL) and permanent (PermPDL) PDL tissues. Thus, the present study was designed to characterize the membrane proteome of DecPDL and PermPDL cells. METHODS: Primary PDL cells were obtained (n = 6) and a label-free quantitative proteome of cell membrane-enriched components was performed. Proteome findings were validated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot assays in fresh human tissues (n = 8) and primary cell cultures (n = 6). In addition, confocal microscopy was used to verify the expression of target factors in the PDL cell cultures. RESULTS: Comparative gene ontology enrichment analysis evidenced that most stickling differences involved "endomembrane system" (PICALM, STX4, and LRP10), "hydrolase activity" (NCSTN and XRCC6), "protein binding" (PICALM, STX4, GPNMB, VASP, extended-synaptotagmin 2 [ESYT2], and leucine-rich repeat containing 15 [LRRC15]), and "isomerase activity" (FKBP8). Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010226. At the transcript level, high PICALM in DecPDL and ESYT2 and LRRC15 in PermPDL were confirmed in fresh PDL tissues. Furthermore, Western blot analysis confirmed increased levels of PICALM, LRRC15, and ESYT2 in cells and/or fresh tissues, and confocal microscopy confirmed the trends for PICALM and LRRC15 expression in PDL cells. CONCLUSION: We report the first comprehensive characterization of the membrane protein machinery of DecPDL and PermPDL cells, and together, we identified a distinct molecular signature for these cell populations, including unique proteins for DecPDL and PermPDL.
PXD010201	30500420	The human allicin-proteome: S-thioallylation of proteins by the garlic defence substance allicin and its biological effects. 	The human allicin-proteome: global protein S-thioallylation of by the garlic defence substance allicin and its biological effects	Allicin, IL2, Jurkat, S-thioallylation, T-cells, actin, cysteine, cytoskeleton, enolase, fibroblasts, interleukin IL1, protein modification, zinc	A single clove of edible garlic (Allium sativum L.) of about 10 g produces up to 5 mg of allicin (diallylthiosulfinate), a thiol-reactive sulfur-containing defence substance that gives injured garlic tissue its characteristic smell. Allicin induces apoptosis or necrosis in a dose-dependent manner but biocompatible doses influence cellular metabolism and signalling cascades. Oxidation of protein thiols and depletion of the glutathione pool are thought to be responsible for allicin's physiological effects. Here, we studied the effect of allicin on post-translational thiol-modification in human Jurkat T-cells using shotgun LC-MS/MS analyses. We identified 332 proteins that were modified by S-thioallylation in the Jurkat cell proteome which causes a mass shift of 72 Da on cysteines. Many S-thioallylated proteins are highly abundant proteins, including cytoskeletal proteins tubulin, actin, cofilin, filamin and plastin-2, the heat shock chaperones HSP90 and HSPA4, the glycolytic enzymes GAPDH, ALDOA, PKM as well the protein translation factor EEF2. Allicin disrupted the actin cytoskeleton in murine L929 fibroblasts. Allicin stimulated the immune response by causing Zn(2+) release from proteins and increasing the Zn(2+)-dependent IL-1-triggered production of IL-2 in murine EL-4 T-cells. Furthermore, allicin caused inhibition of enolase activity, an enzyme considered a cancer therapy target. In conclusion, our study revealed the widespread extent of S-thioallylation in the human Jurkat cell proteome and showed effects of allicin exposure on essential cellular functions of selected targets, many of which are targets for cancer therapy.
PXD005875	30502339	Quantitative proteomics reveals distinct composition of amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease. 	Quantitative proteomic characterization of hippocampus during ageing from APP/PS1 mice brain	Alzheimers disease, Brain, Hippocampus	INTRODUCTION: We investigated the proteomic profiles of amyloid plaques (APs) from Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-matched non-AD brains and APP/PS1 transgenic model mice. METHODS: APs and adjacent control regions were collected from fresh-frozen brain sections using laser capture dissection. Proteins were quantitated using tag-labeling coupled high-throughput mass spectra. RESULTS: Over 4000 proteins were accurately quantified, and more than 40 were identified as highly enriched in both AD and non-AD APs, including apoE, midkine, VGFR1, and complement C4. Intriguingly, proteins including synaptic structural proteins and complement C1r, C5, and C9 were found to be upregulated in AD APs but not non-AD APs. Moreover, the proteomic pattern of AD APs was distinct from APP/PS1 APs and exhibited correlation with aging hippocampus. DISCUSSION: Our results provide new insight into AP composition. We demonstrate unexpected differences between AD, non-AD, and APP/PS1 mouse APs, which may relate to different pathological processes.
PXD010626	30503751	ARP3 Controls the Podocyte Architecture at the Kidney Filtration Barrier. 	Podocyte Focal Adhesion Proteome	glomerulus, kidney, podocyte	Podocytes, highly specialized epithelial cells, build the outer part of the kidney filtration barrier and withstand high mechanical forces through a complex network of cellular protrusions. Here, we show that Arp2/3-dependent actin polymerization controls actomyosin contractility and focal adhesion maturation of podocyte protrusions and thereby regulates formation, maintenance, and capacity to adapt to mechanical requirements of the filtration barrier. We find that N-WASP-Arp2/3 define the development of complex arborized podocyte protrusions in vitro and in vivo. Loss of dendritic actin networks results in a pronounced activation of the actomyosin cytoskeleton and the generation of over-maturated but less efficient adhesion, leading to detachment of podocytes. Our data provide a model to explain podocyte protrusion morphology and their mechanical stability based on a tripartite relationship between actin polymerization, contractility, and adhesion.
PXD008837	30503828	Comparative proteomics of Tobacco mosaic virus-infected Nicotiana tabacum plants identified major host proteins involved in photosystems and plant defence. 	Differential regulation of tobacco host factors upon TMV infection	TMV, Tobacco, iTRAQ	Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) is a positive single-stranded RNA virus. Its 5' end ORF codes for the replicase proteins, namely 126 kDa and 183 kDa, respectively. These proteins interact with many host proteins to form a virus replication complex (VRC). This study aims to dissect the proteome profile of TMV-infected Nicotiana tabacum in host cellular and molecular pathways. We used the isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) technique to analyse the differential global proteomic profile of TMV infected and mock infected plants. Out of 1897 total proteins, we identified 407 differentially abundant proteins and grouped them into three functional categories, namely metabolism, cellular processes and signalling processing. Our results showed that photosynthesis, carbon metabolism, plant defence, protein synthesis, and protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum were significantly altered. Carbon metabolism and photosynthesis were present in very low abundance, whereas accumulation of reactive oxygen species and misfolded proteins lead to the accumulation of thioredoxin H-type 1. In conclusion, we identified several key host proteins that are involved in TMV infection/replication in N. tabacum plants. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY: TMV is one of the most widely studied plant virus. It is used as a tool to study host-virus interaction. There are several host proteins reported that facilitate VRC formation and replication of TMV. However, there is limited knowledge in the expression regulation of these host proteins upon TMV infection. This study is the first report that investigates the response of host protein expression involved in TMV infection through a quantitative proteomics technique iTRAQ, combined with LC-MS/MS analysis. We used TMV-infected Nicotiana tabacum plants to investigate the effects of TMV infection on host proteins. Our results revealed differential abundance of proteins involving various pathways in protein translation, protein processing, photosynthesis and plant defence. There was a high abundance of thioredoxin H-type 1, a protein that counters oxidative stress and accelerated regulation of fatty acid synthesis to provide additional lipid molecules for VRC formation. There was a significant reduction in abundance of psaA and psbB proteins in the photosynthetic pathways. Our results identified key candidate host proteins involved in TMV-infected N. tabacum for functional studies in future.
PXD010256	30503830	Oncolytic adenovirus Delta-24-RGD induces a widespread glioma proteotype remodeling during autophagy. 	Modulation of glioma cell proteome by Delta-24-RGD adenovirus (48hpi)	Adenovirus, Glioma	Adenovirus Delta-24-RGD has shown a remarkable efficacy in a phase I clinical trial for glioblastoma. Delta-24-RGD induces autophagy in glioma cells, however, the molecular derangements associated with Delta-24-RGD infection remains poorly understood. Here, proteomics was applied to characterize the glioma metabolic disturbances soon after Delta-24-RGD internalization and late in infection. Minutes post-infection, a rapid survival reprogramming of glioma cells was evidenced by an early c-Jun activation and a time-dependent dephosphorylation of multiple survival kinases. At 48 h post-infection (hpi), a severe intracellular proteostasis impairment was characterized, detecting differentially expressed proteins related to mRNA splicing, cytoskeletal organization, oxidative response, and inflammation. Specific kinase-regulated protein interactomes for Delta-24-RGD-modulated proteome revealed interferences with the activation dynamics of protein kinases C and A (PKC, PKA), tyrosine-protein kinase Src (c-Src), glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) as well as serine/threonine-protein phosphatases 1 and 2A (PP1, PP2A) at 48hpi, in parallel with adenoviral protein overproduction. Moreover, the late activation of the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) correlates with the extracellular increment of specific cytokines involved in migration, and activation of different inflammatory cells. Taken together, our integrative analysis provides further insights into the effects triggered by Delta-24-RGD in the modulation of tumor suppression and immune response against glioma. SIGNIFICANCE: The current study provides new insights regarding the molecular mechanisms governing the glioma metabolism during Delta-24-RGD oncolytic adenoviral therapy. The compilation and analysis of intracellular and extracellular proteomics have led us to characterize: i) the cell survival reprogramming during Delta-24-RGD internalization, ii) the proteostatic disarrangement induced by Delta-24-RGD during the autophagic stage, iii) the protein interactomes for Delta-24-RGD-modulated proteome, iv) the regulatory effects on kinase dynamics induced by Delta-24-RGD late in infection, and v) the overproduction of multitasking cytokines upon Delta-24-RGD treatment. We consider that the quantitative molecular maps generated in this study may establish the foundations for the development of complementary adenoviral based-vectors to increase the potency against glioma.
PXD009680	30504831	Loss of peroxiredoxin-2 exacerbates eccentric contraction-induced force loss in dystrophin-deficient muscle. 	iTRAQ Protemics of mdx vs. mdx/Actg1-TG mouse skeletal muscle	Skeletal muscle, iTRAQ, mdx	Force loss in skeletal muscle exposed to eccentric contraction is often attributed to injury. We show that EDL muscles from dystrophin-deficient mdx mice recover 65% of lost force within 120 min of eccentric contraction and exhibit minimal force loss when the interval between contractions is increased from 3 to 30 min. A proteomic screen of mdx muscle identified an 80% reduction in the antioxidant peroxiredoxin-2, likely due to proteolytic degradation following hyperoxidation by NADPH Oxidase 2. Eccentric contraction-induced force loss in mdx muscle was exacerbated by peroxiredoxin-2 ablation, and improved by peroxiredoxin-2 overexpression or myoglobin knockout. Finally, overexpression of gammacyto- or betacyto-actin protects mdx muscle from eccentric contraction-induced force loss by blocking NADPH Oxidase 2 through a mechanism dependent on cysteine 272 unique to cytoplasmic actins. Our data suggest that eccentric contraction-induced force loss may function as an adaptive circuit breaker that protects mdx muscle from injurious contractions.
PXD009332	30505807	An Alliance of Gel-Based and Gel-Free Proteomic Techniques Displays Substantial Insight Into the Proteome of a Virulent and an Attenuated Histomonas meleagridis Strain. 	An alliance of gel-based and gel-free proteomic techniques displays substantial insight into the proteome of a virulent and an attenuated Histomonas meleagridis strain	2D-DIGE, Histomonas meleagridis, MALDI-TOF/TOF, SWATH MS, attenuation., comparative proteomic analysis, protozoa, virulence factors	The unicellular protozoan Histomonas meleagridis is notorious for being the causative agent of histomonosis, which can cause high mortality in turkeys and substantial production losses in chickens. The complete absence of commercially available curative strategies against the disease renders the devising of novel approaches a necessity. A fundamental step toward this objective is to understand the flagellate's virulence and attenuation mechanisms. For this purpose we have previously conducted a comparative proteomic analysis of an in vitro cultivated virulent and attenuated histomonad parasite using two-dimensional electrophoresis and MALDI-TOF/TOF. The current work aimed to substantially extend the knowledge of the flagellate's proteome by applying 2D-DIGE and sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH) MS as tools on the two well-defined strains. In the gel-based experiments, 49 identified protein spots were found to be differentially expressed, of which 37 belonged to the in vitro cultivated virulent strain and 12 to the attenuated one. The most frequently identified proteins in the virulent strain take part in cytoskeleton formation, carbohydrate metabolism and adaptation to stress. However, post-translationally modified or truncated ubiquitous cellular proteins such as actin and GAPDH were identified as upregulated in multiple gel positions. This indicated their contribution to processes not related to cytoskeleton and carbohydrate metabolism, such as fibronectin or plasminogen binding. Proteins involved in cell division and cytoskeleton organization were frequently observed in the attenuated strain. The findings of the gel-based studies were supplemented by the gel-free SWATH MS analysis, which identified and quantified 42 significantly differentially regulated proteins. In this case proteins with peptidase activity, metabolic proteins and actin-regulating proteins were the most frequent findings in the virulent strain, while proteins involved in hydrogenosomal carbohydrate metabolism dominated the results in the attenuated one.
PXD009770	30508117	AtTrm5a catalyses 1-methylguanosine and 1-methylinosine formation on tRNAs and is important for vegetative and reproductive growth in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Arabidopsis mutant proteomics assay	iTRAQ	Modified nucleosides on tRNA are critical for decoding processes and protein translation. tRNAs can be modified through 1-methylguanosine (m1G) on position 37; a function mediated by Trm5 homologs. We show that AtTRM5a (At3g56120) is a Trm5 ortholog in Arabidopsis thaliana. AtTrm5a is localized to the nucleus and its function for m1G and m1I methylation was confirmed by mutant analysis, yeast complementation, m1G nucleoside level on single tRNA, and tRNA in vitro methylation. Arabidopsis attrm5a mutants were dwarfed and had short filaments, which led to reduced seed setting. Proteomics data indicated differences in the abundance of proteins involved in photosynthesis, ribosome biogenesis, oxidative phosphorylation and calcium signalling. Levels of phytohormone auxin and jasmonate were reduced in attrm5a mutant, as well as expression levels of genes involved in flowering, shoot apex cell fate determination, and hormone synthesis and signalling. Taken together, loss-of-function of AtTrm5a impaired m1G and m1I methylation and led to aberrant protein translation, disturbed hormone homeostasis and developmental defects in Arabidopsis plants.
PXD011432	30508278	Characterizations of HSP90-Interacting Complex in Renal Cells Using Tandem Affinity Purification and Its Potential Role in Kidney Stone Formation. 	Characterizations of HSP90-interacting complex in renal cells using tandem affinity purification and its potential role in kidney stone formation	Chaperone, HEK293T, Heat shock protein 90, Kidney stone, TAP tag, siRNA	Heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) is a highly abundant molecular chaperone that interacts with many other intracellular proteins to regulate various cellular processes. However, compositions of the HSP90-interacting complex remain underinvestigated. This study thus aims to characterize such complex in human embryonic kidney (HEK293T) cells under normal physiologic state using tandem affinity purification (TAP) followed by protein identification using an ultrahigh-resolution tandem mass spectrometer (Qq-TOF MS/MS). A total of 32 proteins, including four forms of HSP90 and 16 novel HSP90-interacting partners, are successfully identified from this complex using TAP control to subtract nonspecific binders. Co-immunoprecipitation followed by immunoblotting and immunofluorescence co-staining confirms the association of HSP90 with known (HSP70, alpha-tubulin, and beta-actin) and novel (vimentin, calpain-1, and importin-beta1) partners. Knockdown of HSP90 by small-interfering RNA (siHSP90) causes significant changes in levels of HSP70, alpha-tubulin, beta-actin, vimentin, and calpain-1, all of which are calcium oxalate (CaOx) crystal-binding proteins that play significant roles in kidney stone formation. Moreover, crystal-binding capability is significantly decreased in siHSP90-transfected cells as compared to non-transfected control and siControl-transfected cells. In summary, herein, a number of novel HSP90-interacting proteins in renal cells is reported and the potential role of HSP90-interacting complex in kidney stone formation is demonstrated.
PXD011314	30508371	Profiling of Methylglyoxal Blood Metabolism and Advanced Glycation End-Product Proteome Using a Chemical Probe. 	Profiling of Methylglyoxal Blood Metabolism and Advanced Glycation End-Product Proteome using a Chemical Probe	erythrocytes, methylglyoxal, plasma	Methylglyoxal (MG) is quantitatively the most important precursor to advanced glycation end-products (AGEs), and evidence is accumulating that it is also a causally linked to diabetes and aging related diseases. Living systems primarily reside on the glyoxalase system to detoxify MG into benign d-lactate. The flux to either glycation or detoxification, accordingly, is a key parameter for how well a system handles the ubiquitous glyoxal burden. Furthermore, insight into proteins and in particular their individual modification sites are central to understanding the involvement of MG and AGE in diabetes and aging related diseases. Here, we present a simple method to simultaneously monitor the flux of MG both to d-lactate and to protein AGE formation in a biological sample by employing an alkyne-labeled methylglyoxal probe. We apply the method to blood and plasma to demonstrate the impact of blood cell glyoxalase activity on plasma protein AGE formation. We move on to isolate proteins modified by the MG probe and accordingly can present the first general inventory of more than 100 proteins and 300 binding sites of the methylglyoxal probe on plasma as well as erythrocytic proteins. Some of the data could be validated against a number of in vivo and in vitro targets for advanced glycation previously known from the literature; the majority of proteins and specific sites however were previously unknown and may guide future research into MG and AGE to elucidate how these are functionally linked to diabetic disease and aging.
PXD007772	30509301	Polyomic tools for an emerging livestock parasite, the rumen fluke Calicophoron daubneyi; identifying shifts in rumen functionality. 	Functional genomics discovery in an emerging livestock parasite, the rumen fluke Calicophoron daubneyi; identifying shifts in rumen functionality.	Parasite, Rumen	BACKGROUND: Diseases caused by parasitic flatworms of rumen tissues (paramphistomosis) are a significant threat to global food security as a cause of morbidity and mortality in ruminant livestock in subtropical and tropical climates. Calicophoron daubneyi is currently the only paramphistome species commonly infecting ruminant livestock in temperate European climates. However, recorded incidences of C. daubneyi infection in European livestock have been increasing over the last decade. Whilst clinical paramphistomosis caused by adult worms has not been confirmed in Europe, fatalities have been attributed to severe haemorrhagic enteritis of the small intestine resulting from the migration of immature paramphistomes. Large numbers of mature adults can reside in the rumen, yet to date, the impact on rumen fermentation, and consequently on productivity and economic management of infected livestock, have not been resolved. Limited publicly available nucleotide and protein sequences for C. daubneyi underpin this lack of biological and economic understanding. Here we present for the first time a de novo assembled transcriptome, with functional annotations, for adult C. daubneyi, which provides a reference database for protein and nucleotide sequence identification to facilitate fundamental biology, anthelmintic, vaccine and diagnostics discoveries. RESULTS: This dataset identifies a number of genes potentially unique to C. daubneyi and, by comparison to an existing transcriptome for the related Paramphistomum cervi, identifies novel genes which may be unique to the paramphistome group of platyhelminthes. Additionally, we present the first coverage of the excretory/secretory and soluble somatic proteome profiles for adult C. daubneyi and identify the release of extracellular vesicles from adult C. daubneyi parasites during in vitro, ex-host culture. Finally, we have performed the first analysis of rumen fluke impacting upon rumen fermentation parameters using an in vitro gas production study resulting in a significant increase in propionate production. CONCLUSIONS: The resulting data provide a discovery platform (transcriptome, proteomes, EV isolation pipeline and in vitro fermentation system) to further study C. daubneyi-host interaction. In addition, the acetate: propionate ratio has been demonstrated to decrease with rumen fluke infection suggesting that acidotic conditions in the rumen may occur.
PXD010104	30510037	Proteome-Wide Analysis of Cysteine Reactivity during Effector-Triggered Immunity. 	Proteome-wide analysis of cysteine reactivity in Arabidopsis associated with biotic stress response	Pseudomonas syringae, biotic stress, redox proteomics, thimet oligopeptidase	A surge in the accumulation of oxidants generates shifts in the cellular redox potential during early stages of plant infection with pathogens and activation of effector-triggered immunity (ETI). The redoxome, defined as the proteome-wide oxidative modifications of proteins caused by oxidants, has a well-known impact on stress responses in metazoans. However, the identity of proteins and the residues sensitive to oxidation during the plant immune response remain largely unknown. Previous studies of the thimet oligopeptidases TOP1 and TOP2 placed them in the salicylic acid dependent branch of ETI, with a current model wherein TOPs sustain interconnected organellar and cytosolic pathways that modulate the oxidative burst and development of cell death. Herein, we characterized the ETI redoxomes in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) wild-type Col-0 and top1top2 mutant plants using a differential alkylation-based enrichment technique coupled with label-free mass spectrometry-based quantification. We identified cysteines sensitive to oxidation in a wide range of protein families at multiple time points after pathogen infection. Differences were detected between Col-0 and top1top2 redoxomes regarding the identity and number of oxidized cysteines, and the amplitude of time-dependent fluctuations in protein oxidation. Our results support a determining role for TOPs in maintaining the proper level and dynamics of proteome oxidation during ETI. This study significantly expands the repertoire of oxidation-sensitive plant proteins and can guide future mechanistic studies.
PXD011370	30510181	Exocyst dynamics during vesicle tethering and fusion. 	Exocyst Dynamics During Vesicle Tethering and Fusion	CRISPR, Vesicles, exocyst, membrane fusions	The exocyst is a conserved octameric complex that tethers exocytic vesicles to the plasma membrane prior to fusion. Exocyst assembly and delivery mechanisms remain unclear, especially in mammalian cells. Here we tagged multiple endogenous exocyst subunits with sfGFP or Halo using Cas9 gene-editing, to create single and double knock-in lines of mammary epithelial cells, and interrogated exocyst dynamics by high-speed imaging and correlation spectroscopy. We discovered that mammalian exocyst is comprised of tetrameric subcomplexes that can associate independently with vesicles and plasma membrane and are in dynamic equilibrium with octamer and monomers. Membrane arrival times are similar for subunits and vesicles, but with a small delay (~80msec) between subcomplexes. Departure of SEC3 occurs prior to fusion, whereas other subunits depart just after fusion. About 9 exocyst complexes are associated per vesicle. These data reveal the mammalian exocyst as a remarkably dynamic two-part complex and provide important insights into assembly/disassembly mechanisms.
PXD010670	30510198	A non-canonical BRD9-containing BAF chromatin remodeling complex regulates naive pluripotency in mouse embryonic stem cells. 	A non-canonical BRD9-containing BAF chromatin remodeling complex regulates nave pluripotency in mouse embryonic stem cells	BAF, Chromatin remodeling	The role of individual subunits in the targeting and function of the mammalian BRG1-associated factors (BAF) complex in embryonic stem cell (ESC) pluripotency maintenance has not yet been elucidated. Here we find that the Bromodomain containing protein 9 (BRD9) and Glioma tumor suppressor candidate region gene 1 (GLTSCR1) or its paralog GLTSCR1-like (GLTSCR1L) define a smaller, non-canonical BAF complex (GBAF complex) in mouse ESCs that is distinct from the canonical ESC BAF complex (esBAF). GBAF and esBAF complexes are targeted to different genomic features, with GBAF co-localizing with key regulators of naive pluripotency, which is consistent with its specific function in maintaining naive pluripotency gene expression. BRD9 interacts with BRD4 in a bromodomain-dependent fashion, which leads to the recruitment of GBAF complexes to chromatin, explaining the functional similarity between these epigenetic regulators. Together, our results highlight the biological importance of BAF complex heterogeneity in maintaining the transcriptional network of pluripotency.
PXD011293	30510221	Chaperonin CCT checkpoint function in basal transcription factor TFIID assembly. 	Chaperonin CCT Checkpoint Function in Basal Transcription Factor TFIID Assembly	TFIID, TRiC/CCT chaperonin, crystal structure, mutagenesis	TFIID is a cornerstone of eukaryotic gene regulation. Distinct TFIID complexes with unique subunit compositions exist and several TFIID subunits are shared with other complexes, thereby conveying precise cellular control of subunit allocation and functional assembly of this essential transcription factor. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie the regulation of TFIID remain poorly understood. Here we use quantitative proteomics to examine TFIID submodules and assembly mechanisms in human cells. Structural and mutational analysis of the cytoplasmic TAF5-TAF6-TAF9 submodule identified novel interactions that are crucial for TFIID integrity and for allocation of TAF9 to TFIID or the Spt-Ada-Gcn5 acetyltransferase (SAGA) co-activator complex. We discover a key checkpoint function for the chaperonin CCT, which specifically associates with nascent TAF5 for subsequent handover to TAF6-TAF9 and ultimate holo-TFIID formation. Our findings illustrate at the molecular level how multisubunit complexes are generated within the cell via mechanisms that involve checkpoint decisions facilitated by a chaperone.
PXD010692	30510561	Proteomic Analysis of Plasmodesmata From Populus Cell Suspension Cultures in Relation With Callose Biosynthesis. 	Proteomic analysis of plasmodesmata from Populus cell suspension cultures	Populus, callose, callose synthase, plasmodesmata, spectral counting	Plasmodesmata are channels that link adjacent cells in plant tissues through which molecular exchanges take place. They are involved in multiple processes vital to plant cells, such as responses to hormonal signaling or environmental challenges including osmotic stress, wounding and pathogen attack. Despite the importance of plasmodesmata, their proteome is not well-defined. Here, we have isolated fractions enriched in plasmodesmata from cell suspension cultures of Populus trichocarpa and identified 201 proteins that are enriched in these fractions, thereby providing further insight on the multiple functions of plasmodesmata. Proteomics analysis revealed an enrichment of proteins specifically involved in responses to stress, transport, metabolism and signal transduction. Consistent with the role of callose deposition and turnover in the closure and aperture of the plasmodesmata and our proteomic analysis, we demonstrate the enrichment of callose synthase activity in the plasmodesmata represented by several gene products. A new form of calcium-independent callose synthase activity was detected, in addition to the typical calcium-dependent enzyme activity, suggesting a role of calcium in the regulation of plasmodesmata through two forms of callose synthase activities. Our report provides the first proteomic investigation of the plasmodesmata from a tree species and the direct biochemical evidence for the occurrence of several forms of active callose synthases in these structures. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010692.
PXD011177	30511020	Structural basis for activation of plasma-membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase by calmodulin. 	Native mass spectrometry of calmodulin binding to the plasma-membrane Ca2+-ATPase ACA8	membrane protein, native MS	Plasma-membrane Ca(2+)-ATPases expel Ca(2+) from the cytoplasm and are key regulators of Ca(2+) homeostasis in eukaryotes. They are autoinhibited under low Ca(2+) concentrations. Calmodulin (CaM)-binding to a unique regulatory domain releases the autoinhibition and activates the pump. However, the structural basis for this activation, including the overall structure of this calcium pump and its complex with calmodulin, is unknown. We previously determined the high-resolution structure of calmodulin in complex with the regulatory domain of the plasma-membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase ACA8 and revealed a bimodular mechanism of calcium control in eukaryotes. Here we show that activation of ACA8 by CaM involves large conformational changes. Combining advanced modeling of neutron scattering data acquired from stealth nanodiscs and native mass spectrometry with detailed dissection of binding constants, we present a structural model for the full-length ACA8 Ca(2+) pump in its calmodulin-activated state illustrating a displacement of the regulatory domain from the core enzyme.
PXD007838	30514331	Co-occurring KRAS mutation/LKB1 loss in non-small cell lung cancer cells results in enhanced metabolic activity susceptible to caloric restriction: an in vitro integrated multilevel approach. 	Label Free proteomics on NSCLC isogenic cell lines	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), protepmics KRAS mutation LKB1 deletion	BACKGROUND: Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a heterogeneous disease, with multiple different oncogenic mutations. Approximately 25-30% of NSCLC patients present KRAS mutations, which confer poor prognosis and high risk of tumor recurrence. About half of NSCLCs with activating KRAS lesions also have deletions or inactivating mutations in the serine/threonine kinase 11 (LKB1) gene. Loss of LKB1 on a KRAS-mutant background may represent a significant source of heterogeneity contributing to poor response to therapy. METHODS: Here, we employed an integrated multilevel proteomics, metabolomics and functional in-vitro approach in NSCLC H1299 isogenic cells to define their metabolic state associated with the presence of different genetic background. Protein levels were obtained by label free and single reaction monitoring (SRM)-based proteomics. The metabolic state was studied coupling targeted and untargeted mass spectrometry (MS) strategy. In vitro metabolic dependencies were evaluated using 2-deoxy glucose (2-DG) treatment or glucose/glutamine nutrient limitation. RESULTS: Here we demonstrate that co-occurring KRAS mutation/LKB1 loss in NSCLC cells allowed efficient exploitation of glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation, when compared to cells with each single oncologic genotype. The enhanced metabolic activity rendered the viability of cells with both genetic lesions susceptible towards nutrient limitation. CONCLUSIONS: Co-occurrence of KRAS mutation and LKB1 loss in NSCLC cells induced an enhanced metabolic activity mirrored by a growth rate vulnerability under limited nutrient conditions relative to cells with the single oncogenetic lesions. Our results hint at the possibility that energy stress induced by calorie restriction regimens may sensitize NSCLCs with these co-occurring lesions to cytotoxic chemotherapy.
PXD010714	30514763	Protein O-fucosyltransferase 2-mediated O-glycosylation of the adhesin MIC2 is dispensable for Toxoplasma gondii tachyzoite infection. 	tgPOFUT2 mediated glycosylation	C-glycosylation, Fucosylation, MIC2, ProteomeXchange project tag: Glycoproteomics (B/D-HPP), Toxoplasma gondii	Toxoplasma gondii is a ubiquitous, obligate intracellular eukaryotic parasite that causes congenital birth defects, disease in immunocompromised individuals, and blindness. Protein glycosylation plays an important role in the infectivity and evasion of immune responses of many eukaryotic parasites and is also of great relevance to vaccine design. Here we demonstrate that micronemal protein 2 (MIC2), a motility-associated adhesin of T. gondii, has highly glycosylated thrombospondin repeat (TSR) domains. Using affinity-purified MIC2 and MS/MS analysis along with enzymatic digestion assays, we observed that at least seven C-linked and three O-linked glycosylation sites exist within MIC2, with >95% occupancy at these O-glycosylation sites. We found that addition of O-glycans to MIC2 is mediated by a protein O-fucosyltransferase 2 homolog (TgPOFUT2) encoded by the TGGT1_273550 gene. Even though POFUT2 homologs are important for stabilizing motility-associated adhesins and for host infection in other apicomplexan parasites, loss of TgPOFUT2 in T. gondii had only a modest impact on MIC2 levels and the wider parasite proteome. Consistent with this, both plaque formation and tachyzoite invasion were broadly similar in the presence or absence of TgPOFUT2. These findings indicate that TgPOFUT2 O-glycosylates MIC2 and that this glycan, in contrast to previous findings in another study, is dispensable in T. gondii tachyzoites and for T. gondii infectivity.
PXD007121	30516047	RNA-Binding Proteomics Reveals MATR3 Interacting with lncRNA SNHG1 To Enhance Neuroblastoma Progression. 	Long Non-coding RNA SNHG1 in Neuroblastoma	Long non-coding RNA, MATR3, MYCN, Neuroblastoma, RNA-immunoprecipation (IP), RNA-protein pull down assay, SNHG1	The interaction of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) with one or more RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) is important to a plethora of cellular and physiological processes. The lncRNA SNHG1 was reported to be aberrantly expressed and associated with poor patient prognosis in several cancers including neuroblastoma. However, the interacting RBPs and biological functions associated with SNHG1 in neuroblastoma remain unknown. In this study, we identified 283, 31, and 164 SNHG1-interacting proteins in SK-N-BE(2)C, SK-N-DZ, and SK-N-AS neuroblastoma cells, respectively, using a RNA-protein pull-down assay coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Twenty-four SNHG1-interacting RBPs were identified in common from these three neuroblastoma cell lines. RBPs MATR3, YBX1, and HNRNPL have the binding sites for SNHG1 predicted by DeepBind motif analysis. Furthermore, the direct binding of MATR3 with SNHG1 was validated by Western blot and confirmed by RNA immunoprecipitation assay (RIP). Coexpression analysis revealed that the expression of SNHG1 is positively correlated with MATR3 ( P = 3.402 x 10(-13)). The high expression of MATR3 is associated with poor event-free survival ( P = 0.00711) and overall survival ( P = 0.00064). Biological functions such as ribonucleoprotein complex biogenesis, RNA processing, and RNA splicing are significantly enriched and in common between SNHG1 and MATR3. In conclusion, we identified MATR3 as binding to SNHG1 and the interaction might be involved in splicing events that enhance neuroblastoma progression.
PXD009539	30516086	Destabilization of the MiniChromosome Maintenance (MCM) complex modulates the cellular response to DNA double strand breaks. 	Destabilization of the MiniChromosome Maintenance (MCM) complex modulates the cellular response to DNA double strand breaks induced by Etoposide.	DNA damage, DNA repair, Etoposide, Homologous Recombination, MCM protein	DNA replication during S phase involves thousands of replication forks that must be coordinated to ensure that every DNA section is replicated only once. The minichromosome maintenance proteins, MCM2 to MCM7, form a heteromeric DNA helicase required for both the initiation and elongation of DNA replication. Although only two DNA helicase activities are necessary to establish a bidirectional replication fork from each replication origin, a large excess of MCM complexes is amassed and distributed along the chromatin. The function of the additional MCM complexes is not well understood, as most are displaced from the DNA during the S-phase, apparently without playing an active role in DNA replication. DNA damage response (DDR) kinases activated by stalled forks prevent the replication machinery from being activated, indicating a tight relationship between DDR and DNA replication. To investigate the role of MCM proteins in the cellular response to DNA damage, we used shRNA targeting MCM2 or MCM3 to determine the impact of a reduction in MCM complex. The alteration of MCM proteins induced a change in the activation of key factors of the DDR in response to Etoposide treatment. Etoposide-induced DNA damage affected the phosphorylation of gamma-H2AX, CHK1 and CHK2 without affecting cell viability. Using assays measuring homologous recombination (HR) and non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ), we identified a decrease in both HR and NHEJ associated with a decrease in MCM complex.
PXD001368	30516470	Glucose intake hampers PKA-regulated HSP90 chaperone activity. 	Yeast phosphoproteome	phosphorylation IMAC	Aging is an intricate phenomenon associated with the gradual loss of physiological functions, and both nutrient sensing and proteostasis control lifespan. Although multiple approaches have facilitated the identification of candidate genes that govern longevity, the molecular mechanisms that link aging pathways are still elusive. Here, we conducted a quantitative mass spectrometry screen and identified all phosphorylation/dephosphorylation sites on yeast proteins that significantly responded to calorie restriction, a well-established approach to extend lifespan. Functional screening of 135 potential regulators uncovered that Ids2 is activated by PP2C under CR and inactivated by PKA under glucose intake. ids2Delta or ids2 phosphomimetic cells displayed heat sensitivity and lifespan shortening. Ids2 serves as a co-chaperone to form a complex with Hsc82 or the redundant Hsp82, and phosphorylation impedes its association with chaperone HSP90. Thus, PP2C and PKA may orchestrate glucose sensing and protein folding to enable cells to maintain protein quality for sustained longevity.
PXD009005	30518572	Age-related response to an acute innate immune challenge in mice: proteomics reveals a telomere maintenance-related cost. 	Mouse spleen LC-MSMS: effects of age and immune challenge	LPS, ageing, spleen	Ageing is characterized by the impairment of the acute innate immune response and the upregulation of low-grade inflammation, i.e. inflammaging. At the cellular level, telomeres are considered as a marker of biological ageing as their length is progressively eroded in the absence of repair mechanisms. However, the link between telomeres and inflammaging remains underexplored. We aimed to identify proteins that are differentially expressed between age classes in response to an acute inflammatory challenge. We challenged young (two months) and old (12 months) C57BL/6 mice using bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and measured telomere length and proteomic profiles in splenocytes. In total, 233 out of the 1966 proteins we quantified differed among experimental groups. A hierarchical clustering analysis revealed that nine of those 233 proteins were differently expressed among the experimental groups. Young mice responded to LPS by increasing the expression of proteins involved in the innate immune response, and interestingly, in telomere length maintenance. However, this regulation was impaired at older ages. These results are in agreement with the assumption that the strength of selection declines with age, potentially explaining the maintenance of costly, dysregulated, immune responses at old age. We suggest that the immune response is competing with the telomere maintenance process, highlighting how telomeres reflect the ageing trade-off even in a species where telomere length is not related to lifespan.
PXD009064	30518613	Noncoding regions are the main source of targetable tumor-specific antigens. 	LC-MSMS of the EL4 MHC class I, immunopeptidome	Cell line, MHC class I, immunopeptidome	Tumor-specific antigens (TSAs) represent ideal targets for cancer immunotherapy, but few have been identified thus far. We therefore developed a proteogenomic approach to enable the high-throughput discovery of TSAs coded by potentially all genomic regions. In two murine cancer cell lines and seven human primary tumors, we identified a total of 40 TSAs, about 90% of which derived from allegedly noncoding regions and would have been missed by standard exome-based approaches. Moreover, most of these TSAs derived from nonmutated yet aberrantly expressed transcripts (such as endogenous retroelements) that could be shared by multiple tumor types. Last, we demonstrated that, in mice, the strength of antitumor responses after TSA vaccination was influenced by two parameters that can be estimated in humans and could serve for TSA prioritization in clinical studies: TSA expression and the frequency of TSA-responsive T cells in the preimmune repertoire. In conclusion, the strategy reported herein could considerably facilitate the identification and prioritization of actionable human TSAs.
PXD011552	30518761	SUMO conjugation to the pattern recognition receptor FLS2 triggers intracellular signalling in plant innate immunity. 	SUMO conjugation to the pattern recognition receptor FLS2 triggers intracellular signalling in plant innate immunity	FLS2, SUMO, TripleTOF 6600, seedlings	Detection of conserved microbial patterns by host cell surface pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) activates innate immunity. The FLAGELLIN-SENSITIVE 2 (FLS2) receptor perceives bacterial flagellin and recruits another PRR, BAK1 and the cytoplasmic-kinase BIK1 to form an active co-receptor complex that initiates antibacterial immunity in Arabidopsis. Molecular mechanisms that transmit flagellin perception from the plasma-membrane FLS2-associated receptor complex to intracellular events are less well understood. Here, we show that flagellin induces the conjugation of the SMALL UBIQUITIN-LIKE MODIFIER (SUMO) protein to FLS2 to trigger release of BIK1. Disruption of FLS2 SUMOylation can abolish immune responses, resulting in susceptibility to bacterial pathogens in Arabidopsis. We also identify the molecular machinery that regulates FLS2 SUMOylation and demonstrate a role for the deSUMOylating enzyme, Desi3a in innate immunity. Flagellin induces the degradation of Desi3a and enhances FLS2 SUMOylation to promote BIK1 dissociation and trigger intracellular immune signalling.
PXD010294	30520266	Proteomic Landscape of Cholangiocarcinomas Reveals Three Different Subgroups According to Their Localization and the Aspect of Non-Tumor Liver. 	Proteomic landscape of cholangiocarcinomas reveals 3 different subgroups according to their localization and the underlying non-tumor liver	cholangiocarcinoma, quantitative proteomics	PURPOSE: Cholangiocarcinomas (CCs) define a heterogeneous entity based upon their anatomic localization (intra versus extrahepatic) and, for the intrahepatic CCs, the aspect of background liver (normal versus cirrhosis). The aim of the study was to characterize the molecular heterogeneity of CCs by a global proteomic approach. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Thirty-three tumor samples from 17 intrahepatic CCs (iCC) (9 developed on normal (iCCN ) and 8 developed in cirrhotic liver (iCCC )); 5 hilar CCs (CCH ); 5 pancreatic CCs (CCP ) and 6 hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC), were submitted to label-free quantitative proteomic analysis. Differential proteins were analyzed by immunohistochemistry in a validation set of 30 CCs. RESULTS: Unsupervised analysis revealed two main clusters: cluster 1 contained most of the iCCC while cluster 2 was divided in 2 subgroups, one containing most of the iCCN and the other regrouping CCH and CCP . Compared to iCCN , iCCC displayed upregulation of molecules involved in cell adhesion, motility and angiogenesis. Epithelial markers associated with secretory pathway and fibroblast markers were overexpressed in CCH compared to iCCN CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study demonstrated that iCCC is a specific entity, suggesting a major impact of the background liver on tumor biology, and confirmed that extrahepatic CCs define a homogeneous subgroup.
PXD012027	30520733	Screening for insulin-independent pathways that modulate glucose homeostasis identifies androgen receptor antagonists. 	Screening for insulin-independent pathways that modulate glucose homeostasis identifies androgen receptor antagonists	chemical screen, glucose homeostasis, insuline mutant, metabolism, zebrafish	Pathways modulating glucose homeostasis independently of insulin would open new avenues to combat insulin resistance and diabetes. Here, we report the establishment, characterization, and use of a vertebrate 'insulin-free' model to identify insulin-independent modulators of glucose metabolism. insulin knockout zebrafish recapitulate core characteristics of diabetes and survive only up to larval stages. Utilizing a highly efficient endoderm transplant technique, we generated viable chimeric adults that provide the large numbers of insulin mutant larvae required for our screening platform. Using glucose as a disease-relevant readout, we screened 2233 molecules and identified three that consistently reduced glucose levels in insulin mutants. Most significantly, we uncovered an insulin-independent beneficial role for androgen receptor antagonism in hyperglycemia, mostly by reducing fasting glucose levels. Our study proposes therapeutic roles for androgen signaling in diabetes and, more broadly, offers a novel in vivo model for rapid screening and decoupling of insulin-dependent and -independent mechanisms.
PXD010114	30521760	Analysis of femurs from mice embarked on board BION-M1 biosatellite reveals a decrease in immune cell development, including B cells, after 1 wk of recovery on Earth. 	Mouse femur LC-MSMS upon weightlessness	Bone, Bone marrow, Immunity, lymphopoeisis, spaceflight	Bone loss and immune dysregulation are among the main adverse outcomes of spaceflight challenging astronauts' health and safety. However, consequences on B-cell development and responses are still under-investigated. To fill this gap, we used advanced proteomics analysis of femur bone and marrow to compare mice flown for 1 mo on board the BION-M1 biosatellite, followed or not by 1 wk of recovery on Earth, to control mice kept on Earth. Our data revealed an adverse effect on B lymphopoiesis 1 wk after landing. This phenomenon was associated with a 41% reduction of B cells in the spleen. These reductions may contribute to explain increased susceptibility to infection even if our data suggest that flown animals can mount a humoral immune response. Future studies should investigate the quality/efficiency of produced antibodies and whether longer missions worsen these immune alterations.-Tascher, G., Gerbaix, M., Maes, P., Chazarin, B., Ghislin, S., Antropova, E., Vassilieva, G., Ouzren-Zarhloul, N., Gauquelin-Koch, G., Vico, L., Frippiat, J.-P., Bertile, F. Analysis of femurs from mice embarked on board BION-M1 biosatellite reveals a decrease in immune cell development, including B cells, after 1 wk of recovery on Earth.
PXD007186	30522767	The proteome microenvironment determines the protective effect of preconditioning in cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury. 	Mouse kidney cisplatin TAILS -  The proteome microenvironment determines the protective effect of preconditioning in cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury	kidney	Acute kidney injury (AKI) leads to significant morbidity and mortality; unfortunately, strategies to prevent or treat AKI are lacking. In recent years, several preconditioning protocols have been shown to be effective in inducing organ protection in rodent models. Here, we characterized two of these interventions-caloric restriction and hypoxic preconditioning-in a mouse model of cisplatin-induced AKI and investigated the underlying mechanisms by acquisition of multi-layered omic data (transcriptome, proteome, N-degradome) and functional parameters in the same animals. Both preconditioning protocols markedly ameliorated cisplatin-induced loss of kidney function, and caloric restriction also induced lipid synthesis. Bioinformatic analysis revealed mRNA-independent proteome alterations affecting the extracellular space, mitochondria, and transporters. Interestingly, our analyses revealed a strong dissociation of protein and RNA expression after cisplatin treatment that showed a strong correlation with the degree of damage. N-degradomic analysis revealed that most posttranscriptional changes were determined by arginine-specific proteolytic processing. This included a characteristic cisplatin-activated complement signature that was prevented by preconditioning. Amyloid and acute-phase proteins within the cortical parenchyma showed a similar response. Extensive analysis of disease-associated molecular patterns suggested that transcription-independent deposition of amyloid P-component serum protein may be a key component in the microenvironmental contribution to kidney damage. This proof-of-principle study provides new insights into the pathogenesis of cisplatin-induced AKI and the molecular mechanisms underlying organ protection by correlating phenotypic and multi-layered omics data.
PXD009719	30525483	LFAQ: Toward Unbiased Label-Free Absolute Protein Quantification by Predicting Peptide Quantitative Factors. 	The MS data for accuracy evaluation of absolute quantification algorithms	absolute quantification	Mass spectrometry (MS) has become a predominant choice for large-scale absolute protein quantification, but its quantification accuracy still has substantial room for improvement. A crucial issue is the bias between the peptide MS intensity and the actual peptide abundance, i.e., the fact that peptides with equal abundance may have different MS intensities. This bias is mainly caused by the diverse physicochemical properties of peptides. Here, we propose an algorithm for label-free absolute protein quantification, LFAQ, which can correct the biased MS intensities by using the predicted peptide quantitative factors for all identified peptides. When validated on data sets produced by different MS instruments and data acquisition modes, LFAQ presented accuracy and precision superior to those of existing methods. In particular, it reduced the quantification error by an average of 46% for low-abundance proteins. The advantages of LFAQ were further confirmed using the data from published papers.
PXD011702	30525648	A Well-Controlled BioID Design for Endogenous Bait Proteins. 	A well-controlled BioID design for endogenous bait proteins	(T2A) autocleavage, BioID proximity labeling, base editor, genome engineering, p53, protein protein interaction	The CRISPR/Cas9 revolution is profoundly changing the way life sciences technologies are used. Many assays now rely on engineered clonal cell lines to eliminate the overexpression of bait proteins. Control cell lines are typically nonengineered cells or engineered clones, implying a considerable risk for artifacts because of clonal variation. Genome engineering can also transform BioID, a proximity labeling method that relies on fusing a bait protein to a promiscuous biotin ligase, BirA*, resulting in the tagging of vicinal proteins. We here propose an innovative design to enable BioID for endogenous proteins wherein we introduce a T2A-BirA* module at the C-terminus of endogenous p53 by genome engineering, leading to bicistronic expression of both p53 and BirA* under control of the endogenous promoter. By targeting a Cas9-cytidine deaminase base editor to the T2A autocleavage site, we can efficiently derive an isogenic population expressing a functional p53-BirA* fusion protein. Using quantitative proteomics we show significant benefits over the classical ectopic expression of p53-BirA*, and we provide a first well-controlled view of the proximal proteins of endogenous p53 in colon carcinoma cells. This novel application for base editors expands the CRISPR/Cas9 toolbox and can be a valuable addition for synthetic biology.
PXD010520	30528433	The Human RNA-Binding Proteome and Its Dynamics during Translational Arrest. 	The Human RNA-Binding Proteome and Its Dynamics during Translational Arrest	RNA-binding proteins, UV-crosslinking, XRNAX, arsenite stress, human RNA-binding proteome, nucleotide-crosslinked peptides, protein-crosslinked RNA extraction, ribophagy, translational arrest	Proteins and RNA functionally and physically intersect in multiple biological processes, however, currently no universal method is available to purify protein-RNA complexes. Here, we introduce XRNAX, a method for the generic purification of protein-crosslinked RNA, and demonstrate its versatility to study the composition and dynamics of protein-RNA interactions by various transcriptomic and proteomic approaches. We show that XRNAX captures all RNA biotypes and use this to characterize the sub-proteomes that interact with coding and non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) and to identify hundreds of protein-RNA interfaces. Exploiting the quantitative nature of XRNAX, we observe drastic remodeling of the RNA-bound proteome during arsenite-induced stress, distinct from autophagy-related changes in the total proteome. In addition, we combine XRNAX with crosslinking immunoprecipitation sequencing (CLIP-seq) to validate the interaction of ncRNA with lamin B1 and EXOSC2. Thus, XRNAX is a resourceful approach to study structural and compositional aspects of protein-RNA interactions to address fundamental questions in RNA-biology.
PXD009967	30529580	Identification of novel ejaculate proteins in a seed beetle and division of labour across male accessory reproductive glands. 	Identification of novel ejaculated seminal fluid proteins in a seed beetle and division of labour across male accessory reproductive glands	Ejaculate, accessory sex glands, novel proteins, seed beetle	The male ejaculate contains a multitude of seminal fluid proteins (SFPs), many of which are key reproductive molecules, as well as sperm. However, the identification of SFPs is notoriously difficult and a detailed understanding of this complex phenotype has only been achieved in a few model species. We employed a recently developed proteomic method involving whole-organism stable isotope labelling coupled with proteomic and transcriptomic analyses to characterize ejaculate proteins in the seed beetle Callosobruchus maculatus. We identified 317 proteins that were transferred to females at mating, and a great majority of these showed signals of secretion and were highly male-biased in expression in the abdomen. These male-derived proteins were enriched with proteins involved in general metabolic and catabolic processes but also with proteolytic enzymes and proteins involved in protection against oxidative stress. Thirty-seven proteins showed significant homology with SFPs previously identified in other insects. However, no less than 92 C. maculatus ejaculate proteins were entirely novel, receiving no significant blast hits and lacking homologs in extant data bases, consistent with a rapid and divergent evolution of SFPs. We used 3D micro-tomography in conjunction with proteomic methods to identify 5 distinct pairs of male accessory reproductive glands and to show that certain ejaculate proteins were only recovered in certain male glands. Finally, we provide a tentative list of 231 candidate female-derived reproductive proteins, some of which are likely important in ejaculate processing and/or sperm storage.
PXD010450	30530751	The HLA ligandome landscape of chronic myeloid leukemia delineates novel T-cell epitopes for immunotherapy. 	The HLA ligandome landscape of chronic myeloid leukemia delineates novel T-cell epitopes for immunotherapy	chronic myeloid leukemia, immunopeptidome	Antileukemia immunity plays an important role in disease control and maintenance of tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)-free remission in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Thus, antigen-specific immunotherapy holds promise for strengthening immune control in CML but requires the identification of CML-associated targets. In this study, we used a mass spectrometry-based approach to identify naturally presented HLA class I- and class II-restricted peptides in primary CML samples. Comparative HLA ligandome profiling using a comprehensive dataset of different hematological benign specimens and samples from CML patients in deep molecular remission delineated a panel of novel frequently presented CML-exclusive peptides. These nonmutated target antigens are of particular relevance because our extensive data-mining approach suggests the absence of naturally presented BCR-ABL- and ABL-BCR-derived HLA-restricted peptides and the lack of frequent tumor-exclusive presentation of known cancer/testis and leukemia-associated antigens. Functional characterization revealed spontaneous T-cell responses against the newly identified CML-associated peptides in CML patient samples and their ability to induce multifunctional and cytotoxic antigen-specific T cells de novo in samples from healthy volunteers and CML patients. Thus, these antigens are prime candidates for T-cell-based immunotherapeutic approaches that may prolong TKI-free survival and even mediate cure of CML patients.
PXD011537	30530755	Cohesin-mediated NF-kappaB signaling limits hematopoietic stem cell self-renewal in aging and inflammation. 	Rad21-mediated NF-B signaling limits hematopoietic stem cell self-renewal in aging and inflammation	Aging, hematopoietic stems cells, inflammation	Organism aging is characterized by increased inflammation and decreased stem cell function, yet the relationship between these factors remains incompletely understood. This study shows that aged hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) exhibit increased ground-stage NF-kappaB activity, which enhances their responsiveness to undergo differentiation and loss of self-renewal in response to inflammation. The study identifies Rad21/cohesin as a critical mediator of NF-kappaB signaling, which increases chromatin accessibility in the vicinity of NF-kappaB target genes in response to inflammation. Rad21 is required for normal differentiation, but limits self-renewal of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) during aging and inflammation in an NF-kappaB-dependent manner. HSCs from aged mice fail to down-regulate Rad21/cohesin and inflammation/differentiation signals in the resolution phase of inflammation. Inhibition of cohesin/NF-kappaB reverts hypersensitivity of aged HSPCs to inflammation-induced differentiation and myeloid-biased HSCs with disrupted/reduced expression of Rad21/cohesin are increasingly selected during aging. Together, Rad21/cohesin-mediated NF-kappaB signaling limits HSPC function during aging and selects for cohesin-deficient HSCs with myeloid-skewed differentiation.
PXD008704	30531909	Uncoupled activation and cyclization in catmint reductive terpenoid biosynthesis. 	Uncoupled activation and cyclisation in catmint reductive terpenoid biosynthesis	catmint, iridoid, nepetalactone, trichome	Terpene synthases typically form complex molecular scaffolds by concerted activation and cyclization of linear starting materials in a single enzyme active site. Here we show that iridoid synthase, an atypical reductive terpene synthase, catalyzes the activation of its substrate 8-oxogeranial into a reactive enol intermediate, but does not catalyze the subsequent cyclization into nepetalactol. This discovery led us to identify a class of nepetalactol-related short-chain dehydrogenase enzymes (NEPS) from catmint (Nepeta mussinii) that capture this reactive intermediate and catalyze the stereoselective cyclisation into distinct nepetalactol stereoisomers. Subsequent oxidation of nepetalactols by NEPS1 provides nepetalactones, metabolites that are well known for both insect-repellent activity and euphoric effects in cats. Structural characterization of the NEPS3 cyclase reveals that it binds to NAD(+) yet does not utilize it chemically for a non-oxidoreductive formal [4 + 2] cyclization. These discoveries will complement metabolic reconstructions of iridoid and monoterpene indole alkaloid biosynthesis.
PXD008761	30532072	S100A3 a partner protein regulating the stability/activity of RARalpha and PML-RARalpha in cellular models of breast/lung cancer and acute myeloid leukemia. 	S100A3 binds directly to RARalpha and the PML-RARalpha onco-protein modulating their stability and activit	RARalpha, SILAC, interactome	All trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) is used in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and it is a promising agent also in solid tumors. The pharmacological activity of ATRA is mediated by the ligand-activated RAR and RXR transcription factors. In the present study, we define the basal and ATRA dependent RARalpha interactome in a RARalpha-overexpressing breast cancer cellular model, identifying 28 nuclear proteins. We focus our attention on the S100A3 calcium-binding protein, which interacts with RARalpha constitutively. In ATRA-sensitive breast cancer cells, S100A3 binds to RARalpha in basal conditions and binding is reduced by the retinoid. The interaction of S100A3 with RARalpha is direct and in lung cancer, APL and acute-myeloid-leukemia (AML) cells. In APL, S100A3 interacts not only with RARalpha, but also with PML-RARalpha. The interaction surface maps to the RARalpha ligand-binding domain, where the I396 residue plays a crucial role. Binding of S100A3 to RARalpha/PML-RARalpha controls the constitutive and ATRA-dependent degradation of these receptors. S100A3 knockdown decreases the amounts of RARalpha in breast- and lung cancer cells, inducing resistance to ATRA-dependent anti-proliferative/differentiating effects. Conversely, S100A3 knockdown in PML-RARalpha(+) APL and PML-RARalpha(-) AML cells reduces the amounts of RARalpha/PML-RARalpha and increases basal and ATRA-induced differentiation. In this cellular context, opposite effects on RARalpha/PML-RARalpha levels and ATRA-induced differentiation are observed upon S100A3 overexpression. Our results provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms controlling RARalpha activity and have practical implications, as S100A3 represents a novel target for rational drug combinations aimed at potentiating the activity of ATRA.
PXD011175	30532160	Automated phosphopeptide enrichment from minute quantities of frozen malignant melanoma tissue. 	AUTOMATED PHOSPHOPEPTIDE ENRICHMENT FROM MINUTE QUANTITIES OF FROZEN MALIGNANT MELANOMA TISSUE	Bravo AssayMap, Fe(III)-IMAC., Phosphopeptide enrichment, malignant melanoma phosphoproteomics, sensitivity	To acquire a deeper understanding of malignant melanoma (MM), it is essential to study the proteome of patient tissues. In particular, phosphoproteomics of MM has become of significant importance because of the central role that phosphorylation plays in the development of MM. Investigating clinical samples, however, is an extremely challenging task as there is usually only very limited quantities of material available to perform targeted enrichment approaches. Here, an automated phosphopeptide enrichment protocol using the AssayMap Bravo platform was applied to MM tissues and assessed for performance. The strategy proved to be highly-sensitive, less prone to variability, less laborious than existing techniques and adequate for starting quantities at the microgram level. An Fe(III)-NTA-IMAC-based enrichment workflow was applied to a dilution series of MM tissue lysates. The workflow was efficient in terms of sensitivity, reproducibility and phosphosite localization; and from only 12.5 mug of sample, more than 1,000 phosphopeptides were identified. In addition, from 60 mug of protein material the number of identified phosphoproteins from individual MM samples was comparable to previous reports that used extensive fractionation methods. Our data set included key pathways that are involved in MM progression; such as MAPK, melanocyte development and integrin signaling. Moreover, tissue-specific immunological proteins were identified, that have not been previously observed in the proteome of MM-derived cell lines. In conclusion, this workflow is suitable to study large cohorts of clinical samples that demand automatic and careful handling.
PXD011417	30532743	Sucrose-Induced Proteomic Response and Carbohydrate Utilization of Lactobacillus sakei TMW 1.411 During Dextran Formation. 	Sucrose-induced proteomic response and carbohydrate utilization of Lactobacillus sakei TMW 1.411 during dextran formation	Lactobacillus sakei, dextran, genomics, metabolism, sucrose	Lactobacillus (L.) sakei belongs to the dominating lactic acid bacteria in indigenous meat fermentations, while diverse strains of this species have also been isolated from plant fermentations. We could recently show, that L. sakei TMW 1.411 produces a high molecular weight dextran from sucrose, indicating its potential use as a dextran forming starter culture. However, the general physiological response of L. sakei to sucrose as carbohydrate source has not been investigated yet, especially upon simultaneous dextran formation. To address this lack of knowledge, we sequenced the genome of L. sakei TMW 1.411 and performed a label-free, quantitative proteomics approach to investigate the sucrose-induced changes in the proteomic profile of this strain in comparison to its proteomic response to glucose. In total, 21 proteins were found to be differentially expressed at the applied significance criteria (FDR <= 0.01). Among these, 14 were associated with the carbohydrate metabolism including several enzymes, which enable sucrose and fructose uptake, as well as, their subsequent intracellular metabolization, respectively. The plasmid-encoded, extracellular dextransucrase of L. sakei TMW 1.411 was expressed at high levels irrespective of the present carbohydrate and was predominantly responsible for sucrose consumption in growth experiments using sucrose as sole carbohydrate source, while the released fructose from the dextransucrase reaction was more preferably taken up and intracellularly metabolized than sucrose. Genomic comparisons revealed, that operons coding for uptake and intracellular metabolism of sucrose and fructose are chromosomally conserved among L. sakei, while plasmid-located dextransucrase genes are present only in few strains. In accordance with these findings, all 59 different L. sakei strains of our strain collection were able to grow on sucrose as sole carbohydrate source, while eight of them exhibited a mucous phenotype on agar plates indicating dextran formation from sucrose. Our study therefore highlights the intrinsic adaption of L. sakei to plant environments, where sucrose is abundant, and provides fundamental knowledge regarding the use of L. sakei as starter culture for sucrose-based food fermentation processes with in-situ dextran formation.
PXD009085	30535257	Small Extracellular Vesicles in Rat Serum Contain Astrocyte-Derived Protein Biomarkers of Repetitive Stress. 	rat serum exosomes after restriction stress	exosomes, rat, stress	BACKGROUND: Stress precipitates mood disorders, characterized by a range of symptoms present in different combinations, suggesting the existence of disease subtypes. Using an animal model, we previously described that repetitive stress via restraint or immobilization induced depressive-like behaviors in rats that were differentially reverted by a serotonin- or noradrenaline-based antidepressant drug, indicating that different neurobiological mechanisms may be involved. The forebrain astrocyte protein aldolase C, contained in small extracellular vesicles, was identified as a potential biomarker in the cerebrospinal fluid; however, its specific origin remains unknown. Here, we propose to investigate whether serum small extracellular vesicles contain a stress-specific protein cargo and whether serum aldolase C has a brain origin. METHODS: We isolated and characterized serum small extracellular vesicles from rats exposed to restraint, immobilization, or no stress, and their proteomes were identified by mass spectrometry. Data available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD009085 were validated, in part, by western blot. In utero electroporation was performed to study the direct transfer of recombinant aldolase C-GFP from brain cells to blood small extracellular vesicles. RESULTS: A differential proteome was identified among the experimental groups, including aldolase C, astrocytic glial fibrillary acidic protein, synaptophysin, and reelin. Additionally, we observed that, when expressed in the brain, aldolase C tagged with green fluorescent protein could be recovered in serum small extracellular vesicles. CONCLUSION: The protein cargo of serum small extracellular vesicles constitutes a valuable source of biomarkers of stress-induced diseases, including those characterized by depressive-like behaviors. Brain-to-periphery signaling mediated by a differential molecular cargo of small extracellular vesicles is a novel and challenging mechanism by which the brain might communicate health and disease states to the rest of the body.
PXD009049	30536519	Characterization of the Citrobacter rodentium Cpx regulon and its role in host infection. 	Citrobacter rodentium ICC168 CPX SILAC	LC-MS, SILAC, bacterial	Envelope-localized proteins, such as adhesins and secretion systems, play critical roles in host infection by Gram-negative pathogens. As such, their folding is monitored by envelope stress response systems. Previous studies demonstrated that the Cpx envelope stress response is required for virulence of Citrobacter rodentium, a murine pathogen used to model infections by the human pathogens enteropathogenic and enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli; however, the mechanisms by which the Cpx response promotes host infection were previously unknown. Here, we characterized the C. rodentium Cpx regulon in order to identify genes required for host infection. Using transcriptomic and proteomic approaches, we found that the Cpx response upregulates envelope-localized protein folding and degrading factors but downregulates pilus genes and type III secretion effectors. Mouse infections with C. rodentium strains lacking individual Cpx-regulated genes showed that the chaperone/protease DegP and the disulfide bond oxidoreductase DsbA were essential for infection, but Cpx regulation of these genes did not fully account for attenuation of C. rodentium DeltacpxRA. Both deletion of dsbA and treatment with the reducing agent dithiothreitol activated the C. rodentium Cpx response, suggesting that it may sense disruption of disulfide bonding. Our results highlight the importance of envelope protein folding in host infection by Gram-negative pathogens.
PXD010404	30536591	A Combination of Proteomic Approaches Identifies A Panel of Circulating Extracellular Vesicle Proteins Related to the Risk of Suffering Cardiovascular Disease in Obese Patients. 	A combination of proteomic approaches identifies a panel of circulating extracellular vesicle proteins related to the risk of suffering cardiovascular disease in obese patients	2D-DIGE, Biomarkers, Extracellular vesicles, Label-Free Quantitation, Obesity, Plasma	Plasma-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been extensively described as putative biomarkers in different diseases. Interestingly, increased levels of EVs subpopulations are well known to associate with obesity. The goal of this study is to identify EVs-derived biomarkers in plasma from obese patients in order to predict the development of pathological events associated with obesity. Samples are obtained from 22 obese patients and their lean-matched controls are divided into two cohorts: one for a 2D fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE)-based study, and the other one for a label free LC-MS/MS-based approach. EVs are isolated following a serial ultracentrifugation protocol. Twenty-two and 23 differentially regulated features are detected from 2D-DIGE and label free LC-MS/MS, respectively; most of them involve in the coagulation and complement cascades. Remarkably, there is an upregulation of complement C4, complement C3, and fibrinogen in obese patients following both approaches, the latter two also validated by 2D-western-blotting in an independent cohort. These results correlate with a proinflammatory and prothrombotic state of those individuals. On the other hand, a downregulation of adiponectin leading to an increased risk of suffering cardiovascular diseases has been shown. The results suggest the relevance of plasma-derived-EVs proteins as a source of potential biomarkers for the development of atherothrombotic events in obesity.
PXD006859	30536871	Time-resolved interaction proteomics of the GIGANTEA protein under diurnal cycles in Arabidopsis. 	GIGANTEA interaction proteomics time course	circadian clock, flowering	The plant-specific protein GIGANTEA (GI) controls many developmental and physiological processes, mediating rhythmic post-translational regulation. GI physically binds several proteins implicated in the circadian clock, photoperiodic flowering, and abiotic stress responses. To understand GI's multifaceted function, we aimed to comprehensively and quantitatively identify potential interactors of GI in a time-specific manner, using proteomics on Arabidopsis plants expressing epitope-tagged GI. We detected previously identified (in)direct interactors of GI, as well as proteins implicated in protein folding, or degradation, and a previously uncharacterized transcription factor, CYCLING DOF FACTOR6 (CDF6). We verified CDF6's direct interaction with GI, and ZEITLUPE/FLAVIN-BINDING, KELCH REPEAT, F-BOX 1/LIGHT KELCH PROTEIN 2 proteins, and demonstrated its involvement in photoperiodic flowering. Extending interaction proteomics to time series provides a data resource of candidate protein targets for GI's post-translational control.
PXD009109	30538258	Differential regulation of cysteine oxidative post-translational modifications in high and low aerobic capacity. 	Oxidative posttranslational modifications of cysteine are associated to high intrinsic aerobic capacity in the skeletal and cardiac muscle	ICAT, MDH1, Ox-PTM, Oxidation, aerobic, cardiac, cysteine, exercise, heart, mitochondria, muscle, oxidative stress, posttranslational modifications, redox proteomics, skeleta	Given the association between high aerobic capacity and the prevention of metabolic diseases, elucidating the mechanisms by which high aerobic capacity regulates whole-body metabolic homeostasis is a major research challenge. Oxidative post-translational modifications (Ox-PTMs) of proteins can regulate cellular homeostasis in skeletal and cardiac muscles, but the relationship between Ox-PTMs and intrinsic components of oxidative energy metabolism is still unclear. Here, we evaluated the Ox-PTM profile in cardiac and skeletal muscles of rats bred for low (LCR) and high (HCR) intrinsic aerobic capacity. Redox proteomics screening revealed different cysteine (Cys) Ox-PTM profile between HCR and LCR rats. HCR showed a higher number of oxidized Cys residues in skeletal muscle compared to LCR, while the opposite was observed in the heart. Most proteins with differentially oxidized Cys residues in the skeletal muscle are important regulators of oxidative metabolism. The most oxidized protein in the skeletal muscle of HCR rats was malate dehydrogenase (MDH1). HCR showed higher MDH1 activity compared to LCR in skeletal, but not cardiac muscle. These novel findings indicate a clear association between Cys Ox-PTMs and aerobic capacity, leading to novel insights into the role of Ox-PTMs as an essential signal to maintain metabolic homeostasis.
PXD010778	30539259	International Space Station conditions alter genomics, proteomics, and metabolomics in Aspergillus nidulans. 	Influence of International Space Station Conditions on Fungal Omics' in Aspergillus nidulans	Aspergillus nidulans, International Space Station, Omics	The first global genomic, proteomic, and secondary metabolomic characterization of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans following growth onboard the International Space Station (ISS) is reported. The investigation included the A. nidulans wild-type and three mutant strains, two of which were genetically engineered to enhance secondary metabolite production. Whole genome sequencing revealed that ISS conditions altered the A. nidulans genome in specific regions. In strain CW12001, which features overexpression of the secondary metabolite global regulator laeA, ISS conditions induced the loss of the laeA stop codon. Differential expression of proteins involved in stress response, carbohydrate metabolic processes, and secondary metabolite biosynthesis was also observed. ISS conditions significantly decreased prenyl xanthone production in the wild-type strain and increased asperthecin production in LO1362 and CW12001, which are deficient in a major DNA repair mechanism. These data provide valuable insights into the adaptation mechanism of A. nidulans to spacecraft environments.
PXD007040	30539330	FOXG1 Regulates PRKAR2B Transcriptionally and Posttranscriptionally via miR200 in the Adult Hippocampus. 	Identification of FOXG1 interaction partners	Rett syndrome, neural development	Rett syndrome is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that is mainly caused by mutations in MECP2. However, mutations in FOXG1 cause a less frequent form of atypical Rett syndrome, called FOXG1 syndrome. FOXG1 is a key transcription factor crucial for forebrain development, where it maintains the balance between progenitor proliferation and neuronal differentiation. Using genome-wide small RNA sequencing and quantitative proteomics, we identified that FOXG1 affects the biogenesis of miR200b/a/429 and interacts with the ATP-dependent RNA helicase, DDX5/p68. Both FOXG1 and DDX5 associate with the microprocessor complex, whereby DDX5 recruits FOXG1 to DROSHA. RNA-Seq analyses of Foxg1(cre/+) hippocampi and N2a cells overexpressing miR200 family members identified cAMP-dependent protein kinase type II-beta regulatory subunit (PRKAR2B) as a target of miR200 in neural cells. PRKAR2B inhibits postsynaptic functions by attenuating protein kinase A (PKA) activity; thus, increased PRKAR2B levels may contribute to neuronal dysfunctions in FOXG1 syndrome. Our data suggest that FOXG1 regulates PRKAR2B expression both on transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels.
PXD009380	30540191	Dasatinib Is Preferentially Active in the Activated B-Cell Subtype of Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma. 	Kinome profiling of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cells in response to dasatinib	LC-MS, cancer, dasatinib, kinome, lymphoma	Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a heterogeneous disease, and at least one-third of its patients relapse after treatment with the current chemotherapy regimen, R-CHOP. By gene-expression profiling, patients with DLBCL can be categorized into two clinically relevant subtypes: activated B-cell (ABC) and germinal center B-cell (GCB) DLBCL. Patients with the ABC subtype have a worse prognosis than those with GCB, and the subtype is defined by chronic, over-active signaling through the B-cell receptor and NF-kappaB pathways. We examined the effects of the Src family kinase (SFK) inhibitor dasatinib in a panel of ABC and GCB DLBCL cell lines and found that the former are much more sensitive to dasatinib than the latter. However, using multiplexed inhibitor bead coupled to mass spectrometry (MIB/MS) kinome profiling and Western blot analysis, we found that both subtypes display inhibition of the SFKs in response to dasatinib after both short- and long-term treatment. The MIB/MS analyses revealed that several cell-cycle kinases, including CDK4, CDK6, and the Aurora kinases, are down-regulated by dasatinib treatment in the ABC, but not in the GCB, subtype. The present findings have potential implications for the clinical use of dasatinib for the treatment of ABC DLBCL, either alone or in combination with other agents.
PXD008708	30540769	Coordinated regulation of transcription by CcpA and the Staphylococcus aureus two-component system HptRS. 	Coordinated regulation of transcription by CcpA and the Staphylococcus aureus two component system HptRS	Carbon Catabolite, CcpA, Exponential growth phase, Glucose, HptR, HptRS, HptS, Postexponential growth phase, Staphylococcus aureus	The success of Staphylococcus aureus as a pathogen is due in part to its ability to adapt to changing environmental conditions using signal transduction pathways, such as metabolite- responsive regulators and two-component systems. S. aureus has a two-component system encoded by the gene pair sav0224 (hptS) and sav0223 (hptR) that regulate the hexose phosphate transport (uhpT) system in response to extracellular glucose-6-phosphate. Glycolytic intermediates such as glucose-6-phosphate are important carbon sources that also modulate the activity of the global metabolite-responsive transcriptional regulator CcpA. Because uhpT has a putative CcpA binding site in its promoter and it is regulated by HptR, it was hypothesized the regulons of CcpA and HptR might intersect. To determine if the regulatory domains of CcpA and HptRS overlap, ccpA was deleted in strains SA564 and SA564-DeltahptRS and growth, metabolic, proteomic, and transcriptional differences were assessed. As expected, CcpA represses hptS and hptR in a glucose dependent manner; however, upon CcpA derepression, the HptRS system functions as a transcriptional activator of metabolic genes within the CcpA regulon. Importantly, inactivation of ccpA and hptRS altered sensitivity to fosfomycin and ampicillin in the absence of exogenous glucose-6-phosphate, indicating that both CcpA and HptRS modulate antibiotic susceptibility.
PXD011520	30541839	Global Proteomic Profiling of Salmonella Infection by a Giant Phage. 	Proteomic analyses of Pseudomonas infected with giant phage PhiKZ	PhiKZ, Pseudomonas, infection	The 240-kb Salmonella phage SPN3US genome encodes 264 gene products, many of which are functionally uncharacterized. We have previously used mass spectrometry to define the proteomes of wild-type and mutant forms of the SPN3US virion. In this study, we sought to determine whether this technique was suitable for the characterization of the SPN3US proteome during liquid infection. Mass spectrometry of SPN3US-infected cells identified 232 SPN3US and 1,994 Salmonella proteins. SPN3US proteins with related functions, such as proteins with roles in DNA replication, transcription, and virion formation, were coordinately expressed in a temporal manner. Mass spectral counts showed the four most abundant SPN3US proteins to be the major capsid protein, two head ejection proteins, and the functionally unassigned protein gp22. This high abundance of gp22 in infected bacteria contrasted with its absence from mature virions, suggesting that it might be the scaffold protein, an essential head morphogenesis protein yet to be identified in giant phages. We identified homologs to SPN3US gp22 in 45 related giant phages, including phiKZ, whose counterpart is also abundant in infected bacteria but absent in the virion. We determined the phiKZ counterpart to be cleaved in vitro by its prohead protease, an event that has been observed to promote head maturation of some other phages. Our findings are consistent with a scaffold protein assignment for SPN3US gp22, although direct evidence is required for its confirmation. These studies demonstrate the power of mass spectral analyses for facilitating the acquisition of new knowledge into the molecular events of viral infection.IMPORTANCE "Giant" phages with genomes >200 kb are being isolated in increasing numbers from a range of environments. With hosts such as Salmonella enterica, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Erwinia amylovora, these phages are of interest for phage therapy of multidrug-resistant pathogens. However, our understanding of how these complex phages interact with their hosts is impeded by the proportion (~80%) of their gene products that are functionally uncharacterized. To develop the repertoire of techniques for analysis of phages, we analyzed a liquid infection of Salmonella phage SPN3US (240-kb genome) using third-generation mass spectrometry. We observed the temporal production of phage proteins whose genes collectively represent 96% of the SPN3US genome. These findings demonstrate the sensitivity of mass spectrometry for global proteomic profiling of virus-infected cells, and the identification of a candidate for a major head morphogenesis protein will facilitate further studies into giant phage head assembly.
PXD011478	30541869	High-throughput Identification of FLT3 Wild-type and Mutant Kinase Substrate Preferences and Application to Design of Sensitive In Vitro Kinase Assay Substrates. 	High-throughput identification of FLT3 wild-type and mutant kinase substrate preferences and application to design of sensitive in vitro kinase assay substrates	Acute myeloid Leukemia, FLT3, kinase assay linked with phosphoproteomics, phosphoproteomics	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive disease that is characterized by abnormal increase of immature myeloblasts in blood and bone marrow. The FLT3 receptor tyrosine kinase plays an integral role in hematopoiesis, and one third of AML diagnoses exhibit gain-of-function mutations in FLT3, with the juxtamembrane domain internal tandem duplication (ITD) and the kinase domain D835Y variants observed most frequently. Few FLT3 substrates or phosphorylation sites are known, which limits insight into FLT3's substrate preferences and makes assay design particularly challenging. We applied in vitro phosphorylation of a cell lysate digest (adaptation of the Kinase Assay Linked with Phosphoproteomics (KALIP) technique and similar methods) for high-throughput identification of substrates for three FLT3 variants (wild-type, ITD mutant, and D835Y mutant). Incorporation of identified substrate sequences as input into the KINATEST-ID substrate preference analysis and assay development pipeline facilitated the design of several peptide substrates that are phosphorylated efficiently by all three FLT3 kinase variants. These substrates could be used in assays to identify new FLT3 inhibitors that overcome resistant mutations to improve FLT3-positive AML treatment.
PXD004328	30542078	Reduced TCA cycle rates at high hydrostatic pressure hinder hydrocarbon degradation and obligate oil degraders in natural, deep-sea microbial communities. 	Degradation of C30 -  Reduced TCA cycle rates at high hydrostatic pressure hinder hydrocarbon degradation and obligate oil degraders in natural, deep-sea microbial communities	alkane, bioremediation, deep-sea, hydrostatic pressure, metaproteome, oil, petroleum	Petroleum hydrocarbons reach the deep-sea following natural and anthropogenic factors. The process by which they enter deep-sea microbial food webs and impact the biogeochemical cycling of carbon and other elements is unclear. Hydrostatic pressure (HP) is a distinctive parameter of the deep sea, although rarely investigated. Whether HP alone affects the assembly and activity of oil-degrading communities remains to be resolved. Here we have demonstrated that hydrocarbon degradation in deep-sea microbial communities is lower at native HP (10 MPa, about 1000 m below sea surface level) than at ambient pressure. In long-term enrichments, increased HP selectively inhibited obligate hydrocarbon-degraders and downregulated the expression of beta-oxidation-related proteins (i.e., the main hydrocarbon-degradation pathway) resulting in low cell growth and CO2 production. Short-term experiments with HP-adapted synthetic communities confirmed this data, revealing a HP-dependent accumulation of citrate and dihydroxyacetone. Citrate accumulation suggests rates of aerobic oxidation of fatty acids in the TCA cycle were reduced. Dihydroxyacetone is connected to citrate through glycerol metabolism and glycolysis, both upregulated with increased HP. High degradation rates by obligate hydrocarbon-degraders may thus be unfavourable at increased HP, explaining their selective suppression. Through lab-scale cultivation, the present study is the first to highlight a link between impaired cell metabolism and microbial community assembly in hydrocarbon degradation at high HP. Overall, this data indicate that hydrocarbons fate differs substantially in surface waters as compared to deep-sea environments, with in situ low temperature and limited nutrients availability expected to further prolong hydrocarbons persistence at deep sea.
PXD011604	30544819	Proteomic Characterization of Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens Bacteroids Reveals a Post-Symbiotic, Hemibiotrophic-Like Lifestyle of the Bacteria within Senescing Soybean Nodules. 	Proteomic Characterization of Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens bacteroids during soybean root nodules senescence	Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens, nitrogen fixation, senescence, soybean	The form and physiology of Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens after the decline of symbiotic nitrogen fixation has been characterized. Proteomic analyses showed that post-symbiotic B. diazoefficiens underwent metabolic remodeling as well-defined groups of proteins declined, increased or remained unchanged from 56 to 119 days after planting, suggesting a transition to a hemibiotrophic-like lifestyle. Enzymatic analysis showed distinct patterns in both the cytoplasm and the periplasm. Similar to the bacteroid, the post-symbiotic bacteria rely on a non-citric acid cycle supply of succinate and, although viable, they did not demonstrate the ability to grow within the senescent nodule.
PXD011367	30545132	Proteogenomic Analysis of Burkholderia Species Strains 25 and 46 Isolated from Uraniferous Soils Reveals Multiple Mechanisms to Cope with Uranium Stress. 	Burkholderia Proteomics	Burkholderia, Metaproteomics, Uranium, genomics, remediation	Two Burkholderia spp. (strains SRS-25 and SRS-46) were isolated from high concentrations of uranium (U) from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)-managed Savannah River Site (SRS). SRS contains soil gradients that remain co-contaminated by heavy metals from previous nuclear weapons production activities. Uranium (U) is one of the dominant contaminants within the SRS impacted soils, which can be microbially transformed into less toxic forms. We established microcosms containing strains SRS-25 and SRS-46 spiked with U and evaluated the microbially-mediated depletion with concomitant genomic and proteomic analysis. Both strains showed a rapid depletion of U; draft genome sequences revealed SRS-25 genome to be of approximately 8,152,324 bp, a G + C content of 66.5, containing a total 7604 coding sequences with 77 total RNA genes. Similarly, strain SRS-46 contained a genome size of 8,587,429 bp with a G + C content of 67.1, 7895 coding sequences, with 73 total RNA genes, respectively. An in-depth, genome-wide comparisons between strains 25, 46 and a previously isolated strain from our research (Burkholderia sp. strain SRS-W-2-2016), revealed a common pool of 3128 genes; many were found to be homologues to previously characterized metal resistance genes (e.g., for cadmium, cobalt, and zinc), as well as for transporter, stress/detoxification, cytochromes, and drug resistance functions. Furthermore, proteomic analysis of strains with or without U stress, revealed the increased expression of 34 proteins from strain SRS-25 and 52 proteins from strain SRS-46; similar to the genomic analyses, many of these proteins have previously been shown to function in stress response, DNA repair, protein biosynthesis and metabolism. Overall, this comparative proteogenomics study confirms the repertoire of metabolic and stress response functions likely rendering the ecological competitiveness to the isolated strains for colonization and survival in the heavy metals contaminated SRS soil habitat.
PXD011115	30545152	Identification of Two Novel Wheat Drought Tolerance-Related Proteins by Comparative Proteomic Analysis Combined with Virus-Induced Gene Silencing. 	Identification of wheat drought stress responsive proteins using iTRAQ-based quantitative analysis	Drought stress, Wheat, iTRAQ	Drought is a major adversity that limits crop yields. Further exploration of wheat drought tolerance-related genes is critical for the genetic improvement of drought tolerance in this crop. Here, comparative proteomic analysis of two wheat varieties, XN979 and LA379, with contrasting drought tolerance was conducted to screen for drought tolerance-related proteins/genes. Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) technology was used to verify the functions of candidate proteins. A total of 335 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were exclusively identified in the drought-tolerant variety XN979. Most DAPs were mainly involved in photosynthesis, carbon fixation, glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism, and several other pathways. Two DAPs (W5DYH0 and W5ERN8), dubbed TaDrSR1 and TaDrSR2, respectively, were selected for further functional analysis using VIGS. The relative electrolyte leakage rate and malonaldehyde content increased significantly, while the relative water content and proline content significantly decreased in the TaDrSR1- and TaDrSR2-knock-down plants compared to that in non-knocked-down plants under drought stress conditions. TaDrSR1- and TaDrSR2-knock-down plants exhibited more severe drooping and wilting phenotypes than non-knocked-down plants under drought stress conditions, suggesting that the former were more sensitive to drought stress. These results indicate that TaDrSR1 and TaDrSR2 potentially play vital roles in conferring drought tolerance in common wheat.
PXD011735	30545218	Isobaric Labeling Quantitative Metaproteomics for the Study of Gut Microbiome Response to Arsenic. 	Isobaric Labeling Quantitative Metaproteomics for the Study of Gut Microbiome Response to Arsenic	MetaPro-IQ, Metaproteomics, arsenic, gut microbiome, isobaric labeling, label free, tandem mass tags	Quantitative metaproteomics is a relatively new research field that applies proteomics techniques to study microbial proteins of the microbiome and holds great potential in truly quantifying the functional proteins actually expressed by microbes in the biological environment, such as the gastrointestinal tract. The significant association between arsenic exposure and gut microbiome perturbations has been reported; however, metaproteomics has not yet been applied to study arsenic-induced proteome changes of the microbiome. Most importantly, to our knowledge, isobaric-labeling-based large-scale metaproteomics has not been reported using the advanced database-search approaches such as MetaPro-IQ and matched metagenome database-search strategies to provide high quantification accuracy and fewer missing quantification values. In the present study, a new experimental workflow coupled to isobaric labeling and MetaPro-IQ was demonstrated for the metaproteomics study of arsenic-induced gut microbiome perturbations. The advantages of this workflow were also discussed. For all 18 fecal samples analyzed, 7611 protein groups were quantified without any missing values. The consistent results of expression profiles were observed between 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metaproteomics. This isobaric-labeling-based workflow demonstrated the significant improvement of quantitative metaproteomics for gut microbiome study.
PXD010568	30545835	Bruton tyrosine kinase degradation as a therapeutic strategy for cancer. 	Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase Degradation as a Therapeutic Strategy for Cancer	BTK, IMiDs, PROTAC, crl4, cullin, ubiquitin	The covalent Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor ibrutinib is highly efficacious against multiple B-cell malignancies. However, it is not selective for BTK, and multiple mechanisms of resistance, including the C481S-BTK mutation, can compromise its efficacy. We hypothesized that small-molecule-induced BTK degradation may overcome some of the limitations of traditional enzymatic inhibitors. Here, we demonstrate that BTK degradation results in potent suppression of signaling and proliferation in cancer cells and that BTK degraders efficiently degrade C481S-BTK. Moreover, we discovered DD-03-171, an optimized lead compound that exhibits enhanced antiproliferative effects on mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) cells in vitro by degrading BTK, IKFZ1, and IKFZ3 as well as efficacy against patient-derived xenografts in vivo. Thus, "triple degradation" may be an effective therapeutic approach for treating MCL and overcoming ibrutinib resistance, thereby addressing a major unmet need in the treatment of MCL and other B-cell lymphomas.
PXD009099	30545905	A Golgi-Released Subpopulation of the Trans-Golgi Network Mediates Protein Secretion in Arabidopsis. 	Apoplastic proteome upon powdery mildew Bgh challenge	Bgh, apoplast	Spatiotemporal coordination of protein trafficking among organelles is essential for eukaryotic cells. The post-Golgi interface, including the trans-Golgi network (TGN), is a pivotal hub for multiple trafficking pathways. The Golgi-released independent TGN (GI-TGN) is a compartment described only in plant cells, and its cellular and physiological roles remain elusive. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), the SYNTAXIN OF PLANTS (SYP) 4 group Qa-SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide) membrane fusion proteins are shared components of TGN and GI-TGN and regulate secretory and vacuolar transport. Here we reveal that GI-TGNs mediate the transport of the R-SNARE VESICLE-ASSOCIATED MEMBRANE PROTEIN (VAMP) 721 to the plasma membrane. In interactions with a nonadapted powdery mildew pathogen, the SYP4 group of SNAREs is required for the dynamic relocation of VAMP721 to plant-fungus contact sites via GI-TGNs, thereby facilitating complex formation with its cognate SNARE partner PENETRATION1 to restrict pathogen entry. Furthermore, quantitative proteomic analysis of leaf apoplastic fluid revealed constitutive and pathogen-inducible secretion of cell wall-modification enzymes in a SYP4- and VAMP721-dependent manner. Hence, the GI-TGN acts as a transit compartment between the Golgi apparatus and the plasma membrane. We propose a model in which the GA-TGN matures into the GI-TGN and then into secretory vesicles by increasing the abundance of VAMP721-dependent secretory pathway components.
PXD009746	30550287	Label-Free Proteomic Analysis of Exosomes Secreted from THP-1-Derived Macrophages Treated with IFN-alpha Identifies Antiviral Proteins Enriched in Exosomes. 	Label-free Proteomic Analysis of Exosomes Secreted from THP-1-Derived Macrophages in the Absence or Presence of Interferon-alpha	Exosomes, IFN-alpha, ISGs, Label-free quantification, Macrophages	Exosomes are extracellular vesicles that function in intercellular communication. We have previously reported that exosomes play an important role in the transmission of antiviral molecules during interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) treatment. In this study, the protein profiles of THP-1-derived macrophages with or without interferon-alpha treatment and the exosomes secreted from these cells were analyzed by label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry quantitation technologies. A total of 1845 and 1550 protein groups were identified in the THP-1 macrophages and the corresponding exosomes, respectively. Treating the cells with IFN-alpha resulted in the differential abundance of 94 proteins in cells and 67 proteins in exosomes (greater than 2.0-fold), among which 23 proteins were up-regulated in both the IFN-alpha treated cells and corresponding exosomes, while 14 proteins were specifically up-regulated in exosomes but not in the donor cells. GO and KEGG analysis of the identified proteins suggested that IFN-alpha promoted the abundance of proteins involved in the "defense response to virus" and "type I interferon signaling pathway" in both exosomes and cells. Functional analysis further indicated that exosomes from IFN-alpha-treated cells exhibited potent antiviral activity that restored the impaired antiviral response of IFN-alpha in hepatitis B virus-replicating hepatocytes. These results have deepened the understanding of the exosome-mediated transfer of IFN-alpha-induced antiviral molecules and may provide a new basis for therapeutic strategies to control viral infection.
PXD010167	30550596	A quantitative proteomic analysis of cofilin phosphorylation in myeloid cells and its modulation using the LIM kinase inhibitor Pyr1. 	A quantitative proteomic view of cofilin phosphorylation and its modulation using the LIM kinase inhibitor Pyr1	2D gel, Cofilin, Phosphorylation	LIM kinases are located at a strategic crossroad, downstream of several signaling pathways and upstream of effectors such as microtubules and the actin cytoskeleton. Cofilin is the only LIM kinases substrate that is well described to date, and its phosphorylation on serine 3 by LIM kinases controls cofilin actin-severing activity. Consequently, LIM kinases inhibition leads to actin cytoskeleton disorganization and blockade of cell motility, which makes this strategy attractive in anticancer treatments. LIMK has also been reported to be involved in pathways that are deregulated in hematologic malignancies, with little information regarding cofilin phosphorylation status. We have used proteomic approaches to investigate quantitatively and in detail the phosphorylation status of cofilin in myeloid tumor cell lines of murine and human origin. Our results show that under standard conditions, only a small fraction (10 to 30% depending on the cell line) of cofilin is phosphorylated (including serine 3 phosphorylation). In addition, after a pharmacological inhibition of LIM kinases, a residual cofilin phosphorylation is observed on serine 3. Interestingly, this 2D gel based proteomic study identified new phosphorylation sites on cofilin, such as threonine 63, tyrosine 82 and serine 108.
PXD010293	30552291	Proteins, Transcripts, and Genetic Architecture of Seminal Fluid and Sperm in the Mosquito Aedes aegypti. 	Seminal fluid and sperm proteomics of Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti, N15 labeled, ejaculate, mosquito, semen, sperm	The yellow fever mosquito, Aedes aegypti,, transmits several viruses causative of serious diseases, including dengue, Zika, and chikungunya. Some proposed efforts to control this vector involve manipulating reproduction to suppress wild populations or to replace them with disease-resistant mosquitoes. The design of such strategies requires an intimate knowledge of reproductive processes, yet our basic understanding of reproductive genetics in this vector remains largely incomplete. To accelerate future investigations, we have comprehensively catalogued sperm and seminal fluid proteins (SFPs) transferred to females in the ejaculate using tandem mass spectrometry. By excluding female-derived proteins using an isotopic labeling approach, we identified 870 sperm proteins and 280 SFPs. Functional composition analysis revealed parallels with known aspects of sperm biology and SFP function in other insects. To corroborate our proteome characterization, we also generated transcriptomes for testes and the male accessory glands-the primary contributors to Ae. aegypti, sperm and seminal fluid, respectively. Differential gene expression of accessory glands from virgin and mated males suggests that transcripts encoding proteins involved in protein translation are upregulated post-mating. Several SFP transcripts were also modulated after mating, but >90% remained unchanged. Finally, a significant enrichment of SFPs was observed on chromosome 1, which harbors the male sex determining locus in this species. Our study provides a comprehensive proteomic and transcriptomic characterization of ejaculate production and composition and thus provides a foundation for future investigations of Ae. aegypti, reproductive biology, from functional analysis of individual proteins to broader examination of reproductive processes.
PXD011581	30552321	TGNap1 is required for microtubule-dependent homeostasis of a subpopulation of the plant trans-Golgi network. 	TGNap1 proteomic analysis -  TGNap1 is required for microtubule-dependent homeostasis of a subpopulation of the plant trans-Golgi network	Co-IP, TGN, proteomic analysis	Defining convergent and divergent mechanisms underlying the biogenesis and function of endomembrane organelles is fundamentally important in cell biology. In all eukaryotes, the Trans-Golgi Network (TGN) is the hub where the exocytic and endocytic pathways converge. To gain knowledge in the mechanisms underlying TGN biogenesis and function, we characterized TGNap1, a protein encoded by a plant gene of unknown function conserved with metazoans. We demonstrate that TGNap1 is a TGN protein required for the homeostasis of biosynthetic and endocytic traffic pathways. We also show that TGNap1 binds Rab6, YIP4 and microtubules. Finally, we establish that TGNap1 contributes to microtubule-dependent biogenesis, tracking and function of a TGN subset, likely through interaction with Rab6 and YIP4. Our results identify an important trafficking determinant at the plant TGN and reveal an unexpected reliance of post-Golgi traffic homeostasis and organelle biogenesis on microtubules in plants.
PXD011734	30552790	The puzzling construction of the conidial outer layer of Aspergillus fumigatus. 	The puzzling construction of the conidial outer layer of Aspergillus fumigatus	Aspergillus fumigatus, conida, out layer	If the mycelium of Aspergillus fumigatus is very short-lived in the laboratory, conidia can survive for years. This survival capacity and extreme resistance to environmental insults is a major biological characteristic of this fungal species. Moreover, conidia, which easily reach the host alveola, are the infective propagules. Earlier studies have shown the role of some molecules of the outer conidial layer in protecting the fungus against the host defense. The outer layer of the conidial cell wall, directly in contact with the host cells, consists of alpha-(1,3)-glucan, melanin, and proteinaceous rodlets. This study is focused on the global importance of this outer layer. Single and multiple mutants without one to three major components of the outer layer were constructed and studied. The results showed that the absence of the target molecules resulting from multiple gene deletions led to unexpected phenotypes without any logical additivity. Unexpected compensatory cell wall surface modifications were indeed observed, such as the synthesis of the mycelial virulence factor galactosaminogalactan, the increase in chitin and glycoprotein concentration or particular changes in permeability. However, sensitivity of the multiple mutants to killing by phagocytic host cells confirmed the major importance of melanin in protecting conidia.
PXD011274	30553073	Early response of C2C12 myotubes to a sub-cytotoxic dose of hemorrhagic metalloproteinase HF3 from Bothrops jararaca venom. 	Early response of C2C12 myotubes to a sub-cytotoxic dose of hemorrhagic metalloproteinase HF3 from Bothrops jararaca venom	C2C12 myotubes, HF3, Peptidomics, Snake Venom Metalloproteinase	Manifestations of local tissue damage, such as hemorrhage and myonecrosis, are among the most dramatic effects of envenomation by viperid snakes. Snake venom metalloproteinases (SVMPs) of the P-III class are main players of the hemorrhagic effect due to their activities in promoting blood vessel disruption. Hemorrhagic Factor 3 (HF3), a P-III class SVMP from Bothrops jararaca, shows a minimum hemorrhagic dose of 240 fmol on rabbit skin. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of a sub-cytotoxic dose of HF3 (50 nM) on the proteomic profile of C2C12 differentiated cells (myotubes) in culture, and on the peptidomic profile of the culture supernatant. Quantitative proteomic analysis using stable-isotope dimethyl labeling showed differential abundance of various proteins including enzymes involved in oxidative stress and inflammation responses. Identification of peptides in the supernatant of HF3-treated myotubes revealed proteolysis and pointed out potential new substrates of HF3, including glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and some damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). These experiments demonstrate the subtle effects of HF3 on muscle cells and illustrate for the first time the early proteolytic events triggered by HF3 on myotubes. Moreover, they may contribute to future studies aimed at explaining the inflammation process, hemorrhage and myonecrosis caused by SVMPs. SIGNIFICANCE: One of the main features of viperid snake envenomation is myotoxicity at the bite site, which, in turn is often associated with edema, blistering and hemorrhage, composing a complex pattern of local tissue damage. In this scenario, besides muscle cells, other types of cells, components of the extracellular matrix and blood vessels may also be affected, resulting in an outcome of deficient muscle regeneration. The main venom components participating in this pathology are metalloproteinases and phospholipases A2. Muscle necrosis induced by metalloproteinases is considered as an indirect effect related to ischemia, due to hemorrhage resulted from damage to the microvasculature. The pathogenesis of local effects induced by Bothrops venoms or isolated toxins has been studied by traditional methodologies. More recently, proteomic and peptidomic approaches have been used to study venom-induced pathogenesis. Here, in order to investigate the role of metalloproteinase activity in local tissue damage, we asked whether the hemorrhagic metalloproteinase HF3, at sub-cytotoxic levels, could alter the proteome of C2C12 myotubes in culture, thereby providing an insight into the mechanisms for the development of myonecrosis. Our results from mass spectrometric analyses showed subtle, early changes in the cells, including differential abundance of some proteins and proteolysis in the culture supernatant. The data illustrate the potential ability of metalloproteinases to trigger early systemic responses progressing from local cells and up to tissues.
PXD011244	30553074	Improved SILAC method for double labeling of bacterial proteome. 	Improved SILAC Method for Double Labeling of Bacterial Proteome	SILAC, bacteria, double labeling	Stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) is a robust proteomics method with advantages such as reproducibility and easy handling. This method is popular for the analysis of mammalian cells. However, amino acid conversion in bacteria decreases the labeling efficiency and quantification accuracy, limiting the application of SILAC in bacterial proteomics to auxotrophic bacteria or to single labeling with lysine. In this study, we found that adding high concentrations of isotope-labeled (heavy) and natural (light) amino acids into SILAC minimal medium can efficiently inhibit the complicated amino acid conversions. This simple and straightforward strategy facilitated complete incorporation of amino acids into the bacterial proteome with good accuracy. High labeling efficiency can be achieved in different bacteria by slightly modifying the supplementation of amino acids in culture media, promoting the widespread application of SILAC technique in bacterial proteomics. SIGNIFICANCE: Amino acid conversion in bacteria decreases labeling efficiency, limiting the application of Stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) in bacterial proteomics to auxotrophic bacteria or single labeling with lysine. In this study, we found that high concentrations of isotope-labeled (heavy) and natural (light) amino acids facilitate full incorporation of amino acids into the bacterial proteome with good reproducibility. This improved double labeling SILAC technique using medium supplemented with high concentrations of amino acids is suitable for quantitative proteomics research on both gram-positive and -negative bacteria, facilitating the broad application of quantitative proteomics in bacterial studies.
PXD008135	30555466	Proteomic Analysis of Biomphalaria glabrata Hemocytes During in vitro Encapsulation of Schistosoma mansoni Sporocysts. 	Proteomic analysis of Biomphalaria glabrata hemocyte  during in vitro encapsulation of Schistosoma mansoi sporocycts	Biomphalaria glabrata, Schistosome mansoi, hemocyte, hemolytic encapsulation, laser-capture microdissection, proteomic analysis, sporocyst	Circulating hemocytes of the snail Biomphalaria glabrata, a major intermediate host for the blood fluke Schistosoma mansoni, represent the primary immune effector cells comprising the host's internal defense system. Within hours of miracidial entry into resistant B. glabrata strains, hemocytes infiltrate around developing sporocysts forming multi-layered cellular capsules that results in larval death, typically within 24-48 h post-infection. Using an in vitro model of hemocyte-sporocyst encapsulation that recapitulates in vivo events, we conducted a comparative proteomic analysis on the responses of hemocytes from inbred B. glabrata strains during the encapsulation of S. mansoni primary sporocysts. This was accomplished by a combination of Laser-capture microdissection (LCM) to isolate sections of hemocyte capsules both in the presence and absence of sporocysts, in conjunction with mass spectrometric analyses to establish protein expression profiles. Comparison of susceptible NMRI snail hemocytes in the presence and absence of sporocysts revealed a dramatic downregulation of proteins in during larval encapsulation, especially those involved in protein/CHO metabolism, immune-related, redox and signaling pathways. One of 4 upregulated proteins was arginase, competitor of nitric oxide synthetase and inhibitor of larval-killing NO production. By contrast, when compared to control capsules, sporocyst-encapsulating hemocytes of resistant BS-90 B. glabrata exhibited a more balanced profile with enhanced expression of shared proteins involved in protein synthesis/processing, immunity, and redox, and unique expression of anti-microbial/anti-parasite proteins. A final comparison of NMRI and BS-90 host hemocyte responses to co-cultured sporocysts demonstrated a decrease or downregulation of 77% of shared proteins by NMRI cells during encapsulation compared to those of the BS-90 strain, including lipopolysaccharide-binding protein, thioredoxin reductase 1 and hemoglobins 1 and 2. Overall, using this in vitro model, results of our proteomic analyses demonstrate striking differences in proteins expressed by susceptible NMRI and resistant BS-90 snail hemocytes to S. mansoni sporocysts during active encapsulation, with NMRI hemocytes exhibiting extensive downregulation of protein expression and a lower level of constitutively expressed immune-relevant proteins (e.g., FREP2) compared to BS-90. Our data suggest that snail strain differences in hemocyte protein expression during the encapsulation process account for observed differences in their cytotoxic capacity to interact with and kill sporocysts.
PXD011002	30555495	Absolute Quantification of Grapevine Red Blotch Virus in Grapevine Leaf and Petiole Tissues by Proteomics. 	Absolute Quantification of Grapevine Red Blotch Virus in Grapevine Leaf and Petiole Tissues by Proteomics	Grapevine red blotch virus, absolute quantification, grapevine, parallel reaction monitoring, shotgun LC-MS/MS	Grapevine red blotch is a recently identified viral disease that was first recognized in the Napa Valley of California. Infected plants showed foliar symptoms similar to leafroll, another grapevine viral disease, on vines testing negative for known grapevine leafroll-associated virus. Later, the Grapevine red blotch virus (GRBV) was independently discovered in the US states of California and New York and was demonstrated to be the causal agent of red blotch disease. Due to its wide occurrence in the United States, vector transmission, and impacts on grape industry, this virus has the potential to cause serious economic losses. Despite numerous attempts, it has yet not been possible to isolate or visualize viral particles from GRBV-infected plants, thereby hampering the development of a serological assay that would facilitate GRBV detection in grapevine. In this work, mass spectrometry approaches were applied in order to quantify GRBV in infected plants and identify potential biomarkers for viral infection. We present for the first time the physical detection on the protein level of the two GRBV genes V1 (coat protein) and V2 in grapevine tissue lysates. The GRBV coat protein load in petioles was determined to be in the range of 100-900 million copies per milligram wet weight by using three heavy isotope labeled reference peptides as internal standards. In leaves on the other hand, the V1 copy number per unit wet tissue weight appeared to be about six times lower than in petioles, and about 300 times lower in terms of protein concentration in the extractable protein mass, albeit these estimations could only be made with one reference peptide detectable in leaf extracts. Moreover, we found in leaf and petiole extracts of GRBV-infected plants a consistent upregulation of several enzymes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis by label-free shotgun proteomics, indicating the activation of a defense mechanism against GRBV, a plant response already described for Grapevine leafroll-associated virus infection on the transcriptome level. Finally and importantly, we identified some other microorganisms belonging to the grapevine leaf microbiota, two bacterial species (Novosphingobium sp. Rr 2-17 and Methylobacterium) and one virus, Grapevine rupestris stem pitting-associated virus.
PXD007948	30556041	Calnexin Depletion by Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress During Cholestasis Inhibits the Na(+)-Taurocholate Cotransporting Polypeptide. 	Calnexin depletion by ER-stress during cholestasis inhibits the Na+-taurocholate Cotransporting Polypeptide (NTCP)	calnexin/ cholestasis/ER-stress/ NTCP/Calreticulin/xbp1/perk/lectin chaperones	Cholestasis-induced accumulation of bile acids in the liver leads to farnesoid X receptor (FXR)-mediated transcriptional down-regulation of the bile acid importer Na(+)-taurocholate cotransporting protein (NTCP) and to induction of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. However, whether ER stress affects bile acid uptake is largely unknown. Here, we investigated the role of ER stress on the regulation and function of the bile acid transporter NTCP. ER stress was induced using thapsigargin or subtilase cytotoxin in human osteosarcoma (U2OS) and human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) cells stably expressing NTCP. Cellular bile acid uptake was determined using radiolabeled taurocholate (TCA). NTCP plasma membrane expression was determined by cell surface biotinylation. Mice received a single injection of thapsigargin, and effects of ER stress on NTCP messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein were measured by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and western blot analysis. Effects of cholestasis on NTCP and ER stress were assessed in response to 3, 5-diethoxycarbonyl-1, 4-dihydrocollidine (DDC) feeding or bile duct ligation in FXR(-/-) mice after 7 or 3 days, respectively. Novel NTCP-interacting proteins were identified by mass spectrometry (MS), interaction verified, and assessed by co-immunoprecipitation and TCA uptake for functional relevance in relation to ER stress. ER stress induction strongly reduced NTCP protein expression, plasma membrane abundance, and NTCP-mediated bile acid uptake. This was not controlled by FXR or through a single unfolded protein response (UPR) pathway but mainly depended on the interaction of NTCP with calnexin, an ER chaperone. In mice, expression of both NTCP and calnexin was reduced by thapsigargin or cholestasis-induced ER stress. Calnexin down-regulation in vitro recapitulated the effect of ER stress on NTCP. Conclusion: ER stress-induced down-regulation of calnexin provides an additional mechanism to dampen NTCP-mediated bile acid uptake and protect hepatocytes against bile acid overload during cholestasis.
PXD010359	30556639	CotL, a new morphogenetic spore coat protein of Clostridium difficile. 	CotL, a new morphogenetic coat protein of Clostridium difficile	Clostridium difficile, Q Exactive HF, shotgun proteomics, spore coat	The strict anaerobe Clostridium difficile is the most common cause of antibiotic-associated diarrhoea. The oxygen-resistant C. difficile spores play a central role in the infectious cycle, contributing to transmission, infection and recurrence. The spore surface layers, the coat and exosporium, enable the spores to resist physical and chemical stress. However, little is known about the mechanisms of their assembly. In this study, we characterized a new spore protein, CotL, which is required for the assembly of the spore coat. The cotL gene was expressed in the mother cell compartment under the dual control of the RNA polymerase sigma factors, sigma(E) and sigma(K) . CotL was localized in the spore coat, and the spores of the cotL mutant had a major morphologic defect at the level of the coat/exosporium layers. Therefore, the mutant spores contained a reduced amount of several coat/exosporium proteins and a defect in their localization in sporulating cells. Finally, cotL mutant spores were more sensitive to lysozyme and were impaired in germination, a phenotype likely to be associated with the structurally altered coat. Collectively, these results strongly suggest that CotL is a morphogenetic protein essential for the assembly of the spore coat in C. difficile.
PXD008011	30556786	Proteomic analysis and antivenomics study of Western India Naja naja venom: correlation between venom composition and clinical manifestations of cobra bite in this region. 	Venom proteomics of Naja naja of western India origin	shotgun proteomics, snake venom	Background: Snakebite is a severe problem in the tropical countries including Indian subcontinent. Premier cases of cobra bites are being reported from western India (WI). Research design and methods: The proteome of WI N. naja venom (NnV) was deciphered by high resolution mass spectrometry analysis of venom, further fractionated by gel filtration (GF) or RP-HPLC followed by SDS-PAGE and then tandem mass spectrometric analysis of protein bands. The efficacy of commercial polyantivenom (PAV) towards WINnV was assessed by ELISA, immuno-blot, neutralization, and venom-PAV immunoaffinity chromatography studies. Results: Proteomic analysis of WINnV, GF fractions, and SDS-PAGE protein bands of RP-HPLC and GF peaks identified 14, 34, 40, and 54, distinct proteins, respectively, when searched against Elapidae database. The biochemical properties of WINnV correlated well with its proteome composition and pathophysiology of cobra envenomation, including neuroparalysis. This study also highlighted the differences in proteome composition between WINnV and previously reported Eastern India NnV. The tested antivenoms exhibited poor immuno-recognition and neutralization of low molecular mass proteins (<20 kDa), such as three-finger toxins, the major class of protein in WINnV. Conclusion: Improvements in production protocols of antivenoms is the necessity of the hour, supplemented with antibodies raised against the poorly recognized toxins.
PXD011449	30557026	Data-Independent Acquisition for the Orbitrap Q Exactive HF: A Tutorial. 	Data-independent Acquisition for the orbitrap. A tutorial.	Data-independent acquisition, actual scan times, method development strategy, orbitrap mass analyser	Data-independent acquisition (DIA) is a powerful mass spectrometric technique to perform both protein identification and quantification of complex protein samples. Setting up DIA methods on Orbitrap analyzers requires a thorough overview of the actions the Orbitrap mass spectrometers carry out. This Tutorial is written with the intention to give an overview of the important parameters to consider as well as which measurements to carry out to get the most out of your DIA method when setting it up on an Orbitrap mass analyzer. Instead of giving the optimal DIA settings, all steps in the construction and optimization of the DIA method are shown and discussed in a way that allows tailored DIA methods. They key steps are building the spectral library after sample fractionation, deciding upon the number of data points per chromatographic peak, determining the scan times of each mass spectrometric step, constructing various DIA methods using these data, and evaluating their performance. This proposed DIA method development strategy was tested on digested lysates from Pseudomonas aeruginosa and compared with conventional DDA analysis to put the DIA results into perspective.
PXD007180	30557664	Dissecting the molecular effects of cigarette smoke on proteasome function. 	Cigarette smoke alters the secretome of lung epithelial cells	Cigarette smoke, lung, proteomic profiling, secretome	Proteasome dysfunction is emerging as a novel pathomechanism for the development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a major leading cause of death in the world. Cigarette smoke, one of the main risk factors for COPD, impairs proteasome function in vitro and in vivo. In the present study, we dissected the molecular changes induced by cigarette smoke on the proteasome in lung epithelial cells and mouse lungs. 26S proteasome pull-down, MS interactome, and stoichiometry analyses indicated that 26S proteasome complexes become instable in cigarette smoke-treated lung epithelial cells as well as in lungs of mice after three day smoke exposure. The interactome of the 26S was clearly altered in mouse lungs upon smoke exposure but not in cells after 24 h of smoke exposure. Using native MS analysis of purified 20S proteasomes, we observed some destabilization of 20S complexes purified from cigarette smoke-exposed cells in the absence of any dominant and inhibitory modification of proteasomal proteins. Taken together, our results suggest that cigarette smoke induces minor but detectable changes in the stability of 20S and 26S proteasome complexes which might contribute to imbalanced proteostasis in a chronic setting as observed in chronic lung diseases associated with cigarette smoking.
PXD011473	30559339	Lysosomal protease deficiency or substrate overload induces an oxidative-stress mediated STAT3-dependent pathway of lysosomal homeostasis. 	Understanding the physiological role of asparaginyl endopeptidase (AEP)/Legumain	MVO26630, WT MEFs, nanoLC-MS/MS, time course	Diverse cellular processes depend on the lysosomal protease system but how cells regulate lysosomal proteolytic capacity is only partly understood. We show here that cells can respond to protease/substrate imbalance in this compartment by de novo expression of multiple lysosomal hydrolases. This response, exemplified here either by loss of asparagine endopeptidase (AEP) or other lysosomal cysteine proteases, or by increased endocytic substrate load, is not dependent on the transcription factor EB (TFEB) but rather is triggered by STAT3 activation downstream of lysosomal oxidative stress. Similar lysosomal adaptations are seen in mice and cells expressing a constitutively active form of STAT3. Our results reveal how cells can increase lysosomal protease capacity under 'fed' rather than 'starved' conditions that activate the TFEB system. In addition, STAT3 activation due to lysosomal stress likely explains the hyperproliferative kidney disease and splenomegaly observed in AEP-deficient mice.
PXD011595	30559384	aPKC controls endothelial growth by modulating c-Myc via FoxO1 DNA-binding ability. 	aPKC controls endothelial growth by modulating c-Myc via FoxO1 DNA binding ability	FoxO1, Immuno Precipitation, aPK, c-Myc	Strict regulation of proliferation is vital for development, whereas unregulated cell proliferation is a fundamental characteristic of cancer. The polarity protein atypical protein kinase C lambda/iota (aPKClambda) is associated with cell proliferation through unknown mechanisms. In endothelial cells, suppression of aPKClambda impairs proliferation despite hyperactivated mitogenic signaling. Here we show that aPKClambda phosphorylates the DNA binding domain of forkhead box O1 (FoxO1) transcription factor, a gatekeeper of endothelial growth. Although mitogenic signaling excludes FoxO1 from the nucleus, consequently increasing c-Myc abundance and proliferation, aPKClambda controls c-Myc expression via FoxO1/miR-34c signaling without affecting its localization. We find this pathway is strongly activated in the malignant vascular sarcoma, angiosarcoma, and aPKC inhibition reduces c-Myc expression and proliferation of angiosarcoma cells. Moreover, FoxO1 phosphorylation at Ser218 and aPKC expression correlates with poor patient prognosis. Our findings may provide a potential therapeutic strategy for treatment of malignant cancers, like angiosarcoma.
PXD007873	30559480	TDP-43 extracted from frontotemporal lobar degeneration subject brains displays distinct aggregate assemblies and neurotoxic effects reflecting disease progression rates. 	TDP-43 in ALS/FTLD studied by a novel aggregate extraction method	ALS, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), FTLD, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Protein Misfolding and Aggregation (B/D-HPP), TDP-43	Accumulation of abnormally phosphorylated TDP-43 (pTDP-43) is the main pathology in affected neurons of people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). Morphological diversity and neuroanatomical distribution of pTDP-43 accumulations allowed classification of FTLD cases into at least four subtypes, which are correlated with clinical presentations and genetic causes. To understand the molecular basis of this heterogeneity, we developed SarkoSpin, a new method for biochemical isolation of pathological TDP-43. By combining SarkoSpin with mass spectrometry, we revealed proteins beyond TDP-43 that become abnormally insoluble in a disease subtype-specific manner. We show that pTDP-43 extracted from brain forms stable assemblies of distinct densities and morphologies that are associated with disease subtypes. Importantly, biochemically extracted pTDP-43 assemblies showed differential neurotoxicity and seeding that were correlated with disease duration of FTLD subjects. Our data are consistent with the notion that disease heterogeneity could originate from alternate pathological TDP-43 conformations, which are reminiscent of prion strains.
PXD010533	30560367	A simple approach for restoration of differentiation and function in cryopreserved human hepatocytes. 	Post-thaw restoration of differentiation and function in cryopreserved human hepatocytesPost-thaw restoration of differentiation and function in cryopreserved human hepatocytes	Human hepatocyte, attachement, cryopreservation	Primary human hepatocytes are used in all facets of liver research, from in vitro studies of xenobiotic disposition and toxicity to the clinical management of liver failure. Unfortunately, cellular stress during isolation and cryopreservation causes a highly unpredictable loss of the ability to attach and form cell-matrix and cell-cell interactions. Reasoning that this problem could be mitigated at the post-thawing stage, we applied label-free quantitative global proteomics to analyze differences between attached and non-attached fractions of cryopreserved human hepatocyte batches. Hepatocytes that were unable to attach to a collagen matrix showed many signs of cellular stress, including a glycolytic phenotype and activation of the heat shock response, ultimately leading to apoptosis activation. Further analysis of the activated stress pathways revealed an increase in early apoptosis immediately post-thawing, which suggested the possibility of stress reversal. Therefore, we transiently treated the cells with compounds aimed at decreasing cellular stress via different mechanisms. Brief exposure to the pan-caspase apoptosis inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK restored attachment ability and promoted a differentiated morphology, as well as formation of 3D spheroids. Further, Z-VAD-FMK treatment restored metabolic and transport functions, with maintained sensitivity to hepatotoxic insults. Altogether, this study shows that differentiation and function of suboptimal human hepatocytes can be restored after cryopreservation, thus markedly increasing the availability of these precious cells.
PXD011439	30563128	Comparative Proteomic Analysis Reveals Elevated Capacity for Photosynthesis in Polyphenol Oxidase Expression-Silenced Clematis terniflora DC. Leaves. 	Comparative Proteomic Analysis Reveals Elevated Capacity for Photosynthesis in Polyphenol Oxidase Expression-Silenced Clematis terniflora DC. Leaves	Clematis terniflora DC., Polyphenol oxidase, Virus induced gene silencing	Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) catalyzes the o-hydroxylation of monophenols and oxidation of o-diphenols to quinones. Although the effects of PPO on plant physiology were recently proposed, little has been done to explore the inherent molecular mechanisms. To explore the in vivo physiological functions of PPO, a model with decreased PPO expression and enzymatic activity was constructed on Clematis terniflora DC. using virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) technology. Proteomics was performed to identify the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the model (VC) and empty vector-carrying plants (VV) untreated or exposed to high levels of UV-B and dark (HUV-B+D). Following integration, it was concluded that the DEPs mainly functioned in photosynthesis, glycolysis, and redox in the PPO silence plants. Mapman analysis showed that the DEPs were mainly involved in light reaction and Calvin cycle in photosynthesis. Further analysis illustrated that the expression level of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthase, the content of chlorophyll, and the photosynthesis rate were increased in VC plants compared to VV plants pre- and post HUV-B+D. These results indicate that the silence of PPO elevated the plant photosynthesis by activating the glycolysis process, regulating Calvin cycle and providing ATP for energy metabolism. This study provides a prospective approach for increasing crop yield in agricultural production.
PXD011237	30563903	CpaA Is a Glycan-Specific Adamalysin-like Protease Secreted by Acinetobacter baumannii That Inactivates Coagulation Factor XII. 	CpaA is a Glycan-Specific Adamalysin-like Protease Secreted by Acinetobacter baumannii that Inactivates Coagulation Factor XII	Glycoprotein	Antibiotic-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii is increasingly recognized as a cause of difficult-to-treat nosocomial infections, including pneumonia, wound infections, and bacteremia. Previous studies have demonstrated that the metalloprotease CpaA contributes to virulence and prolongs clotting time when added to human plasma as measured by the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) assay. Here, we show that CpaA interferes with the intrinsic coagulation pathway, also called the contact activation system, in human as well as murine plasma, but has no discernible effect on the extrinsic pathway. By utilizing a modified aPTT assay, we demonstrate that coagulation factor XII (fXII) is a target of CpaA. In addition, we map the cleavage by CpaA to two positions, 279-280 and 308-309, within the highly glycosylated proline-rich region of human fXII, and show that cleavage at the 308-309 site is responsible for inactivation of fXII. At both sites, cleavage occurs between proline and an O-linked glycosylated threonine, and deglycosylation of fXII prevents cleavage by CpaA. Consistent with this, mutant fXII (fXII-Thr309Lys) from patients with hereditary angioedema type III (HAEIII) is protected from CpaA inactivation. This raises the possibility that individuals with HAEIII who harbor this mutation may be partially protected from A. baumannii infection if CpaA contributes to human disease. By inactivating fXII, CpaA may attenuate important antimicrobial defense mechanisms such as intravascular thrombus formation, thus allowing A. baumannii to disseminate.IMPORTANCE Ventilator-associated pneumonia and catheter-related bacteremia are the most common and severe infections caused by Acinetobacter baumannii Besides the capsule, lipopolysaccharides, and the outer membrane porin OmpA, little is known about the contribution of secreted proteins to A. baumannii survival in vivo Here we focus on CpaA, a potentially recently acquired virulence factor that inhibits blood coagulation in vitro We identify coagulation factor XII as a target of CpaA, map the cleavage sites, and show that glycosylation is a prerequisite for CpaA-mediated inactivation of factor XII. We propose adding CpaA to a small, but growing list of bacterial proteases that are specific for highly glycosylated components of the host defense system.
PXD011072	30564219	Xylem Sap Proteomics Reveals Distinct Differences Between R Gene- and Endophyte-Mediated Resistance Against Fusarium Wilt Disease in Tomato. 	Tomato xylem sap proteome composition following endophyte- and R-gene mediated resistance towards Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici inoculation.	Fusarium wilt disease, NP24, PR-5x, biocontrol, endophyte, exosomes	Resistance (R) genes and endophytic organisms can both protect plants against pathogens. Although the outcome of both processes is the same, little is known about the commonalities and differences between both immune responses. Here we set out to phenotypically characterize both responses in the tomato-Fusarium pathosystem, and to identify markers to distinguish these responses at the molecular level. As endophyte Fusarium oxysporum (Fo) strain Fo47 was employed, which confers protection against various pathogens, including the vascular wilt fungus F. oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici (Fol). As R-gene conferring Fol resistance, the I-2 gene of tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) was used. Fol colonizes the xylem vessels of susceptible and I-2 resistant tomato plants, but only causes disease in the former. Fol was found to colonize the vasculature of endophyte-colonized plants, and could be isolated from stems of non-diseased plants co-inoculated with Fo47 and Fol. Because the xylem vessels form the main interface between plant and pathogen, the xylem sap proteomes during R gene- and Endophyte-Mediated Resistance (RMR and EMR) were compared using label-free quantitative nLC-MS/MS. Surprisingly, both proteomes were remarkably similar to the mock, revealing only one or two differentially accumulated proteins in the respective resistant interactions. Whereas in I-2 plants the accumulation of the pathogenesis-related protein PR-5x was strongly induced by Fol, the endophyte triggered induction of both NP24, another PR-5 isoform, and of a beta-glucanase in the presence of Fol. Notably, over 54% of the identified xylem sap proteins have a predicted intracellular localization, which implies that these might be present in exosomes. In conclusion, whereas both resistance mechanisms permit the pathogen to colonize the vasculature, this does not result in disease and this resistance coincides with specific induction of two distinct PR-5 isoforms and a beta-glucanase.
PXD008536	30564511	Combined Targeted Analysis of Metabolites and Proteins in Tear Fluid With Regard to Clinical Applications. 	Systematic Investigation of Targeted Analysis of Metabolites and Proteins in Tear Fluid	Tear fluid	PURPOSE: To establish a robust workflow for combined mass spectrometry-based analysis of metabolites and proteins in tear fluid with regard to clinical applicability. METHODS: Tear fluid was taken from 12 healthy volunteers at different time points using specially designed Schirmer strips. Following the liquid extraction of metabolites from standardized punches, the remaining material was processed for bottom-up proteomics. Targeted metabolite profiling was performed adapting a metabolomics kit, which targets 188 metabolites from four different analyte classes. Proteomics was performed of the identical samples targeting 15 tear proteins relevant to ocular health. RESULTS: Sixty metabolites could be consistently determined in all tear samples (98 metabolites were detectable in average) covering acylcarnitines, amino acids, biogenic amines, and glycerophospholipids. Following normalization, the majority of metabolites exhibited intraindividual variances of less than 20%, both regarding different times of sampling, and the individual eye. The targeted analysis of tear proteins revealed a mean intraindividual variation of 23% for the three most abundant proteins. Even extreme differences in tear secretion rates resulted in interindividual variability below 30% for 65 metabolites and two proteins. CONCLUSIONS: The newly established workflow can be used for combined targeted detection of metabolites and proteins in one punch of a Schirmer strip in a clinical setting. TRANSLATIONAL RELEVANCE: Our data about intra- and interindividual as well as intereye variation provide a valuable basis for the design of clinical studies, and for the applicability of multiplexed "omics" to well accessible tear fluid with regard to future routine use.
PXD007077	30565880	A robust, cost-effective method for DNA, RNA and protein co-extraction from soil, other complex microbiomes and pure cultures. 	Soil metaproteomics using DNA RNA protein co-extraction method	soil metaproteomics LC MS/MS	The soil microbiome is inherently complex with high biological diversity, and spatial heterogeneity typically occurring on the submillimetre scale. To study the microbial ecology of soils, and other microbiomes, biomolecules, that is, nucleic acids and proteins, must be efficiently and reliably co-recovered from the same biological samples. Commercial kits are currently available for the co-extraction of DNA, RNA and proteins but none has been developed for soil samples. We present a new protocol drawing on existing phenol-chloroform-based methods for nucleic acids co-extraction but incorporating targeted precipitation of proteins from the phenol phase. The protocol is cost-effective and robust, and easily implemented using reagents commonly available in laboratories. The method is estimated to be eight times cheaper than using disparate commercial kits for the isolation of DNA and/or RNA, and proteins, from soil. The method is effective, providing good quality biomolecules from a diverse range of soil types, with clay contents varying from 9.5% to 35.1%, which we successfully used for downstream, high-throughput gene sequencing and metaproteomics. Additionally, we demonstrate that the protocol can also be easily implemented for biomolecule co-extraction from other complex microbiome samples, including cattle slurry and microbial communities recovered from anaerobic bioreactors, as well as from Gram-positive and Gram-negative pure cultures.
PXD010997	30566880	Mitochondrial Membrane Potential Regulates Nuclear Gene Expression in Macrophages Exposed to Prostaglandin E2. 	Mitochondrial Membrane Potential Regulates Nuclear Gene Expression in Macrophages Exposed to PGE2	Alternative activation, ETV1, GOT1, IL-4, Immunometabolism, Macrophage, Malate-aspartate shuttle, Mitochondrial membrane potential, cAMP, prostaglandin E2	Metabolic engagement is intrinsic to immune cell function. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) has been shown to modulate macrophage activation, yet how PGE2 might affect metabolism is unclear. Here, we show that PGE2 caused mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsim) to dissipate in interleukin-4-activated (M(IL-4)) macrophages. Effects on Deltapsim were a consequence of PGE2-initiated transcriptional regulation of genes, particularly Got1, in the malate-aspartate shuttle (MAS). Reduced Deltapsim caused alterations in the expression of 126 voltage-regulated genes (VRGs), including those encoding resistin-like molecule alpha (RELMalpha), a key marker of M(IL-4) cells, and genes that regulate the cell cycle. The transcription factor ETS variant 1 (ETV1) played a role in the regulation of 38% of the VRGs. These results reveal ETV1 as a Deltapsim-sensitive transcription factor and Deltapsim as a mediator of mitochondrial-directed nuclear gene expression.
PXD011466	30571761	EspL is essential for virulence and stabilizes EspE, EspF and EspH levels in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 	Mass-spectrometry-based analysis of the secretome of M. tuberculosis mutants	ESX-1, Mycobacterium tuberculosis	The ESX-1, type VII, secretion system represents the major virulence determinant of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, one of the most successful intracellular pathogens. Here, by combining genetic and high-throughput approaches, we show that EspL, a protein of 115 amino acids, is essential for mediating ESX-1-dependent virulence and for stabilization of EspE, EspF and EspH protein levels. Indeed, an espL knock-out mutant was unable to replicate intracellularly, secrete ESX-1 substrates or stimulate innate cytokine production. Moreover, proteomic studies detected greatly reduced amounts of EspE, EspF and EspH in the espL mutant as compared to the wild type strain, suggesting a role for EspL as a chaperone. The latter conclusion was further supported by discovering that EspL interacts with EspD, which was previously demonstrated to stabilize the ESX-1 substrates and effector proteins, EspA and EspC. Loss of EspL also leads to downregulation in M. tuberculosis of WhiB6, a redox-sensitive transcriptional activator of ESX-1 genes. Overall, our data highlight the importance of a so-far overlooked, though conserved, component of the ESX-1 secretion system and begin to delineate the role played by EspE, EspF and EspH in virulence and host-pathogen interaction.
PXD010301	30573663	HLA-DO Modulates the Diversity of the MHC-II Self-peptidome. 	Immunopeptidome analysis of HLA DR1 bound peptides	LG2 cells, peptide repertoire	Presentation of antigenic peptides on MHC-II molecules is essential for tolerance to self and for initiation of immune responses against foreign antigens. DO (HLA-DO in humans, H2-O in mice) is a nonclassical MHC-II protein that has been implicated in control of autoimmunity and regulation of neutralizing antibody responses to viruses. These effects likely are related to a role of DO in selecting MHC-II epitopes, but previous studies examining the effect of DO on presentation of selected CD4 T cell epitopes have been contradictory. To understand how DO modulates MHC-II antigen presentation, we characterized the full spectrum of peptides presented by MHC-II molecules expressed by DO-sufficient and DO-deficient antigen-presenting cells in vivo and in vitro using quantitative mass spectrometry approaches. We found that DO controlled the diversity of the presented peptide repertoire, with a subset of peptides presented only when DO was expressed. Antigen-presenting cells express another nonclassical MHC-II protein, DM, which acts as a peptide editor by preferentially catalyzing the exchange of less stable MHC-II peptide complexes, and which is inhibited when bound to DO. Peptides presented uniquely in the presence of DO were sensitive to DM-mediated exchange, suggesting that decreased DM editing was responsible for the increased diversity. DO-deficient mice mounted CD4 T cell responses against wild-type antigen-presenting cells, but not vice versa, indicating that DO-dependent alterations in the MHC-II peptidome could be recognized by circulating T cells. These data suggest that cell-specific and regulated expression of HLA-DO serves to fine-tune MHC-II peptidomes, in order to enhance self-tolerance to a wide spectrum of epitopes while allowing focused presentation of immunodominant epitopes during an immune response.
PXD010964	30575224	Salicylic acid influences the protease activity and posttranslation modifications of the secreted peptides in the moss Physcomitrella patens. 	Moss secreted peptidome -  Salicylic acid influences the protease activity and posttranslation modifications of the secreted peptides in the moss Physcomitrella patens	Physcomitreella patens, SA	Plant secretome comprises dozens of secreted proteins. However, little is known about the composition of the whole secreted peptide pools and the proteases responsible for the generation of the peptide pools. The majority of studies focus on target detection and characterization of specific plant peptide hormones. In this study, we performed a comprehensive analysis of the whole extracellular peptidome, using moss Physcomitrella patens as a model. Hundreds of modified and unmodified endogenous peptides that originated from functional and nonfunctional protein precursors were identified. The plant proteases responsible for shaping the pool of endogenous peptides were predicted. Salicylic acid (SA) influenced peptide production in the secretome. The proteasome activity was altered upon SA treatment, thereby influencing the composition of the peptide pools. These results shed more light on the role of proteases and posttranslational modification in the "active management" of the extracellular peptide pool in response to stress conditions. It also identifies a list of potential peptide hormones in the moss secretome for further analysis.
PXD011077	30575379	Cross-ID: Analysis and Visualization of Complex XL-MS-Driven Protein Interaction Networks. 	Cross-ID: An Interactive Platform for in-depth Analysis and Visualization of Complex XL-MS Driven Protein Interaction Networks	Proteome Discoverer, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, TMT, Visualization, XL-MS	Protein interactions enable much more complex behavior than the sum of the individual protein parts would suggest and represents a level of biological complexity requiring full understanding when unravelling cellular processes. Cross-linking mass spectrometry has emerged as an attractive approach to study these interactions, and recent advances in mass spectrometry and data analysis software have enabled the identification of thousands of cross-links from a single experiment. The resulting data complexity is, however, difficult to understand and requires interactive software tools. Even though solutions are available, these represent an agglomerate of possibilities, and each features its own input format, often forcing manual conversion. Here we present Cross-ID, a visualization platform that links directly into the output of XlinkX for Proteome Discoverer but also plays well with other platforms by supporting a user-controllable text-file importer. The platform includes features like grouping, spectral viewer, gene ontology (GO) enrichment, post-translational modification (PTM) visualization, domains and secondary structure mapping, data set comparison, previsualization overlap check, and more. Validation of detected cross-links is available for proteins and complexes with known structure or for protein complexes through the DisVis online platform ( http://milou.science.uu.nl/cgi/services/DISVIS/disvis/ ). Graphs are exportable in PDF format, and data sets can be exported in tab-separated text files for evaluation through other software.
PXD012014	30576131	A Novel Nutrient Deprivation-Induced Neonicotinoid Insecticide Acetamiprid Degradation by Ensifer adhaerens CGMCC 6315. 	A Novel Nutrient Deprivation-Induced Neonicotinoid Insecticide Acetamiprid Degradation by Ensifer adhaerens CGMCC 6315	iTRAQ	Biodegradation of pesticide pollution is often restricted by environmental pressures, such as nutrient deprivation. Ensifer adhaerens CGMCC 6315 could overcome this issue and degrade neonicotinoid acetamiprid (ACE) efficiently under low nutrient stimuli. The ACE degradation rate improved by 33.1-fold when the lysogeny broth content for cell culture was decreased to 1/15-fold. Resting cells of CGMCC 6315 degraded 94.4% of 200 mg/L ACE in 12 h and quickly eliminated 87.8% of 5 mg/kg of residual soil ACE within 2 d. ACE degradation by CGMCC 6315 was via a nitrile hydratase (NHase) pathway. Genome sequencing showed that CGMCC 6315 had two NHase genes ( cnhA and pnhA). PnhA had the highest reported activity of 28.8 U/mg for ACE. QPCR and proteomic analysis showed that the improved ACE degradation ability was attributed to the up-regulated expression of PnhA. This biodegradation system of CGMCC 6315 has great potential for use in pesticide pollution remediation.
PXD011145	30576142	Robust, Reproducible, and Economical Phosphopeptide Enrichment Using Calcium Titanate. 	Robust, reproducible, and economical phosphopeptide enrichment using calcium titanate.	enrichment, phosphopeptide, phosphoproteomics	Mass-spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics has revolutionized phosphoprotein analysis and enhanced our understanding of diverse and fundamental cellular processes important for human health and disease. Because of their relative scarcity, phosphopeptides must be enriched before analysis. Many different enrichment methods and materials have been described, and many reports have made claims about the advantages of particular materials and methodological variations. We demonstrate an effective and highly reproducible single-step enrichment method using an off-the-shelf preparation of calcium titanate. Using two different cell lines and replicate analysis, we show that our method achieves a purity and depth of analysis comparable or superior to a widely used TiO2-based method at a reduced cost and effort. This method provides a new and immediately available tool for expanding the reach of phosphoproteomic inquiry.
PXD010571	30576155	Evaluation of a Dual Isolation Width Acquisition Method for Isobaric Labeling Ratio Decompression. 	Evaluation of a Dual Isolation Width Acquisition (DIWA) method for isobaric labelling ratio decompression	DIWA, MSMS, Method development, TMT	Isobaric labeling is a highly precise approach for protein quantification. However, due to the isolation interference problem, isobaric tagging suffers from ratio underestimation at the MS2 level. The use of narrow isolation widths is a rational approach to alleviate the interference problem; however, this approach compromises proteome coverage. We reasoned that although a very narrow isolation window will result in loss of peptide fragment ions, the reporter ion signals will be retained for a significant portion of the spectra. On the basis of this assumption, we have designed a dual isolation width acquisition (DIWA) method, in which each precursor is first fragmented with HCD using a standard isolation width for peptide identification and preliminary quantification, followed by a second MS2 HCD scan using a much narrower isolation width for the acquisition of quantitative spectra with reduced interference. We leverage the quantification obtained by the "narrow" scans to build linear regression models and apply these to decompress the fold-changes measured at the "standard" scans. We evaluate the DIWA approach using a nested two species/gene knockout TMT-6plex experimental design and discuss the perspectives of this approach.
PXD008215	30578316	The depolymerase activity of MCAK shows a graded response to Aurora B kinase phosphorylation through allosteric regulation. 	Aurora B kinase disrupts the extended conformation of lattice-bound Kinesin-13 MCAK	Aurora B, MCAK, microtubules, phosphorylation	Kinesin-13 motors regulate precise microtubule dynamics and limit microtubule length throughout metazoans by depolymerizing microtubule ends. Recently, the kinesin-13 motor family member MCAK (also known Kif2C) has been proposed to undergo large conformational changes during its catalytic cycle, as it switches from being in solution to being bound to microtubules. Here, we reveal that MCAK has a compact conformation in solution through crosslinking and electron microscopy experiments. When MCAK is bound to the microtubule ends, it adopts an extended conformation with the N-terminus and neck region of MCAK interacting with the microtubule. Interestingly, the region of MCAK that interacts with the microtubule is the region phosphorylated by Aurora B and contains an end binding (EB) protein-binding motif. The level of phosphorylation of the N-terminus results in a graded microtubule depolymerase activity. Here, we show that the N-terminus of MCAK forms a platform to integrate Aurora B kinase downstream signals and in response fine-tunes its depolymerase activity during mitosis. We propose that this allosteric control mechanism allows decoupling of the N-terminus from the motor domain of MCAK to allow MCAK depolymerase activity at kinetochores.
PXD006603	30578317	The ER membrane protein complex promotes biogenesis of sterol-related enzymes maintaining cholesterol homeostasis. 	Multifaceted disruption to cholesterol homeostasis upon loss of the mEMC	SOAT1, SREBP-2, endoplasmic reticulum, squalene synthase	The eukaryotic endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane contains essential complexes that oversee protein biogenesis and lipid metabolism, impacting nearly all aspects of cell physiology. The ER membrane protein complex (EMC) is a newly described transmembrane domain (TMD) insertase linked with various phenotypes, but whose clients and cellular responsibilities remain incompletely understood. We report that EMC deficiency limits the cellular boundaries defining cholesterol tolerance, reflected by diminished viability with limiting or excessive extracellular cholesterol. Lipidomic and proteomic analyses revealed defective biogenesis and concomitant loss of the TMD-containing ER-resident enzymes sterol-O-acyltransferase 1 (SOAT1) and squalene synthase (SQS, also known as FDFT1), which serve strategic roles in the adaptation of cells to changes in cholesterol availability. Insertion of the weakly hydrophobic tail-anchor (TA) of SQS into the ER membrane by the EMC ensures sufficient flux through the sterol biosynthetic pathway while biogenesis of polytopic SOAT1 promoted by the EMC provides cells with the ability to store free cholesterol as inert cholesteryl esters. By facilitating insertion of TMDs that permit essential mammalian sterol-regulating enzymes to mature accurately, the EMC is an important biogenic determinant of cellular robustness to fluctuations in cholesterol availability.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD008908	30578322	PARL deficiency in mouse causes Complex III defects, coenzyme Q depletion, and Leigh-like syndrome. 	Ablation of mitochondrial rhomboid Parl causes Leigh syndrome	Complex III, Leigh syndrome, PARL, PGAM5, PINK1, TTC19, apoptosis, necrosis, neurodegeneration, proteolysis, rhomboids	The mitochondrial intramembrane rhomboid protease PARL has been implicated in diverse functions in vitro, but its physiological role in vivo remains unclear. Here we show that Parl ablation in mouse causes a necrotizing encephalomyelopathy similar to Leigh syndrome, a mitochondrial disease characterized by disrupted energy production. Mice with conditional PARL deficiency in the nervous system, but not in muscle, develop a similar phenotype as germline Parl KOs, demonstrating the vital role of PARL in neurological homeostasis. Genetic modification of two major PARL substrates, PINK1 and PGAM5, do not modify this severe neurological phenotype. Parl-/- brain mitochondria are affected by progressive ultrastructural changes and by defects in Complex III (CIII) activity, coenzyme Q (CoQ) biosynthesis, and mitochondrial calcium metabolism. PARL is necessary for the stable expression of TTC19, which is required for CIII activity, and of COQ4, which is essential in CoQ biosynthesis. Thus, PARL plays a previously overlooked constitutive role in the maintenance of the respiratory chain in the nervous system, and its deficiency causes progressive mitochondrial dysfunction and structural abnormalities leading to neuronal necrosis and Leigh-like syndrome.
PXD008151	30578603	MS-Rescue: A Computational Pipeline to Increase the Quality and Yield of Immunopeptidomics Experiments. 	Analysis of bovine leukocyte antigen (BoLA)-associated peptides by LC-MS	BoLA, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), immunopeptidomics	LC-MS/MS has become the standard platform for the characterization of immunopeptidomes, the collection of peptides naturally presented by major histocompatibility complex molecules to the cell surface. The protocols and algorithms used for immunopeptidomics data analysis are based on tools developed for traditional bottom-up proteomics that address the identification of peptides generated by tryptic digestion. Such algorithms are generally not tailored to the specific requirements of MHC ligand identification and, as a consequence, immunopeptidomics datasets suffer from dismissal of informative spectral information and high false discovery rates. Here, a new pipeline for the refinement of peptide-spectrum matches (PSM) is proposed, based on the assumption that immunopeptidomes contain a limited number of recurring peptide motifs, corresponding to MHC specificities. Sequence motifs are learned directly from the individual peptidome by training a prediction model on high-confidence PSMs. The model is then applied to PSM candidates with lower confidence, and sequences that score significantly higher than random peptides are rescued as likely true ligands. The pipeline is applied to MHC class I immunopeptidomes from three different species, and it is shown that it can increase the number of identified ligands by up to 20-30%, while effectively removing false positives and products of co-precipitation. Spectral validation using synthetic peptides confirms the identity of a large proportion of rescued ligands in the experimental peptidome.
PXD008098	30578620	Quantitative Proteomic Profiling of Cerebrospinal Fluid to Identify Candidate Biomarkers for Alzheimer's Disease. 	Quantitative proteomic profiling of cerebrospinal fluid to identify candidate biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimers disease, Biomarker, Cerebrospinal fluid	PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to identify the potential cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease and to evaluate these markers on independent CSF samples using parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) assays. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: High-Resolution mass spectrometry and tandem mass tag (TMT) multiplexing technology are employed to identify potential biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease. Some of the identified potential biomarkers are validated using PRM assays. RESULTS: A total of 2327 proteins are identified in the CSF of which 139 are observed to be significantly altered in the CSF of AD patients. The proteins altered in AD includes a number of known AD marker such as MAPT, NPTX2, VGF, GFAP, and NCAM1 as well as novel biomarkers such as PKM and YWHAG. These findings are validated in a separate set of CSF specimens from AD dementia patients and controls. NPTX2, in combination with PKM or YWHAG, leads to the best results with AUCs of 0.935 and 0.933, respectively. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The proteins that are found to be altered in the CSF of patients with AD could be used for monitoring disease progression and therapeutic response and perhaps also for early detection once they are validated in larger studies.
PXD011854	30578966	A specific lipid metabolic profile is associated with the epithelial mesenchymal transition program. 	A specific lipid metabolic profile is associated with the epithelial mesenchymal transition program	Epithelial Mesenchymal Transition, Lipids, Metabolism, beta-catenin	Several studies have identified a specific metabolic program that is associated with the process of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Whereas much is known about the association between glucose metabolism and EMT, the contribution of lipid metabolism is not still completely understood. Here, we studied epithelial and mesenchymal breast cancer cells by proteomic and lipidomic approaches and identified significant differences that characterised these models concerning specific metabolic enzymes and metabolites including fatty acids and phospholipids. Higher levels of monounsaturated fatty acids together with increased expression of enzymes of de novo fatty acid synthesis is the distinct signature of epithelial with respect to mesenchymal cells that, on the contrary, show reduced lipogenesis, higher polyunsaturated fatty acids level and increased expression of genes involved in the triacylglycerol (TAG) synthesis and lipid droplets formation. In the mesenchymal model, the diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT)-1 appears to be the major enzyme involved in TAG synthesis and inhibition of DGAT1, but not DGAT2, drastically reduces the incorporation of labeled palmitate into TAG. Moreover, knockdown of beta-catenin demonstrated that this metabolic phenotype in under the control of a network of transcriptional factors and that beta-catenin has a specific role in the regulation of lipid metabolism in mesenchymal cells.
PXD011567	30579211	Exposure to microplastics reduces attachment strength and alters the haemolymph proteome of blue mussels (Mytilus edulis). 	Exposure to microplastics reduces attachment strength and alters the haemolymph proteome of blue mussels (Mytilus edulis)	Biodegradable microplastics, immunity, polyethylene, polylactic acid, proteins, tenacity	The contamination of marine ecosystems with microplastics, such as the polymer polyethylene, a commonly used component of single-use packaging, is of global concern. Although it has been suggested that biodegradable polymers, such as polylactic acid, may be used to replace some polyethylene packaging, little is known about their effects on marine organisms. Blue mussels, Mytilus edulis, have become a "model organism" for investigating the effects of microplastics in marine ecosystems. We show here that repeated exposure, over a period of 52 days in an outdoor mesocosm setting, of M. edulis to polyethylene microplastics reduced the number of byssal threads produced and the attachment strength (tenacity) by ~50%. Exposure to either type of microplastic altered the haemolymph proteome and, although a conserved response to microplastic exposure was observed, overall polyethylene resulted in more changes to protein abundances than polylactic acid. Many of the proteins affected are involved in vital biological processes, such as immune regulation, detoxification, metabolism and structural development. Our study highlights the utility of mass spectrometry-based proteomics to assess the health of key marine organisms and identifies the potential mechanisms by which microplastics, both conventional and biodegradable, could affect their ability to form and maintain reefs.
PXD011361	30581045	A Metastable Contact and Structural Disorder in the Estrogen Receptor Transactivation Domain. 	Mass spectrometry data of the ERalpha-NTD samples exposed to 0-50ms x-ray beam	ERalpha-NTD, FP, LC-MS	The N-terminal transactivation domain (NTD) of estrogen receptor alpha, a well-known member of the family of intrinsically disordered proteins, mediates the receptor's transactivation function. However, an accurate molecular dissection of NTD's structure-function relationships remains elusive. Here, we show that the NTD adopts a mostly disordered, unexpectedly compact conformation that undergoes structural expansion on chemical denaturation. By combining small-angle X-ray scattering, hydroxyl radical protein footprinting, and computational modeling, we derive the ensemble-structures of the NTD and determine its ensemble-contact map revealing metastable long-range contacts, e.g., between residues I33 and S118. We show that mutation at S118, a known phosphorylation site, promotes conformational changes and increases coactivator binding. We further demonstrate via fluorine-19 ((19)F) nuclear magnetic resonance that mutations near I33 alter (19)F chemical shifts at S118, confirming the proposed I33-S118 contact in the ensemble of structural disorder. These findings extend our understanding of how specific contact metastability mediates critical functions of disordered proteins.
PXD006650	30581152	p62/SQSTM1 Fuels Melanoma Progression by Opposing mRNA Decay of a Selective Set of Pro-metastatic Factors. 	Human, melanoma, p62/SQSTM1, quantitative proteomics	AP-MS, melanoma cell lines, p62/SQSTM1, quantitative proteomics	Modulators of mRNA stability are not well understood in melanoma, an aggressive tumor with complex changes in the transcriptome. Here we report the ability of p62/SQSTM1 to extend mRNA half-life of a spectrum of pro-metastatic factors. These include FERMT2 and other transcripts with no previous links to melanoma. Transcriptomic, proteomic, and interactomic analyses, combined with validation in clinical biopsies and mouse models, identified a selected set of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) recruited by p62, with IGF2BP1 as a key partner. This p62-RBP interaction distinguishes melanoma from other tumors where p62 controls autophagy or oxidative stress. The relevance of these data is emphasized by follow-up analyses of patient prognosis revealing p62 and FERMT2 as adverse determinants of disease-free survival.
PXD011307	30582698	Glycoproteomic Analysis of MGL-Binding Proteins on Acute T-Cell Leukemia Cells. 	Glycoproteomic analysis of MGL binding protein on acute T cell leukemia cells	Glycoproteomics, O-glycosylation, Tn-antigen, lectin, leukemia	C-type lectins are a diverse group of proteins involved in many human physiological and pathological processes. Most C-type lectins are glycan-binding proteins, some of which are pivotal for innate immune responses against pathogens. Other C-type lectins, such as the macrophage galactose-type lectin (MGL), have been shown to induce immunosuppressive responses upon the recognition of aberrant glycosylation on cancer cells. MGL is known to recognize terminal N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc), such as the Tn antigen, which is commonly found on malignant cells. Even though this glycan specificity of MGL is well described, there is a lack of understanding of the actual glycoproteins that bind MGL. We present a glycoproteomic workflow for the identification of MGL-binding proteins, which we applied to study MGL ligands on the human Jurkat leukemia cell line. In addition to the known MGL ligands and Tn antigen-carrying proteins CD43 and CD45 on these cells, we have identified a set of novel cell-surface ligands for MGL. Importantly, for several of these, O-glycosylation has hitherto not been described. Altogether, our data provide new insight into the identification and structure of novel MGL ligands that presumably act as modulatory molecules in cancer immune responses.
PXD006123	30583044	Affinity chromatography revealed 14-3-3 interactome of tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.) during blue light-induced de-etiolation. 	Tomato 14-3-3 proteins regulate hypocotyl response to blue light and are downstream mediators of cytokinin signalling	TFT, cytokinin, interactome, photomorphogenesis	De-etiolation is the first developmental process under light control allowing the heterotrophic seedling to become autotrophic. The phytohormones cytokinins (CKs) largely contribute to this process. Reversible phosphorylation is a key event of cell signaling, allowing proteins to become active or generating a binding site for specific protein interaction. 14-3-3 proteins regulate a variety of plant responses. The expression, hormonal regulation, and proteomic network under the control of 14-3-3s were addressed in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.) during blue light-induced photomorphogenesis. Two isoforms were specifically investigated due to their high expression during tomato de-etiolation. The multidisciplinary approach demonstrated that TFT9 expression, but not TFT6, was regulated by CKs and identified cis-regulating elements required for this response. Our study revealed >130 potential TFT6/9 interactors. Their functional annotation predicted that TFTs might regulate the activity of proteins involved notably in cell wall strengthening or primary metabolism. Several potential interactors were also predicted to be CK-responsive. For the first time, the 14-3-3 interactome linked to de-etiolation was investigated and evidenced that 14-3-3s might be involved in CK signaling pathway, cell expansion inhibition and steady-state growth rate establishment, and reprograming from heterotrophy to autotrophy. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.) is one of the most important vegetables consumed all around the world and represents probably the most preferred garden crop. Regulation of hypocotyl growth by light plays an important role in the early development of a seedling, and consequently the homogeneity of the culture. The present study focuses on the importance of tomato 14-3-3/TFT proteins in this process. We provide here the first report of 14-3-3 interactome in the regulation of light-induced de-etiolation and subsequent photomorphogenesis. Our data provide new insights into light-induced de-etiolation and open new horizons for dissecting the post-transcriptional regulations.
PXD011019	30584460	Increased Mitochondrial Protein Levels and Bioenergetics in the Musculus Rectus Femoris of Wfs1-Deficient Mice. 	Wfs1-deficient mouse muscle LC-MSMS	Wfs1, Wolfram syndrome, animal proteomics, myocardium, skeletal muscle	Wfs1 deficiency leads to a progressive loss of plasma insulin concentration, which should reduce the consumption of glucose in insulin-dependent tissues, causing a variety of changes in intracellular energy metabolism. Our objective here was to assess the changes in the amount and function of mitochondrial proteins in different muscles of Wfs1-deficient mice. Mitochondrial functions were assayed by high-resolution oxygraphy of permeabilized muscle fibers; the protein amount was evaluated by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) analysis and mRNA levels of the uncoupler proteins UCP2 and UCP3 by real-time PCR; and citrate synthase (CS) activity was determined spectrophotometrically in muscle homogenates. Compared to controls, there were no changes in proton leak and citrate synthase activity in the heart and m. soleus tissues of Wfs1-deficient mice, but significantly higher levels of both of these factors were observed in the m. rectus femoris; mitochondrial proteins and mRNA of UCP2 were also higher in the m. rectus femoris. ADP-stimulated state 3 respiration was lower in the m. soleus, remained unchanged in the heart, and was higher in the m. rectus femoris. The mitochondrial protein amount and activity are higher in Wfs1-deficient mice, as are mitochondrial proton leak and oxygen consumption in m. rectus femoris. These changes in muscle metabolism may be important for identifying the mechanisms responsible for Wolfram syndrome and diabetes.
PXD011606	30585061	Identification of Hybrid Insulin Peptides (HIPs) in Mouse and Human Islets by Mass Spectrometry. 	Identification of HIPs in the islets of mice and non-diabetic human donors	hybrid insulin peptides (HIPs), pancreatic islets	We recently discovered hybrid insulin peptides (HIPs) as a novel class of post-translationally modified peptides in murine-derived beta cell tumors, and we demonstrated that these molecules are autoantigens in type 1 diabetes (T1D). A HIP consists of an insulin fragment linked to another secretory granule peptide via a peptide bond. We verified that autoreactive CD4 T cells in both mouse and human autoimmune diabetes recognize these modified peptides. Here, we use mass spectrometric analyses to confirm the presence of HIPs in both mouse and human pancreatic islets. We also present criteria for the confident identification of these peptides. This work supports the hypothesis that HIPs are autoantigens in human T1D and provides a foundation for future efforts to interrogate this previously unknown component of the beta cell proteome.
PXD010074	30585382	Microbial metal-sulfide oxidation in inactive hydrothermal vent chimneys suggested by metagenomic and metaproteomic analyses. 	Proteogenomic characterization of microbial communities fueled by metal-sulfide oxidation of inactive hydrothermal chimneys	Hydrothermal vents, chimneys, metaproteome	Metal-sulfides are wide-spread in marine benthic habitats. At deep-sea hydrothermal vents, they occur as massive sulfide chimneys formed by mineral precipitation upon mixing of reduced vent fluids with cold oxygenated sea water. Although microorganisms inhabiting actively venting chimneys and utilizing compounds supplied by the venting fluids are well studied, only little is known about microorganisms inhabiting inactive chimneys. In this study, we combined 16S rRNA gene-based community profiling of sulfide chimneys from the Manus Basin (SW Pacific) with radiometric dating, metagenome (n = 4) and metaproteome (n = 1) analyses. Our results shed light on potential lifestyles of yet poorly characterized bacterial clades colonizing inactive chimneys. These include sulfate-reducing Nitrospirae and sulfide-oxidizing Gammaproteobacteria dominating most of the inactive chimney communities. Our phylogenetic analysis attributed the gammaproteobacterial clades to the recently described Woeseiaceae family and the SSr-clade found in marine sediments around the world. Metaproteomic data identified these Gammaproteobacteria as autotrophic sulfide-oxidizers potentially facilitating metal-sulfide dissolution via extracellular electron transfer. Considering the wide distribution of these gammaproteobacterial clades in marine environments such as hydrothermal vents and sediments, microbially accelerated neutrophilic mineral oxidation might be a globally relevant process in benthic element cycling and a considerable energy source for carbon fixation in marine benthic habitats.
PXD008234	30585401	Absolute Quantification of All Identified Plasma Proteins from SWATH Data for Biomarker Discovery. 	Absolute Quantitation of All Plasma Proteins from SWATH Data for Biomarker Discovery	SWATH, absolute quantification, data-independent acquisition, lung cancer, plasma biomarkers	The current state of proteomics requires a choice between targeted and global discovery methods. A method, that combines targeted and data-independent acquisition for absolute quantification of all identified plasma proteins, in a single sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ions (SWATH) acquisition run, using a panel of spike-in standards (SIS), is established and optimized. The absolute quantification (AQ) of SWATH and multiple-reaction monitoring-high resolution (MRM-HR) acquisition methods are compared using the 100 protein PlasmaDive SIS panel spiked into non-depleted human plasma. SWATH provides equivalent quantification and differentially abundant protein profiles as MRM-HR. Absolute quantities of the SIS peptides from the SWATH data are used to estimate the absolute quantities (eAQ) for all the proteins in the run. The eAQ values provide similar quantification and differentially abundant protein profiles as AQ and protein area (PA) values. As a proof-of-concept, the eAQ method is applied to 12 plasma samples from six non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients and the performance of eAQ values versus peak area quantification is evaluated. There is a strong correlation between AQ and peak area ratios producing significant overlap of differentially abundant proteins. This eAQ method can provide quantitative data equivalent to AQ or peak area values.
PXD010931	30585729	Mapping the Ku Interactome Using Proximity-Dependent Biotin Identification in Human Cells. 	HEK293 Ku70 WT BioID -  Mapping the Ku interactome using proximity-dependent biotin identification in human cells	BioID, HEK293, Ku70	The Ku heterodimer, composed of Ku70 and Ku80, is best characterized for its role in repairing double-stranded DNA breaks but is also known to participate in other regulatory processes. Despite our understanding of Ku protein interplay during DNA repair, the extent of Ku's protein interactions in other processes has never been fully determined. Using proximity-dependent biotin identification (BioID) and affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry (AP-MS) with wild-type Ku70, we identified candidate proteins that interact with the Ku heterodimer in HEK293 cells, in the absence of exogenously induced DNA damage. BioID analysis identified approximately 250 nuclear proteins, appearing in at least two replicates, including known Ku-interacting factors such as MRE11A, WRN, and NCOA6. Meanwhile, AP-MS analysis identified approximately 50 candidate proteins. Of the novel protein interactors identified, many were involved in functions already suspected to involve Ku such as transcriptional regulation, DNA replication, and DNA repair, while several others suggest that Ku may be involved in additional functions such as RNA metabolism, chromatin-remodeling, and microtubule dynamics. Using a combination of BioID and AP-MS, this is the first report that comprehensively characterizes the Ku protein interaction landscape, revealing new cellular processes and protein complexes involving the Ku complex.
PXD008314	30587509	Identification of Novel Protein Targets of Dimethyl Fumarate Modification in Neurons and Astrocytes Reveals Actions Independent of Nrf2 Stabilization. 	Identification of Novel Protein Targets of Dimethyl Fumarate Modification in Neurons and Astrocytes Reveal Actions Independent of Keap1 Activation	Neurons, astrocytes, chemical modification, dimethyl fumarate	The fumarate ester dimethyl fumarate (DMF) has been introduced recently as a treatment for relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS), a chronic inflammatory condition that results in neuronal demyelination and axonal loss. DMF is known to act by depleting intracellular glutathione and modifying thiols on Keap1 protein, resulting in the stabilization of the transcription factor Nrf2, which in turn induces the expression of antioxidant response element genes. We have previously shown that DMF reacts with a wide range of protein thiols, suggesting that the complete mechanisms of action of DMF are unknown. Here, we investigated other intracellular thiol residues that may also be irreversibly modified by DMF in neurons and astrocytes. Using mass spectrometry, we identified 24 novel proteins that were modified by DMF in neurons and astrocytes, including cofilin-1, tubulin and collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2). Using an in vitro functional assay, we demonstrated that DMF-modified cofilin-1 loses its activity and generates less monomeric actin, potentially inhibiting its cytoskeletal remodeling activity, which could be beneficial in the modulation of myelination during RRMS. DMF modification of tubulin did not significantly impact axonal lysosomal trafficking. We found that the oxygen consumption rate of N1E-115 neurons and the levels of proteins related to mitochondrial energy production were only slightly affected by the highest doses of DMF, confirming that DMF treatment does not impair cellular respiratory function. In summary, our work provides new insights into the mechanisms supporting the neuroprotective and remyelination benefits associated with DMF treatment in addition to the antioxidant response by Nrf2.
PXD011196	30587782	Shot-Gun Proteomic Analysis on Roots of Arabidopsis pldalpha1 Mutants Suggesting the Involvement of PLDalpha1 in Mitochondrial Protein Import, Vesicular Trafficking and Glucosinolate Biosynthesis. 	Proteomic analysis of roots of Arabidopsis plda1 mutants	Arabidopsis root plda1 mutants	Phospholipase Dalpha1 (PLDalpha1) belongs to phospholipases, a large phospholipid hydrolyzing protein family. PLDalpha1 has a substrate preference for phosphatidylcholine leading to enzymatic production of phosphatidic acid, a lipid second messenger with multiple cellular functions. PLDalpha1 itself is implicated in biotic and abiotic stress responses. Here, we present a shot-gun differential proteomic analysis on roots of two Arabidopsis pldalpha1 mutants compared to the wild type. Interestingly, PLDalpha1 deficiency leads to altered abundances of proteins involved in diverse processes related to membrane transport including endocytosis and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi transport. PLDalpha1 may be involved in the stability of attachment sites of endoplasmic reticulum to the plasma membrane as suggested by increased abundance of synaptotagmin 1, which was validated by immunoblotting and whole-mount immunolabelling analyses. Moreover, we noticed a robust abundance alterations of proteins involved in mitochondrial import and electron transport chain. Notably, the abundances of numerous proteins implicated in glucosinolate biosynthesis were also affected in pldalpha1 mutants. Our results suggest a broader biological involvement of PLDalpha1 than anticipated thus far, especially in the processes such as endomembrane transport, mitochondrial protein import and protein quality control, as well as glucosinolate biosynthesis.
PXD009836	30589143	Rapid and reproducible phosphopeptide enrichment by tandem metal oxide affinity chromatography: application to boron deficiency induced phosphoproteomics. 	Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Reveals in vivo Boron Deficiency Induced Signaling Dynamics in Arabidopsis Roots	phosphoproteomics born root	Mass spectrometry has been instrumental in enabling the study of molecular signaling on a cellular scale by way of site-specific quantification of protein post-translational modifications, in particular phosphorylation. Here we describe an updated tandem metal oxide affinity chromatography (MOAC) combined phosphoprotein/phosphopeptide enrichment strategy, a scalable phosphoproteomics approach that allows rapid identification of thousands of phosphopeptides in plant materials. We implemented modifications to several steps of the original tandem MOAC procedure to increase the amount of quantified phosphopeptides and hence site-specific phosphorylation of proteins in a sample beginning with the less amounts of tissue and a substantially smaller amount of extracted protein. We applied this technology to generate time-resolved maps of boron signaling in Arabidopsis roots. We show that the successive enrichment of phosphoproteins in a first and phosphopeptide extraction in a second step using our optimized procedure strongly enriched the root phosphoproteome. Our results reveal that boron deficiency affects over 20% of the measured root phosphoproteome and that many phosphorylation sites with known biological function, and an even larger number of previously undescribed sites, are modified during the time course of boron deficiency. We identify transcription factors as key regulators of hormone signaling pathways that modulate gene expression in boron deprived plants. Furthermore, our phosphorylation kinetics data demonstrate that mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades mediate polarized transport of boron in Arabidopsis roots. Taken together, we establish and validate a robust approach for proteome-wide phosphorylation analysis in plant biology research.
PXD009563	30589877	Arabidopsis thaliana responds to colonisation of Piriformospora indica by secretion of symbiosis-specific proteins. 	Arabidopsis thaliana responds to colonisation of Piriformospora indica by secretion of symbiosis specific proteins	ER body, PLAT, Piriformospora indica, scopolin, secretome	Plants interact with a wide variety of fungi in a mutualistic, parasitic or neutral way. The associations formed depend on the exchange of nutrients and signalling molecules between the partners. This includes a diverse set of protein classes involved in defence, nutrient uptake or establishing a symbiotic relationship. Here, we have analysed the secretomes of the mutualistic, root-endophytic fungus Piriformospora indica and Arabidopsis thaliana when cultivated alone or in a co-culture. More than one hundred proteins were identified as differentially secreted, including proteins associated with growth, development, abiotic and biotic stress response and mucilage. While some of the proteins have been associated before to be involved in plant-microbial interaction, other proteins are newly described in this context. One plant protein found in the co-culture is PLAT1 (Polycystin, Lipoxygenase, Alpha-toxin and Triacylglycerol lipase). PLAT1 has not been associated with plant-fungal-interaction and is known to play a role in abiotic stress responses. In colonised roots PLAT1 shows an altered gene expression in a stage specific manner and plat1 knock-out plants are colonised stronger. It co-localises with Brassicaceae-specific endoplasmic reticulum bodies (ER-bodies) which are involved in the formation of the defence compound scopolin. We observed degraded ER-bodies in infected Arabidopsis roots and a change in the scopolin level in response to the presence of the fungus.
PXD009689	30590179	Brain proteome changes in female Brd1(+/-) mice unmask dendritic spine pathology and show enrichment for schizophrenia risk. 	Neuroproteomics in Brd1 knockout mice (frontal cortex _ synaptosome)	BRD1, TMT, frontal cortex, synaptosome	Genetic and molecular studies have implicated the Bromodomain containing 1 (BRD1) gene in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Accordingly, mice heterozygous for a targeted deletion of Brd1 (Brd1(+/-) mice) show behavioral phenotypes with broad translational relevance to psychiatric disorders. BRD1 encodes a scaffold protein that affects the expression of many genes through modulation of histone acetylation. BRD1 target genes have been identified in cell lines; however the impact of reduced Brd1 levels on the brain proteome is largely unknown. In this study, we applied label-based quantitative mass spectrometry to profile the frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum proteome and synaptosomal proteome of female Brd1(+/-) mice. We successfully quantified between 1537 and 2196 proteins and show widespread changes in protein abundancies and compartmentalization. By integrative analysis of human genetic data, we find that the differentially abundant proteins in frontal cortex and hippocampus are enriched for schizophrenia risk further linking the actions of BRD1 to psychiatric disorders. Affected proteins were further enriched for proteins involved in processes known to influence neuronal and dendritic spine morphology e.g. regulation of cytoskeleton dynamics and mitochondrial function. Directly prompted in these findings, we investigated dendritic spine morphology of pyramidal neurons in anterior cingulate cortex and found them significantly altered, including reduced size of small dendritic spines and decreased number of the mature mushroom type. Collectively, our study describes known as well as new mechanisms related to BRD1 dysfunction and its role in psychiatric disorders, and provides evidence for the molecular and cellular dysfunctions underlying altered neurosignalling and cognition in Brd1(+/-) mice.
PXD011518	30590745	Alternative 3' UTRs direct localization of functionally diverse protein isoforms in neuronal compartments. 	Localization of functionally distinct CDC42 isoforms in neurons requires alternative 3'UTR usage	CDC42, SILAC, isoforms, localization	The proper subcellular localization of RNAs and local translational regulation is crucial in highly compartmentalized cells, such as neurons. RNA localization is mediated by specific cis-regulatory elements usually found in mRNA 3'UTRs. Therefore, processes that generate alternative 3'UTRs-alternative splicing and polyadenylation-have the potential to diversify mRNA localization patterns in neurons. Here, we performed mapping of alternative 3'UTRs in neurites and soma isolated from mESC-derived neurons. Our analysis identified 593 genes with differentially localized 3'UTR isoforms. In particular, we have shown that two isoforms of Cdc42 gene with distinct functions in neuronal polarity are differentially localized between neurites and soma of mESC-derived and mouse primary cortical neurons, at both mRNA and protein level. Using reporter assays and 3'UTR swapping experiments, we have identified the role of alternative 3'UTRs and mRNA transport in differential localization of alternative CDC42 protein isoforms. Moreover, we used SILAC to identify isoform-specific Cdc42 3'UTR-bound proteome with potential role in Cdc42 localization and translation. Our analysis points to usage of alternative 3'UTR isoforms as a novel mechanism to provide for differential localization of functionally diverse alternative protein isoforms.
PXD013484	30591584	Biosynthesis of O-N-acetylgalactosamine glycans in the human cell nucleus. 	O-GalNAc-glycosylated nuclear proteins	HeLa, O-GalNAc, nuclear glysosylation	Biological functions of nuclear proteins are regulated by post-translational modifications (PTMs) that modulate gene expression and cellular physiology. However, the role of O-linked glycosylation (O-GalNAc) as a PTM of nuclear proteins in the human cell has not been previously reported. Here, we examined in detail the initiation of O-GalNAc glycan biosynthesis, representing a novel PTM of nuclear proteins in the nucleus of human cells, with an emphasis on HeLa cells. Using soluble nuclear fractions from purified nuclei, enzymatic assays, fluorescence microscopy, affinity chromatography, MS, and FRET analyses, we identified all factors required for biosynthesis of O-GalNAc glycans in nuclei: the donor substrate (UDP-GalNAc), nuclear polypeptide GalNAc -transferase activity, and a GalNAc transferase (polypeptide GalNAc-T3). Moreover, we identified O-GalNAc glycosylated proteins in the nucleus and present solid evidence for O-GalNAc glycan synthesis in this organelle. The demonstration of O-GalNAc glycosylation of nuclear proteins in mammalian cells reported here has important implications for cell and chemical biology.
PXD005793	30592415	Comprehensive Analysis of Lysine Acetylome Reveals a Site-Specific Pattern in Rapamycin-Induced Autophagy. 	Characterization of the acetylome associated with rapamycin-induced autophagy in HeLa cells	acetylation, acetylome, acetyltransferase, autophagy, rapamycin	Protein acetylation reportedly acts as a key regulator of autophagy. However, up to now, the relationship between acetylome and autophagy has remained unclear. Here stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture and high-throughput quantitative mass spectrometry were used to perform an acetylome analysis of rapamycin-induced autophagy in vitro. Our data revealed that 2135 sites were quantified on 1081 proteins. During autophagy, 421 sites were significantly regulated on 296 proteins, with 80.8% of sites downregulated and 19.2% upregulated. Motif enrichment analysis revealed five main motifs. Most of the downregulated sites conformed to the classical functional motif of p300/CBP [G-AcK]. Furthermore, acetylation targeted proteins involved mainly in ribosomes, spliceosomes, and AcCoA-related metabolic process. In-depth analysis indicated that most of the acetylation sites were in the critical domain, were functional sites, or could change their enzymatic activity by acetylation, highlighting the importance of site-specific acetylation patterns. Subsequently, we demonstrated that K1549 of p300 was also a functional site that could regulate the autophagic process in vitro. In conclusion, our data reveal a deacetylation-preponderant profile with autophagy. The specificity of the related motifs and the identification of site-specific acetylation patterns will assist searches for potential targets or subsequent mechanism-focused studies to elucidate site-specific protein networks in autophagy.
PXD012132	30592607	Proteomic Signature of Neuroblastoma Cells UKF-NB-4 Reveals Key Role of Lysosomal Sequestration and the Proteasome Complex in Acquiring Chemoresistance to Cisplatin. 	Proteomic signature of neuroblastoma cells UKF-NB-4 reveals key role of lysosomal sequestration and the proteasome complex in acquiring chemoresistance to cisplatin	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Chemoresistance, Cisplatin, Human Proteome Project, Lysosomes, Neuroblastoma, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), V-ATPases	Cisplatin (CDDP) is a widely used agent in the treatment of neuroblastoma. Unfortunately, the development of acquired chemoresistance limits its clinical use. To gain a detailed understanding of the mechanisms underlying the development of such chemoresistance, we comparatively analyzed established cisplatin-resistant neuroblastoma cell line (UKF-NB-4(CDDP)) and its sensitive counterpart (UKF-NB-4). First, using viability screenings, we confirmed the decreased sensitivity of tested cells to cisplatin and identified a cross-resistance to carboplatin and oxaliplatin. Then, the proteomic signatures were analyzed using nano liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry. Among the proteins responsible for UKF-NB-4(CDDP) chemoresistance, ion channels transport family proteins, ATP-binding cassette superfamily proteins (ATP = adenosine triphosphate), solute carrier-mediated trans-membrane transporters, proteasome complex subunits, and V-ATPases were identified. Moreover, we detected markedly higher proteasome activity in UKF-NB-4(CDDP) cells and a remarkable lysosomal enrichment that can be inhibited by bafilomycin A to sensitize UKF-NB-4(CDDP) to CDDP. Our results indicate that lysosomal sequestration and proteasome activity may be one of the key mechanisms responsible for intrinsic chemoresistance of neuroblastoma to CDDP.
PXD005407	30593514	TAp73 Modifies Metabolism and Positively Regulates Growth of Cancer Stem-Like Cells in a Redox-Sensitive Manner. 	Tumor suppressor TAp73 is required to maintain pluripotency of cancer stem cells	Stem Cells, p73	PURPOSE: Stem-like cancer cells, with characteristic self-renewal abilities, remain highly refractory to various clinical interventions. As such, stemness-inhibiting entities, such as tumor suppressor p53, are therapeutically pursued for their anticancer activities. Interestingly, similar implications for tumor suppressor TAp73 in regulating stemness features within stem-like cancer cells remain unknown.Experimental Design: This study utilizes various in vitro molecular biology techniques, including immunoblotting, qRT-PCR, and mass spectrometry-based proteomics, and metabolomics approaches to study the role of TAp73 in human and murine embryonal carcinoma stem-like cells (ECSLC) as well as human breast cancer stem-like cells (BCSLC). These findings were confirmed using patient-derived brain tumor-initiating cells (BTIC) and in vivo xenograft models. RESULTS: TAp73 inhibition decreases the expression of stem cell transcription factors Oct4, Nanog, and Sox-2, as well as tumorsphere formation capacity in ECSLCs. In vivo, TAp73-deficient ECSLCs and BCSLCs demonstrate decreased tumorigenic potential when xenografted in mice. Mechanistically, TAp73 modifies the proline regulatory axis through regulation of enzymes GLS, OAT, and PYCR1 involved in the interconversion of proline-glutamine-ornithine. Further, TAp73 deficiency exacerbates glutamine dependency, enhances accumulation of reactive oxygen species through reduced superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) expression, and promotes differentiation by arresting cell cycle and elevating autophagy. Most importantly, the knockdown of TAp73 in CD133(HI) BTICs, separated from three different glioblastoma patients, strongly decreases the expression of prosurvival factors Sox-2, BMI-1, and SOD1, and profoundly decreases their self-renewal capacity as evidenced through their reduced tumorsphere formation ability. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, we reveal a clinically relevant aspect of cancer cell growth and stemness regulation through TAp73-mediated redox-sensitive metabolic reprogramming.
PXD003748	30593915	Interactome of the yeast RNA polymerase III transcription machinery constitutes several chromatin modifiers and regulators of the genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II. 	RNA polymerase III interactome	RNA polymerase III, S. cerevisiae, co-IPs, nanoLC-MS/MS	Eukaryotic transcription is a highly regulated fundamental life process. A large number of regulatory proteins and complexes, many of them with sequence-specific DNA-binding activity are known to influence transcription by RNA polymerase (pol) II with a fine precision. In comparison, only a few regulatory proteins are known for pol III, which transcribes genes encoding small, stable, non-translated RNAs. The pol III transcription is precisely regulated under various stress conditions. We used pol III transcription complex (TC) components TFIIIC (Tfc6), pol III (Rpc128) and TFIIIB (Brf1) as baits and mass spectrometry to identify their potential interactors in vivo. A large interactome constituting chromatin modifiers, regulators and factors of transcription by pol I and pol II supports the possibility of a crosstalk between the three transcription machineries. The association of proteins and complexes involved in various basic life processes like ribogenesis, RNA processing, protein folding and degradation, DNA damage response, replication and transcription underscores the possibility of the pol III TC serving as a signaling hub for communication between the transcription and other cellular physiological activities under normal growth conditions. We also found an equally large number of proteins and complexes interacting with the TC under nutrient starvation condition, of which at least 25% were non-identical under the two conditions. The data reveal the possibility of a large number of signaling cues for pol III transcription against adverse conditions, necessary for an efficient co-ordination of various cellular functions.
PXD003930	30594242	Proteomics and multivariate modelling reveal sex-specific alterations in distinct regions of human carotid atheroma. 	Proteomic analysis of distinct regions of human carotid atherosclerotic plaques	MS/MS, atherosclerosis, carotid artery, peptide mass fingerprinting	BACKGROUND: Atherosclerotic lesions are comprised of distinct regions with different proteomic profiles. Men and women develop differences in lesion phenotype, with lesions from women generally being more stable and less prone to rupture. We aimed to investigate the differences in proteomic profiles between sexes, including distinct lesion regions, to identify altered proteins that contribute to these differences observed clinically. METHODS: Carotid endarterectomy samples (ten men/ten women) were obtained, and intraplaque biopsies from three distinct regions (internal control, fatty streak and plaque) were analysed by tandem-mass spectrometry. Multivariate statistical modelling, using orthogonal partial least square-discriminant analysis, was used to discriminate the proteomes between men and women. RESULTS: Multivariate discriminant modelling revealed proteins from 16 functional groups that displayed sex-specific associations. Additional statistics revealed ten proteins that display region-specific alterations when comparing sexes, including proteins related to inflammatory response, response to reactive oxygen species, complement activation, transport and blood coagulation. Transport protein afamin and blood coagulation proteins antithrombin-III and coagulation factor XII were significantly increased in plaque region from women. Inflammatory response proteins lysozyme C and phospholipase A2 membrane-associated were significantly increased in plaque region from men. Limitations with this study are the small sample size, limited patient information and lack of complementary histology to control for cell type differences between sexes. CONCLUSIONS: This pilot study, for the first time, utilises a multivariate proteomic approach to investigate sexual dimorphism in human atherosclerotic tissue, and provides an essential proteomic platform for further investigations to help understand sexual dimorphism and plaque vulnerability in atherosclerosis.
PXD007073	30594554	Proteomic analysis discovers the differential expression of novel proteins and phosphoproteins in meningioma including NEK9, HK2 and SET and deregulation of RNA metabolism. 	Proteomic analysis of meningioma of different grades identifies potential therapeutic targets and biomarkers	Meningioma	BACKGROUND: Meningioma is the most frequent primary intracranial tumour. Surgical resection remains the main therapeutic option as pharmacological intervention is hampered by poor knowledge of their proteomic signature. There is an urgent need to identify new therapeutic targets and biomarkers of meningioma. METHODS: We performed proteomic profiling of grade I, II and III frozen meningioma specimens and three normal healthy human meninges using LC-MS/MS to analyse global proteins, enriched phosphoproteins and phosphopeptides. Differential expression and functional annotation of proteins was completed using Perseus, IPA(R) and DAVID. We validated differential expression of proteins and phosphoproteins by Western blot on a meningioma validation set and by immunohistochemistry. FINDINGS: We quantified 3888 proteins and 3074 phosphoproteins across all meningioma grades and normal meninges. Bioinformatics analysis revealed commonly upregulated proteins and phosphoproteins to be enriched in Gene Ontology terms associated with RNA metabolism. Validation studies confirmed significant overexpression of proteins such as EGFR and CKAP4 across all grades, as well as the aberrant activation of the downstream PI3K/AKT pathway, which seems differential between grades. Further, we validated upregulation of the total and activated phosphorylated form of the NIMA-related kinase, NEK9, involved in mitotic progression. Novel proteins identified and validated in meningioma included the nuclear proto-oncogene SET, the splicing factor SF2/ASF and the higher-grade specific protein, HK2, involved in cellular metabolism. INTERPRETATION: Overall, we generated a proteomic thesaurus of meningiomas for the identification of potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets. FUND: This study was supported by Brain Tumour Research.
PXD009250	30595434	Noncanonical Modulation of the eIF2 Pathway Controls an Increase in Local Translation during Neural Wiring. 	Cue-induced modulation of eIF2alpha-eIF2Bepsilon underlies axonal translation up-regulation in neural wiring	axon, neuroproteomics, pSILAC	Local translation is rapidly regulated by extrinsic signals during neural wiring, but its control mechanisms remain elusive. Here we show that the extracellular cue Sema3A induces an initial burst in local translation that precisely controls phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2alpha via the unfolded protein response (UPR) kinase PERK. Strikingly, in contrast to canonical UPR signaling, Sema3A-induced eIF2alpha phosphorylation bypasses global translational repression and underlies an increase in local translation through differential activity of eIF2B mediated by protein phosphatase 1. Ultrasensitive proteomics analysis of axons reveals 75 proteins translationally controlled via the Sema3A-p-eIF2alpha pathway. These include proteostasis- and actin cytoskeleton-related proteins but not canonical stress markers. Finally, we show that PERK signaling is needed for directional axon migration and visual pathway development in vivo. Thus, our findings reveal a noncanonical eIF2 signaling pathway that controls selective changes in axon translation and is required for neural wiring.
PXD008831	30595436	Replication-Coupled DNA-Protein Crosslink Repair by SPRTN and the Proteasome in Xenopus Egg Extracts. 	DNA replication regulates SPRTN- and Proteasome-dependent DPC proteolysis	DNA repair, DNA replication, DPC repair, PP-MS, Xenopus egg extract, plasmid   pull-down	DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) are bulky lesions that interfere with DNA metabolism and therefore threaten genomic integrity. Recent studies implicate the metalloprotease SPRTN in S phase removal of DPCs, but how SPRTN is targeted to DPCs during DNA replication is unknown. Using Xenopus egg extracts that recapitulate replication-coupled DPC proteolysis, we show that DPCs can be degraded by SPRTN or the proteasome, which act as independent DPC proteases. Proteasome recruitment requires DPC polyubiquitylation, which is partially dependent on the ubiquitin ligase activity of TRAIP. In contrast, SPRTN-mediated DPC degradation does not require DPC polyubiquitylation but instead depends on nascent strand extension to within a few nucleotides of the lesion, implying that polymerase stalling at the DPC activates SPRTN on both leading and lagging strand templates. Our results demonstrate that SPRTN and proteasome activities are coupled to DNA replication by distinct mechanisms that promote replication across immovable protein barriers.
PXD011344	30595450	The Implication of Early Chromatin Changes in X Chromosome Inactivation. 	The role of early chromatin changes in X chromosome inactivation	Polycomb, X chromosome inactivation, epigenomics, histone acetylation, histone deacetylation, mouse embryonic stem cells, transcriptomics	During development, the precise relationships between transcription and chromatin modifications often remain unclear. We use the X chromosome inactivation (XCI) paradigm to explore the implication of chromatin changes in gene silencing. Using female mouse embryonic stem cells, we initiate XCI by inducing Xist and then monitor the temporal changes in transcription and chromatin by allele-specific profiling. This reveals histone deacetylation and H2AK119 ubiquitination as the earliest chromatin alterations during XCI. We show that HDAC3 is pre-bound on the X chromosome and that, upon Xist coating, its activity is required for efficient gene silencing. We also reveal that first PRC1-associated H2AK119Ub and then PRC2-associated H3K27me3 accumulate initially at large intergenic domains that can then spread into genes only in the context of histone deacetylation and gene silencing. Our results reveal the hierarchy of chromatin events during the initiation of XCI and identify key roles for chromatin in the early steps of transcriptional silencing.
PXD011565	30597831	TCO, a Putative Transcriptional Regulator in Arabidopsis, Is a Target of the Protein Kinase CK2. 	TACO LEAF, a putative transcriptional regulator in Arabidopsis, is a target of the protein kinase CK2	CK2, phosphoryation	As multicellular organisms grow, spatial and temporal patterns of gene expression are strictly regulated to ensure that developmental programs are invoked at appropriate stages. In this work, we describe a putative transcriptional regulator in Arabidopsis, TACO LEAF (TCO), whose overexpression results in the ectopic activation of reproductive genes during vegetative growth. Isolated as an activation-tagged allele, tco-1D displays gene misexpression and phenotypic abnormalities, such as curled leaves and early flowering, characteristic of chromatin regulatory mutants. A role for TCO in this mode of transcriptional regulation is further supported by the subnuclear accumulation patterns of TCO protein and genetic interactions between tco-1D and chromatin modifier mutants. The endogenous expression pattern of TCO and gene misregulation in tco loss-of-function mutants indicate that this factor is involved in seed development. We also demonstrate that specific serine residues of TCO protein are targeted by the ubiquitous kinase CK2. Collectively, these results identify TCO as a novel regulator of gene expression whose activity is likely influenced by phosphorylation, as is the case with many chromatin regulators.
PXD011306	30598476	Protein-Level Interactions as Mediators of Sexual Conflict in Ants. 	Atta columbica seminal fluid and spermathecal fluid proteome	Atta colombica, DIGE, Sexual conflict, seminal fluid, spermathecal fluid.	All social insects with obligate reproductive division of labor evolved from strictly monogamous ancestors, but multiple queen-mating (polyandry) arose de novo, in several evolutionarily derived lineages. Polyandrous ant queens are inseminated soon after hatching and store sperm mixtures for a potential reproductive life of decades. However, they cannot re-mate later in life and are thus expected to control the loss of viable sperm because their lifetime reproductive success is ultimately sperm limited. In the leaf-cutting ant Atta colombica,, the survival of newly inseminated sperm is known to be compromised by seminal fluid of rival males and to be protected by secretions of the queen sperm storage organ (spermatheca). Here we investigate the main protein-level interactions that appear to mediate sperm competition dynamics and sperm preservation. We conducted an artificial insemination experiment and DIGE-based proteomics to identify proteomic changes when seminal fluid is exposed to spermathecal fluid followed by a mass spectrometry analysis of both secretions that allowed us to identify the sex-specific origins of the proteins that had changed in abundance. We found that spermathecal fluid targets only seven (2%) of the identified seminal fluid proteins for degradation, including two proteolytic serine proteases, a SERPIN inhibitor, and a semen-liquefying acid phosphatase. In vitro, and in vivo, experiments provided further confirmation that these proteins are key molecules mediating sexual conflict over sperm competition and viability preservation during sperm storage. In vitro, exposure to spermathecal fluid reduced the capacity of seminal fluid to compromise survival of rival sperm in a matter of hours and biochemical inhibition of these seminal fluid proteins largely eliminated that adverse effect. Our findings indicate that A. colombica, queens are in control of sperm competition and sperm storage, a capacity that has not been documented in other animals but is predicted to have independently evolved in other polyandrous social insects.
PXD010292	30598531	Chemotherapy elicits pro-metastatic extracellular vesicles in breast cancer models. 	Detection and quantification of ANXA6 in blood-EVs from breast cancer patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy	ANXA6, Extracellular vesicles, Plasma	Cytotoxic chemotherapy is an effective treatment for invasive breast cancer. However, experimental studies in mice also suggest that chemotherapy has pro-metastatic effects. Primary tumours release extracellular vesicles (EVs), including exosomes, that can facilitate the seeding and growth of metastatic cancer cells in distant organs, but the effects of chemotherapy on tumour-derived EVs remain unclear. Here we show that two classes of cytotoxic drugs broadly employed in pre-operative (neoadjuvant) breast cancer therapy, taxanes and anthracyclines, elicit tumour-derived EVs with enhanced pro-metastatic capacity. Chemotherapy-elicited EVs are enriched in annexin A6 (ANXA6), a Ca(2+)-dependent protein that promotes NF-kappaB-dependent endothelial cell activation, Ccl2 induction and Ly6C(+)CCR2(+) monocyte expansion in the pulmonary pre-metastatic niche to facilitate the establishment of lung metastasis. Genetic inactivation of Anxa6 in cancer cells or Ccr2 in host cells blunts the pro-metastatic effects of chemotherapy-elicited EVs. ANXA6 is detected, and potentially enriched, in the circulating EVs of breast cancer patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
PXD011575	30599131	Semi-Nondestructive Certification of Crocodilian Leather by LC-MS Detection of Collagen Marker Peptides. 	 Identification of collagen marker peptides for animal source identification of crocodilian leather	collagen, crocodilian, leather	Leather produced from crocodile, alligator, and caiman skin is widely used in the fashion industry. Crocodilian leather is generally more expensive than mammalian leather, and the value greatly differs even between the crocodilian species. However, inappropriate labeling of the animal source on leather products sometimes arises from accidental or fraudulent substitution, which is difficult to unambiguously detect by existing methods. In the present study, animal source identification of crocodilian leather was carried out using type I collagen-derived marker peptides generated after dechroming, heat denaturation, and trypsin digestion. Definitive discrimination between the three crocodilian species and also a related species, lizard, was achieved based on the detection patterns of selected six marker peptides, determined by LC-MS. Furthermore, powdering of the leather samples enabled a reduction in the sample amount required and allowed the elimination of the dechroming step. Approximately 100 mug of powder was taken from commercial leather watch straps by filing, resulting in only slight damage to the undersides of the straps. The animal sources of the crocodilian products and also a crocodile-embossed calf product were successfully identified using a combination of the crocodilian marker peptides and previously established mammalian marker peptides. This semi-nondestructive species identification method is not only useful for certification of leather products but also for monitoring of international trade of leather and skin.
PXD010036	30599360	Comparison of the performance of 1D SDS-PAGE with nondenaturing 2DE on the analysis of proteins from human bronchial smooth muscle cells using quantitative LC-MS/MS. 	Analysis of proteins in supernatant and precipitate fractions of human bronchial smooth muscle cells by 1D SDS-PAGE and quantitative LC-MS/MS	1D SDS-PAGE, bronchial smooth muscle cells, precipitation fraction, quantitative LC-MS/MS, supernatant fraction	The supernatant and precipitate protein fractions from human bronchial smooth muscle cells (HBSMC) were analyzed using 1D SDS-PAGE-LC-MS/MS and the performance of the method was compared with that of nondenaturing 2DE-LC-MS/MS applied to the supernatant fraction, the methods and the results have been reported previously. The 1D gel lanes were cut into pieces of the same size, in order to enable the reproduction of digital 1D images of the individual MS-assigned proteins. When the obtained information on individual HBSMC proteins was compared between the two methods, SDS-PAGE is advantageous in visualizing the quantity differences between differently treated samples, whereas nondenatuing 2DE is advantageous in visualizing protein interactions. SDS-PAGE-MS of the supernatant fraction provided the assignment of 2552 proteins and their percent abundance ranged from 3.5% to 2 x 10(-4)%. 2DE-MS of the supernatant fraction provided 4323 proteins with percent abundance ranged from 3.6% to 1 x 10(-5)%, suggesting that the step of isoelectric focusing served to raise the sensitivity of the method. The proteins in the precipitate fraction, which could not be analyzed by 2DE-MS, were characterized by the abundance of proteins allocated to "membrane" within the category "Cellular component" of UniProtKB database and especially those allocated to "transmembrane" within the subcategory "membrane." On the other hand, there were about 600 "membrane" proteins which showed more than two-fold higher percent abundance in 2DE-MS than in SDS-PAGE-MS. These results showed that 1D SDS-PAGE and nondenaturing 2DE would provide complementary information on the analysis of proteins and protein interactions in cells.
PXD010495	30599920	Effect of purification of galactooligosaccharides derived from lactulose with Saccharomyces cerevisiae on their capacity to bind immune cell receptor Dectin-2. 	Effect of purification of galactooligosaccharides derived from lactulose with Saccharomyces cerevisiae on their capacity to bind immune cell receptor Dectin-2	Dectin-2, Saccharomyces, lactulose, mannoproteins, oligosaccharides, prebiotics	Lactulose-derived oligosaccharides (OsLu) are prebiotic galactooligosaccharides (GOS) beneficial for human health including immunomodulatory properties; however, the molecular mechanism is unclear. OsLu produced by enzymatic synthesis can be purified with Saccharomyces cerevisiae (OsLu-Sc). We show that this purification introduces yeast-derived proteins reactive to Dectin-2, an innate immune receptor for fungal polysaccharides. Using a cell-based bioassay, we tested the binding of OsLu and GOS samples to Dectin-2. While OsLu purified with active charcoal and commercial GOS failed to bind to Dectin-2, we found OsLu-Sc bound to this receptor. The carbohydrate-binding incompetent mutant of Dectin-2 failed to bind to OsLu-Sc. These data suggest that OsLu-Sc introduced carbohydrate ligands for Dectin-2. In accordance with this, proteomic analysis revealed OsLu-Sc contained S. cerevisiae-derived mannoproteins. Therefore, our data highlight the importance of the purification method for OsLu, which may positively affect the bioactivity of OsLu. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010495.
PXD011269	30600262	GPR35 promotes glycolysis, proliferation, and oncogenic signaling by engaging with the sodium potassium pump. 	GPR35 promotes glycolysis, proliferation and oncogenic signalling by engaging with the sodium potassium pump	GPR35, Na/K ATPase	The sodium potassium pump (Na/K-ATPase) ensures the electrochemical gradient of a cell through an energy-dependent process that consumes about one-third of regenerated ATP. We report that the G protein-coupled receptor GPR35 interacted with the alpha chain of Na/K-ATPase and promotes its ion transport and Src signaling activity in a ligand-independent manner. Deletion of Gpr35 increased baseline Ca(2+) to maximal levels and reduced Src activation and overall metabolic activity in macrophages and intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). In contrast, a common T108M polymorphism in GPR35 was hypermorphic and had the opposite effects to Gpr35 deletion on Src activation and metabolic activity. The T108M polymorphism is associated with ulcerative colitis and primary sclerosing cholangitis, inflammatory diseases with a high cancer risk. GPR35 promoted homeostatic IEC turnover, whereas Gpr35 deletion or inhibition by a selective pepducin prevented inflammation-associated and spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in mice. Thus, GPR35 acts as a central signaling and metabolic pacesetter, which reveals an unexpected role of Na/K-ATPase in macrophage and IEC biology.
PXD007905	30602123	Insights into the venom protein components of Microplitis mediator, an endoparasitoid wasp. 	Microplitis mediator venom protein LC-MSMS	Micrioplitis mediator, venom	Endoparasitoid wasps deliver a variety of maternal factors, such as venom proteins, viruses, and virus-like particles, from their venom and calyx fluid into hosts and thereby regulate the hosts' immune response, metabolism and development. The endoparasitoid, Microplitis mediator, is used as an important biological agent for controlling the devastating pest Helicoverpa armigera. In this study, using an integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analysis approach, we identified 75 putative venom proteins in M. mediator. The identified venom components were consistent with other known parasitoid wasps' venom proteins, including metalloproteases, serine protease inhibitors, and glycoside hydrolase family 18 enzymes. The metalloprotease and serpin family showed extensive gene duplications in venom apparatus. Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) based quantitative proteomics revealed 521 proteins that were differentially expressed at 6 h and 24 h post-parasitism, including 10 wasp venom proteins that were released into the host hemolymph. Further analysis indicated that 511 differentially expressed proteins (DEP) from the host are primarily involved in the immune response, material metabolism, and extracellular matrix receptor interaction. Taken together, our results on parasitoid wasp venoms have the potential to enhance the application of endoparasitoid wasps for controlling insect pest.
PXD002136	30602489	Membrane Proteomes and Ion Transporters in Bacillus anthracis and Bacillus subtilis Dormant and Germinating Spores. 	Membrane proteome of Bacillus spores	Bacillus, Membrane proteome, Spore	Bacterial endospores produced by Bacillus and Clostridium species can remain dormant and highly resistant to environmental insults for long periods, but they can also rapidly germinate in response to a nutrient-rich environment. Multiple proteins involved in sensing and responding to nutrient germinants, initiating solute and water transport, and accomplishing spore wall degradation are associated with the membrane surrounding the spore core. In order to more fully catalog proteins that may be involved in spore germination, as well as to identify protein changes taking place during germination, unbiased proteomic analyses of membrane preparations isolated from dormant and germinated spores of Bacillus anthracis and Bacillus subtilis were undertaken. Membrane-associated proteins were fractionated by SDS-PAGE, gel slices were trypsin digested, and extracted peptides were fractionated by liquid chromatography and analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-tandem time of flight mass spectrometry. More than 500 proteins were identified from each preparation. Bioinformatic methods were used to characterize proteins with regard to membrane association, cellular function, and conservation across species. Numerous proteins not previously known to be spore associated, 6 in B. subtilis and 68 in B. anthracis, were identified. Relative quantitation based on spectral counting indicated that the majority of spore membrane proteins decrease in abundance during the first 20 min of germination. The spore membranes contained several proteins thought to be involved in the transport of metal ions, a process that plays a major role in spore formation and germination. Analyses of mutant strains lacking these transport proteins implicated YloB in the accumulation of calcium within the developing forespore.IMPORTANCE Bacterial endospores can remain dormant and highly resistant to environmental insults for long periods but can also rapidly germinate in response to a nutrient-rich environment. The persistence and subsequent germination of spores contribute to their colonization of new environments and to the spread of certain diseases. Proteins of Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus anthracis were identified that are associated with the spore membrane, a position that can allow them to contribute to germination. A set of identified proteins that are predicted to carry out ion transport were examined for their contributions to spore formation, stability, and germination. Greater knowledge of spore formation and germination can contribute to the development of better decontamination strategies.
PXD012099	30604225	C9orf72 arginine-rich dipeptide proteins interact with ribosomal proteins in vivo to induce a toxic translational arrest that is rescued by eIF1A. 	Interactome of C9orf72 arginine-rich dipeptide proteins	AP-MS, Brain, Drosophila, Orbitrap	A GGGGCC hexanucleotide repeat expansion within the C9orf72 gene is the most common genetic cause of both amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia. Sense and antisense repeat-containing transcripts undergo repeat-associated non-AUG-initiated translation to produce five dipeptide proteins (DPRs). The polyGR and polyPR DPRs are extremely toxic when expressed in Drosophila neurons. To determine the mechanism that mediates this toxicity, we purified DPRs from the Drosophila brain and used mass spectrometry to identify the in vivo neuronal DPR interactome. PolyGR and polyPR interact with ribosomal proteins, and inhibit translation in both human iPSC-derived motor neurons, and adult Drosophila neurons. We next performed a screen of 81 translation-associated proteins in GGGGCC repeat-expressing Drosophila to determine whether this translational repression can be overcome and if this impacts neurodegeneration. Expression of the translation initiation factor eIF1A uniquely rescued DPR-induced toxicity in vivo, indicating that restoring translation is a potential therapeutic strategy. These data directly implicate translational repression in C9orf72 repeat-induced neurodegeneration and identify eIF1A as a novel modifier of C9orf72 repeat toxicity.
PXD009028	30604761	A chemical biology toolbox to study protein methyltransferases and epigenetic signaling. 	A Chemical Biology Toolbox to Study Protein Methyltransferases and Epigenetic Signaling	Chemical probes, Epigenetics, LFQ	Protein methyltransferases (PMTs) comprise a major class of epigenetic regulatory enzymes with therapeutic relevance. Here we present a collection of chemical probes and associated reagents and data to elucidate the function of human and murine PMTs in cellular studies. Our collection provides inhibitors and antagonists that together modulate most of the key regulatory methylation marks on histones H3 and H4, providing an important resource for modulating cellular epigenomes. We describe a comprehensive and comparative characterization of the probe collection with respect to their potency, selectivity, and mode of inhibition. We demonstrate the utility of this collection in CD4(+) T cell differentiation assays revealing the potential of individual probes to alter multiple T cell subpopulations which may have implications for T cell-mediated processes such as inflammation and immuno-oncology. In particular, we demonstrate a role for DOT1L in limiting Th1 cell differentiation and maintaining lineage integrity. This chemical probe collection and associated data form a resource for the study of methylation-mediated signaling in epigenetics, inflammation and beyond.
PXD010951	30605322	Nuclear Pore Membrane Proteins Self-Assemble into Nanopores. 	Quantification of Ndc1 and Pom121	Ndc1, Pom121, mass spectreomtry	Large multiprotein nanopores remain difficult to reconstitute in vitro, such as, for instance, the nuclear pore complex (NPC) that regulates macromolecular transport between the nucleus and cytoplasm in cells. Here, we report that two NPC pore membrane proteins self-assemble into ~20 nm diameter nanopores following in vitro reconstitution into lipid bilayers. Pore formation follows from the assembly of Pom121 and Ndc1 oligomers, which arrange into ringlike membrane structures that encircle aqueous, electrically conductive pores. This represents a key step toward reconstituting membrane-embedded NPC mimics for biological studies and biotechnological applications.
PXD010231	30605679	SUMOylation and the HSF1-Regulated Chaperone Network Converge to Promote Proteostasis in Response to Heat Shock. 	SUMOYLATION AND PROTEOTOSASIS NETWORKS CONVERGE DURING HEAT SHOCK TO MINIMIZE AGGREGATION AND PROMOTE DEGRADATION OF NUCLEAR PROTEINS	HSF1, SUMO, heat shock, proteostasis, small ubiquitin-like modifier	The role of stress-induced increases in SUMO2/3 conjugation during the heat shock response (HSR) has remained enigmatic. We investigated SUMO signal transduction at the proteomic and functional level during the HSR in cells depleted of proteostasis network components via chronic heat shock factor 1 inhibition. In the recovery phase post heat shock, high SUMO2/3 conjugation was prolonged in cells lacking sufficient chaperones. Similar results were obtained upon inhibiting HSP90, indicating that increased chaperone activity during the HSR is critical for recovery to normal SUMO2/3 levels post-heat shock. Proteasome inhibition likewise prolonged SUMO2/3 conjugation, indicating that stress-induced SUMO2/3 targets are subsequently degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Functionally, we suggest that SUMOylation can enhance the solubility of target proteins upon heat shock, a phenomenon that we experimentally observed in vitro. Collectively, our results implicate SUMO2/3 as a rapid response factor that coordinates proteome degradation and assists the maintenance of proteostasis upon proteotoxic stress.
PXD012128	30605680	Proteomic Profiling of Mammalian COPII and COPI Vesicles. 	Proteomic Profiling of Mammalian COPII Vesicles	COPII Vesicels, SILAC	Intracellular transport and homeostasis of the endomembrane system in eukaryotic cells depend on the formation and fusion of vesicular carriers. Coat protein complex (COP) II vesicles export newly synthesized secretory proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), whereas COPI vesicles facilitate traffic from the Golgi to the ER and intra-Golgi transport. Mammalian cells express various isoforms of COPII and COPI coat proteins. To investigate the roles of coat protein paralogs, we have combined in vitro vesicle reconstitution from semi-intact cells with SILAC-based mass spectrometric analysis. Here, we describe the core proteomes of mammalian COPII and COPI vesicles. Whereas the compositions of COPII vesicles reconstituted with various isoforms of the cargo-binding subunit Sec24 differ depending on the paralog used, all of the isoforms of the COPI coat produce COPI-coated vesicles with strikingly similar protein compositions.
PXD010356	30606734	Changes in Synaptic Proteins Precede Neurodegeneration Markers in Preclinical Alzheimer's Disease Cerebrospinal Fluid. 	Search for synaptic biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimer, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), SRM, biomarker, targeted	A biomarker of synapse loss, an early event in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology that precedes neuronal death and symptom onset, would be a much-needed prognostic biomarker. With direct access to the brain interstitial fluid, the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is a potential source of synapse-derived proteins. In this study, we aimed to identify and validate novel CSF biomarkers of synapse loss in AD. Discovery: Combining shotgun proteomics of the CSF with an exhaustive search of the literature and public databases, we identified 251 synaptic proteins, from which we selected 22 for further study. Verification: Twelve proteins were discarded because of poor detection by Selected Reaction Monitoring (SRM). We confirmed the specific expression of 9 of the remaining proteins (Calsynytenin-1, GluR2, GluR4, Neurexin-2A, Neurexin-3A, Neuroligin-2, Syntaxin-1B, Thy-1, Vamp-2) at the human synapse using Array Tomography microscopy and biochemical fractionation methods. Exploration: Using SRM, we monitored these 9 synaptic proteins (20 peptides) in a cohort of CSF from cognitively normal controls and subjects in the pre-clinical and clinical AD stages (n = 80). Compared with controls, peptides from 8 proteins were elevated 1.3 to 1.6-fold (p < 0.04) in prodromal AD patients. Validation: Elevated levels of a GluR4 peptide at the prodromal stage were replicated (1.3-fold, p = 0.04) in an independent cohort (n = 60). Moreover, 7 proteins were reduced at preclinical stage 1 (0.6 to 0.8-fold, p < 0.04), a finding that was replicated (0.7 to 0.8-fold, p < 0.05) for 6 proteins in a third cohort (n = 38). In a cross-cohort meta-analysis, 6 synaptic proteins (Calsyntenin-1, GluR4, Neurexin-2A, Neurexin-3A, Syntaxin-1B and Thy-1) were reduced 0.8-fold (p < 0.05) in preclinical AD, changes that precede clinical symptoms and CSF markers of neurodegeneration. Therefore, these proteins could have clinical value for assessing disease progression, especially in preclinical stages of AD.
PXD009668	30607034	Comprehensive identification of RNA-protein interactions in any organism using orthogonal organic phase separation (OOPS). 	Orthogonal Organic Phase Separation protocol (2018)	E.coli, OOPS, RBPome, RNA-binding	Existing high-throughput methods to identify RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are based on capture of polyadenylated RNAs and cannot recover proteins that interact with nonadenylated RNAs, including long noncoding RNA, pre-mRNAs and bacterial RNAs. We present orthogonal organic phase separation (OOPS), which does not require molecular tagging or capture of polyadenylated RNA, and apply it to recover cross-linked protein-RNA and free protein, or protein-bound RNA and free RNA, in an unbiased way. We validated OOPS in HEK293, U2OS and MCF10A human cell lines, and show that 96% of proteins recovered were bound to RNA. We show that all long RNAs can be cross-linked to proteins, and recovered 1,838 RBPs, including 926 putative novel RBPs. OOPS is approximately 100-fold more efficient than existing methods and can enable analyses of dynamic RNA-protein interactions. We also characterize dynamic changes in RNA-protein interactions in mammalian cells following nocodazole arrest, and present a bacterial RNA-interactome for Escherichia coli. OOPS is compatible with downstream proteomics and RNA sequencing, and can be applied in any organism.
PXD010840	30608700	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Small and Large Extracellular Vesicles (EVs) Reveals Enrichment of Adhesion Proteins in Small EVs. 	Proteomic analysis of small and large EVs from DKs8 cells	ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), exosomes, extracellular vesicles, iTRAQ, microvesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are important mediators of cell-cell communication due to their cargo content of proteins, lipids, and RNAs. We previously reported that small EVs (SEVs) called exosomes promote directed and random cell motility, invasion, and serum-independent growth. In contrast, larger EVs (LEVs) were not active in those assays, but might have unique functional properties. In order to identify protein cargos that may contribute to different functions of SEVs and LEVs, we used isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-liquid chromatography (LC) tandem mass spectrometry (MS) on EVs isolated from a colon cancer cell line. Bioinformatics analyses revealed that SEVs are enriched in proteins associated with cell-cell junctions, cell-matrix adhesion, exosome biogenesis machinery, and various signaling pathways. In contrast, LEVs are enriched in proteins associated with ribosome and RNA biogenesis, processing, and metabolism. Western blot analysis of EVs purified from two different cancer cell types confirmed the enrichment of cell-matrix and cell-cell adhesion proteins in SEVs. Consistent with those data, we found that cells exhibit enhanced adhesion to surfaces coated with SEVs compared to an equal protein concentration of LEVs. These data suggest that a major function of SEVs is to promote cellular adhesion.
PXD010850	30608924	Triplet-pore structure of a highly divergent TOM complex of hydrogenosomes in Trichomonas vaginalis. 	Translocase of the Outer Membrane (TOM complex) of hydrogenosomes in Trichomonas vaginalis	Hydrogenosomes, Mitochondria, Protein import/translocation, ProteomeXchange project tag: Mitochondria (HPP), TOM complex, Trichomonas vaginalis	Mitochondria originated from proteobacterial endosymbionts, and their transition to organelles was tightly linked to establishment of the protein import pathways. The initial import of most proteins is mediated by the translocase of the outer membrane (TOM). Although TOM is common to all forms of mitochondria, an unexpected diversity of subunits between eukaryotic lineages has been predicted. However, experimental knowledge is limited to a few organisms, and so far, it remains unsettled whether the triplet-pore or the twin-pore structure is the generic form of TOM complex. Here, we analysed the TOM complex in hydrogenosomes, a metabolically specialised anaerobic form of mitochondria found in the excavate Trichomonas vaginalis. We demonstrate that the highly divergent beta-barrel T. vaginalis TOM (TvTom)40-2 forms a translocation channel to conduct hydrogenosomal protein import. TvTom40-2 is present in high molecular weight complexes, and their analysis revealed the presence of four tail-anchored (TA) proteins. Two of them, Tom36 and Tom46, with heat shock protein (Hsp)20 and tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domains, can bind hydrogenosomal preproteins and most likely function as receptors. A third subunit, Tom22-like protein, has a short cis domain and a conserved Tom22 transmembrane segment but lacks a trans domain. The fourth protein, hydrogenosomal outer membrane protein 19 (Homp19) has no known homology. Furthermore, our data indicate that TvTOM is associated with sorting and assembly machinery (Sam)50 that is involved in beta-barrel assembly. Visualisation of TvTOM by electron microscopy revealed that it forms three pores and has an unconventional skull-like shape. Although TvTOM seems to lack Tom7, our phylogenetic profiling predicted Tom7 in free-living excavates. Collectively, our results suggest that the triplet-pore TOM complex, composed of three conserved subunits, was present in the last common eukaryotic ancestor (LECA), while receptors responsible for substrate binding evolved independently in different eukaryotic lineages.
PXD006895	30609389	SubCellBarCode: Proteome-wide Mapping of Protein Localization and Relocalization. 	SubCellBarcode: Scalable proteome-wide mapping of protein localization and relocalization	A431, Cancer, HCC827, HiRIEF, LC-MS., MCF7, NCI-H322, Subcellular, Subcellular protein localization, U251	Subcellular localization is a main determinant of protein function; however, a global view of cellular proteome organization remains relatively unexplored. We have developed a robust mass spectrometry-based analysis pipeline to generate a proteome-wide view of subcellular localization for proteins mapping to 12,418 individual genes across five cell lines. Based on more than 83,000 unique classifications and correlation profiling, we investigate the effect of alternative splicing and protein domains on localization, complex member co-localization, cell-type-specific localization, as well as protein relocalization after growth factor inhibition. Our analysis provides information about the cellular architecture and complexity of the spatial organization of the proteome; we show that the majority of proteins have a single main subcellular location, that alternative splicing rarely affects subcellular location, and that cell types are best distinguished by expression of proteins exposed to the surrounding environment. The resource is freely accessible via www.subcellbarcode.org.
PXD011806	30609396	The BAF and PRC2 Complex Subunits Dpf2 and Eed Antagonistically Converge on Tbx3 to Control ESC Differentiation. 	Dpf2 interactome in mouse embryonic stem cells	Dpf2, affinity purification, cross-linking, interactome, mouse embryonic stem cells	BAF complexes are composed of different subunits with varying functional and developmental roles, although many subunits have not been examined in depth. Here we show that the Baf45 subunit Dpf2 maintains pluripotency and ESC differentiation potential. Dpf2 co-occupies enhancers with Oct4, Sox2, p300, and the BAF subunit Brg1, and deleting Dpf2 perturbs ESC self-renewal, induces repression of Tbx3, and impairs mesendodermal differentiation without dramatically altering Brg1 localization. Mesendodermal differentiation can be rescued by restoring Tbx3 expression, whose distal enhancer is positively regulated by Dpf2-dependent H3K27ac maintenance and recruitment of pluripotency TFs and Brg1. In contrast, the PRC2 subunit Eed binds an intragenic Tbx3 enhancer to oppose Dpf2-dependent Tbx3 expression and mesendodermal differentiation. The PRC2 subunit Ezh2 likewise opposes Dpf2-dependent differentiation through a distinct mechanism involving Nanog repression. Together, these findings delineate distinct mechanistic roles for specific BAF and PRC2 subunits during ESC differentiation.
PXD010950	30610016	APEX2-mediated RAB proximity labeling identifies a role for RAB21 in clathrin-independent cargo sorting. 	4 RABs proxymity labelling -  APEX2-mediated RAB proximity labeling identifies arole for RAB21 in clathrin-independent cargosorting	APEX2, Early endosomes, Membrane trafficking, RABs	RAB GTPases are central modulators of membrane trafficking. They are under the dynamic regulation of activating guanine exchange factors (GEFs) and inactivating GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs). Once activated, RABs recruit a large spectrum of effectors to control trafficking functions of eukaryotic cells. Multiple proteomic studies, using pull-down or yeast two-hybrid approaches, have identified a number of RAB interactors. However, due to the in vitro nature of these approaches and inherent limitations of each technique, a comprehensive definition of RAB interactors is still lacking. By comparing quantitative affinity purifications of GFP:RAB21 with APEX2-mediated proximity labeling of RAB4a, RAB5a, RAB7a, and RAB21, we find that APEX2 proximity labeling allows for the comprehensive identification of RAB regulators and interactors. Importantly, through biochemical and genetic approaches, we establish a novel link between RAB21 and the WASH and retromer complexes, with functional consequences on cargo sorting. Hence, APEX2-mediated proximity labeling of RAB neighboring proteins represents a new and efficient tool to define RAB functions.
PXD019356	30611303	Defects in sarcolemma repair and skeletal muscle function after injury in a mouse model of Niemann-Pick type A/B disease. 	Defects in sarcolemma repair and skeletal muscle function after injury in a mouse model of Niemann-Pick type A/B disease	injury/repair, skeletal muscle	BACKGROUND: Niemann-Pick disease type A (NPDA), a disease caused by mutations in acid sphingomyelinase (ASM), involves severe neurodegeneration and early death. Intracellular lipid accumulation and plasma membrane alterations are implicated in the pathology. ASM is also linked to the mechanism of plasma membrane repair, so we investigated the impact of ASM deficiency in skeletal muscle, a tissue that undergoes frequent cycles of injury and repair in vivo. METHODS: Utilizing the NPDA/B mouse model ASM(-/-) and wild type (WT) littermates, we performed excitation-contraction coupling/Ca(2+) mobilization and sarcolemma injury/repair assays with isolated flexor digitorum brevis fibers, proteomic analyses with quadriceps femoris, flexor digitorum brevis, and tibialis posterior muscle and in vivo tests of the contractile force (maximal isometric torque) of the quadriceps femoris muscle before and after eccentric contraction-induced muscle injury. RESULTS: ASM(-/-) flexor digitorum brevis fibers showed impaired excitation-contraction coupling compared to WT, a defect expressed as reduced tetanic [Ca(2+)]i in response to electrical stimulation and early failure in sustaining [Ca(2+)]i during repeated tetanic contractions. When injured mechanically by needle passage, ASM(-/-) flexor digitorum brevis fibers showed susceptibility to injury similar to WT, but a reduced ability to reseal the sarcolemma. Proteomic analyses revealed changes in a small group of skeletal muscle proteins as a consequence of ASM deficiency, with downregulation of calsequestrin occurring in the three different muscles analyzed. In vivo, the loss in maximal isometric torque of WT quadriceps femoris was similar immediately after and 2 min after injury. The loss in ASM(-/-) mice immediately after injury was similar to WT, but was markedly larger at 2 min after injury. CONCLUSIONS: Skeletal muscle fibers from ASM(-/-) mice have an impairment in intracellular Ca(2+) handling that results in reduced Ca(2+) mobilization and a more rapid decline in peak Ca(2+) transients during repeated contraction-relaxation cycles. Isolated fibers show reduced ability to repair damage to the sarcolemma, and this is associated with an exaggerated deficit in force during recovery from an in vivo eccentric contraction-induced muscle injury. Our findings uncover the possibility that skeletal muscle functional defects may play a role in the pathology of NPDA/B disease.
PXD008517	30611835	Proteomic characterization of Aspergillus fumigatus isolated from air and surfaces of the International Space Station. 	Proteomic characterization of Aspergillus fumigatus isolated from air and surfaces of the International Space Station	Aspergillus fumigatus, International Space Station	The on-going Microbial Observatory Experiments on the International Space Station (ISS) revealed the presence of various microorganisms that may be affected by the distinct environment of the ISS. The low-nutrient environment combined with enhanced irradiation and microgravity may trigger changes in the molecular suite of microorganisms leading to increased virulence and resistance of microbes. Proteomic characterization of two Aspergillus fumigatus strains, ISSFT-021 and IF1SW-F4, isolated from HEPA filter debris and cupola surface of the ISS, respectively, is presented, along with a comparison to well-studied clinical isolates Af293 and CEA10. In-depth analysis highlights variations in the proteome of both ISS-isolated strains when compared to the clinical strains. Proteins that showed increased abundance in ISS isolates were overall involved in stress responses, and carbohydrate and secondary metabolism. Among the most abundant proteins were Pst2 and ArtA involved in oxidative stress response, PdcA and AcuE responsible for ethanol fermentation and glyoxylate cycle, respectively, TpcA, TpcF, and TpcK that are part of trypacidin biosynthetic pathway, and a toxin Asp-hemolysin. This report provides insight into possible molecular adaptation of filamentous fungi to the unique ISS environment.
PXD008299	30612738	UBQLN4 Represses Homologous Recombination and Is Overexpressed in Aggressive Tumors. 	UBQLN4, a regulator of protein dynamics at sites of DNA damage,  is lost in a new genome instability syndrome and elevated in aggressive tumors	DNA damage, LC-MS, UBQLN4	Genomic instability can be a hallmark of both human genetic disease and cancer. We identify a deleterious UBQLN4 mutation in families with an autosomal recessive syndrome reminiscent of genome instability disorders. UBQLN4 deficiency leads to increased sensitivity to genotoxic stress and delayed DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair. The proteasomal shuttle factor UBQLN4 is phosphorylated by ATM and interacts with ubiquitylated MRE11 to mediate early steps of homologous recombination-mediated DSB repair (HRR). Loss of UBQLN4 leads to chromatin retention of MRE11, promoting non-physiological HRR activity in vitro and in vivo. Conversely, UBQLN4 overexpression represses HRR and favors non-homologous end joining. Moreover, we find UBQLN4 overexpressed in aggressive tumors. In line with an HRR defect in these tumors, UBQLN4 overexpression is associated with PARP1 inhibitor sensitivity. UBQLN4 therefore curtails HRR activity through removal of MRE11 from damaged chromatin and thus offers a therapeutic window for PARP1 inhibitor treatment in UBQLN4-overexpressing tumors.
PXD009328	30616553	Molecular changes during extended neoadjuvant letrozole treatment of breast cancer: distinguishing acquired resistance from dormant tumours. 	Molecular changes during extended endocrine treatment of breast cancer	breast cancer, dormancy, letrozole, sequential samples	BACKGROUND: The risk of recurrence for endocrine-treated breast cancer patients persists for many years or even decades following surgery and apparently successful adjuvant therapy. This period of dormancy and acquired resistance is inherently difficult to investigate; previous efforts have been limited to in-vitro or in-vivo approaches. In this study, sequential tumour samples from patients receiving extended neoadjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy were characterised as a novel clinical model. METHODS: Consecutive tumour samples from 62 patients undergoing extended (4-45 months) neoadjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy with letrozole were subjected to transcriptomic and proteomic analysis, representing before (<= 0), early (13-120 days), and long-term (> 120 days) neoadjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy with letrozole. Patients with at least a 40% initial reduction in tumour size by 4 months of treatment were included. Of these, 42 patients with no subsequent progression were classified as "dormant", and the remaining 20 patients as "acquired resistant". RESULTS: Changes in gene expression in dormant tumours begin early and become more pronounced at later time points. Therapy-induced changes in resistant tumours were common features of treatment, rather than being specific to the resistant phenotype. Comparative analysis of long-term treated dormant and resistant tumours highlighted changes in epigenetics pathways including DNA methylation and histone acetylation. The DNA methylation marks 5-methylcytosine and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine were significantly reduced in resistant tumours compared with dormant tissues after extended letrozole treatment. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first patient-matched gene expression study investigating long-term aromatase inhibitor-induced dormancy and acquired resistance in breast cancer. Dormant tumours continue to change during treatment whereas acquired resistant tumours more closely resemble their diagnostic samples. Global loss of DNA methylation was observed in resistant tumours under extended treatment. Epigenetic alterations may lead to escape from dormancy and drive acquired resistance in a subset of patients, supporting a potential role for therapy targeted at these epigenetic alterations in the management of resistance to oestrogen deprivation therapy.
PXD010779	30617155	Quantitative Mass Spectrometry to Interrogate Proteomic Heterogeneity in Metastatic Lung Adenocarcinoma and Validate a Novel Somatic Mutation CDK12-G879V. 	Quantitative mass spectrometry to interrogate proteomic heterogeneity in metastatic lung adenocarcinoma and validate a novel somatic mutation CDK12-G879V	lung adenocarcinoma, proteomic heterogeneity, quantitative mass spectrometry	Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in both men and women. Tumor heterogeneity is an impediment to targeted treatment of all cancers, including lung cancer. Here, we sought to characterize tumor proteome and phosphoproteome changes by longitudinal, prospective collection of tumor tissue from an exceptional responder lung adenocarcinoma patient who survived with metastatic lung adenocarcinoma for over seven years while undergoing HER2-directed therapy in combination with chemotherapy. We employed "Super-SILAC" and TMT labeling strategies to quantify the proteome and phosphoproteome of a lung metastatic site and eight distinct metastatic progressive lymph nodes collected during these seven years, including five lymph nodes procured at autopsy. We identified specific signaling networks enriched in lung compared with the lymph node metastatic sites. We correlated the changes in protein abundance with changes in copy number alteration (CNA) and transcript expression. ERBB2/HER2 protein expression was higher in lung, consistent with a higher degree of ERBB2 amplification in lung compared with the lymph node metastatic sites. To further interrogate the mass spectrometry data, a patient-specific database was built by incorporating all the somatic and germline variants identified by whole genome sequencing (WGS) of genomic DNA from the lung, one lymph node metastatic site and blood. An extensive validation pipeline was built to confirm variant peptides. We validated 360 spectra corresponding to 55 germline and 6 somatic variant peptides. Targeted MRM assays revealed two novel variant somatic peptides, CDK12-G879V and FASN-R1439Q, expressed in lung and lymph node metastatic sites, respectively. The CDK12-G879V mutation likely results in a nonfunctional CDK12 kinase and chemotherapy susceptibility in lung metastatic sites. Knockdown of CDK12 in lung adenocarcinoma cells increased chemotherapy sensitivity which was rescued by wild type, but not CDK12-G879V expression, consistent with the complete resolution of the lung metastatic sites in this patient.
PXD005587	30617156	Decreased Antibiotic Susceptibility Driven by Global Remodeling of the Klebsiella pneumoniae Proteome. 	Proteomic perturbations of extended spectrum beta-lactamase producing Klebsiella pneumoniae by using LC MS/MS	Klebsiella pneumoniae, doxycycline, streptomycin	Bacteria can circumvent the effect of antibiotics by transitioning to a poorly understood physiological state that does not involve conventional genetic elements of resistance. Here we examine antibiotic susceptibility with a Class A beta-lactamase+ invasive strain of Klebsiella pneumoniae that was isolated from a lethal outbreak within laboratory colonies of Chlorocebus aethiops sabaeus monkeys. Bacterial responses to the ribosomal synthesis inhibitors streptomycin and doxycycline resulted in distinct proteomic adjustments that facilitated decreased susceptibility to each antibiotic. Drug-specific changes to proteomes included proteins for receptor-mediated membrane transport and sugar utilization, central metabolism, and capsule production, whereas mechanisms common to both antibiotics included elevated scavenging of reactive oxygen species and turnover of misfolded proteins. Resistance to combined antibiotics presented integrated adjustments to protein levels as well as unique drug-specific proteomic features. Our results demonstrate that dampening of Klebsiella pneumoniae susceptibility involves global remodeling of the bacterial proteome to counter the effects of antibiotics and stabilize growth.
PXD011646	30617158	Proteomics Reveals Multiple Phenotypes Associated with N-linked Glycosylation in Campylobacter jejuni. 	Proteomics of Campylobacter glycosylation	Campylobacter, data independant acquisiton, glycosylation, tandem mass tag	Campylobacter jejuni is a major gastrointestinal pathogen generally acquired via consumption of poorly prepared poultry. N-linked protein glycosylation encoded by the pgl gene cluster targets >80 membrane proteins and is required for both nonsymptomatic chicken colonization and full human virulence. Despite this, the biological functions of N-glycosylation remain unknown. We examined the effects of pgl gene deletion on the C. jejuni proteome using label-based liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and validation using data independent acquisition (DIA-SWATH-MS). We quantified 1359 proteins corresponding to ~84% of the C. jejuni NCTC 11168 genome, and 1080 of these were validated by DIA-SWATH-MS. Deletion of the pglB oligosaccharyltransferase (DeltapglB) resulted in a significant change in abundance of 185 proteins, 137 of which were restored to their wild-type levels by reintroduction of pglB (Deltaaaz.batpglB::DeltapglB). Deletion of pglB was associated with significantly reduced abundances of pgl targets and increased stress-related proteins, including ClpB, GroEL, GroES, GrpE and DnaK. pglB mutants demonstrated reduced survival following temperature (4 degreesC and 46 degreesC) and osmotic (150 mm NaCl) shock and altered biofilm phenotypes compared with wild-type C. jejuni Targeted metabolomics established that pgl negative C. jejuni switched from aspartate (Asp) to proline (Pro) uptake and accumulated intracellular succinate related to proteome changes including elevated PutP/PutA (proline transport and utilization), and reduced DctA/DcuB (aspartate import and succinate export, respectively). DeltapglB chemotaxis to some substrates (Asp, glutamate, succinate and alpha-ketoglutarate) was reduced and associated with altered abundance of transducer-like (Tlp) proteins. Glycosylation negative C. jejuni were depleted of all respiration-associated proteins that allow the use of alternative electron acceptors under low oxygen. We demonstrate for the first time that N-glycosylation is required for a specific enzyme activity (Nap nitrate reductase) that is associated with reduced abundance of the NapAB glycoproteins. These data indicate a multifactorial role for N-glycosylation in C. jejuni physiology.
PXD010664	30618712	Unbiased Proteomic Approach Identifies Unique and Coincidental Plasma Biomarkers in Repetitive mTBI and AD Pathogenesis. 	Unbiased proteomic analyses of plasma and brain tissue from TBI and AD mouse models II	Alzheimer's disease, Mild-TBI, PS1/APP, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), brain profiles, hTau, plasma biomarker	The relationship between repetitive mild traumatic brain injury (r-mTBI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) is well-recognized. However, the precise nature of how r-mTBI leads to or precipitates AD pathogenesis is currently not understood. Plasma biomarkers potentially provide non-invasive tools for detecting neurological changes in the brain, and can reveal overlaps between long-term consequences of r-mTBI and AD. In this study we address this by generating time-dependent molecular profiles of response to r-mTBI and AD pathogenesis in mouse models using unbiased proteomic analyses. To model AD, we used the well-validated hTau and PSAPP(APP/PS1) mouse models that develop age-related tau and amyloid pathological features, respectively, and our well-established model of r-mTBI in C57BL/6 mice. Plasma were collected at different ages (3, 9, and 15 months-old for hTau and PSAPP mice), encompassing pre-, peri- and post-"onset" of the cognitive and neuropathological phenotypes, or at different timepoints after r-mTBI (24 h, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months post-injury). Liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC-MS) approaches coupled with Tandem Mass Tag labeling technology were applied to develop molecular profiles of protein species that were significantly differentially expressed as a consequence of mTBI or AD. Mixed model ANOVA after Benjamini-Hochberg correction, and a stringent cut-off identified 31 proteins significantly changing in r-mTBI groups over time and, when compared with changes over time in sham mice, 13 of these were unique to the injured mice. The canonical pathways predicted to be modulated by these changes were LXR/RXR activation, production of nitric oxide and reactive oxygen species and complement systems. We identified 18 proteins significantly changing in PSAPP mice and 19 proteins in hTau mice compared to their wild-type littermates with aging. Six proteins were found to be significantly regulated in all three models, i.e., r-mTBI, hTau, and PSAPP mice compared to their controls. The top canonical pathways coincidently changing in all three models were LXR/RXR activation, and production of nitric oxide and reactive oxygen species. This work suggests potential biomarkers for TBI and AD pathogenesis and for the overlap between these two, and warrant targeted investigation in human populations. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010664.
PXD011824	30619200	Differential Protein Expression During Growth on Medium Versus Long-Chain Alkanes in the Obligate Marine Hydrocarbon-Degrading Bacterium Thalassolituus oleivorans MIL-1. 	Differential Protein Expression During Growth on Medium Versus Long-Chain Alkanes in the Obligate Marine Hydrocarbon-Degrading Bacterium Thalassolituus oleivorans MIL-1	Thalassolituus oleivorans, alkane degradation, hydrocarbonoclastic bacteria, long-chain alkanes, medium-chain alkanes, oil pollution, shotgun proteomics, subterminal oxidation	The marine obligate hydrocarbonoclastic bacterium Thalassolituus oleivorans MIL-1 metabolizes a broad range of aliphatic hydrocarbons almost exclusively as carbon and energy sources. We used LC-MS/MS shotgun proteomics to identify proteins involved in aerobic alkane degradation during growth on medium- (n-C14) or long-chain (n-C28) alkanes. During growth on n-C14, T. oleivorans expresses an alkane monooxygenase system involved in terminal oxidation including two alkane 1-monooxygenases, a ferredoxin, a ferredoxin reductase and an aldehyde dehydrogenase. In contrast, during growth on long-chain alkanes (n-C28), T. oleivorans may switch to a subterminal alkane oxidation pathway evidenced by significant upregulation of Baeyer-Villiger monooxygenase and an esterase, proteins catalyzing ketone and ester metabolism, respectively. The metabolite (primary alcohol) generated from terminal oxidation of an alkane was detected during growth on n-C14 but not on n-C28 also suggesting alternative metabolic pathways. Expression of both active and passive transport systems involved in uptake of long-chain alkanes was higher when compared to the non-hydrocarbon control, including a TonB-dependent receptor, a FadL homolog and a specialized porin. Also, an inner membrane transport protein involved in the export of an outer membrane protein was expressed. This study has demonstrated the substrate range of T. oleivorans is larger than previously reported with growth from n-C10 up to n-C32. It has also greatly enhanced our understanding of the fundamental physiology of T. oleivorans, a key bacterium that plays a significant role in natural attenuation of marine oil pollution, by identifying key enzymes expressed during the catabolism of n-alkanes.
PXD011161	30619231	Iron Regulation in Clostridioides difficile. 	Iron regulation in Clostridioides difficile	Fur, iron regulation, iron transport. cell wall, metabolism, polyamine	The response to iron limitation of several bacteria is regulated by the ferric uptake regulator (Fur). The Fur-regulated transcriptional, translational and metabolic networks of the Gram-positive, pathogen Clostridioides difficile were investigated by a combined RNA sequencing, proteomic, metabolomic and electron microscopy approach. At high iron conditions (15 muM) the C. difficile fur mutant displayed a growth deficiency compared to wild type C. difficile cells. Several iron and siderophore transporter genes were induced by Fur during low iron (0.2 muM) conditions. The major adaptation to low iron conditions was observed for the central energy metabolism. Most ferredoxin-dependent amino acid fermentations were significantly down regulated (had, etf, acd, grd, trx, bdc, hbd). The substrates of these pathways phenylalanine, leucine, glycine and some intermediates (phenylpyruvate, 2-oxo-isocaproate, 3-hydroxy-butyryl-CoA, crotonyl-CoA) accumulated, while end products like isocaproate and butyrate were found reduced. Flavodoxin (fldX) formation and riboflavin biosynthesis (rib) were enhanced, most likely to replace the missing ferredoxins. Proline reductase (prd), the corresponding ion pumping RNF complex (rnf) and the reaction product 5-aminovalerate were significantly enhanced. An ATP forming ATPase (atpCDGAHFEB) of the F0F1-type was induced while the formation of a ATP-consuming, proton-pumping V-type ATPase (atpDBAFCEKI) was decreased. The [Fe-S] enzyme-dependent pyruvate formate lyase (pfl), formate dehydrogenase (fdh) and hydrogenase (hyd) branch of glucose utilization and glycogen biosynthesis (glg) were significantly reduced, leading to an accumulation of glucose and pyruvate. The formation of [Fe-S] enzyme carbon monoxide dehydrogenase (coo) was inhibited. The fur mutant showed an increased sensitivity to vancomycin and polymyxin B. An intensive remodeling of the cell wall was observed, Polyamine biosynthesis (spe) was induced leading to an accumulation of spermine, spermidine, and putrescine. The fur mutant lost most of its flagella and motility. Finally, the CRISPR/Cas and a prophage encoding operon were downregulated. Fur binding sites were found upstream of around 20 of the regulated genes. Overall, adaptation to low iron conditions in C. difficile focused on an increase of iron import, a significant replacement of iron requiring metabolic pathways and the restructuring of the cell surface for protection during the complex adaptation phase and was only partly directly regulated by Fur.
PXD011724	30619257	KILchip v1.0: A Novel Plasmodium falciparum Merozoite Protein Microarray to Facilitate Malaria Vaccine Candidate Prioritization. 	KILchip v1.0: A novel Plasmodium falciparum merozoite protein microarray to facilitate malaria vaccine candidate prioritization7	Plasmodium falciparum, antibodies, bioinformatics, merozoite, protein microarray, vaccine candidates	Passive transfer studies in humans clearly demonstrated the protective role of IgG antibodies against malaria. Identifying the precise parasite antigens that mediate immunity is essential for vaccine design, but has proved difficult. Completion of the Plasmodium falciparum genome revealed thousands of potential vaccine candidates, but a significant bottleneck remains in their validation and prioritization for further evaluation in clinical trials. Focusing initially on the Plasmodium falciparum merozoite proteome, we used peer-reviewed publications, multiple proteomic and bioinformatic approaches, to select and prioritize potential immune targets. We expressed 109 P. falciparum recombinant proteins, the majority of which were obtained using a mammalian expression system that has been shown to produce biologically functional extracellular proteins, and used them to create KILchip v1.0: a novel protein microarray to facilitate high-throughput multiplexed antibody detection from individual samples. The microarray assay was highly specific; antibodies against P. falciparum proteins were detected exclusively in sera from malaria-exposed but not malaria-naive individuals. The intensity of antibody reactivity varied as expected from strong to weak across well-studied antigens such as AMA1 and RH5 (Kruskal-Wallis H test for trend: p < 0.0001). The inter-assay and intra-assay variability was minimal, with reproducible results obtained in re-assays using the same chip over a duration of 3 months. Antibodies quantified using the multiplexed format in KILchip v1.0 were highly correlated with those measured in the gold-standard monoplex ELISA [median (range) Spearman's R of 0.84 (0.65-0.95)]. KILchip v1.0 is a robust, scalable and adaptable protein microarray that has broad applicability to studies of naturally acquired immunity against malaria by providing a standardized tool for the detection of antibody correlates of protection. It will facilitate rapid high-throughput validation and prioritization of potential Plasmodium falciparum merozoite-stage antigens paving the way for urgently needed clinical trials for the next generation of malaria vaccines.
PXD007634	30619335	A Mass Spectrometry-Based Profiling of Interactomes of Viral DDB1- and Cullin Ubiquitin Ligase-Binding Proteins Reveals NF-kappaB Inhibitory Activity of the HIV-2-Encoded Vpx. 	A comparative analysis of the interactomes of viral accessory proteins exploiting DDB1 and Cullin Ubiquitin ligases	Cullin Ubiquitin ligases, DDB1, Viral Interactome analysis	Viruses and hosts are situated in a molecular arms race. To avoid morbidity and mortality, hosts evolved antiviral restriction factors. These restriction factors exert selection pressure on the viruses and drive viral evolution toward increasingly efficient immune antagonists. Numerous viruses exploit cellular DNA damage-binding protein 1 (DDB1)-containing Cullin RocA ubiquitin ligases (CRLs) to induce the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of antiviral factors expressed by their hosts. To establish a comprehensive understanding of the underlying protein interaction networks, we performed immuno-affinity precipitations for a panel of DDB1-interacting proteins derived from viruses such as mouse cytomegalovirus (MCMV, Murid herpesvirus [MuHV] 1), rat cytomegalovirus Maastricht MuHV2, rat cytomegalovirus English MuHV8, human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Cellular interaction partners were identified and quantified by mass spectrometry (MS) and validated by classical biochemistry. The comparative approach enabled us to separate unspecific interactions from specific binding partners and revealed remarkable differences in the strength of interaction with DDB1. Our analysis confirmed several previously described interactions like the interaction of the MCMV-encoded interferon antagonist pM27 with STAT2. We extended known interactions to paralogous proteins like the interaction of the HBV-encoded HBx with different Spindlin proteins and documented interactions for the first time, which explain functional data like the interaction of the HIV-2-encoded Vpr with Bax. Additionally, several novel interactions were identified, such as the association of the HIV-2-encoded Vpx with the transcription factor RelA (also called p65). For the latter interaction, we documented a functional relevance in antagonizing NF-kappaB-driven gene expression. The mutation of the DDB1 binding interface of Vpx significantly impaired NF-kappaB inhibition, indicating that Vpx counteracts NF-kappaB signaling by a DDB1- and CRL-dependent mechanism. In summary, our findings improve the understanding of how viral pathogens hijack cellular DDB1 and CRLs to ensure efficient replication despite the expression of host restriction factors.
PXD009989	30619394	Protein Profiling of Arabidopsis Roots Treated With Humic Substances: Insights Into the Metabolic and Interactome Networks. 	Humic Substances iTRAQ LC-MS/MS	Humic Substances iTRAQ LC-MS/MS	Background and Aim: Humic substances (HSs) influence the chemical and physical properties of the soil, and are also known to affect plant physiology and nutrient uptake. This study aimed to elucidate plant metabolic pathways and physiological processes influenced by HS activity. Methods: Arabidopsis roots were treated with HS for 8 h. Quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis of root proteins was performed using the iTRAQ (Isobaric Tag for Relative and Absolute Quantification) technique. Out of 902 protein families identified and quantified for HS treated vs. untreated roots, 92 proteins had different relative content. Bioinformatic tools such as STRING, KEGG, IIS and Cytoscape were used to interpret the biological function, pathway analysis and visualization of network amongst the identified proteins. Results: From this analysis it was possible to evaluate that all of the identified proteins were functionally classified into several categories, mainly redox homeostasis, response to inorganic substances, energy metabolism, protein synthesis, cell trafficking, and division. Conclusion: In the present study an overview of the metabolic pathways most modified by HS biological activity is provided. Activation of enzymes of the glycolytic pathway and up regulation of ribosomal protein indicated a stimulation in energy metabolism and protein synthesis. Regulation of the enzymes involved in redox homeostasis suggest a pivotal role of reactive oxygen species in the signaling and modulation of HS-induced responses.
PXD011704	30620560	Optimization Workflow for the Analysis of Cross-Linked Peptides Using a Quadrupole Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometer. 	QToF Cross-linking Optimisation	BSA LC-MS/MS Cross-linking	Cross-linking mass spectrometry is an emerging structural biology technique. Almost exclusively, the analyzer of choice for such an experiment has been the Orbitrap. We present an optimized protocol for the use of a Synapt G2-Si for the analysis of cross-linked peptides. We first tested six different energy ramps and analyzed the fragmentation behavior of cross-linked peptides identified by xQuest. By combining the most successful energy ramps, cross-link yield can be increased by up to 40%. When compared to previously published Orbitrap data, the Synapt G2-Si also offers improved fragmentation of the beta peptide. In order to improve cross-link quality control we have also developed ValidateXL, a programmatic solution that works with existing cross-linking software to improve cross-link quality control.
PXD008688	30622160	Precision De Novo Peptide Sequencing Using Mirror Proteases of Ac-LysargiNase and Trypsin for Large-scale Proteomics. 	E. coli mirror LC-MS/MS -  Precision de novo peptide sequencing using mirror proteases of Ac-LysargiNase and trypsin for large-scale proteomics	E. coli, mirror spectrum pairs	De novo peptide sequencing for large-scale proteomics remains challenging because of the lack of full coverage of ion series in tandem mass spectra. We developed a mirror protease of trypsin, acetylated LysargiNase (Ac-LysargiNase), with superior activity and stability. The mirror spectrum pairs derived from the Ac-LysargiNase and trypsin treated samples can generate full b and y ion series, which provide mutual complementarity of each other, and allow us to develop a novel algorithm, pNovoM, for de novo sequencing. Using pNovoM to sequence peptides of purified proteins, the accuracy of the sequence was close to 100%. More importantly, from a large-scale yeast proteome sample digested with trypsin and Ac-LysargiNase individually, 48% of all tandem mass spectra formed mirror spectrum pairs, 97% of which contained full coverage of ion series, resulting in precision de novo sequencing of full-length peptides by pNovoM. This enabled pNovoM to successfully sequence 21,249 peptides from 3,753 proteins and interpreted 44-152% more spectra than pNovo+ and PEAKS at a 5% FDR at the spectrum level. Moreover, the mirror protease strategy had an obvious advantage in sequencing long peptides. We believe that the combination of mirror protease strategy and pNovoM will be an effective approach for precision de novo sequencing on both single proteins and proteome samples.
PXD011290	30622161	Phosphoproteomic and Functional Analyses Reveal Sperm-specific Protein Changes Downstream of Kappa Opioid Receptor in Human Spermatozoa. 	Phosphoproteomic and functional approaches reveal changes in sperm-specific proteins downstream KOR in human spermatozoa	KOR, human spermatozoa, phosphoproteomics	G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) belong to the seven transmembrane receptor superfamily that transduce signals via G proteins in response to external stimuli to initiate different intracellular signaling pathways which culminate in specific cellular responses. The expression of diverse GPCRs at the plasma membrane of human spermatozoa suggests their involvement in the regulation of sperm fertility. However, the signaling events downstream of many GPCRs in spermatozoa remain uncharacterized. Here, we selected the kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) as a study model and applied phosphoproteomic approach based on TMT labeling and LC-MS/MS analyses. Quantitative coverage of more than 5000 proteins with over 3500 phosphorylation sites revealed changes in the phosphorylation levels of sperm-specific proteins involved in the regulation of the sperm fertility in response to a specific agonist of KOR, U50488H. Further functional studies indicate that KOR could be involved in the regulation of sperm fertile capacity by modulation of calcium channels. Our findings suggest that human spermatozoa possess unique features in the molecular mechanisms downstream of GPCRs which could be key regulators of sperm fertility and improved knowledge of these specific processes may contribute to the development of useful biochemical tools for diagnosis and treatment of male infertility.
PXD009473	30622162	Genetic control of the mouse HDL proteome defines HDL traits, function, and heterogeneity. 	HDL proteome across 93 mouse strains	HDL, strains	HDLs are nanoparticles with more than 80 associated proteins, phospholipids, cholesterol, and cholesteryl esters. The potential inverse relation of HDL to coronary artery disease (CAD) and the effects of HDL on myriad other inflammatory conditions warrant a better understanding of the genetic basis of the HDL proteome. We conducted a comprehensive genetic analysis of the regulation of the proteome of HDL isolated from a panel of 100 diverse inbred strains of mice (the hybrid mouse diversity panel) and examined protein composition and efflux capacity to identify novel factors that affect the HDL proteome. Genetic analysis revealed widely varied HDL protein levels across the strains. Some of this variation was explained by local cis-acting regulation, termed cis-protein quantitative trait loci (QTLs). Variations in apoA-II and apoC-3 affected the abundance of multiple HDL proteins, indicating a coordinated regulation. We identified modules of covarying proteins and defined a protein-protein interaction network that describes the protein composition of the naturally occurring subspecies of HDL in mice. Sterol efflux capacity varied up to 3-fold across the strains, and HDL proteins displayed distinct correlation patterns with macrophage and ABCA1-specific cholesterol efflux capacity and cholesterol exchange, suggesting that subspecies of HDL participate in discrete functions. The baseline and stimulated sterol efflux capacity phenotypes were associated with distinct QTLs with smaller effect size, suggesting a multigenetic regulation. Our results highlight the complexity of HDL particles by revealing the high degree of heterogeneity and intercorrelation, some of which is associated with functional variation, and support the concept that HDL-cholesterol alone is not an accurate measure of HDL's properties, such as protection against CAD.
PXD006311	30622175	IQGAP-related protein IqgC suppresses Ras signaling during large-scale endocytosis. 	Proteomic identification of IqgC binding partners	Dictyostelium, GTPase, IqgC, Ras, macropinocytosis	Macropinocytosis and phagocytosis are evolutionarily conserved forms of bulk endocytosis used by cells to ingest large volumes of fluid and solid particles, respectively. Both processes are regulated by Ras signaling, which is precisely controlled by mechanisms involving Ras GTPase activating proteins (RasGAPs) responsible for terminating Ras activity on early endosomes. While regulation of Ras signaling during large-scale endocytosis in WT Dictyostelium has been, for the most part, attributed to the Dictyostelium ortholog of human RasGAP NF1, in commonly used axenic laboratory strains, this gene is mutated and inactive. Moreover, none of the RasGAPs characterized so far have been implicated in the regulation of Ras signaling in large-scale endocytosis in axenic strains. In this study, we establish, using biochemical approaches and complementation assays in live cells, that Dictyostelium IQGAP-related protein IqgC interacts with active RasG and exhibits RasGAP activity toward this GTPase. Analyses of iqgC- and IqgC-overexpressing cells further revealed participation of this GAP in the regulation of both types of large-scale endocytosis and in cytokinesis. Moreover, given the localization of IqgC to phagosomes and, most prominently, to macropinosomes, we propose IqgC acting as a RasG-specific GAP in large-scale endocytosis. The data presented here functionally distinguish IqgC from other members of the Dictyostelium IQGAP family and call for repositioning of this genuine RasGAP outside of the IQGAP group.
PXD011108	30622252	ATM orchestrates the DNA-damage response to counter toxic non-homologous end-joining at broken replication forks. 	ATM orchestrates the DNA-damage response to counter toxic non-homologous end-joining at broken replication forks	ATM, DNA damage response	Mutations in the ATM tumor suppressor gene confer hypersensitivity to DNA-damaging chemotherapeutic agents. To explore genetic resistance mechanisms, we performed genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screens in cells treated with the DNA topoisomerase I inhibitor topotecan. Thus, we here establish that inactivating terminal components of the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) machinery or of the BRCA1-A complex specifically confer topotecan resistance to ATM-deficient cells. We show that hypersensitivity of ATM-mutant cells to topotecan or the poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor olaparib reflects delayed engagement of homologous recombination at DNA-replication-fork associated single-ended double-strand breaks (DSBs), allowing some to be subject to toxic NHEJ. Preventing DSB ligation by NHEJ, or enhancing homologous recombination by BRCA1-A complex disruption, suppresses this toxicity, highlighting a crucial role for ATM in preventing toxic LIG4-mediated chromosome fusions. Notably, suppressor mutations in ATM-mutant backgrounds are different to those in BRCA1-mutant scenarios, suggesting new opportunities for patient stratification and additional therapeutic vulnerabilities for clinical exploitation.
PXD011319	30623173	Chemical genetic identification of GAK substrates reveals its role in regulating Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase. 	Chemical Genetic Identification of Cyclin-G-associated kinase (GAK) Substrates Reveals its Role in Regulating Na+/K+-ATPase and Sipa1L1 in Neurons	Atp1a3, Cyclin-G-associated kinase, GAK, sodium potassium pump	Cyclin G-associated kinase (GAK) is a ubiquitous serine/threonine kinase that facilitates clathrin uncoating during vesicle trafficking. GAK phosphorylates a coat adaptor component, AP2M1, to help achieve this function. GAK is also implicated in Parkinson's disease through genome-wide association studies. However, GAK's role in mammalian neurons remains unclear, and insight may come from identification of further substrates. Employing a chemical genetics method, we show here that the sodium potassium pump (Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase) alpha-subunit Atp1a3 is a GAK target and that GAK regulates Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase trafficking to the plasma membrane. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings from CA1 pyramidal neurons in GAK conditional knockout mice show a larger change in resting membrane potential when exposed to the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase blocker ouabain, indicating compromised Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase function in GAK knockouts. Our results suggest a modulatory role for GAK via phosphoregulation of substrates such as Atp1a3 during cargo trafficking.
PXD012255	30624053	Capillary Zone Electrophoresis-Tandem Mass Spectrometry for Large-Scale Phosphoproteomics with the Production of over 11,000 Phosphopeptides from the Colon Carcinoma HCT116 Cell Line. 	Phosphoproteomics using CZE-MS/MS	HCT116 cell line, PHOSPHOPROTEOMICS, cze-ms/ms	Phosphoproteomics requires better separation of phosphopeptides to boost the coverage of the phosphoproteome. We argue that an alternative separation method that produces orthogonal phosphopeptide separation to the widely used LC needs to be considered. Capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) is one important alternative because CZE and LC are orthogonal for phosphopeptide separation and because the migration time of peptides in CZE can be accurately predicted. In this work, we coupled strong cation exchange (SCX)-reversed-phase LC (RPLC) to CZE-MS/MS for large-scale phosphoproteomics of the colon carcinoma HCT116 cell line. The CZE-MS/MS-based platform identified 11,555 phosphopeptides. The phosphopeptide data set is at least 100% larger than that from previous CZE-MS/MS studies and will be a valuable resource for building a model for predicting the migration time of phosphopeptides in CZE. Phosphopeptides migrate significantly slower than corresponding unphosphopeptides under acidic conditions of CZE separations and in a normal polarity. According to our modeling data, phosphorylation decreases peptide's charge roughly by one charge unit, resulting in dramatic decrease in electrophoretic mobility. Preliminary investigations demonstrate that electrophoretic mobility of phosphopeptides containing one phosphoryl group can be predicted with the same accuracy as for nonmodified peptides ( R(2) =~ 0.99). The CZE-MS/MS and LC-MS/MS were complementary in large-scale phosphopeptide identifications and produced different phosphosite motifs from the HCT116 cell line. The data highlight the value of CZE-MS/MS for phosphoproteomics as a complementary separation approach for not only improving the phosphoproteome coverage but also providing more insight into the phosphosite motifs.
PXD011515	30626002	Challenges in Clinical Metaproteomics Highlighted by the Analysis of Acute Leukemia Patients with Gut Colonization by Multidrug-Resistant Enterobacteriaceae. 	InfectERA: Challenges in clinical metaproteomics highlighted by the analysis of acute leukemia patients with gut colonization by multidrug-resistant Enterobacteriaceae	Human gut microbiome, clinical proteomics, data analysis, metaproteome, multi-omics, multidrug-resistant Enterobacteriaceae	The microbiome has a strong impact on human health and disease and is, therefore, increasingly studied in a clinical context. Metaproteomics is also attracting considerable attention, and such data can be efficiently generated today owing to improvements in mass spectrometry-based proteomics. As we will discuss in this study, there are still major challenges notably in data analysis that need to be overcome. Here, we analyzed 212 fecal samples from 56 hospitalized acute leukemia patients with multidrug-resistant Enterobactericeae (MRE) gut colonization using metagenomics and metaproteomics. This is one of the largest clinical metaproteomic studies to date, and the first metaproteomic study addressing the gut microbiome in MRE colonized acute leukemia patients. Based on this substantial data set, we discuss major current limitations in clinical metaproteomic data analysis to provide guidance to researchers in the field. Notably, the results show that public metagenome databases are incomplete and that sample-specific metagenomes improve results. Furthermore, biological variation is tremendous which challenges clinical study designs and argues that longitudinal measurements of individual patients are a valuable future addition to the analysis of patient cohorts.
PXD011438	30626061	Global Phosphoproteomic Analysis Reveals the Defense and Response Mechanisms of Jatropha Curcas Seedling under Chilling Stress. 	Phosphoproteomics of Jatropha curcas seedling under chilling stress	Chilling stress, Jatropha curcas, Phosphoproteomics, Regulated mechanism, Seedling	As a promising energy plant for biodiesel, Jatropha curcas is a tropical and subtropical shrub and its growth is affected by one of major abiotic stress, chilling. Therefore, we adopt the phosphoproteomic analysis, physiological measurement and ultrastructure observation to illustrate the responsive mechanism of J. curcas seedling under chilling (4 degreesC) stress. After chilling for 6 h, 308 significantly changed phosphoproteins were detected. Prolonged the chilling treatment for 24 h, obvious physiological injury can be observed and a total of 332 phosphoproteins were examined to be significantly changed. After recovery (28 degreesC) for 24 h, 291 phosphoproteins were varied at the phosphorylation level. GO analysis showed that significantly changed phosphoproteins were mainly responsible for cellular protein modification process, transport, cellular component organization and signal transduction at the chilling and recovery periods. On the basis of protein-protein interaction network analysis, phosphorylation of several protein kinases, such as SnRK2, MEKK1, EDR1, CDPK, EIN2, EIN4, PI4K and 14-3-3 were possibly responsible for cross-talk between ABA, Ca(2+), ethylene and phosphoinositide mediated signaling pathways. We also highlighted the phosphorylation of HOS1, APX and PIP2 might be associated with response to chilling stress in J. curcas seedling. These results will be valuable for further study from the molecular breeding perspective.
PXD010993	30626528	SWATH proteomic profiling of prostate cancer cells identifies NUSAP1 as a potential molecular target for Galiellalactone. 	SWATH proteomic profiling of prostate cancer cells identifies NUSAP1 as a biomarker of response to Galiellalactone	Galiellalactone, NUSAP1, SWATH, cell cycle, prostate cancer	Galiellalactone (GL) is a fungal metabolite that presents antitumor and antiinflammatory activities in vitro and in vivo. Previous studies have shown that GL targets NF-kappaB and STAT3 pathways and induces G2/M cell cycle arrest in androgen-insensitive prostate cancer cells. In this study, we show that GL-induced cell cycle arrest is independent of the NF-kappaB and STAT3 pathways in DU145 and PC-3 cells, and also that GL did not affect cell cycling in androgen-sensitive prostate cancer cells such as LNCaP and 22Rv1 cells. In addition, we showed confluence resistance to GL in DU145 cells. Using a SWATH proteomic approach we identified a down-regulation of Nucleolar and spindle associated protein 1 (NUSAP1) under DU145 confluence. Moreover the expression of NUSAP1 in LNCaP cells is low compared to DU145 cells. The inhibition of NUSAP1 by siRNAs induced resistance to GL in DU145 cells, suggesting that NUSAP1 may be a target for GL and could be useful as a biomarker for the responsiveness of the antitumor activity of GL. Altogether, our finding shed light to the potential of GL to be developed as a novel treatment of castration resistance prostate cancer.
PXD007253	30626869	BRCA2 deficiency instigates cGAS-mediated inflammatory signaling and confers sensitivity to tumor necrosis factor-alpha-mediated cytotoxicity. 	SILAC proteomics analysis to assess differences in protein expression upon BRCA2 inactivation	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), SILAC Breast cancer BRCA2 HCC38	Loss of BRCA2 affects genome stability and is deleterious for cellular survival. Using a genome-wide genetic screen in near-haploid KBM-7 cells, we show that tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) signaling is a determinant of cell survival upon BRCA2 inactivation. Specifically, inactivation of the TNF receptor (TNFR1) or its downstream effector SAM68 rescues cell death induced by BRCA2 inactivation. BRCA2 inactivation leads to pro-inflammatory cytokine production, including TNFalpha, and increases sensitivity to TNFalpha. Enhanced TNFalpha sensitivity is not restricted to BRCA2 inactivation, as BRCA1 or FANCD2 inactivation, or hydroxyurea treatment also sensitizes cells to TNFalpha. Mechanistically, BRCA2 inactivation leads to cGAS-positive micronuclei and results in a cell-intrinsic interferon response, as assessed by quantitative mass-spectrometry and gene expression profiling, and requires ASK1 and JNK signaling. Combined, our data reveals that micronuclei induced by loss of BRCA2 instigate a cGAS/STING-mediated interferon response, which encompasses re-wired TNFalpha signaling and enhances TNFalpha sensitivity.
PXD011896	30626880	A chemical biology screen identifies a vulnerability of neuroendocrine cancer cells to SQLE inhibition. 	Small cell lung cancer cell line panel whole proteome analysis	Small Cell Lung Cancer, tanden mass tags	Aberrant metabolism of cancer cells is well appreciated, but the identification of cancer subsets with specific metabolic vulnerabilities remains challenging. We conducted a chemical biology screen and identified a subset of neuroendocrine tumors displaying a striking pattern of sensitivity to inhibition of the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway enzyme squalene epoxidase (SQLE). Using a variety of orthogonal approaches, we demonstrate that sensitivity to SQLE inhibition results not from cholesterol biosynthesis pathway inhibition, but rather surprisingly from the specific and toxic accumulation of the SQLE substrate, squalene. These findings highlight SQLE as a potential therapeutic target in a subset of neuroendocrine tumors, particularly small cell lung cancers.
PXD005248	30627566	Mass Spectrometry-Based Comprehensive Analysis of Pancreatic Cyst Fluids. 	Determination of pancreatic cyst fluids peptidome and proteome	cyst fluids, degradome, pancreas	Pancreatic cyst fluids (PCFs) enriched in tumour-derived proteins are considered a potential source of new biomarkers. This study aimed to determine compositional and quantitative differences between the degradome and proteome of PCFs aspirated from different types of pancreatic cyst lesions (PCLs). 91 patients who underwent endoscopic ultrasound-fine needle aspiration under routine clinical diagnosis of PCLs were enrolled. Four cysts were malignant (CAs), and 87 were nonmalignant and consisted of 18 intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs), 14 mucinous cystic neoplasms (MCNs), nine serous cystic neoplasms (SCNs), 29 pseudocysts (PCs), and 17 unclassified. Profiles of the <5 kDa fraction, the degradome, and the trypsin-digested proteome were analysed using an LTQ-Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer coupled with a nanoACQUITY LC system. Qualitative analyses identified 796 and 366 proteins in degradome and proteome, respectively, and 689 (77%) and 285 (78%) of them were present in the Plasma Proteome Database. Gene Ontology analysis showed a significant overrepresentation of peptidases and peptidases inhibitors in both datasets. In the degradome fraction, quantitative values were obtained for 6996 peptides originating from 657 proteins. Of these, 2287 peptides were unique to a single type, and 515 peptides, derived from 126 proteins, were shared across cyst types. 32 peptides originating from 12 proteins had differential (adjusted p-value <=0.05, FC >=1.5) abundance in at least one of the five cysts types. In proteome, relative expression was measured for 330 proteins. Of them, 33 proteins had significantly (adjusted p-value <=0.05, FC >=1.5) altered abundance in at least one of the studied groups and 19 proteins appeared to be unique to a given cyst type. PCFs are dominated by blood proteins and proteolytic enzymes. Although differences in PCF peptide composition and abundance could aid classification of PCLs, the unpredictable inherent PCF proteolytic activity may limit the practical applications of PCF protein profiling.
PXD009382	30627607	Peptidome profiling dataset of ovarian cancer and non-cancer proximal fluids: Ascites and blood sera. 	Peptidome profiling of ovarian cancer and non-cancer proximal fluids: ascites and blood sera	Peptidome, ascites, blood sera, ovarian cancer	Despite a large number of proteomic studies of biological fluids from ovarian cancer patients, there is a lack of sensitive screening methods in clinical practice (Kim et al., 2016) (DOI:https://doi.org/10.1111/cas.12987[1]). Low molecular weight endogenous peptides more easily diffuse across endothelial barriers than proteins and can be more relevant biomarker candidates (Meo et al., 2016) (DOI:https://doi.org/10.18632/oncotarget.8931[2], (Bery et al., 2014) DOI:https://doi.org/10.1186/1559-0275-11-13[3], (Huang et al., 2018) DOI:https://doi.org/10.1097/IGC.0000000000001166[4]). Detailed peptidomic analysis of 26 ovarian cancer and 15 non-cancer samples of biological fluids (ascites and sera) were performed using TripleTOF 5600+ mass-spectrometer. Prior to LC-MS/MS analysis, peptides were extracted from biological fluids using anion exchange sorbent with subsequent peptide desorption from the surface of highly abundant proteins. In total, we identified 4874 peptides; 3123 peptides were specific for the ovarian cancer samples. The mass-spectrometry peptidomics data presented in this data article have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium (Deutsch et al., 2017) (DOI:https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkw936[5]) via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD009382 and https://doi.org/10.6019/PXD009382, http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/archive/projects/PXD009382.
PXD010672	30629181	ZBTB10 binds the telomeric variant repeat TTGGGG and interacts with TRF2. 	ZBTB10 binds the telomeric variant repeat TTGGGG and interacts with TRF2	interactome	Telomeres are nucleoprotein structures at the ends of linear chromosomes and present an essential feature for genome integrity. Vertebrate telomeres usually consist of hexameric TTAGGG repeats, however, in cells that use the alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) mechanism, variant repeat sequences are interspersed throughout telomeres. Previously, it was shown that NR2C/F transcription factors bind to TCAGGG variant repeats and contribute to telomere maintenance in ALT cells. While specific binders to other variant repeat sequences have been lacking to date, we here identify ZBTB10 as the first TTGGGG-binding protein and demonstrate direct binding via the two zinc fingers with affinity in the nanomolar range. Concomitantly, ZBTB10 co-localizes with a subset of telomeres in ALT-positive U2OS cells and interacts with TRF2/RAP1 via the N-terminal region of TRF2. Our data establishes ZBTB10 as a novel variant repeat binding protein at ALT telomeres.
PXD009093	30629763	Brain-derived and circulating vesicle profiles indicate neurovascular unit dysfunction in early Alzheimer's disease. 	Brain-derived and circulating EVs from hypoperfused mice, early AD and mixed dementias	brain, extracellular vesicles	Vascular factors that reduce blood flow to the brain are involved in apparition and progression of dementia. We hypothesized that cerebral hypoperfusion (CH) might alter the molecular compositions of brain intercellular communication mechanisms while affecting the neurovascular unit in preclinical and clinical human dementias. To test that hypothesis, mice were subjected to bilateral common carotid stenosis (BCAS) and the molecular compositions of brain-derived and circulating extracellular vesicles (EVs) were assessed. Murine brain vesicle profiles were then analyzed in parallel with brain EVs from post-mortem subjects affected by preclinical Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and mixed dementias. Brain EVs were identified with molecular mediators of hypoxia responses, neuroprotection and neurotoxicity in BCAS mice, patterns also partially resembled by subjects with preclinical AD and mixed dementias. Together these findings indicate that brain EVs represent a promising source of therapeutic targets and circulating markers of neurovascular insult in idiopathic dementias. Furthermore, the results obtained generate novel and compelling hypotheses about the molecular involvement of the vascular component in the etiology of human dementias.
PXD009294	30630857	Clustering of Tau fibrils impairs the synaptic composition of alpha3-Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase and AMPA receptors. 	Identification of proteins that interact with extracellularly applied fibrillar Tau assemblies	1N3R isoform, 1N4R isoform, Interacting protein partners, Pull-down, Tau fibrils	Tau assemblies have prion-like properties: they propagate from one neuron to another and amplify by seeding the aggregation of endogenous Tau. Although key in prion-like propagation, the binding of exogenous Tau assemblies to the plasma membrane of naive neurons is not understood. We report that fibrillar Tau forms clusters at the plasma membrane following lateral diffusion. We found that the fibrils interact with the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase (NKA) and AMPA receptors. The consequence of the clustering is a reduction in the amount of alpha3-NKA and an increase in the amount of GluA2-AMPA receptor at synapses. Furthermore, fibrillar Tau destabilizes functional NKA complexes. Tau and alpha-synuclein aggregates often co-exist in patients' brains. We now show evidences for cross-talk between these pathogenic aggregates with alpha-synuclein fibrils dramatically enhancing fibrillar Tau clustering and synaptic localization. Our results suggest that fibrillar alpha-synuclein and Tau cross-talk at the plasma membrane imbalance neuronal homeostasis.
PXD009305	30630973	LEF-1 drives aberrant beta-catenin nuclear localization in myeloid leukemia cells. 	Characterisation of the Beta-Catenin cytoplasmic/nuclear interactome in leukaemia cells	B-Catenin, Interactome, Leukaemia, Myeloid, Wnt Signalling	Canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling is frequently dysregulated in myeloid leukemias and is implicated in leukemogenesis. Nuclear-localized beta-catenin is indicative of active Wnt signaling and is frequently observed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients; however, some patients exhibit little or no nuclear beta-catenin even where cytosolic beta-catenin is abundant. Control of the subcellular localization of beta-catenin therefore represents an additional mechanism regulating Wnt signaling in hematopoietic cells. To investigate the factors mediating the nuclear-localization of beta-catenin, we carried out the first nuclear/cytoplasmic proteomic analysis of the beta-catenin interactome in myeloid leukemia cells and identified putative novel beta-catenin interactors. Comparison of interacting factors between Wnt-responsive cells (high nuclear beta-catenin) versus Wnt-unresponsive cells (low nuclear beta-catenin) suggested the transcriptional partner, LEF-1, could direct the nuclear-localization of beta-catenin. The relative levels of nuclear LEF-1 and beta-catenin were tightly correlated in both cell lines and in primary AML blasts. Furthermore, LEF-1 knockdown perturbed beta-catenin nuclear-localization and transcriptional activation in Wnt-responsive cells. Conversely, LEF-1 overexpression was able to promote both nuclear-localization and beta-catenin-dependent transcriptional responses in previously Wnt-unresponsive cells. This is the first beta-catenin interactome study in hematopoietic cells and reveals LEF-1 as a mediator of nuclear beta- catenin level in human myeloid leukemia.
PXD011294	30630984	Defective AP-3-dependent VAMP8 trafficking impairs Weibel-Palade body exocytosis in Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome type 2 blood outgrowth endothelial cells. 	Defective AP-3-dependent VAMP8 trafficking impairs Weibel-Palade body exocytosis in Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome type 2 blood outgrowth endothelial cells.	AP3 complex, HPS2, endothelial cells, weibel-palade bodies	Weibel-Palade bodies are endothelial secretory organelles that contain von Willebrand factor, P-selectin and CD63. Release of von Willebrand factor from Weibel-Palade bodies is crucial for platelet adhesion during primary hemostasis. Endosomal trafficking of proteins like CD63 to Weibel-Palade bodies during maturation is dependent on the adaptor protein complex 3 complex. Mutations in the AP3B1 gene, which encodes the adaptor protein complex 3 beta1 subunit, result in Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome 2, a rare genetic disorder that leads to neutropenia and a mild bleeding diathesis. This is caused by abnormal granule formation in neutrophils and platelets due to defects in trafficking of cargo to secretory organelles. The impact of these defects on the secretory pathway of the endothelium is largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the role of adaptor protein complex 3-dependent mechanisms in trafficking of proteins during Weibel-Palade body maturation in endothelial cells. An ex vivo patient-derived endothelial model of Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 2 was established using blood outgrowth endothelial cells that were isolated from a patient with compound heterozygous mutations in AP3B1 Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 2 endothelial cells and CRISPR-Cas9-engineered AP3B1(-/-) endothelial cells contain Weibel-Palade bodies that are entirely devoid of CD63, indicative of disrupted endosomal trafficking. Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 2 endothelial cells have impaired Ca2(+-)mediated and cAMP-mediated exocytosis. Whole proteome analysis revealed that, apart from adaptor protein complex 3 beta1, also the mu1 subunit and the v-SNARE VAMP8 were depleted. Stimulus-induced von Willebrand factor secretion was impaired in CRISPR-Cas9-engineered VAMP8(-/-)endothelial cells. Our data show that defects in adaptor protein complex 3-dependent maturation of Weibel-Palade bodies impairs exocytosis by affecting the recruitment of VAMP8.
PXD011696	30631047	Global phosphoproteomic analysis reveals ARMC10 as an AMPK substrate that regulates mitochondrial dynamics. 	Global Phosphoproteomic Analysis Reveals ARMC10 as an AMPK Substrate that Regulates Mitochondrial Dynamics	AMPK, Phosphoproteomics, SILAC	AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a key regulator of cellular energy homeostasis. Although AMPK has been studied extensively in cellular processes, understanding of its substrates and downstream functional network, and their contributions to cell fate and disease development, remains incomplete. To elucidate the AMPK-dependent signaling pathways, we performed global quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis using wild-type and AMPKalpha1/alpha2-double knockout cells and discovered 160 AMPK-dependent phosphorylation sites. Further analysis using an AMPK consensus phosphorylation motif indicated that 32 of these sites are likely direct AMPK phosphorylation sites. We validated one uncharacterized protein, ARMC10, and demonstrated that the S45 site of ARMC10 can be phosphorylated by AMPK both in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, ARMC10 overexpression was sufficient to promote mitochondrial fission, whereas ARMC10 knockout prevented AMPK-mediated mitochondrial fission. These results demonstrate that ARMC10 is an effector of AMPK that participates in dynamic regulation of mitochondrial fission and fusion.
PXD005359	30632670	Proteomic Analysis of Endothelial Cells Exposed to Ultrasmall Nanoparticles Reveals Disruption in Paracellular and Transcellular Transport. 	Effects of titanium dioxide (TiO2) nanoparticles (NPs) on endothelial cells	endothelial cells, nanoparticles, titanium dioxide	The large interactive surfaces of nanoparticles (NPs) increase the opportunities to develop NPs for vascular targeting. Proteomic analysis of endothelial cells exposed to NPs reveals the cellular response and turns the focus into the impairment of the endothelial permeability. Here, quantitative proteomics and transcriptome sequencing are combined to evaluate the effects of exposure to sub-lethal concentrations of TiO2 -USNPs and TiO2 -NPs on human dermal microvascular endothelial cells. Endothelial cells react to preserve the semi-permeable properties that are essential for vascular tissue fluid homeostasis, vascular development, and angiogenesis. The main impact of the exposure was alteration of functional complexes involved in cell adhesion, vesicular transport, and cytoskeletal structure. Those are the core cellular structures that are linked to the permeability and the integrity of the endothelial tissue. Moreover, the extracellular proteins uptake along wih the NPs into the endothelial cells escape the lysosomal degradation pathway. These findings improve the understanding of the interaction of NPs with endothelial cell. The effects of the studied NPs modulating cell-cell adhesion and vesicular transport can help to evaluate the distribution of NPs via intravenous administration.
PXD010341	30632691	Optimizing Size Exclusion Chromatography for Extracellular Vesicle Enrichment and Proteomic Analysis from Clinically Relevant Samples. 	Optimising size exclusion chromatography for extracellular vesicle enrichment and proteomic analysis from clinically relevant samples	Chromatography, Extracellular Vesicle, Plasma	The field of extracellular vesicle (EV) research has rapidly expanded in recent years, with particular interest in their potential as circulating biomarkers. Proteomic analysis of EVs from clinical samples is complicated by the low abundance of EV proteins relative to highly abundant circulating proteins such as albumin and apolipoproteins. To overcome this, size exclusion chromatography (SEC) has been proposed as a method to enrich EVs whilst depleting protein contaminants; however, the optimal SEC parameters for EV proteomics have not been thoroughly investigated. Here, quantitative evaluation and optimization of SEC are reported for separating EVs from contaminating proteins. Using a synthetic model system followed by cell line-derived EVs, it is found that a 10 mL Sepharose 4B column in PBS produces optimal resolution of EVs from background protein. By spiking-in cancer cell-derived EVs to healthy plasma, it is shown that some cancer EV-associated proteins are detectable by nano-LC-MS/MS when as little as 1% of the total plasma EV number are derived from a cancer cell line. These results suggest that an optimized SEC and nanoLC-MS/MS workflow may be sufficiently sensitive for disease EV protein biomarker discovery from patient-derived clinical samples.
PXD006822	30632700	Redox Proteomic Analysis Reveals Oxidative Modifications of Proteins by Increased Levels of Intracellular Reactive Oxygen Species during Hypoxia Adaptation of Aspergillus fumigatus. 	Redox proteomic analysis reveals an important role for protein oxidative modifications in hypoxia adaptation of Aspergillus fumigatus	Aspergillus fumigatus, ROS, hypoxia, redoxproteomics	Aspergillus fumigatus faces abrupt changes in oxygen concentrations at the site of infection. An increasing number of studies has demonstrated that elevated production of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) under low oxygen conditions plays a regulatory role in modulating cellular responses for adaptation to hypoxia. To learn more about this process in A. fumigatus, intracellular ROS production during hypoxia has been determined. The results confirm increased amounts of intracellular ROS in A. fumigatus exposed to decreased oxygen levels. Moreover, nuclear accumulation of the major oxidative stress regulator AfYap1 is observed after low oxygen cultivation. For further analysis, iodoTMT labeling of redox-sensitive cysteine residues is applied to identify proteins that are reversibly oxidized. This analysis reveals that proteins with important roles in maintaining redox balance and protein folding, such as the thioredoxin Asp f 29 and the disulfide-isomerase PdiA, undergo substantial thiol modification under hypoxia. The data also show that the mitochondrial respiratory complex IV assembly protein Coa6 is significantly oxidized by hypoxic ROS. Deletion of the corresponding gene results in a complete absence of hypoxic growth, indicating the importance of complex IV during adaptation of A. fumigatus to oxygen-limiting conditions.
PXD009016	30632760	MPK4 Phosphorylation Dynamics and Interacting Proteins in Plant Immunity. 	MPK4 phosphorylation dynamics and interacting proteins in plant immunity	Arabidopsis MPK4, IP-MS, flg22, innate immunity, kinase substrate, protein-protein interaction	Arabidopsis MAP kinase 4 (MPK4) has been proposed to be a negative player in plant immunity, and it is also activated by pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), such as flg22. The molecular mechanisms by which MPK4 is activated and regulates plant defense remain elusive. In this study, we investigated Arabidopsis defense against a bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato ( Pst) DC3000 when Brassica napus MPK4 ( BnMPK4) is overexpressed. We showed an increase in pathogen resistance and suppression of jasmonic acid (JA) signaling in the BnMPK4 overexpressing (OE) plants. We also showed that the OE plants have increased sensitivity to flg22-triggered reactive oxygen species (ROS) burst in guard cells, which resulted in enhanced stomatal closure compared to wild-type (WT). During flg22 activation, dynamic phosphorylation events within and outside of the conserved TEY activation loop were observed. To elucidate how BnMPK4 functions during the defense response, we used immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry (IP-MS) to identify BnMPK4 interacting proteins in the absence and presence of flg22. Quantitative proteomic analysis revealed a shift in the MPK4-associated protein network, providing insight into the molecular functions of MPK4 at the systems level.
PXD009975	30632963	Determination of host proteins composing the microenvironment of coronavirus replicase complexes by proximity-labeling. 	Proximity biotinylation and LC-MSMS identification of the molecular microenvironment of coronavirus replication complexes	BioID, BirA-R118G, L929 mouse fibroblast, mouse hepatitis virus, viral replication complex	Positive-sense RNA viruses hijack intracellular membranes that provide niches for viral RNA synthesis and a platform for interactions with host proteins. However, little is known about host factors at the interface between replicase complexes and the host cytoplasm. We engineered a biotin ligase into a coronaviral replication/transcription complex (RTC) and identified >500 host proteins constituting the RTC microenvironment. siRNA-silencing of each RTC-proximal host factor demonstrated importance of vesicular trafficking pathways, ubiquitin-dependent and autophagy-related processes, and translation initiation factors. Notably, detection of translation initiation factors at the RTC was instrumental to visualize and demonstrate active translation proximal to replication complexes of several coronaviruses. Collectively, we establish a spatial link between viral RNA synthesis and diverse host factors of unprecedented breadth. Our data may serve as a paradigm for other positive-strand RNA viruses and provide a starting point for a comprehensive analysis of critical virus-host interactions that represent targets for therapeutic intervention.
PXD010010	30633975	Transomics data-driven, ensemble kinetic modeling for system-level understanding and engineering of the cyanobacteria central metabolism. 	Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 trophic condition	targeted proteome analysis	In silico kinetic modeling is an essential tool for rationally designing metabolically engineered organisms based on a system-level understanding of their regulatory mechanisms. However, an estimation of enzyme parameters has been a bottleneck in the computer simulation of metabolic dynamics. In this study, the ensemble-modeling approach was integrated with the transomics data to construct kinetic models. Kinetic metabolic models of a photosynthetic bacterium, Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, were constructed to identify engineering targets for improving ethanol production based on an understanding of metabolic regulatory systems. A kinetic model ensemble was constructed by randomly sampling parameters, and the best 100 models were selected by comparing predicted metabolic state with a measured dataset, including metabolic flux, metabolite concentrations, and protein abundance data. Metabolic control analysis using the model ensemble revealed that a large pool size of 3-phosphoglycerate could be a metabolic buffer responsible for the stability of the Calvin-Benson cycle, and also identified that phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) is a promising engineering target to improve a pyruvate supply such as for ethanol production. Overexpression of PGK in the metabolically engineered PCC 6803 strain showed that the specific ethanol production rate and ethanol titers at 48 h were 1.23- and 1.37-fold greater than that of the control strain. PGK is useful for future metabolic engineering since pyruvate is a common precursor for the biosynthesis of various chemicals.
PXD012340	30635284	CDK5RAP3, a UFL1 substrate adaptor, is crucial for liver development. 	CDK5RAP3, a UFL1 substrate adaptor, is critical for liver development	Cdk5rap3, Knockout mouse, Liver development, TMT labeling, Ubiquitin-like proteins	Protein modification by ubiquitin and ubiquitin-like proteins (UBLs) regulates numerous biological functions. The UFM1 system, a novel UBL conjugation system, is implicated in mouse development and hematopoiesis. However, its broad biological functions and working mechanisms remain largely elusive. CDK5RAP3, a possible ufmylation substrate, is essential for epiboly and gastrulation in zebrafish. Herein, we report a crucial role of CDK5RAP3 in liver development and hepatic functions. Cdk5rap3 knockout mice displayed prenatal lethality with severe liver hypoplasia, as characterized by delayed proliferation and compromised differentiation. Hepatocyte-specific Cdk5rap3 knockout mice suffered post-weaning lethality, owing to serious hypoglycemia and impaired lipid metabolism. Depletion of CDK5RAP3 triggered endoplasmic reticulum stress and activated unfolded protein responses in hepatocytes. We detected the in vivo interaction of CDK5RAP3 with UFL1, the defined E3 ligase in ufmylation. Notably, loss of CDK5RAP3 altered the ufmylation profile in liver cells, suggesting that CDK5RAP3 serves as a novel substrate adaptor for this UBL modification. Collectively, our study identifies CDK5RAP3 as an important regulator of ufmylation and suggests the involvement of ufmylation in mammalian development.
PXD021396	30635404	CNS-derived extracellular vesicles from superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)(G93A) ALS mice originate from astrocytes and neurons and carry misfolded SOD1. 	CNS-derived extracellular vesicles from superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)G93A ALS mice originate from astrocytes and neurons and carry misfolded SOD1	amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) (Lou Gehrig disease), astrocyte, central nervous system (CNS), exosome (vesicle), extracellular vesicles, mouse model, neurodegeneration, protein homeostasis, secretion	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are secreted by myriad cells in culture and also by unicellular organisms, and their identification in mammalian fluids suggests that EV release also occurs at the organism level. However, although it is clearly important to better understand EVs' roles in organismal biology, EVs in solid tissues have received little attention. Here, we modified a protocol for EV isolation from primary neural cell culture to collect EVs from frozen whole murine and human neural tissues by serial centrifugation and purification on a sucrose gradient. Quantitative proteomics comparing brain-derived EVs from nontransgenic (NTg) and a transgenic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) mouse model, superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)(G93A), revealed that these EVs contain canonical exosomal markers and are enriched in synaptic and RNA-binding proteins. The compiled brain EV proteome contained numerous proteins implicated in ALS, and EVs from SOD1(G93A) mice were significantly depleted in myelin-oligodendrocyte glycoprotein compared with those from NTg animals. We observed that brain- and spinal cord-derived EVs, from NTg and SOD1(G93A) mice, are positive for the astrocyte marker GLAST and the synaptic marker SNAP25, whereas CD11b, a microglial marker, was largely absent. EVs from brains and spinal cords of the SOD1(G93A) ALS mouse model, as well as from human SOD1 familial ALS patient spinal cord, contained abundant misfolded and nonnative disulfide-cross-linked aggregated SOD1. Our results indicate that CNS-derived EVs from an ALS animal model contain pathogenic disease-causing proteins and suggest that brain astrocytes and neurons, but not microglia, are the main EV source.
PXD012008	30635574	Pentatricopeptide repeat poly(A) binding protein KPAF4 stabilizes mitochondrial mRNAs in Trypanosoma brucei. 	Pentatricopeptide repeat poly(A) binding protein from mitochondria of trypanosomes	PPR protein, RNA editing, RNA stability, Trypanosoma, mitochondria, polyadenylation	In Trypanosoma brucei, most mitochondrial mRNAs undergo editing, and 3' adenylation and uridylation. The internal sequence changes and terminal extensions are coordinated: pre-editing addition of the short (A) tail protects the edited transcript against 3'-5' degradation, while post-editing A/U-tailing renders mRNA competent for translation. Participation of a poly(A) binding protein (PABP) in coupling of editing and 3' modification processes has been inferred, but its identity and mechanism of action remained elusive. We report identification of KPAF4, a pentatricopeptide repeat-containing PABP which sequesters the A-tail and impedes mRNA degradation. Conversely, KPAF4 inhibits uridylation of A-tailed transcripts and, therefore, premature A/U-tailing of partially-edited mRNAs. This quality check point likely prevents translation of incompletely edited mRNAs. We also find that RNA editing substrate binding complex (RESC) mediates the interaction between the 5' end-bound pyrophosphohydrolase MERS1 and 3' end-associated KPAF4 to enable mRNA circularization. This event appears to be critical for edited mRNA stability.
PXD012163	30635586	Phosphorylation of CENP-A on serine 7 does not control centromere function. 	Phosphorylation of CENP-A on serine 7 does not control centromere function	Cenp-A, cell cycle, centromere, phosphorilation	CENP-A is the histone H3 variant necessary to specify the location of all eukaryotic centromeres via its CENP-A targeting domain and either one of its terminal regions. In humans, several post-translational modifications occur on CENP-A, but their role in centromere function remains controversial. One of these modifications of CENP-A, phosphorylation on serine 7, has been proposed to control centromere assembly and function. Here, using gene targeting at both endogenous CENP-A alleles and gene replacement in human cells, we demonstrate that a CENP-A variant that cannot be phosphorylated at serine 7 maintains correct CENP-C recruitment, faithful chromosome segregation and long-term cell viability. Thus, we conclude that phosphorylation of CENP-A on serine 7 is dispensable to maintain correct centromere dynamics and function.
PXD011778	30635789	Fibroblast polarization over the myocardial infarction time continuum shifts roles from inflammation to angiogenesis. 	Fibroblast secretome proteomic analysis	fibroblast secretome, heart, time course	Cardiac fibroblasts are the major producers of extracellular matrix (ECM) to form infarct scar. We hypothesized that fibroblasts undergo a spectrum of phenotype states over the course of myocardial infarction (MI) from early onset to scar formation. Fibroblasts were isolated from the infarct region of C57BL/6J male mice (3-6 months old, n = 60) at days 0 (no MI control) and 1, 3, or 7 after MI. Whole transcriptome analysis was performed by RNA-sequencing. Of the genes sequenced, 3371 were differentially expressed after MI. Enrichment analysis revealed that MI day 1 fibroblasts displayed pro-inflammatory, leukocyte-recruiting, pro-survival, and anti-migratory phenotype through Tnfrsf9 and CD137 signaling. MI day 3 fibroblasts had a proliferative, pro-fibrotic, and pro-angiogenic profile with elevated Il4ra signaling. MI day 7 fibroblasts showed an anti-angiogenic homeostatic-like myofibroblast profile and with a step-wise increase in Acta2 expression. MI day 7 fibroblasts relied on Pik3r3 signaling to mediate Tgfb1 effects and Fgfr2 to regulate PI3K signaling. In vitro, the day 3 MI fibroblast secretome stimulated angiogenesis, while day 7 MI fibroblast secretome repressed angiogenesis through Thbs1 signaling. Our results reveal novel mechanisms for fibroblasts in expressing pro-inflammatory molecules and regulating angiogenesis following MI.
PXD012192	30638015	Peptidomics Analysis of Milk Protein-Derived Peptides Released over Time in the Preterm Infant Stomach. 	Peptidomics analysis of milk protein-derived peptides released over time in the preterm infant stomach	Bioactive, Digestion, Gastric, Human milk, Peptide, Preterm	Over the course of milk digestion, native milk proteases and infant digestive proteases fragment intact proteins into peptides with potential bioactivity. This study investigated the release of peptides over 3 h of gastric digestion in 14 preterm infant sample sets. The peptide content was extracted and analyzed from milk and gastric samples via Orbitrap tandem mass spectrometry. The relative ion intensity (abundance) and count of peptides in each sample were compared over time and between infants fed milk fortified with bovine milk fortifier and infants fed unfortified milk. Bioactivity of the identified peptides was predicted by sequence homology to known bioactive milk peptides. Both total and bioactive peptide abundance and count continuously increased over 3 h of gastric digestion. After accounting for infant weight, length, and postconceptual age, fortification of milk limited the release of peptides from human milk proteins. Peptides that survived further gastric digestion after their initial release were structurally more similar to bioactive peptides than nonsurviving peptides. This work is the first to provide a comprehensive profile of milk peptides released during gastric digestion over time, which is an essential step in determining which peptides are most likely to be biologically relevant in the infant. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012192.
PXD012117	30638020	Deuterium-Free, Three-Plexed Peptide Diethylation for Highly Accurate Quantitative Proteomics. 	Deuterium-free, Three-plexed Peptide Di-Ethylation for Highly Accurate Quantitative Proteomics	deuterium effect, di-ethylation, di-methylation, isobaric labeling, isotopic labeling, quantitative accuracy	The deuterium, a frequently used stable isotope in isotopic labeling for quantitative proteomics, could deteriorate the accuracy and precision of proteome quantification owing to the retention time shift of deuterated peptides from the hydrogenated counterpart. We introduce a novel three-plexed peptide "diethylation" using only (13)C isotopologues of acetaldehyde and demonstrate that the accuracy and precision of our method in proteome quantification are significantly superior to the conventional deuterium-based dimethylation labeling in both a single-shot and multidimensional LC-MS/MS analysis of the HeLa proteome. Furthermore, in time-resolved profiling of Xenopus laevis early embryogenesis, our 3-plexed diethylation outperformed isobaric labeling approaches in terms of the quantification accuracy or the number of protein identifications, generating more than two times more differentially expressed proteins. Our cost-effective and highly accurate 3-plexed diethylation method could contribute to various types of quantitative proteomics applications in which three of multiplexity would be sufficient.
PXD008973	30641411	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals the Dynamic Protein Landscape during Initiation of Human Th17 Cell Polarization. 	Human Th17 Cell differentiation	TH0, Th17, cord blood	Th17 cells contribute to the pathogenesis of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases and cancer. To reveal the Th17 cell-specific proteomic signature regulating Th17 cell differentiation and function in humans, we used a label-free mass spectrometry-based approach. Furthermore, a comprehensive analysis of the proteome and transcriptome of cells during human Th17 differentiation revealed a high degree of overlap between the datasets. However, when compared with corresponding published mouse data, we found very limited overlap between the proteins differentially regulated in response to Th17 differentiation. Validations were made for a panel of selected proteins with known and unknown functions. Finally, using RNA interference, we showed that SATB1 negatively regulates human Th17 cell differentiation. Overall, the current study illustrates a comprehensive picture of the global protein landscape during early human Th17 cell differentiation. Poor overlap with mouse data underlines the importance of human studies for translational research.
PXD011997	30641883	Proteomic Analysis of the Responses of Candida albicans during Infection of Galleria mellonella Larvae. 	Proteomic responses of Candida albicans to Galleria mellonella larvae hemolymph	Candida, Galleria, Immunity, Infection, Mini-model, in vivo screening	This study assessed the development of disseminated candidiasis within Galleria mellonella larvae and characterized the proteomic responses of Candida albicans to larval hemolymph. Infection of larvae with an inoculum of 1 x 106 yeast cells reduced larval viability 24 (53.33 +/- 3.33%), 48 (33.33 +/- 3.33%) and 72 (6.66 +/- 3.33%) h post infection. C. albicans infection quickly disseminated from the site of inoculation and the presence of yeast and hyphal forms were found in nodules extracted from infected larvae at 6 and 24 h. A range of proteins secreted during infection of G. mellonella by C. albicans were detected in larval hemolymph and these were enriched for biological processes such as interaction with host and pathogenesis. The candicidal activity of hemolymph after immediate incubation of yeast cells resulted in a decrease in yeast cell viability (0.23 +/- 0.03 x 106 yeast cells/mL), p < 0.05) as compared to control (0.99 +/- 0.01 x 106 yeast cells/mL). C. albicans responded to incubation in hemolymph ex vivo by the induction of an oxidative stress response, a decrease in proteins associated with protein synthesis and an increase in glycolytic proteins. The results presented here indicate that C. albicans can overcome the fungicidal activity of hemolymph by altering protein synthesis and cellular respiration, and commence invasion and dissemination throughout the host.
PXD012242	30642035	Proteogenomics Uncovers Critical Elements of Host Response in Bovine Soft Palate Epithelial Cells Following In Vitro Infection with Foot-And-Mouth Disease Virus. 	Proteogenomics uncovers critical elements of host response in bovine soft palate epithelial cells following in vitro infection with foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV)	Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), bioinformatics, bovine soft palate, innate immune system, interferon-stimulated genes (ISG), nasopharynx, transcriptomics, virus-host interaction	Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) is the most devastating disease of cloven-hoofed livestock, with a crippling economic burden in endemic areas and immense costs associated with outbreaks in free countries. Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), a picornavirus, will spread rapidly in naive populations, reaching morbidity rates of up to 100% in cattle. Even after recovery, over 50% of cattle remain subclinically infected and infectious virus can be recovered from the nasopharynx. The pathogen and host factors that contribute to FMDV persistence are currently not understood. Using for the first time primary bovine soft palate multilayers in combination with proteogenomics, we analyzed the transcriptional responses during acute and persistent FMDV infection. During the acute phase viral RNA and protein was detectable in large quantities and in response hundreds of interferon-stimulated genes (ISG) were overexpressed, mediating antiviral activity and apoptosis. Although the number of pro-apoptotic ISGs and the extent of their regulation decreased during persistence, some ISGs with antiviral activity were still highly expressed at that stage. This indicates a long-lasting but ultimately ineffective stimulation of ISGs during FMDV persistence. Furthermore, downregulation of relevant genes suggests an interference with the extracellular matrix that may contribute to the skewed virus-host equilibrium in soft palate epithelial cells.
PXD011781	30643271	Immunoglobulin deposition on biomolecule corona determines complement opsonization efficiency of preclinical and clinical nanoparticles. 	SPIO corona	SPIO, nanoparticles, plasma, serum	Deposition of complement factors (opsonization) on nanoparticles may promote clearance from the blood by macrophages and trigger proinflammatory responses, but the mechanisms regulating the efficiency of complement activation are poorly understood. We previously demonstrated that opsonization of superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO) nanoworms with the third complement protein (C3) was dependent on the biomolecule corona of the nanoparticles. Here we show that natural antibodies play a critical role in C3 opsonization of SPIO nanoworms and a range of clinically approved nanopharmaceuticals. The dependency of C3 opsonization on immunoglobulin binding is almost universal and is observed regardless of the complement activation pathway. Only a few surface-bound immunoglobulin molecules are needed to trigger complement activation and opsonization. Although the total amount of plasma proteins adsorbed on nanoparticles does not determine C3 deposition efficiency, the biomolecule corona per se enhances immunoglobulin binding to all nanoparticle types. We therefore show that natural antibodies represent a link between biomolecule corona and C3 opsonization, and may determine individual complement responses to nanomedicines.
PXD010679	30644641	Sirtilins - the new old members of the vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor family. 	Sirtilin protease specificity -  Sirtilins - the new old members of the vitaminK-dependent coagulation factor family	Sirtilin PICS protease specificity	Essentials Blood coagulation is driven by vitamin K (VK)-dependent proteases. We have identified and characterized 'sirtilin' as an additional VK-dependent protease. Sirtilins emerged early in the evolution of the coagulation system of vertebrates. Ubiquitous occurrence might indicate an important functional role of sirtilins. SUMMARY: Background Vitamin K (VK)-dependent proteases are major players in blood coagulation, including both the initiation and the regulation of the cascade. Five different members of this protease family have been described, comprising the following coagulation factors: factor VII, FIX, FX, protein C (PC), and prothrombin (FII). FVII, FIX, FX and PC share a typical domain architecture, with an N-terminal gamma-carboxyglutamate (Gla) domain, two epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) domains, and a C-terminal trypsin-like serine protease (SP) domain. Objectives We have identified uncharacterized proteins in snake genomes showing the typical Gla-EGF1-EGF2-SP domain architecture but relatively low sequence conservation compared to known VK-dependent proteases. On the basis of sequence analysis, we hypothesized that these proteins are functional members of the VK-dependent protease family. Methods/results Using phylogenetic analyses, we confirmed the so-called 'sirtilins' as an additional VK-dependent protease class. These proteases were found in several vertebrates, including jawless fish, cartilaginous fish, bony fish, reptiles, birds, and marsupials, but not in other mammals. The recombinant zymogen form of Thamnophis sirtalis sirtilin was produced by in vitro renaturation, and was activated with human activated FXI. The activated form of sirtilin proteolytically cleaved peptide and protein substrates, including prothrombin. Mass spectrometry-based substrate profiling of sirtilin revealed a narrower sequence specificity than those of FIX and FX. Conclusions The ubiquitous occurrence of sirtilins in many vertebrate classes might indicate an important functional role. Understanding the detailed functions of sirtilins might contribute to a deeper understanding of the evolution and function of the vertebrate coagulation system.
PXD012089	30644754	Quantifying Competition among Mitochondrial Protein Acylation Events Induced by Ethanol Metabolism. 	Quantifying Competition Among Mitochondrial Protein Acylation Events Induced by Ethanol Metabolism	Acetylation, Acylation, Ethanol Metabolism, Mitochondira, Succinylation	Mitochondrial dysfunction is one of many key factors in the etiology of alcoholic liver disease (ALD). Lysine acetylation is known to regulate numerous mitochondrial metabolic pathways, and recent reports demonstrate that alcohol-induced protein acylation negatively impacts these processes. To identify regulatory mechanisms attributed to alcohol-induced protein post-translational modifications, we employed a model of alcohol consumption within the context of wild type (WT), sirtuin 3 knockout (SIRT3 KO), and sirtuin 5 knockout (SIRT5 KO) mice to manipulate hepatic mitochondrial protein acylation. Mitochondrial fractions were examined by label-free quantitative HPLC-MS/MS to reveal competition between lysine acetylation and succinylation. A class of proteins defined as "differential acyl switching proteins" demonstrate select sensitivity to alcohol-induced protein acylation. A number of these proteins reveal saturated lysine-site occupancy, suggesting a significant level of differential stoichiometry in the setting of ethanol consumption. We hypothesize that ethanol downregulates numerous mitochondrial metabolic pathways through differential acyl switching proteins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012089.
PXD010221	30644821	Quantitative proteomics reveals key roles for post-transcriptional gene regulation in the molecular pathology of facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy. 	Proteomics analysis of DUX4-expressing myoblasts	Dux4, FSHD, SILAC, gelc-ms, myoblasts	DUX4 is a transcription factor whose misexpression in skeletal muscle causes facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD). DUX4's transcriptional activity has been extensively characterized, but the DUX4-induced proteome remains undescribed. Here, we report concurrent measurement of RNA and protein levels in DUX4-expressing cells via RNA-seq and quantitative mass spectrometry. DUX4 transcriptional targets were robustly translated, confirming the likely clinical relevance of proposed FSHD biomarkers. However, a multitude of mRNAs and proteins exhibited discordant expression changes upon DUX4 expression. Our dataset revealed unexpected proteomic, but not transcriptomic, dysregulation of diverse molecular pathways, including Golgi apparatus fragmentation, as well as extensive post-transcriptional buffering of stress-response genes. Key components of RNA degradation machineries, including UPF1, UPF3B, and XRN1, exhibited suppressed protein, but not mRNA, levels, explaining the build-up of aberrant RNAs that characterizes DUX4-expressing cells. Our results provide a resource for the FSHD community and illustrate the importance of post-transcriptional processes in DUX4-induced pathology.
PXD006342	30645580	Combined proteomic and metabolomic analyses of cerebrospinal fluid from mice with ischemic stroke reveals the effects of a Buyang Huanwu decoction in neurodegenerative disease. 	Mouse CSF Analyses of middle cerebral ischemic/reperfusion (CI/R) injury followed by Buyang Huanwu Decoction	Buyang Huanwu Decoction, Chinese Herb Medicine, Ischemic Stroke, Mouse CSF	Ischemic stroke is one of the most common causes of death worldwide and is a major cause of acquired disability in adults. However, there is still a need for an effective drug for its treatment. Buyang Huanwu decoction (BHD), a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) prescription, has long been used clinically to aid neurological recovery after stroke. To establish potential clinical indicators of BHD efficacy in stroke treatment and prognosis, we conducted a combined proteomic and metabolomic analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples in a mouse stroke model. CSF samples were obtained from male mice with acute ischemic stroke induced by middle cerebral ischemic/reperfusion (CI/R) injury, some of which were then treated with BHD. Label-free quantitative proteomics was conducted using nano-LC-MS/MS on an LTQ Orbitrap mass and metabolomic analysis was performed using nanoprobe NMR and UHPLC-QTOF-MS. The results showed that several proteins and metabolites were present at significantly different concentrations in the CSF samples from mice with CI/R alone and those treated with BHD. These belonged to pathways related to energy demand, inflammatory signaling, cytoskeletal regulation, Wnt signaling, and neuroprotection against neurodegenerative diseases. In conclusion, our in silico data suggest that BHD treatment is not only protective but can also ameliorate defects in pathways affected by neurological disorders. These data shed light on the mechanism whereby BHD may be effective in the treatment and prevention of stroke-related neurodegenerative disease.
PXD011041	30645593	Adding function to the genome of African Salmonella Typhimurium ST313 strain D23580. 	A multi-condition inter-strain transcriptomic compendium identifies phenotypic differences between European and African Salmonella pathovariants (C4PR_LIV)	RNA-seq, ST313, Salmonella Typhimurium, comparative transcriptomics, functional transcriptomics., genomics, melibiose, plasmids, tRNA synthetases	Salmonella Typhimurium sequence type (ST) 313 causes invasive nontyphoidal Salmonella (iNTS) disease in sub-Saharan Africa, targeting susceptible HIV+, malarial, or malnourished individuals. An in-depth genomic comparison between the ST313 isolate D23580 and the well-characterized ST19 isolate 4/74 that causes gastroenteritis across the globe revealed extensive synteny. To understand how the 856 nucleotide variations generated phenotypic differences, we devised a large-scale experimental approach that involved the global gene expression analysis of strains D23580 and 4/74 grown in 16 infection-relevant growth conditions. Comparison of transcriptional patterns identified virulence and metabolic genes that were differentially expressed between D23580 versus 4/74, many of which were validated by proteomics. We also uncovered the S. Typhimurium D23580 and 4/74 genes that showed expression differences during infection of murine macrophages. Our comparative transcriptomic data are presented in a new enhanced version of the Salmonella expression compendium, SalComD23580: http://bioinf.gen.tcd.ie/cgi-bin/salcom_v2.pl. We discovered that the ablation of melibiose utilization was caused by three independent SNP mutations in D23580 that are shared across ST313 lineage 2, suggesting that the ability to catabolize this carbon source has been negatively selected during ST313 evolution. The data revealed a novel, to our knowledge, plasmid maintenance system involving a plasmid-encoded CysS cysteinyl-tRNA synthetase, highlighting the power of large-scale comparative multicondition analyses to pinpoint key phenotypic differences between bacterial pathovariants.
PXD009283	30645971	The ERBB-STAT3 Axis Drives Tasmanian Devil Facial Tumor Disease. 	The ERBB-STAT3 Axis Drives Tasmanian Devil Facial Tumor Disease	DFTD, ERBB, Tasmanian devil, transmissible cancer	The marsupial Tasmanian devil (Sarcophilus harrisii) faces extinction due to transmissible devil facial tumor disease (DFTD). To unveil the molecular underpinnings of this transmissible cancer, we combined pharmacological screens with an integrated systems-biology characterization. Sensitivity to inhibitors of ERBB tyrosine kinases correlated with their overexpression. Proteomic and DNA methylation analyses revealed tumor-specific signatures linked to the evolutionary conserved oncogenic STAT3. ERBB inhibition blocked phosphorylation of STAT3 and arrested cancer cells. Pharmacological blockade of ERBB or STAT3 prevented tumor growth in xenograft models and restored MHC class I expression. This link between the hyperactive ERBB-STAT3 axis and major histocompatibility complex class I-mediated tumor immunosurveillance provides mechanistic insights into horizontal transmissibility and puts forward a dual chemo-immunotherapeutic strategy to save Tasmanian devils from DFTD. VIDEO ABSTRACT.
PXD010895	30649854	Noncovalently Associated Peptides Observed during Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry and Their Effect on Cross-Link Analyses. 	Non-covalently associated peptides are observed during liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and affect cross-link analyses	HSA, SDA, cross-linking	Cross-linking mass spectrometry draws structural information from covalently linked peptide pairs. When these links do not match to previous structural models, they may indicate changes in protein conformation. Unfortunately, such links can also be the result of experimental error or artifacts. Here, we describe the observation of noncovalently associated peptides during liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis, which can easily be misidentified as cross-linked. Strikingly, they often mismatch to the protein structure. Noncovalently associated peptides presumably form during ionization and can be distinguished from cross-linked peptides by observing coelution of the corresponding linear peptides in MS1 spectra, as well as the presence of the individual (intact) peptide fragments in MS2 spectra. To suppress noncovalent peptide formations, increasingly disruptive ionization settings can be used, such as in-source fragmentation.
PXD009418	30650255	Analysis of the Preserved Amino Acid Bias in Peptide Profiles of Iron Age Teeth from a Tropical Environment Enable Sexing of Individuals Using Amelogenin MRM. 	Analysis of the preserved amino acid bias in peptide profiles of Iron Age teeth from a tropical environment enabling sexing of individuals using amelogen in MRM	iron-age, tooth	The first dental proteomic profile of Iron Age individuals (ca. 2000-1000 years B.P.), collected from the site of Long Long Rak rock shelter in northwest Thailand is described. A bias toward the preservation of the positively charged aromatic, and polar amino acids is observed. It is evident that the 212 proteins identified (2 peptide, FDR <1%) comprise a palimpsest of alterations that occurred both ante-mortem and post-mortem. Conservation of amino acids within the taphonomically resistant crystalline matrix enabled the identification of both X and Y chromosome linked amelogenin peptides. A novel multiple reaction monitoring method using the sex specific amelogenin protein isoforms is described and indicate the teeth are of male origin. Functional analysis shows an enrichment of pathways associated with metabolic disorders and shows a capacity for harboring these conditions prior to death. Stable isotope analysis using carbon isotopes highlights the strongly C3 based (=~80%) diet of the Long Long Rak cemetery people, which probably comprised rice combined with protein from freshwater fish among other food items. The combination of proteomics and stable isotope analysis provides a complementary strategy for assessing the demography, diet, lifestyle, and possible diseases experienced by ancient populations.
PXD011036	30651306	Data-independent Acquisition Improves Quantitative Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry. 	Data independent acquisition cross-linking/mass spectrometry	Cross-linking, Data independent acquisition, Label-free, Quantitation, Reproducibility, Spectronaut, Xi	Quantitative cross-linking mass spectrometry (QCLMS) reveals structural detail on altered protein states in solution. On its way to becoming a routine technology, QCLMS could benefit from data-independent acquisition (DIA), which generally enables greater reproducibility than data-dependent acquisition (DDA) and increased throughput over targeted methods. Therefore, here we introduce DIA to QCLMS by extending a widely used DIA software, Spectronaut, to also accommodate cross-link data. A mixture of seven proteins cross-linked with bis[sulfosuccinimidyl] suberate (BS(3)) was used to evaluate this workflow. Out of the 414 identified unique residue pairs, 292 (70%) were quantifiable across triplicates with a coefficient of variation (CV) of 10%, with manual correction of peak selection and boundaries for PSMs in the lower quartile of individual CV values. This compares favorably to DDA where we quantified cross-links across triplicates with a CV of 66%, for a single protein. We found DIA-QCLMS to be capable of detecting changing abundances of cross-linked peptides in complex mixtures, despite the ratio compression encountered when increasing sample complexity through the addition of E. coli cell lysate as matrix. In conclusion, the DIA software Spectronaut can now be used in cross-linking and DIA is indeed able to improve QCLMS.
PXD011957	30651550	Exosomes harbor B cell targets in pancreatic adenocarcinoma and exert decoy function against complement-mediated cytotoxicity. 	Exosomes harbor B cell targets in pancreatic adenocarcinoma and exert decoy function against complement-mediated cytotoxicityc	Exosomes harbor B cell targets in pancreatic adenocarcinoma and exert decoy function against complement-mediated cytotoxicityc	Although B cell response is frequently found in cancer, there is little evidence that it alters tumor development or progression. The process through which tumor-associated antigens trigger humoral response is not well delineated. We investigate the repertoire of antigens associated with humoral immune response in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) using in-depth proteomic profiling of immunoglobulin-bound proteins from PDAC patient plasmas and identify tumor antigens that induce antibody response together with exosome hallmark proteins. Additional profiling of PDAC cell-derived exosomes reveals significant overlap in their protein content with immunoglobulin-bound proteins in PDAC plasmas, and significant autoantibody reactivity is observed between PDAC cell-derived exosomes and patient plasmas compared to healthy controls. Importantly, PDAC-derived exosomes induce a dose-dependent inhibition of PDAC serum-mediated complement-dependent cytotoxicity towards cancer cells. In summary, we provide evidence that exosomes display a large repertoire of tumor antigens that induce autoantibodies and exert a decoy function against complement-mediated cytotoxicity.
PXD010688	30652484	A Case Study and Methodology for OpenSWATH Parameter Optimization Using the ProCan90 Data Set and 45 810 Computational Analysis Runs. 	ABLE-SWATH	Barocycler, Clinical Proteomics, PCT, SDC, SWATH, Sample Preparation, Urea	In the current study, we show how ProCan90, a curated data set of HEK293 technical replicates, can be used to optimize the configuration options for algorithms in the OpenSWATH pipeline. Furthermore, we use this case study as a proof of concept for horizontal scaling of such a pipeline to allow 45 810 computational analysis runs of OpenSWATH to be completed within four and a half days on a budget of US $10 000. Through the use of Amazon Web Services (AWS), we have successfully processed each of the ProCan 90 files with 506 combinations of input parameters. In total, the project consumed more than 340 000 core hours of compute and generated in excess of 26 TB of data. Using the resulting data and a set of quantitative metrics, we show an analysis pathway that allows the calculation of two optimal parameter sets, one for a compute rich environment (where run time is not a constraint), and another for a compute poor environment (where run time is optimized). For the same input files and the compute rich parameter set, we show a 29.8% improvement in the number of quality protein (>2 peptide) identifications found compared to the current OpenSWATH defaults, with negligible adverse effects on quantification reproducibility or drop in identification confidence, and a median run time of 75 min (103% increase). For the compute poor parameter set, we find a 55% improvement in the run time from the default parameter set, at the expense of a 3.4% decrease in the number of quality protein identifications, and an intensity CV decrease from 14.0% to 13.7%.
PXD011842	30653750	Use of rare-earth elements in the phyllosphere colonizer Methylobacterium extorquens PA1. 	Use of rare-earth elements in the phyllosphere colonizer Methylobacterium extorquens PA1	Ion transport, Methanol, Methylobacterium extorquens, Rare earth metals	Until recently, rare-earth elements (REEs) had been thought to be biologically inactive. This view changed with the discovery of the methanol dehydrogenase XoxF that strictly relies on REEs for its activity. Some methylotrophs only contain xoxF, while others, including the model phyllosphere colonizer Methylobacterium extorquens PA1, harbor this gene in addition to mxaFI encoding a Ca(2+) -dependent enzyme. Here we found that REEs induce the expression of xoxF in M. extorquens PA1, while repressing mxaFI, suggesting that XoxF is the preferred methanol dehydrogenase in the presence of sufficient amounts of REE. Using reporter assays and a suppressor screen, we found that lanthanum (La(3+) ) is sensed both in a XoxF-dependent and independent manner. Furthermore, we investigated the role of REEs during Arabidopsis thaliana colonization. Element analysis of the phyllosphere revealed the presence of several REEs at concentrations up to 10 mug per g dry weight. Complementary proteome analyses of M. extorquens PA1 identified XoxF as a top induced protein in planta and a core set of La(3+) -regulated proteins under defined artificial media conditions. Among these was a REE-binding protein that is encoded next to a gene for a TonB-dependent transporter. The latter was essential for REE-dependent growth on methanol indicating chelator-assisted uptake of REEs.
PXD010618	30654742	Peptimapper: proteogenomics workflow for the expert annotation of eukaryotic genomes. 	Peptimapper -  Peptimapper: proteogenomics workflow for the expert annotation of eukaryotic genomes	bioinformatics, genome annotation, peptide sequence tag, proteogenomics, tandem mass spectrometry	BACKGROUND: Accurate structural annotation of genomes is still a challenge, despite the progress made over the past decade. The prediction of gene structure remains difficult, especially for eukaryotic species, and is often erroneous and incomplete. We used a proteogenomics strategy, taking advantage of the combination of proteomics datasets and bioinformatics tools, to identify novel protein coding-genes and splice isoforms, assign correct start sites, and validate predicted exons and genes. RESULTS: Our proteogenomics workflow, Peptimapper, was applied to the genome annotation of Ectocarpus sp., a key reference genome for both the brown algal lineage and stramenopiles. We generated proteomics data from various life cycle stages of Ectocarpus sp. strains and sub-cellular fractions using a shotgun approach. First, we directly generated peptide sequence tags (PSTs) from the proteomics data. Second, we mapped PSTs onto the translated genomic sequence. Closely located hits (i.e., PSTs locations on the genome) were then clustered to detect potential coding regions based on parameters optimized for the organism. Third, we evaluated each cluster and compared it to gene predictions from existing conventional genome annotation approaches. Finally, we integrated cluster locations into GFF files to use a genome viewer. We identified two potential novel genes, a ribosomal protein L22 and an aryl sulfotransferase and corrected the gene structure of a dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase. We experimentally validated the results by RT-PCR and using transcriptomics data. CONCLUSIONS: Peptimapper is a complementary tool for the expert annotation of genomes. It is suitable for any organism and is distributed through a Docker image available on two public bioinformatics docker repositories: Docker Hub and BioShaDock. This workflow is also accessible through the Galaxy framework and for use by non-computer scientists at https://galaxy.protim.eu . Data are available via ProteomeXchange under identifier PXD010618.
PXD011786	30655516	LUBAC controls chromosome alignment by targeting CENP-E to attached kinetochores. 	MS for identifying CENP-E ubiquitination sites and MS for GST-Ub4 interacting proteins	CENP-E, KNL1	Faithful chromosome segregation requires proper chromosome congression at prometaphase and dynamic maintenance of the aligned chromosomes at metaphase. Chromosome missegregation can result in aneuploidy, birth defects and cancer. The kinetochore-bound KMN network and the kinesin motor CENP-E are critical for kinetochore-microtubule attachment and chromosome stability. The linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC) attaches linear ubiquitin chains to substrates, with well-established roles in immune response. Here, we identify LUBAC as a key player of chromosome alignment during mitosis. LUBAC catalyzes linear ubiquitination of the kinetochore motor CENP-E, which is specifically required for the localization of CENP-E at attached kinetochores, but not unattached ones. KNL1 acts as a receptor of linear ubiquitin chains to anchor CENP-E at attached kinetochores in prometaphase and metaphase. Thus, linear ubiquitination promotes chromosome congression and dynamic chromosome alignment by coupling the dynamic kinetochore microtubule receptor CENP-E to the static one, the KMN network.
PXD010687	30655532	Characterization of the Src-regulated kinome identifies SGK1 as a key mediator of Src-induced transformation. 	Characterization of the Src-regulated kinome  identifies SGK1 as a key mediator of Src-induced transformation	breast cancer, cancer, kinome, src	Despite significant progress, our understanding of how specific oncogenes transform cells is still limited and likely underestimates the complexity of downstream signalling events. To address this gap, we use mass spectrometry-based chemical proteomics to characterize the global impact of an oncogene on the expressed kinome, and then functionally annotate the regulated kinases. As an example, we identify 63 protein kinases exhibiting altered expression and/or phosphorylation in Src-transformed mammary epithelial cells. An integrated siRNA screen identifies nine kinases, including SGK1, as being essential for Src-induced transformation. Accordingly, we find that Src positively regulates SGK1 expression in triple negative breast cancer cells, which exhibit a prominent signalling network governed by Src family kinases. Furthermore, combined inhibition of Src and SGK1 reduces colony formation and xenograft growth more effectively than either treatment alone. Therefore, this approach not only provides mechanistic insights into oncogenic transformation but also aids the design of improved therapeutic strategies.
PXD010962	30657756	Naja annulifera Snake: New insights into the venom components and pathogenesis of envenomation. 	Naja annulifera Snake: New Insights into the Venom Components and Pathogenesis of Envenomation	Naja annulifera snake venom, antivenom, iBAQ, inflammation, toxins	BACKGROUND: Naja annulifera is a medically important venomous snake occurring in some of the countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. Accidental bites result in severe coagulation disturbances, systemic inflammation and heart damage, as reported in dogs, and death, by respiratory arrest, in humans. Despite the medical importance of N. annulifera, little is known about its venom composition and the pathogenesis of envenomation. In this paper, the toxic, inflammatory and immunogenic properties of N. annulifera venom were analyzed. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Venom proteomic analysis identified 79 different proteins, including Three Finger Toxins, Cysteine Rich Secretory Proteins, Metalloproteinases, Phospholipases A2 (PLA2), Hyaluronidase, L-amino-acid oxidase, Cobra Venom Factor and Serine Proteinase. The presence of PLA2, hyaluronidase, fibrinogenolytic and anticoagulant activities was detected using functional assays. The venom was cytotoxic to human keratinocytes. In an experimental murine model of envenomation, it was found that the venom induced local changes, such as swelling, which was controlled by anti-inflammatory drugs. Moreover, the venom caused death, which was preceded by systemic inflammation and pulmonary hemorrhage. The venom was shown to be immunogenic, inducing a strong humoral immune response, with the production of antibodies able to recognize venom components with high molecular weight and to neutralize its lethal activity. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The results obtained in this study demonstrate that N. annulifera venom contains toxins able to induce local and systemic inflammation, which can contribute to lung damage and death. Moreover, the venom is immunogenic, an important feature that must be considered during the production of a therapeutic anti-N. annulifera antivenom.
PXD007782	30657764	Surface molecules of extracellular vesicles secreted by the helminth pathogen Fasciola hepatica direct their internalisation by host cells. 	The surface proteome of extracellular vesicles from Fasciola hepatica	Fasciola hepatica, exosome, extracellular vesicle	Helminth parasites secrete extracellular vesicles (EVs) that can be internalised by host immune cells resulting in modulation of host immunity. While the molecular cargo of EVs have been characterised in many parasites, little is known about the surface-exposed molecules that participate in ligand-receptor interactions with the host cell surface to initiate vesicle docking and subsequent internalisation. Using a membrane-impermeable biotin reagent to capture proteins displayed on the outer membrane surface of two EV sub-populations (termed 15k and 120k EVs) released by adult F. hepatica, we describe 380 surface proteins including an array of virulence factors, membrane transport proteins and molecules involved in EV biogenesis/trafficking. Proteomics and immunohistochemical analysis show that the 120k EVs have an endosomal origin and may be released from the parasite via the protonephridial (excretory) system whilst the larger 15k EVs are released from the gastrodermal epithelial cells that line the fluke gut. A parallel lectin microarray strategy was used to profile the topology of major surface oligosaccharides of intact fluorogenically-labelled EVs as they would be displayed to the host. Lectin profiles corresponding to glycoconjugates exposed on the surface of the 15 K and 120K EV sub-populations are practically identical but are distinct from those of the parasite surface tegument, although all are predominated by high mannose sugars. We found that while the F. hepatica EVs were resistant to exo- and endo-glycosidases, the glyco-amidase PNGase F drastically remodelled the surface oligosaccharides and blocked the uptake of EVs by host macrophages. In contrast, pre-treatment with antibodies obtained from infected hosts, or purified antibodies raised against the extracellular domains of specific EV surface proteins (DM9-containing protein, CD63 receptor and myoferlin), significantly enhanced their cellular internalisation. This work highlights the diversity of EV biogenesis and trafficking pathways used by F. hepatica and sheds light on the molecular interaction between parasite EVs and host cells.
PXD008162	30658567	Proteomic analysis reveals response of differential wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) genotypes to oxygen deficiency stress. 	Proteomic analysis reveals differential of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) to oxygen deficiency stress	oxygen deficiency, wheat	BACKGROUND: Waterlogging is one of the main abiotic stresses that limit wheat production. Quantitative proteomics analysis has been applied in the study of crop abiotic stress as an effective way in recent years (e.g. salt stress, drought stress, heat stress and waterlogging stress). However, only a few proteins related to primary metabolism and signal transduction, such as UDP - glucose dehydrogenase, UGP, beta glucosidases, were reported to response to waterlogging stress in wheat. The differentially expressed proteins between genotypes of wheat in response to waterlogging are less-defined. In this study, two wheat genotypes, one is sensitive to waterlogging stress (Seri M82, named as S) and the other is tolerant to waterlogging (CIGM90.863, named as T), were compared in seedling roots under hypoxia conditions to evaluate the different responses at proteomic level. RESULTS: A total of 4560 proteins were identified and the number of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were 361, 640, 788 in S and 33, 207, 279 in T in 1, 2, 3 days, respectively. These DEPs included 270 common proteins, 681 S-specific and 50 T-specific proteins, most of which were misc., protein processing, DNA and RNA processing, amino acid metabolism and stress related proteins induced by hypoxia. Some specific proteins related to waterlogging stress, including acid phosphatase, oxidant protective enzyme, S-adenosylmethionine synthetase 1, were significantly different between S and T. A total of 20 representative genes encoding DEPs, including 7 shared DEPs and 13 cultivar-specific DEPs, were selected for further RT-qPCR analysis. Fourteen genes showed consistent dynamic expression patterns at mRNA and protein levels. CONCLUSIONS: Proteins involved in primary metabolisms and protein processing were inclined to be affected under hypoxia stress. The negative effects were more severe in the sensitive genotype. The expression patterns of some specific proteins, such as alcohol dehydrogenases and S-adenosylmethionine synthetase 1, could be applied as indexes for improving the waterlogging tolerance in wheat. Some specific proteins identified in this study will facilitate the subsequent protein function validation and biomarker development.
PXD009927	30659061	Apolipoprotein A1 Forms 5/5 and 5/4 Antiparallel Dimers in Human High-density Lipoprotein. 	Apolipoprotein A1 forms 5/5 and 5/4 antiparallel dimers in human high-density lipoprotein	APOA1, chemical cross-linking, high density lipoprotein, molecular modeling, tandem mass spectrometric analysis	Apolipoprotein A1 (APOA1), the major protein of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), contains 10 helical repeats that play key roles in protein-protein and protein-lipid interactions. The current structural model for HDL proposes that APOA1 forms an antiparallel dimer in which helix 5 in monomer 1 associates with helix 5 in monomer 2 along a left-left (LL5/5) interface, forming a protein complex with a 2-fold axis of symmetry centered on helix 5. However, computational studies suggest that other orientations are possible. To test this idea, we used a zero-length chemical cross-linking reagent that forms covalent bonds between closely apposed basic and acidic residues. Using proteolytic digestion and tandem mass spectrometry, we identified amino acids in the central region of the antiparallel APOA1 dimer of HDL that were in close contact. As predicted by the current model, we found six intermolecular cross-links that were consistent with the antiparallel LL5/5 registry. However, we also identified three intermolecular cross-links that were consistent with the antiparallel LL5/4 registry. The LL5/5 is the major structural conformation of the two complexes in both reconstituted discoidal HDL particles and in spherical HDL from human plasma. Molecular dynamic simulations suggest that that LL5/5 and LL5/4 APOA1 dimers possess similar free energies of dimerization, with LL5/5 having the lowest free energy. Our observations indicate that phospholipidated APOA1 in HDL forms different antiparallel dimers that could play distinct roles in enzyme regulation, assembly of specific protein complexes, and the functional properties of HDL in humans.
PXD010911	30659065	Multi-isotype Glycoproteomic Characterization of Serum Antibody Heavy Chains Reveals Isotype- and Subclass-Specific N-Glycosylation Profiles. 	Human Serum Immunoglobulin N-Glycosylation using nLC-MS/MS	IgA1, IgA2, IgG1, IgG4, IgM, Immunoglobulins, N-glycosylation, Serum, glycopeptides	Antibodies are critical glycoproteins that bridge the innate and adaptive immune systems to provide protection against infection. The isotype/subclass of the antibody, the co-translational N-glycosylation on the CH2 domain, and the remodeling of the N-linked glycans during passage through the ER and Golgi are the known variables within the Fc domain that program antibody effector function. Through investigations of monoclonal therapeutics, it has been observed that addition or removal of specific monosaccharide residues from antibody N-glycans can influence the potency of antibodies, highlighting the importance of thoroughly characterizing antibody N-glycosylation. Although IgGs usually have a single N-glycosylation site and are well studied, other antibody isotypes, e.g. IgA and IgM, that are the first responders in certain diseases, have two to five sites/monomer of antibody, and little is known about their N-glycosylation. Here we employ a nLC-MS/MS method using stepped-energy higher energy collisional dissociation to characterize the N-glycan repertoire and site occupancy of circulating serum antibodies. We simultaneously determined the site-specific N-linked glycan repertoire for IgG1, IgG4, IgA1, IgA2, and IgM in individual healthy donors. Compared with IgG1, IgG4 displayed a higher relative abundance of G1S1F and a lower relative abundance of G1FB. IgA1 and IgA2 displayed mostly biantennary N-glycans. IgA2 variants with the either serine (S93) or proline (P93) were detected. In digests of the sera from a subset of donors, we detected an unmodified peptide containing a proline residue at position 93; this substitution would strongly disfavor N-glycosylation at N92. IgM sites N46, N209, and N272 displayed mostly complex glycans, whereas sites N279 and N439 displayed higher relative abundances of high-mannose glycoforms. This multi-isotype approach is a crucial step toward developing a platform to define disease-specific N-glycan signatures for different isotypes to help tune antibodies to induce protection. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010911.
PXD011254	30659192	Combining LOPIT with differential ultracentrifugation for high-resolution spatial proteomics. 	LOPIT-DC subcellular map of U-2 OS cells	LOPIT-DC, cancer subcellular map, hyperLOPIT, spatial proteomics	The study of protein localisation has greatly benefited from high-throughput methods utilising cellular fractionation and proteomic profiling. Hyperplexed Localisation of Organelle Proteins by Isotope Tagging (hyperLOPIT) is a well-established method in this area. It achieves high-resolution separation of organelles and subcellular compartments but is relatively time- and resource-intensive. As a simpler alternative, we here develop Localisation of Organelle Proteins by Isotope Tagging after Differential ultraCentrifugation (LOPIT-DC) and compare this method to the density gradient-based hyperLOPIT approach. We confirm that high-resolution maps can be obtained using differential centrifugation down to the suborganellar and protein complex level. HyperLOPIT and LOPIT-DC yield highly similar results, facilitating the identification of isoform-specific localisations and high-confidence localisation assignment for proteins in suborganellar structures, protein complexes and signalling pathways. By combining both approaches, we present a comprehensive high-resolution dataset of human protein localisations and deliver a flexible set of protocols for subcellular proteomics.
PXD005810	30659199	Proteo-Transcriptomic Dynamics of Cellular Response to HIV-1 Infection. 	Dynamics of Proteo-Transcriptomic Response to HIV-1 Infection	HIV, T-cells, infection, phosphoprotein, transcriptomics, viral replication	Throughout the HIV-1 replication cycle, complex host-pathogen interactions take place in the infected cell, leading to the production of new virions. The virus modulates the host cellular machinery in order to support its life cycle, while counteracting intracellular defense mechanisms. We investigated the dynamic host response to HIV-1 infection by systematically measuring transcriptomic, proteomic, and phosphoproteomic expression changes in infected and uninfected SupT1 CD4+ T cells at five time points of the viral replication process. By means of a Gaussian mixed-effects model implemented in the new R/Bioconductor package TMixClust, we clustered host genes based on their temporal expression patterns. We identified a proteo-transcriptomic gene expression signature of 388 host genes specific for HIV-1 replication. Comprehensive functional analyses of these genes confirmed the previously described roles of some of the genes and revealed novel key virus-host interactions affecting multiple molecular processes within the host cell, including signal transduction, metabolism, cell cycle, and immune system. The results of our analysis are accessible through a freely available, dedicated and user-friendly R/Shiny application, called PEACHi2.0. This resource constitutes a catalogue of dynamic host responses to HIV-1 infection that provides a basis for a more comprehensive understanding of virus-host interactions.
PXD009512	30662596	Muscular proteomic profiling of deep pressure ulcers reveals myoprotective role of JAK2 in ischemia and reperfusion injury. 	Analysis of muscular proteomics of deep pressure ulcers reveals JAK2 influence on muscle autophagy and apoptosis	JAK2, autophagy & apoptosis, deep pressure ulcers, ischemia/reperfusion injury	Pressure ulcers (PUs) are a complex and serious clinical problem. Deep tissue injury (DTI) is either the outcome or the trigger of deep PUs. However, the cellular and molecular mechanisms that contribute to the pathogenesis of deep PUs remain unclear. In this study, the degeneration characteristics and increased autophagy and apoptosis were observed in deep PU muscle tissues. Muscular proteome of deep PU revealed that a total of 520 proteins were differentially expressed, particularly, JAK2 was down-regulated. Intriguingly, expression of JAK2 in C2C12 myoblasts exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation and reoxygenation (OGD/R) insult was also distinctly reduced. Ex vivo, we transfected C2C12 myoblasts with lentivirus carrying the JAK2 plasmid and found that JAK2-overexpressed myoblasts exhibited a decrease in autophagy and apoptosis after OGD/R treatment, as well as less cell death. Finally, Western blot analysis determined that p-JAK2, p-AKT, p-mTOR and p-ERK1/2 levels were significantly elevated, accompanied by JAK2 overexpression but without p-STAT3, and inhibition of the AKT and ERK1/2 pathway resulted in elevated apoptosis and/or autophagy. These results demonstrated that JAK2 may play an important protective role in muscular ischemia and reperfusion injury during DTI development by inhibition of autophagy and apoptosis through the AKT and ERK1/2 pathways.
PXD011716	30664249	Protein and metabolite composition of Arabidopsis stress granules. 	Protein and metabolite composition of Arabidopsis stress granules	Affinity purification, CDKA1, stress granule extraction, stress granule metabolome, stress granules proteome, stress response	Stress granules (SGs) are evolutionary conserved aggregates of proteins and untranslated mRNAs formed in response to stress. Despite their importance for stress adaptation, no complete proteome composition has been reported for plant SGs. In this study, we addressed the existing gap. Importantly, we also provide evidence for metabolite sequestration within the SGs. To isolate SGs we used Arabidopsis seedlings expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion of the SGs marker protein, Rbp47b, and an experimental protocol combining differential centrifugation with affinity purification (AP). SGs isolates were analysed using mass spectrometry-based proteomics and metabolomics. A quarter of the identified proteins constituted known or predicted SG components. Intriguingly, the remaining proteins were enriched in key enzymes and regulators, such as cyclin-dependent kinase A (CDKA), that mediate plant responses to stress. In addition to proteins, nucleotides, amino acids and phospholipids also accumulated in SGs. Taken together, our results indicated the presence of a preexisting SG protein interaction network; an evolutionary conservation of the proteins involved in SG assembly and dynamics; an important role for SGs in moderation of stress responses by selective storage of proteins and metabolites.
PXD011808	30664650	BAP1 complex promotes transcription by opposing PRC1-mediated H2A ubiquitylation. 	BAP1 complex promotes transcription by opposing PRC1-mediated H2A ubiquitylation	ASXL, BAP, PRC1	In Drosophila, a complex consisting of Calypso and ASX catalyzes H2A deubiquitination and has been reported to act as part of the Polycomb machinery in transcriptional silencing. The mammalian homologs of these proteins (BAP1 and ASXL1/2/3, respectively), are frequently mutated in various cancer types, yet their precise functions remain unclear. Using an integrative approach based on isogenic cell lines generated with CRISPR/Cas9, we uncover an unanticipated role for BAP1 in gene activation. This function requires the assembly of an enzymatically active BAP1-associated core complex (BAP1.com) containing one of the redundant ASXL proteins. We investigate the mechanism underlying BAP1.com-mediated transcriptional regulation and show that it does not participate in Polycomb-mediated silencing. Instead, our results establish that the function of BAP1.com is to safeguard transcriptionally active genes against silencing by the Polycomb Repressive Complex 1.
PXD012002	30664790	Targeting the perivascular niche sensitizes disseminated tumour cells to chemotherapy. 	Targeting the perivascular niche sensitizes disseminated tumour cells to chemotherapy	ECM, extracellular matrix, perivascular niche, theraputic resistance, tumour dormancy	The presence of disseminated tumour cells (DTCs) in bone marrow is predictive of poor metastasis-free survival of patients with breast cancer with localized disease. DTCs persist in distant tissues despite systemic administration of adjuvant chemotherapy. Many assume that this is because the majority of DTCs are quiescent. Here, we challenge this notion and provide evidence that the microenvironment of DTCs protects them from chemotherapy, independent of cell cycle status. We show that chemoresistant DTCs occupy the perivascular niche (PVN) of distant tissues, where they are protected from therapy by vascular endothelium. Inhibiting integrin-mediated interactions between DTCs and the PVN, driven partly by endothelial-derived von Willebrand factor and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1, sensitizes DTCs to chemotherapy. Importantly, chemosensitization is achieved without inducing DTC proliferation or exacerbating chemotherapy-associated toxicities, and ultimately results in prevention of bone metastasis. This suggests that prefacing adjuvant therapy with integrin inhibitors is a viable clinical strategy to eradicate DTCs and prevent metastasis.
PXD011144	30666240	Diallyl Disulfide From Garlic Oil Inhibits Pseudomonas aeruginosa Quorum Sensing Systems and Corresponding Virulence Factors. 	iTRAQ dataset of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 following dially disulfide treatment	Psuedomonas aeruginosa PAO1, bacteria	Previously, we determined that diallyl disulfide (DADS) from garlic oil can inhibit Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 pathogenic factors by inactivating the transcription of key genes from three quorum sensing (QS) systems (las, rhl, and pqs) based on the effects of DADS on growth, virulence factor production (elastase, pyocyanin, biofilm, and swarming motility), and RNA transcription (real-time q-PCR). To further investigate the mechanisms underlying the inhibition of the three P. aeruginosa QS systems by DADS, high-throughput RNA and proteome sequencing techniques were used to study differences in the transcriptional and proteome expression of P. aeruginosa PAO1 following treatment with DADS. The RNA-seq and proteomic data are available via NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus database with accession number GSE118801 and ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD011144, respectively. The experimental results indicated that all key genes of the three QS systems (las, rhl, and pqs) of P. aeruginosa PAO1 as well as the virulence factors (including exoprotease LasA, elastase LasB, lectin LecA and LecB, pyocyanin biosynthesis, and biofilm formation) regulated by these three QS systems were inhibited. This is consistent with our previous studies on the physiology, biochemistry, and RNA expression of P. aeruginosa treated with DADS. Additionally, our results also indicated that bacterial motility, chemotaxis, and two-component systems were inhibited by DADS treatment. All these changes abolish the sensitivity of P. aeruginosa PAO1 to environmental stimuli and cause the cells to be in a state of passivation. Further research is needed to determine how QS systems regulate these functions. Our findings could potentially contribute to the treatment and control of P. aeruginosa infection, virulence, and pathogenicity.
PXD007946	30666556	PIM1 kinase promotes gallbladder cancer cell proliferation via inhibition of proline-rich Akt substrate of 40 kDa (PRAS40). 	PIM1 kinase promotes gallbladder cancer cell proliferation via inhibition of proline-rich Akt substrate of 40 kDa (PRAS40)	Cell survival, Gastrointestinal cancer, PI3K/AKT/mTOR, Phosphoproteomics, SGI-1776, Targeted therapy	Gallbladder cancer (GBC) is a rare malignancy, associated with poor disease prognosis with a 5-year survival of only 20%. This has been attributed to late presentation of the disease, lack of early diagnostic markers and limited efficacy of therapeutic interventions. Elucidation of molecular events in GBC can contribute to better management of the disease by aiding in the identification of therapeutic targets. To identify aberrantly activated signaling events in GBC, tandem mass tag-based quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of five GBC cell lines was carried out. Proline-rich Akt substrate 40 kDa (PRAS40) was one of the proteins found to be hyperphosphorylated in all the invasive GBC cell lines. Tissue microarray-based immunohistochemical labeling of phospho-PRAS40 (T246) revealed moderate to strong staining in 77% of the primary gallbladder adenocarcinoma cases. Regulation of PRAS40 activity by inhibiting its upstream kinase PIM1 resulted in a significant decrease in cell proliferation, colony forming and invasive ability of GBC cells. Our results support the role of PRAS40 phosphorylation in GBC cell survival and aggressiveness. This study also elucidates phospho-PRAS40 as a clinical marker in GBC and the role of PIM1 as a therapeutic target in GBC.
PXD008602	30667229	Identification and Characterization of Canine Ligament Progenitor Cells and Their Extracellular Matrix Niche. 	Altered extracellular matrix protein dynamics distinguishes canine ligament-derived stem cells from fibroblasts	Ligament, canine, matrix, metabolic labelling, stem cells	Ligaments are prone to injury and degeneration in humans and animals, however the healing potential of ligament is poor and current treatment options ineffective. Stem cell-based therapies hold potential for treatment of ligament injuries. This study aimed to characterize a ligament progenitor cell (LPC) population and to identify specific niche components which could promote the survival and function of LPCs. LPCs were isolated from canine cranial cruciate ligament and characterized for clonogenicity, multipotency and marker expression. The extracellular matrix (ECM) composition was characterized by the novel application of a metabolic labeling and mass spectrometry technique. LPCs demonstrated clonogenicity, multipotency, and stem cell marker expression. A number of different collagens, glycoproteins, and proteoglycans were identified in the LPC niche using proteomics. Metabolic labeling of cells demonstrated unique turnover profiles for distinct ECM protein groups, indicating the importance of certain niche components for LPC survival and function. The newly synthesized niche components identified in this study could be exploited to aid identification of LPCs and to promote their survival and function for potential ligament repair strategies.
PXD011017	30668249	Dilute-and-shoot analysis of therapeutic monoclonal antibody variants in fermentation broth: a method capability study. 	Dilute-and-Shoot Analysis of Therapeutic Monoclonal Antibody Variants in Fermentation Broth: A Method Capability Study	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, MAM, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP), high-performance, monoclonal antibodies, multiple attribute monitoring	Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) are widely applied as highly specific and efficient therapeutic agents for various medical conditions, including cancer, inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. As protein production in cellular systems inherently generates a multitude of molecular variants, manufacturing of mAbs requires stringent control in order to ensure safety and efficacy of the drugs. Moreover, monitoring of mAb variants in the course of the fermentation process may allow instant tuning of process parameters to maintain optimal cell culture conditions. Here, we describe a fast and robust workflow for the characterization of mAb variants in fermentation broth. Sample preparation is minimal in that the fermentation broth is shortly centrifuged before dilution and HPLC-MS analysis in a short 15-min gradient run. In a single analysis, N-glycosylation and truncation variants of the expressed mAb are identified at the intact protein level. Simultaneously, absolute quantification of mAb content in fermentation broth is achieved. The whole workflow features excellent robustness as well as retention time and peak area stability. Additional enzymatic removal of N-glycans enables determination of mAb glycation levels, which are subsequently considered in relative N-glycoform quantification to correct for isobaric galactosylation. Several molecular attributes of the expressed therapeutic protein may thus be continuously monitored to ensure the desired product profile. Application of the described workflow in an industrial environment may therefore substantially enhance in-process control in mAb production, as well as targeted biosimilar development.
PXD012391	30668822	Algal Protein Kinase, Triacylglycerol Accumulation Regulator 1, Modulates Cell Viability and Gametogenesis in Carbon/Nitrogen-Imbalanced Conditions. 	Algal Protein Kinase, Triacylglycerol Accumulation Regulator1, Modulates Cell Viability and Gametogenesis in Carbon/Nitrogen Imbalanced Conditions	C/N balance, Chlamydomonas, dual-specificity tyrosine-phosphorylationregulated kinase, gametogenesis, hydrogen peroxide, phosphoproteome	Nutrient-deprived microalgae accumulate triacylglycerol (TAG) in lipid droplets. A dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase, TAG accumulation regulator 1 (TAR1) has been shown to be required for acetate-dependent TAG accumulation and the degradation of chlorophyll and photosynthesis-related proteins in photomixotrophic nitrogen (N)-deficient conditions (Kajikawa eti?(1/2)al. 2015). However, this previous report only examined particular condition. Here, we report that in photoautotrophic N-deficient conditions, tar1-1 cells, with a mutation in the TAR1 gene, maintained higher levels of cell viability and lower levels of hydrogen peroxide generation and accumulated higher levels of TAG and starch compared with those of wild type (WT) cells with bubbling of air containing 5% carbon dioxide. Transcriptomic analyses suggested that genes involved in the scavenging of reactive oxygen species are not repressed in tar1-1 cells. In contrast, the mating efficiency and mRNA levels of key regulatory genes for gametogenesis, MID, MTD and FUS, were suppressed in tar1-1 cells. Among the TAR1-dependent phosphopeptides deduced by phosphoproteomic analysis, protein kinases and enzymes related to N assimilation and carbon (C) metabolism are of particular interest. Characterization of these putative downstream factors may elucidate the molecular pathway whereby TAR1 mediates cellular propagation and C and N metabolism in C/N-imbalanced stress conditions.
PXD011999	30670633	Systemic analysis of tyrosine kinase signaling reveals a common adaptive response program in a HER2-positive breast cancer. 	DARPin_study -  Systemic analysis of tyrosine kinase signaling reveals a common adaptive response program in a HER2-positive breast cancer	LCMS, signaling	Drug-induced compensatory signaling and subsequent rewiring of the signaling pathways that support cell proliferation and survival promote the development of acquired drug resistance in tumors. Here, we sought to analyze the adaptive kinase response in cancer cells after distinct treatment with agents targeting human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), specifically those that induce either only temporary cell cycle arrest or, alternatively, apoptosis in HER2-overexpressing cancers. We compared trastuzumab, ARRY380, the combination thereof, and a biparatopic, HER2-targeted designed ankyrin repeat protein (DARPin; specifically, 6L1G) and quantified the phosphoproteome by isobaric tagging using tandem mass tag liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (TMT LC-MS/MS). We found a specific signature of persistently phosphorylated tyrosine peptides after the nonapoptotic treatments, which we used to distinguish between different treatment-induced cancer cell fates. Next, we analyzed the activation of serine/threonine and tyrosine kinases after treatment using a bait peptide chip array and predicted the corresponding active kinases. Through a combined system-wide analysis, we identified a common adaptive kinase response program that involved the activation of focal adhesion kinase 1 (FAK1), protein kinase C-delta (PRKCD), and Ephrin (EPH) family receptors. These findings reveal potential targets to prevent adaptive resistance to HER2-targeted therapies.
PXD011721	30670689	The circadian clock components BMAL1 and REV-ERBalpha regulate flavivirus replication. 	The circadian clock components BMAL1 and Rev-Erb regulate flavivirus replication	DDA, PRM	The circadian clock regulates immune responses to microbes and affects pathogen replication, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood. Here we demonstrate that the circadian components BMAL1 and REV-ERBalpha influence several steps in the hepatitis C virus (HCV) life cycle, including particle entry into hepatocytes and RNA genome replication. Genetic knock out of Bmal1 and over-expression or activation of REV-ERB with synthetic agonists inhibits the replication of HCV and the related flaviruses dengue and Zika via perturbation of lipid signaling pathways. This study highlights a role for the circadian clock component REV-ERBalpha in regulating flavivirus replication.
PXD011722	30670847	Mice exposed to maternal androgen excess and diet-induced obesity have altered phosphorylation of catechol-O-methyltransferase in the placenta and fetal liver. 	Proteomic And Phosphoproteomic Study Of Placenta And Fetal Liver In Mice With Diet-Induced Obesity	LC-MS, Liver, Obesity, Phosphoproteomics, Placenta, Tandem Mass Tag	BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Maternal obesity together with androgen excess in mice negatively affects placental function and maternal and fetal liver function as demonstrated by increased triglyceride content with dysfunctional expression of enzymes and transcription factors involved in de novo lipogenesis and fat storage. To identify changes in molecular pathways that might promote diseases in adulthood, we performed a global proteomic analysis using a liquid-chromatography/mass-spectrometry system to investigate total and phosphorylated proteins in the placenta and fetal liver in a mouse model that combines maternal obesity with maternal androgen excess. METHODS: After ten weeks on a control diet (CD) or high fat/high sugar-diet, dams were mated with males fed the CD. Between gestational day (GD) 16.5 and GD 18.5, mice were injected with vehicle or dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and sacrificed at GD 18.5 prior to dissection of the placentas and fetal livers. Four pools of female placentas and fetal livers were subjected to a global proteomic analysis. Total and phosphorylated proteins were filtered by ANOVA q < 0.05, and this was followed by two-way ANOVA to determine the effect of maternal obesity and/or androgen exposure. RESULTS: In placenta, phosphorylated ATP-citrate synthase was decreased due to maternal obesity, and phosphorylated catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) was differentially expressed due to the interaction between maternal diet and DHT exposure. In fetal liver, five total proteins and 48 proteins phosphorylated in one or more sites, were differentially expressed due to maternal obesity or androgen excess. In fetal liver, phosphorylated COMT expression was higher in fetus exposed to maternal obesity. CONCLUSION: These results suggest a common regulatory mechanism of catecholamine metabolism in the placenta and the fetal liver as demonstrated by higher phosphorylated COMT expression in the placenta and fetal liver from animals exposed to diet-induced maternal obesity and lower expression of phosphorylated COMT in animals exposed to maternal androgen excess.
PXD011910	30671891	Improving Precursor Selectivity in Data-Independent Acquisition Using Overlapping Windows. 	Improving Precursor Selectivity in Data Independent Acquisition Using Overlapping Windows	Q-Exactive, bovine, data independent acquisition, multiplexing, orbitrap, proteasome, quantification, rapamycin, spike-in	A major goal of proteomics research is the accurate and sensitive identification and quantification of a broad range of proteins within a sample. Data-independent acquisition (DIA) approaches that acquire MS/MS spectra independently of precursor information have been developed to overcome the reproducibility challenges of data-dependent acquisition and the limited breadth of targeted proteomics strategies. Typical DIA implementations use wide MS/MS isolation windows to acquire comprehensive fragment ion data. However, wide isolation windows produce highly chimeric spectra, limiting the achievable sensitivity and accuracy of quantification and identification. Here, we present a DIA strategy in which spectra are collected with overlapping (rather than adjacent or random) windows and then computationally demultiplexed. This approach improves precursor selectivity by nearly a factor of 2, without incurring any loss in mass range, mass resolution, chromatographic resolution, scan speed, or other key acquisition parameters. We demonstrate a 64% improvement in sensitivity and a 17% improvement in peptides detected in a 6-protein bovine mix spiked into a yeast background. To confirm the method's applicability to a realistic biological experiment, we also analyze the regulation of the proteasome in yeast grown in rapamycin and show that DIA experiments with overlapping windows can help elucidate its adaptation toward the degradation of oxidatively damaged proteins. Our integrated computational and experimental DIA strategy is compatible with any DIA-capable instrument. The computational demultiplexing algorithm required to analyze the data has been made available as part of the open-source proteomics software tools Skyline and msconvert (Proteowizard), making it easy to apply as part of standard proteomics workflows. Graphical Abstract.
PXD009944	30674727	Polypropylene mesh implantation for hernia repair causes myeloid cell-driven persistent inflammation. 	Polypropylene mesh implantation for hernia repair triggers myeloid cell-dependent persistent inflammatory foreign body reaction	biomaterial, chemokine, granuloma, inflammation, macrophages, monocytes	Polypropylene meshes that are commonly used for inguinal hernia repair may trigger granulomatous foreign body reactions. Here, we show that asymptomatic patients display mesh-associated inflammatory granulomas long after surgery, which are dominated by monocyte-derived macrophages expressing high levels of inflammatory activation markers. In mice, mesh implantation by the onlay technique induced rapid and strong myeloid cell accumulation, without substantial attenuation for up to 90 days. Myeloid cells segregated into distinct macrophage subsets with separate spatial distribution, activation profiles, and functional properties, showing a stable inflammatory phenotype in the tissue surrounding the biomaterial and a mixed, wound-healing phenotype in the surrounding stromal tissue. Protein mass spectrometry confirmed the inflammatory nature of the foreign body reaction, as characterized by cytokines, complement activation, and matrix-modulating factors. Moreover, immunoglobulin deposition increased over time around the implant, arguing for humoral immune responses in association with the cell-driven inflammation. Intravital multiphoton microscopy revealed a high motility and continuous recruitment of myeloid cells, which is partly dependent on the chemokine receptor CCR2. CCR2-dependent macrophages are particular drivers of fibroblast proliferation. Thus, our work functionally characterizes myeloid cell-dependent inflammation following mesh implantation, thereby providing insights into the dynamics and mechanisms of foreign body reactions to implanted biomaterials.
PXD011835	30675519	Representing dynamic biological networks with multi-scale probabilistic models. 	HEK293T MS -  Representing dynamic biological networks with multi-scale probabilistic models	HEK293T, JNK1, JNK2, RAC1, st-RNA knockdown	Dynamic models analyzing gene regulation and metabolism face challenges when adapted to modeling signal transduction networks. During signal transduction, molecular reactions and mechanisms occur in different spatial and temporal frames and involve feedbacks. This impedes the straight-forward use of methods based on Boolean networks, Bayesian approaches, and differential equations. We propose a new approach, ProbRules, that combines probabilities and logical rules to represent the dynamics of a system across multiple scales. We demonstrate that ProbRules models can represent various network motifs of biological systems. As an example of a comprehensive model of signal transduction, we provide a Wnt network that shows remarkable robustness under a range of phenotypical and pathological conditions. Its simulation allows the clarification of controversially discussed molecular mechanisms of Wnt signaling by predicting wet-lab measurements. ProbRules provides an avenue in current computational modeling by enabling systems biologists to integrate vast amounts of available data on different scales.
PXD012145	30679422	Podocyte GSK3 is an evolutionarily conserved critical regulator of kidney function. 	GSK3 alpha/beta knockout Mouse Podocytes proteomics	Mouse TMT proteomics	Albuminuria affects millions of people, and is an independent risk factor for kidney failure, cardiovascular morbidity and death. The key cell that prevents albuminuria is the terminally differentiated glomerular podocyte. Here we report the evolutionary importance of the enzyme Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 (GSK3) for maintaining podocyte function in mice and the equivalent nephrocyte cell in Drosophila. Developmental deletion of both GSK3 isoforms (alpha and beta) in murine podocytes causes late neonatal death associated with massive albuminuria and renal failure. Similarly, silencing GSK3 in nephrocytes is developmentally lethal for this cell. Mature genetic or pharmacological podocyte/nephrocyte GSK3 inhibition is also detrimental; producing albuminuric kidney disease in mice and nephrocyte depletion in Drosophila. Mechanistically, GSK3 loss causes differentiated podocytes to re-enter the cell cycle and undergo mitotic catastrophe, modulated via the Hippo pathway but independent of Wnt-beta-catenin. This work clearly identifies GSK3 as a critical regulator of podocyte and hence kidney function.
PXD010217	30679640	Off-target based drug repurposing opportunities for tivantinib in acute myeloid leukemia. 	Off-target based drug repurposing opportunities for tivantinib in acute myeloid leukemia	AML, Drug Pulldowns, Tivantinib	GSK3alpha has been identified as a new target in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, most GSK3 inhibitors lack specificity for GSK3alpha over GSK3beta and other kinases. We have previously shown in lung cancer cells that GSK3alpha and to a lesser extent GSK3beta are inhibited by the advanced clinical candidate tivantinib (ARQ197), which was designed as a MET inhibitor. Thus, we hypothesized that tivantinib would be an effective therapy for the treatment of AML. Here, we show that tivantinib has potent anticancer activity across several AML cell lines and primary patient cells. Tivantinib strongly induced apoptosis, differentiation and G2/M cell cycle arrest and caused less undesirable stabilization of beta-catenin compared to the pan-GSK3 inhibitor LiCl. Subsequent drug combination studies identified the BCL-2 inhibitor ABT-199 to synergize with tivantinib while cytarabine combination with tivantinib was antagonistic. Interestingly, the addition of ABT-199 to tivantinib completely abrogated tivantinib induced beta-catenin stabilization. Tivantinib alone, or in combination with ABT-199, downregulated anti-apoptotic MCL-1 and BCL-XL levels, which likely contribute to the observed synergy. Importantly, tivantinib as single agent or in combination with ABT-199 significantly inhibited the colony forming capacity of primary patient AML bone marrow mononuclear cells. In summary, tivantinib is a novel GSK3alpha/beta inhibitor that potently kills AML cells and tivantinib single agent or combination therapy with ABT-199 may represent attractive new therapeutic opportunities for AML.
PXD008578	30680880	The antitoxin MqsA homologue in Pseudomonas fluorescens 2P24 has a rewired regulatory circuit through evolution. 	pseudomonas fluorescens LC-MSMS	pseudomonas fluorescens LC-MSMS proteomics	The mqsRA operon encodes a toxin-antitoxin pair that was characterized to participate in biofilm and persister cell formation in Escherichia coli. Notably, the antitoxin MqsA possesses a C-terminal DNA-binding domain that recognizes the [5'-AACCT(N)2-4 AGGTT-3'] motif and acts as a transcriptional regulator controlling multiple genes including the general stress response regulator RpoS. However, it is unknown how the transcriptional circuits of MqsA homologues have changed in bacteria over evolutionary time. Here, we found mqsA in Pseudomonas fluorescens (PfmqsA) is acquired through horizontal gene transfer and binds to a slightly different motif [5'-TACCCT(N)3 AGGGTA-3'], which exists upstream of the PfmqsRA operon. Interestingly, an adjacent GntR-type transcriptional regulator, which was termed AgtR, is under negative control of PfMqsA. It was further demonstrated that PfMqsA reduces production of biofilm components through AgtR, which directly regulates the pga and fap operons involved in the synthesis of extracellular polymeric substances. Moreover, through quantitative proteomics analysis, we showed AgtR is a highly pleiotropic regulator that influences up to 252 genes related to diverse processes including chemotaxis, oxidative phosphorylation and carbon and nitrogen metabolism. Taken together, our findings suggest the rewired regulatory circuit of PfMqsA influences diverse physiological aspects of P. fluorescens 2P24 via the newly characterized AgtR.
PXD012204	30682348	Aggregation of Respiratory Complex Subunits Marks the Onset of Proteotoxicity in Proteasome Inhibited Cells. 	Aggregation of respiratory complex subunits marks the onset of proteotoxicity in proteasome inhibited cells	Proteostasis, low complexity region, mitochondria, mitochondrial respiratory chain complex, protein aggregation, protein misfolding, protein turnover	Proteostasis is maintained by optimal expression, folding, transport, and clearance of proteins. Deregulation of any of these processes triggers protein aggregation and is implicated in many age-related pathologies. In this study, using quantitative proteomics and microscopy, we show that aggregation of many nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins is an early protein destabilization event during short-term proteasome inhibition. Among these, respiratory chain complex (RCC) subunits represent a group of functionally related proteins consistently forming aggregates under multiple proteostasis stresses with varying aggregation propensities. Sequence analysis reveals that several RCC subunits, irrespective of the cleavable mitochondrial targeting sequence, contain low-complexity regions at the N-terminus. Using different chimeric and mutant constructs, we show that these low-complexity regions partially contribute to the intrinsic instability of multiple RCC subunits. Taken together, we propose that physicochemically driven aggregation of unassembled RCC subunits destabilizes their functional assembly inside mitochondria. This eventually deregulates the biogenesis of respiratory complexes and marks the onset of mitochondrial dysfunction.
PXD011386	30682706	Quantifying changes in the bacterial thiol redox proteome during host-pathogen interaction. 	Quantifying changes in the bacterial thiol redox proteome during host-pathogen interaction	Escherichia coli, Neutrophils, PLB-985, Redox proteomics	Phagocyte-derived production of a complex mixture of different oxidants is a major mechanism of the host defense against microbial intruders. On the protein level, a major target of these oxidants is the thiol group of the amino acid cysteine in proteins. Oxidation of thiol groups is a widespread regulatory post-translational protein modification. It is used by bacteria to respond to and to overcome oxidative stress. Numerous redox proteomic studies have shown that protein thiols in bacteria, such as Escherichia coli react towards a number of oxidants in specific ways. However, our knowledge about protein thiols in bacteria exposed to the complex mixture of oxidants encountered in the phagolysosome is still limited. In this study, we used a quantitative redox proteomic method (OxICAT) to assess the in vivo thiol oxidation status of phagocytized E. coli. The majority (65.5%) of identified proteins harbored thiols that were significantly oxidized (> 30%) upon phagocytosis. A substantial number of these proteins are from major metabolic pathways or are involved in cell detoxification and stress response, suggesting a systemic breakdown of the bacterial cysteine proteome in phagocytized bacteria. 16 of the oxidized proteins provide E. coli with a significant growth advantage in the presence of H2O2, when compared to deletion mutants lacking these proteins, and 11 were shown to be essential under these conditions.
PXD012416	30683687	Mitochondrial stress response triggered by defects in protein synthesis quality control. 	A MITOCHONDRIAL STRESS RESPONSE TRIGGERED BY DEFECTS  IN PROTEIN SYNTHESIS QUALITY CONTROL	membrane, mitochondrial disease, quality control, ribosome, translation	Mitochondria have a compartmentalized gene expression system dedicated to the synthesis of membrane proteins essential for oxidative phosphorylation. Responsive quality control mechanisms are needed to ensure that aberrant protein synthesis does not disrupt mitochondrial function. Pathogenic mutations that impede the function of the mitochondrial matrix quality control protease complex composed of AFG3L2 and paraplegin cause a multifaceted clinical syndrome. At the cell and molecular level, defects to this quality control complex are defined by impairment to mitochondrial form and function. Here, we establish the etiology of these phenotypes. We show how disruptions to the quality control of mitochondrial protein synthesis trigger a sequential stress response characterized first by OMA1 activation followed by loss of mitochondrial ribosomes and by remodelling of mitochondrial inner membrane ultrastructure. Inhibiting mitochondrial protein synthesis with chloramphenicol completely blocks this stress response. Together, our data establish a mechanism linking major cell biological phenotypes of AFG3L2 pathogenesis and show how modulation of mitochondrial protein synthesis can exert a beneficial effect on organelle homeostasis.
PXD011730	30683861	Loss-of-function mutations in QRICH2 cause male infertility with multiple morphological abnormalities of the sperm flagella. 	Loss-of-function mutations in QRICH2 cause male infertility with multiple morphological abnormalities of the sperm flagella	morphological abnormalities, mutation, proteomics analysis, sperm flagella	Aberrant sperm flagella impair sperm motility and cause male infertility, yet the genes which have been identified in multiple morphological abnormalities of the flagella (MMAF) can only explain the pathogenic mechanisms of MMAF in a small number of cases. Here, we identify and functionally characterize homozygous loss-of-function mutations of QRICH2 in two infertile males with MMAF from two consanguineous families. Remarkably, Qrich2 knock-out (KO) male mice constructed by CRISPR-Cas9 technology present MMAF phenotypes and sterility. To elucidate the mechanisms of Qrich2 functioning in sperm flagellar formation, we perform proteomic analysis on the testes of KO and wild-type mice. Furthermore, in vitro experiments indicate that QRICH2 is involved in sperm flagellar development through stabilizing and enhancing the expression of proteins related to flagellar development. Our findings strongly suggest that the genetic mutations of human QRICH2 can lead to male infertility with MMAF and that QRICH2 is essential for sperm flagellar formation.
PXD010396	30686758	A Soluble Metabolon Synthesizes the Isoprenoid Lipid Ubiquinone. 	Ubi complex characterization  .	E. coli, multiprotein complex, ubiquinone	Ubiquinone (UQ) is a polyprenylated lipid that is conserved from bacteria to humans and is crucial to cellular respiration. How the cell orchestrates the efficient synthesis of UQ, which involves the modification of extremely hydrophobic substrates by multiple sequential enzymes, remains an unresolved issue. Here, we demonstrate that seven Ubi proteins form the Ubi complex, a stable metabolon that catalyzes the last six reactions of the UQ biosynthetic pathway in Escherichia coli. The SCP2 domain of UbiJ forms an extended hydrophobic cavity that binds UQ intermediates inside the 1-MDa Ubi complex. We purify the Ubi complex from cytoplasmic extracts and demonstrate that UQ biosynthesis occurs in this fraction, challenging the current thinking of a membrane-associated biosynthetic process. Collectively, our results document a rare case of stable metabolon and highlight how the supramolecular organization of soluble enzymes allows the modification of hydrophobic substrates in a hydrophilic environment.
PXD014971	30686762	Are These Cardiomyocytes? Protocol Development Reveals Impact of Sample Preparation on the Accuracy of Identifying Cardiomyocytes by Flow Cytometry. 	Are These Cardiomyocytes? Protocol Development Reveals Impact of Sample Preparation on the Accuracy of Identifying Cardiomyocytes by Flow Cytometry	cardiomyocytes, flow cytometry, quality control, standard operating protocol, troponin	Several protocols now support efficient differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells to cardiomyocytes (hPSC-CMs) but these still indicate line-to-line variability. As the number of studies implementing this technology expands, accurate assessment of cell identity is paramount to well-defined studies that can be replicated among laboratories. While flow cytometry is apt for routine assessment, a standardized protocol for assessing cardiomyocyte identity has not yet been established. Therefore, the current study leveraged targeted mass spectrometry to confirm the presence of troponin proteins in day 25 hPSC-CMs and systematically evaluated multiple anti-troponin antibodies and sample preparation protocols for their suitability in assessing cardiomyocyte identity. Results demonstrate challenges to interpreting data generated by published methods and inform the development of a robust protocol for routine assessment of hPSC-CMs. The data, workflow for antibody evaluation, and standardized protocol described here should benefit investigators new to this field and those with expertise in hPSC-CM differentiation.
PXD010967	30687251	First Viruses Infecting the Marine Diatom Guinardia delicatula. 	First viruses infecting the marine diatom Guinardia delicatula	Diatoms, Genomics, Host-virus dynamics, Western English Channel, single-stranded RNA viruses	The marine diatom Guinardia delicatula is a cosmopolitan species that dominates seasonal blooms in the English Channel and the North Sea. Several eukaryotic parasites are known to induce the mortality of this species. Here, we report the isolation and characterization of the first viruses that infect G. delicatula. Viruses were isolated from the Western English Channel (SOMLIT-Astan station) during the late summer bloom decline of G. delicatula. A combination of laboratory approaches revealed that these lytic viruses (GdelRNAV) are small tailless particles of 35-38 nm in diameter that replicate in the host cytoplasm where both unordered particles and crystalline arrays are formed. GdelRNAV display a linear single-stranded RNA genome of ~9 kb, including two open reading frames encoding for replication and structural polyproteins. Phylogenetic relationships based on the RNA-dependent-RNA-polymerase gene marker showed that GdelRNAV are new members of the Bacillarnavirus, a monophyletic genus belonging to the order Picornavirales. GdelRNAV are specific to several strains of G. delicatula. They were rapidly and largely produced (<12 h, 9.34 x 10(4) virions per host cell). Our analysis points out the host's variable viral susceptibilities during the early exponential growth phase. Interestingly, we consistently failed to isolate viruses during spring and early summer while G. delicatula developed important blooms. While our study suggests that viruses do contribute to the decline of G. delicatula's late summer bloom, they may not be the primary mortality agents during the remaining blooms at SOMLIT-Astan. Future studies should focus on the relative contribution of the viral and eukaryotic pathogens to the control of Guinardia's blooms to understand the fate of these prominent organisms in marine systems.
PXD011622	30687793	Typing complex meningococcal vaccines to understand diversity and population structure of key vaccine antigens. 	Typing complex meningococcal vaccines to understand diversity and population structure of key vaccine antigens	Neisseria meningitidis, Outer membrane vesicle, meningococcal, shotgun proteomics, vaccines	Background: Protein-conjugate capsular polysaccharide vaccines can potentially control invasive meningococcal disease (IMD) caused by five (A, C, W, X, Y) of the six IMD-associated serogroups.  Concerns raised by immunological similarity of the serogroup B capsule, to human neural cell carbohydrates, has meant that 'serogroup B substitute' vaccines target more variable subcapsular protein antigens.  A successful approach using outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) as major vaccine components had limited strain coverage. In 4CMenB (Bexsero ((R))), recombinant proteins have been added to ameliorate this problem.  Methods: Here, scalable, portable, genomic techniques were used to investigate the Bexsero ((R)) OMV protein diversity in meningococcal populations. Shotgun proteomics identified 461 proteins in the OMV, defining a complex proteome. Amino acid sequences for the 24 proteins most likely to be involved in cross-protective immune responses were catalogued within the PubMLST.org/neisseria database using a novel OMV peptide Typing (OMVT) scheme. Results: Among these proteins there was variation in the extent of diversity and association with meningococcal lineages, identified as clonal complexes (ccs), ranging from the most conserved peptides (FbpA, NEISp0578, and putative periplasmic protein, NEISp1063) to the most diverse (TbpA, NEISp1690).  There were 1752 unique OMVTs identified amongst 2492/3506 isolates examined by whole-genome sequencing (WGS). These OMVTs were grouped into clusters (sharing >=18 identical OMVT peptides), with 45.3% of isolates assigned to one of 27 OMVT clusters. OMVTs and OMVT clusters were strongly associated with cc, genogroup, and Bexsero ((R)) antigen variants, demonstrating that combinations of OMV proteins exist in discrete, non-overlapping combinations associated with genogroup and Bexsero ((R)) Antigen Sequence Type. This highly structured population of IMD-associated meningococci is consistent with strain structure models invoking host immune selection. Conclusions: The OMVT scheme facilitates region-specific WGS investigation of meningococcal diversity and is an open-access, portable tool with applications for vaccine development, especially in the choice of antigen combinations, assessment and implementation.
PXD011860	30691071	Eukaryotic Translation Elongation is Modulated by Single Natural Nucleotide Derivatives in the Coding Sequences of mRNAs. 	Eukaryotic translation is modulated by natural mRNA nucleotide derivatives	decoding, nucleotide modifications, ribosome, translation elongation	RNA modifications are crucial factors for efficient protein synthesis. All classes of RNAs that are involved in translation are modified to different extents. Recently, mRNA modifications and their impact on gene regulation became a focus of interest because they can exert a variety of effects on the fate of mRNAs. mRNA modifications within coding sequences can either directly or indirectly interfere with protein synthesis. In order to investigate the roles of various natural occurring modified nucleotides, we site-specifically introduced them into the coding sequence of reporter mRNAs and subsequently translated them in HEK293T cells. The analysis of the respective protein products revealed a strong position-dependent impact of RNA modifications on translation efficiency and accuracy. Whereas a single 5-methylcytosine (m5C) or pseudouridine () did not reduce product yields, N(1)-methyladenosine (m(1)A) generally impeded the translation of the respective modified mRNA. An inhibitory effect of 2'O-methlyated nucleotides (Nm) and N6-methyladenosine (m6A) was strongly dependent on their position within the codon. Finally, we could not attribute any miscoding potential to the set of mRNA modifications tested in HEK293T cells.
PXD006195	30692974	Intricate Crosstalk Between Lipopolysaccharide, Phospholipid and Fatty Acid Metabolism in Escherichia coli Modulates Proteolysis of LpxC. 	Super-SILAC reveals intricate crosstalk between lipopolysaccharide, phospholipid and fatty acid metabolism in Escherichia coli	Escherichia coli, FtsH, LpxC, lipopolysaccharide, proteolysis, quantitative proteomics, super-SILAC	Lipopolysaccharides (LPS) in the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria provide the first line of defense against antibiotics and other harmful compounds. LPS biosynthesis critically depends on LpxC catalyzing the first committed enzyme in this process. In Escherichia coli, the cellular concentration of LpxC is adjusted in a growth rate-dependent manner by the FtsH protease making sure that LPS biosynthesis is coordinated with the cellular demand. As a result, LpxC is stable in fast-growing cells and prone to degradation in slow-growing cells. One of the factors involved in this process is the alarmone guanosine tetraphosphate (ppGpp) but previous studies suggested the involvement of yet unknown factors in LpxC degradation. We established a quantitative proteomics approach aiming at the identification of proteins that are associated with LpxC and/or FtsH at high or low growth rates. The identification of known LpxC and FtsH interactors validated our approach. A number of proteins involved in fatty acid biosynthesis and degradation, including the central regulator FadR, were found in the LpxC and/or FtsH interactomes. Another protein associated with LpxC and FtsH was WaaH, a LPS-modifying enzyme. When overproduced, several members of the LpxC/FtsH interactomes were able to modulate LpxC proteolysis. Our results go beyond the previously established link between LPS and phospholipid biosynthesis and uncover a far-reaching network that controls LPS production by involving multiple enzymes in fatty acid metabolism, phospholipid biosynthesis and LPS modification.
PXD011861	30693776	Optimized Fragmentation Improves the Identification of Peptides Cross-Linked by MS-Cleavable Reagents. 	Optimized fragmentation improves the identification of peptides cross-linked using MS-cleavable reagents	DSSO, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, XLMS, benchmarking, cleavable cross-linking reagents, cross-linking, machine learning, stepped-HCD	Cross-linking mass spectrometry is becoming increasingly popular, and current advances are widening the applicability of the technique so that it can be utilized by nonspecialist laboratories. Specifically, the use of novel mass-spectrometry-cleavable (MS-cleavable) reagents dramatically reduces the complexity of the data by providing (i) characteristic reporter ions and (ii) the mass of the individual peptides rather than that of the cross-linked moiety. However, optimum acquisition strategies to obtain the best-quality data for such cross-linkers with higher energy C-trap dissociation (HCD) alone are yet to be achieved. Therefore, we have carefully investigated and optimized MS parameters to facilitate the identification of disuccinimidyl-sulfoxide-based cross-links on HCD-equipped mass spectrometers. From the comparison of nine different fragmentation energies, we chose several stepped-HCD fragmentation methods that were evaluated on a variety of cross-linked proteins. The optimal stepped-HCD method was then directly compared with previously described methods using an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos Tribrid instrument using a high-complexity sample. The final results indicate that our stepped-HCD method is able to identify more cross-links than other methods, mitigating the need for multistage MS-enabled (MS(n)) instrumentation and alternative dissociation techniques. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD011861.
PXD010078	30696436	Comparative proteome analysis in an Escherichia coli CyDisCo strain identifies stress responses related to protein production, oxidative stress and accumulation of misfolded protein. 	Analysis of Escherichia coli CyDisCo proteome changes in response to the expression of scFv and the misfolded scFv	Escherichia coli, Stress response, Tat system	BACKGROUND: The Twin-arginine translocation (Tat) pathway of Escherichia coli has great potential for the export of biopharmaceuticals to the periplasm due to its ability to transport folded proteins, and its proofreading mechanism that allows correctly folded proteins to translocate. Coupling the Tat-dependent protein secretion with the formation of disulfide bonds in the cytoplasm of E. coli CyDisCo provides a powerful platform for the production of industrially challenging proteins. In this study, we investigated the effects on the E. coli cells of exporting a folded substrate (scFv) to the periplasm using a Tat signal peptide, and the effects of expressing an export-incompetent misfolded variant. RESULTS: Cell growth is decreased when either the correctly folded or misfolded scFv is expressed with a Tat signal peptide. However, only the production of misfolded scFv leads to cell aggregation and formation of inclusion bodies. The comprehensive proteomic analysis revealed that both conditions, recombinant protein overexpression and misfolded protein accumulation, lead to downregulation of membrane transporters responsible for protein folding and insertion into the membrane while upregulating the production of chaperones and proteases involved in removing aggregates. These conditions also differentially affect the production of transcription factors and proteins involved in DNA replication. The most distinct stress response observed was the cell aggregation caused by elevated levels of antigen 43. Finally, Tat-dependent secretion causes an increase in tatA expression only after induction of protein expression, while the subsequent post-induction analysis revealed lower tatA and tatB expression levels, which correlate with lowered TatA and TatB protein abundance. CONCLUSIONS: The study identified characteristic changes occurring as a result of the production of both a folded and a misfolded protein, but also highlights an exclusive unfolded stress response. Countering and compensating for these changes may result in higher yields of pharmaceutically relevant proteins exported to the periplasm.
PXD010059	30696480	Reversible SAHH inhibitor protects against glomerulonephritis in lupus-prone mice by downregulating renal alpha-actinin-4 expression and stabilizing integrin-cytoskeleton linkage. 	Reversible SAHH inhibitor protects against glomerulonephritis in lupus-prone NZB/NZW F1 mice by modulating alpha-actinin-4 associated skeleton organization of podocytes	SAHH inhibitor, glomerulonephritis, integrin-linked kinase, podocyte injury, skeleton organization, alpha-actinin-4	BACKGROUND: Glomerulonephritis is one of the major complications and causes of death in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and is characterized by glomerulosclerosis, interstitial fibrosis, and tubular atrophy, along with severe persistent proteinuria. DZ2002 is a reversible S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase (SAHH) inhibitor with potent therapeutic activity against lupus nephritis in mice. However, the molecular events underlying the renal protective effects of DZ2002 remained unclear. This study is designed to uncover the molecular mechanisms of DZ2002 on glomerulonephritis of lupus-prone mice. METHODS: We conducted a twice-daily treatment of DZ2002 on the lupus-prone NZB/WF1 mice, and the progression of lupus nephritis and alteration of renal function were monitored. The LC-MS-based label-free quantitative (LFQ) proteomic approach was applied to analyze the kidney tissue samples from the normal C57BL/6 mice and the NZB/WF1 mice treated with DZ2002 or vehicle. KEGG pathway enrichment and direct protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were used to map the pathways in which the significantly changed proteins (SCPs) are involved. The selected proteins from proteomic analysis were validated by Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry in the kidney tissues. RESULTS: The twice-daily regimen of DZ2002 administration significantly ameliorated the lupus nephritis and improved the renal function in NZB/WF1 mice. A total of 3275 proteins were quantified, of which 253 proteins were significantly changed across normal C57BL/6 mice and the NZB/WF1 mice treated with DZ2002 or vehicle. Pathway analysis revealed that 13 SCPs were involved in tight junction and focal adhesion process. Further protein expression validation demonstrated that DZ2002-treated NZB/WF1 mice exhibited downregulation of alpha-actinin-4 and integrin-linked kinase (ILK), as well as the restoration of beta1-integrin activation in the kidney tissues compared with the vehicle-treated ones. CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated the first evidence for the molecular mechanism of SAHH inhibitor on glomerulonephritis in SLE via the modulation of alpha-actinin-4 expression and focal adhesion-associated signaling proteins in the kidney.
PXD010106	30696811	S-nitrosylation of E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase RNF213 alters non-canonical Wnt/Ca+2 signaling in the P301S mouse model of tauopathy. 	S-nitrosylation in P301S mouse tauopathy model	S-nitrosylation, alzheimers, nitric oxide, tau, tauopathy	Mutations in the MAPT gene, which encodes the tau protein, are associated with several neurodegenerative diseases, including frontotemporal dementia (FTD), dementia with epilepsy, and other types of dementia. The missense mutation in the Mapt gene in the P301S mouse model of FTD results in impaired synaptic function and microgliosis at three months of age, which are the earliest manifestations of disease. Here, we examined changes in the S-nitrosoproteome in 2-month-old transgenic P301S mice in order to detect molecular events corresponding to early stages of disease progression. S-nitrosylated (SNO) proteins were identified in two brain regions, cortex and hippocampus, in P301S and Wild Type (WT) littermate control mice. We found major changes in the S-nitrosoproteome between the groups in both regions. Several pathways converged to show that calcium regulation and non-canonical Wnt signaling are affected using GO and pathway analysis. Significant increase in 3-nitrotyrosine was found in the CA1 and entorhinal cortex regions, which indicates an elevation of oxidative stress and nitric oxide formation. There was evidence of increased Non-Canonical Wnt/Ca++ (NC-WCa) signaling in the cortex of the P301S mice; including increases in phosphorylated CaMKII, and S-nitrosylation of E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase RNF213 (RNF-213) leading to increased levels of nuclear factor of activated T-cells 1 (NFAT-1) and FILAMIN-A, which further amplify the NC-WCa and contribute to the pathology. These findings implicate activation of the NC-WCa pathway in tauopathy and provide novel insights into the contribution of S-nitrosylation to NC-WCa activation, and offer new potential drug targets for treatment of tauopathies.
PXD011278	30696852	Isolation and characterization of Lactobacillus-derived membrane vesicles. 	Lactobacillus Membrane Vesicles	Lactobacillus, vesicles	Bacterial membrane vesicles have been implicated in a broad range of functions in microbial communities from pathogenesis to gene transfer. Though first thought to be a phenomenon associated with Gram-negative bacteria, vesicle production in Staphylococcus aureus, Lactobacillus plantarum, and other Gram-positives has recently been described. Given that many Lactobacillus species are Generally Regarded as Safe and often employed as probiotics, the engineering of Lactobacillus membrane vesicles presents a new avenue for the development of therapeutics and vaccines. Here we characterize and compare the membrane vesicles (MVs) from three different Lactobacillus species (L. acidophilus ATCC 53544, L. casei ATCC 393, and L. reuteri ATCC 23272), with the aim of developing future strategies for vesicle engineering. We characterize the vesicles from each Lactobacillus species comparing the physiochemical properties and protein composition of each. More than 80 protein components from Lactobacillus-derived MVs were identified, including some that were enriched in the vesicles themselves suggesting vesicles as a vehicle for antimicrobial delivery. Additionally, for each species vesicular proteins were categorized based on biological pathway and examined for subcellular localization signals in an effort to identify possible sorting mechanisms for MV proteins.
PXD012406	30698747	ARGLU1 is a transcriptional coactivator and splicing regulator important for stress hormone signaling and development. 	ARGLU1 RIME experiment in N2a cells	ARGLU1, GR, NR3C1, Splicing	Stress hormones bind and activate the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in many tissues including the brain. We identified arginine and glutamate rich 1 (ARGLU1) in a screen for new modulators of glucocorticoid signaling in the CNS. Biochemical studies show that the glutamate rich C-terminus of ARGLU1 coactivates multiple nuclear receptors including the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and the arginine rich N-terminus interacts with splicing factors and binds to RNA. RNA-seq of neural cells depleted of ARGLU1 revealed significant changes in the expression and alternative splicing of distinct genes involved in neurogenesis. Loss of ARGLU1 is embryonic lethal in mice, and knockdown in zebrafish causes neurodevelopmental and heart defects. Treatment with dexamethasone, a GR activator, also induces changes in the pattern of alternatively spliced genes, many of which were lost when ARGLU1 was absent. Importantly, the genes found to be alternatively spliced in response to glucocorticoid treatment were distinct from those under transcriptional control by GR, suggesting an additional mechanism of glucocorticoid action is present in neural cells. Our results thus show that ARGLU1 is a novel factor for embryonic development that modulates basal transcription and alternative splicing in neural cells with consequences for glucocorticoid signaling.
PXD008845	30699108	Metaproteomics reveals potential mechanisms by which dietary resistant starch supplementation attenuates chronic kidney disease progression in rats. 	Metaproteomics of the Resistant Starch-fed Chronic Kidney Disease Rats	Metaproteomics, Rat, chronic kidney disease, gut microbiome, metaproteomics, resistant starch	BACKGROUND: Resistant starch is a prebiotic metabolized by the gut bacteria. It has been shown to attenuate chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression in rats. Previous studies employed taxonomic analysis using 16S rRNA sequencing and untargeted metabolomics profiling. Here we expand these studies by metaproteomics, gaining new insight into the host-microbiome interaction. METHODS: Differences between cecum contents in CKD rats fed a diet containing resistant starch with those fed a diet containing digestible starch were examined by comparative metaproteomics analysis. Taxonomic information was obtained using unique protein sequences. Our methodology results in quantitative data covering both host and bacterial proteins. RESULTS: 5,834 proteins were quantified, with 947 proteins originating from the host organism. Taxonomic information derived from metaproteomics data surpassed previous 16S RNA analysis, and reached species resolutions for moderately abundant taxonomic groups. In particular, the Ruminococcaceae family becomes well resolved-with butyrate producers and amylolytic species such as R. bromii clearly visible and significantly higher while fibrolytic species such as R. flavefaciens are significantly lower with resistant starch feeding. The observed changes in protein patterns are consistent with fiber-associated improvement in CKD phenotype. Several known host CKD-associated proteins and biomarkers of impaired kidney function were significantly reduced with resistant starch supplementation. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008845. CONCLUSIONS: Metaproteomics analysis of cecum contents of CKD rats with and without resistant starch supplementation reveals changes within gut microbiota at unprecedented resolution, providing both functional and taxonomic information. Proteins and organisms differentially abundant with RS supplementation point toward a shift from mucin degraders to butyrate producers.
PXD011960	30699355	Integrated Phosphoproteome and Transcriptome Analysis Reveals Chlamydia-Induced Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition in Host Cells. 	Integrated phosphoproteome and transcriptome analysis reveals Chlamydia-induced epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in host cells	Chlamydia, phosphoproteomics	Chlamydia trachomatis (Ctr) causes a range of infectious diseases and is epidemiologically associated with cervical and ovarian cancers. To obtain a panoramic view of Ctr-induced signaling, we performed global phosphoproteomic and transcriptomic analyses. We identified numerous Ctr phosphoproteins and Ctr-regulated host phosphoproteins. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that these proteins were predominantly related to transcription regulation, cellular growth, proliferation, and cytoskeleton organization. In silico kinase substrate motif analysis revealed that MAPK and CDK were the most overrepresented upstream kinases for upregulated phosphosites. Several of the regulated host phosphoproteins were transcription factors, including ETS1 and ERF, that are downstream targets of MAPK. Functional analysis of phosphoproteome and transcriptome data confirmed their involvement in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), a phenotype that was validated in infected cells, along with the essential role of ERK1/2, ETS1, and ERF for Ctr replication. Our data reveal the extent of Ctr-induced signaling and provide insights into its pro-carcinogenic potential.
PXD012229	30699359	Post-translational Regulation of FNIP1 Creates a Rheostat for the Molecular Chaperone Hsp90. 	Post-translational Regulation of FNIP1:  a Rheostat for the  Molecular Chaperone Hsp90	Co-chaperone, FNIP1, Folliculin-interacting protein-1, Heat Shock Protein-90 (Hsp90), O-GlcNAcylation, PP5, Serine/threonine protein phosphatase-5	The molecular chaperone Hsp90 stabilizes and activates client proteins. Co-chaperones and post-translational modifications tightly regulate Hsp90 function and consequently lead to activation of clients. However, it is unclear whether this process occurs abruptly or gradually in the cellular context. We show that casein kinase-2 phosphorylation of the co-chaperone folliculin-interacting protein 1 (FNIP1) on priming serine-938 and subsequent relay phosphorylation on serine-939, 941, 946, and 948 promotes its gradual interaction with Hsp90. This leads to incremental inhibition of Hsp90 ATPase activity and gradual activation of both kinase and non-kinase clients. We further demonstrate that serine/threonine protein phosphatase 5 (PP5) dephosphorylates FNIP1, allowing the addition of O-GlcNAc (O-linked N-acetylglucosamine) to the priming serine-938. This process antagonizes phosphorylation of FNIP1, preventing its interaction with Hsp90, and consequently promotes FNIP1 lysine-1119 ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. These findings provide a mechanism for gradual activation of the client proteins through intricate crosstalk of post-translational modifications of the co-chaperone FNIP1.
PXD011894	30700495	Mass Spectrometry-based Absolute Quantification of 20S Proteasome Status for Controlled Ex-vivo Expansion of Human Adipose-derived Mesenchymal Stromal/Stem Cells. 	Mass spectrometry-based absolute quantification of 20S proteasome status for controlled ex-vivo expansion of Human Adipose-derived Mesenchymal Stromal/Stem Cells	ADSC, Proteasome, Tissue	The proteasome controls a multitude of cellular processes through protein degradation and has been identified as a therapeutic target in oncology. However, our understanding of its function and the development of specific modulators are hampered by the lack of a straightforward method to determine the overall proteasome status in biological samples. Here, we present a method to determine the absolute quantity and stoichiometry of ubiquitous and tissue-specific human 20S proteasome subtypes based on a robust, absolute SILAC-based multiplexed LC-Selected Reaction Monitoring (SRM) quantitative mass spectrometry assay with high precision, accuracy, and sensitivity. The method was initially optimized and validated by comparison with a reference ELISA assay and by analyzing the dynamics of catalytic subunits in HeLa cells following IFNgamma-treatment and in range of human tissues. It was then successfully applied to reveal IFNgamma- and O2-dependent variations of proteasome status during primary culture of Adipose-derived-mesenchymal Stromal/Stem Cells (ADSCs). The results show the critical importance of controlling the culture conditions during cell expansion for future therapeutic use in humans. We hypothesize that a shift from the standard proteasome to the immunoproteasome could serve as a predictor of immunosuppressive and differentiation capacities of ADSCs and, consequently, that quality control should include proteasomal quantification in addition to examining other essential cell parameters. The method presented also provides a new powerful tool to conduct more individualized protocols in cancer or inflammatory diseases where selective inhibition of the immunoproteasome has been shown to reduce side effects.
PXD009712	30702898	Progress and Challenges in Ocean Metaproteomics and Proposed Best Practices for Data Sharing. 	Pacific Ocean metaproteomics, METZYME KM1128	Metaproteomics, metaproteomics proteomics oceanography oceanic proteome	Ocean metaproteomics is an emerging field enabling discoveries about marine microbial communities and their impact on global biogeochemical processes. Recent ocean metaproteomic studies have provided insight into microbial nutrient transport, colimitation of carbon fixation, the metabolism of microbial biofilms, and dynamics of carbon flux in marine ecosystems. Future methodological developments could provide new capabilities such as characterizing long-term ecosystem changes, biogeochemical reaction rates, and in situ stoichiometries. Yet challenges remain for ocean metaproteomics due to the great biological diversity that produces highly complex mass spectra, as well as the difficulty in obtaining and working with environmental samples. This review summarizes the progress and challenges facing ocean metaproteomic scientists and proposes best practices for data sharing of ocean metaproteomic data sets, including the data types and metadata needed to enable intercomparisons of protein distributions and annotations that could foster global ocean metaproteomic capabilities.
PXD007042	30703164	Plasmodium male gametocyte development and transmission are critically regulated by the two putative deadenylases of the CAF1/CCR4/NOT complex. 	Identification of Plasmodium yoelii CCR4/CAF1/CAF1d Binding partners and total proteomics of Py17XNL by Immunoprecipitation/nano LC-MS/MS	CAF1, CCR4, PY17XNL, Plasmodium	With relatively few known specific transcription factors to control the abundance of specific mRNAs, Plasmodium parasites may rely more on the regulation of transcript stability and turnover to provide sufficient gene regulation. Plasmodium transmission stages impose translational repression on specific transcripts in part to accomplish this. However, few proteins are known to participate in this process, and those that are characterized primarily affect female gametocytes. We have identified and characterized Plasmodium yoelii (Py) CCR4-1, a putative deadenylase, which plays a role in the development and activation of male gametocytes, regulates the abundance of specific mRNAs in gametocytes, and ultimately increases the efficiency of host-to-vector transmission. We find that when pyccr4-1 is deleted or its protein made catalytically inactive, there is a loss in the initial coordination of male gametocyte maturation and a reduction of parasite infectivity of the mosquito. Expression of only the N-terminal CAF1 domain of the essential CAF1 deadenylase leads to a similar phenotype. Comparative RNA-seq revealed that PyCCR4-1 affects transcripts important for transmission-related functions that are associated with male or female gametocytes, some of which directly associate with the immunoprecipitated complex. Finally, circular RT-PCR of one of the bound, dysregulated transcripts showed that deletion of the pyccr4-1 gene does not result in gross changes to its UTR or poly(A) tail length. We conclude that the two putative deadenylases of the CAF1/CCR4/NOT complex play critical and intertwined roles in gametocyte maturation and transmission.
PXD010739	30704074	Identification of Early Salinity Stress-Responsive Proteins in Dunaliella salina by isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis. 	Proteomic Analysis Reveals Early Salinity Stress-Responsive Proteins in Dunaliella salina	Dunaliella salina, LTQ Orbitrap Velos, whole body	Salt stress is one of the most serious abiotic factors that inhibit plant growth. Dunaliella salina has been recognized as a model organism for stress response research due to its high capacity to tolerate extreme salt stress. A proteomic approach based on isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) was used to analyze the proteome of D. salina during early response to salt stress and identify the differentially abundant proteins (DAPs). A total of 141 DAPs were identified in salt-treated samples, including 75 upregulated and 66 downregulated DAPs after 3 and 24 h of salt stress. DAPs were annotated and classified into gene ontology functional groups. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analysis linked DAPs to tricarboxylic acid cycle, photosynthesis and oxidative phosphorylation. Using search tool for the retrieval of interacting genes (STRING) software, regulatory protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks of the DAPs containing 33 and 52 nodes were built at each time point, which showed that photosynthesis and ATP synthesis were crucial for the modulation of early salinity-responsive pathways. The corresponding transcript levels of five DAPs were quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). These results presented an overview of the systematic molecular response to salt stress. This study revealed a complex regulatory mechanism of early salt tolerance in D. salina and potentially contributes to developing strategies to improve stress resilience.
PXD010843	30704242	Detection of Six Commercially Processed Soy Ingredients in an Incurred Food Matrix Using Parallel Reaction Monitoring. 	Detection of Six Commercially Processed Soy ingredients in an Incurred Food Matrix Using Parallel Reaction Monitoring	Soybean, food allergen, parallel reaction monitoring	Soybeans are one of the major allergenic foods in many countries. Soybeans are commonly processed into different types of soy ingredients to achieve the desired properties. The processing, however, may affect the protein profiles and protein structure, thus affecting the detection of soy proteins. Mass spectrometry (MS) is a potential alternative to the traditional immunoassays for the detection of soy-derived ingredients in foods. This study aims to develop a liquid chromatography-tandem MS method that uniformly detects different types of soy-derived ingredients. Target peptides applicable to the detection of six commercial soy ingredients were identified based on the results of MS label-free quantification and a set of selection criteria. The results indicated that soy ingredient processing can result in different protein profiles. A total of six soy ingredients were then individually incurred into cookie matrices at different levels. Sample preparation methods were optimized, and a distinct improvement in peptide performance was observed after optimization. Cookies and dough incurred with different soy ingredients at 100 ppm total soy protein showed a similar level of peptide recovery (90% mean signal relative to unroasted soy flour), demonstrating the ability of the MS method to detect processed soy ingredients in a uniform manner.
PXD003812	30705123	Integration of Two In-depth Quantitative Proteomics Approaches Determines the Kallikrein-related Peptidase 7 (KLK7) Degradome in Ovarian Cancer Cell Secretome. 	Integration of two in-depth proteomics approaches determines the high grade serous ovarian cancer-associated kallikrein-related peptidase 7 (KLK7) degradome	Degradome, extracellular, high-grade serous, kallikrein-related peptidase, matrix metalloprotease, microenvironment, omics, ovarian cancer, protease, substrate, thrombospondin, transcriptome, tumour	Kallikrein-related peptidase 7 (KLK7) is a serine peptidase that is over expressed in ovarian cancer. In vitro functional analyses have suggested KLK7 to play a cancer progressive role, although monitoring of KLK7 expression has suggested a contradictory protective role for KLK7 in ovarian cancer patients. In order to help delineate its mechanism of action and thereby the functional roles, information on its substrate repertoire is crucial. Therefore, in this study a quantitative proteomics approach-PROtein TOpography and Migration Analysis Platform (PROTOMAP)-coupled with SILAC was used for in-depth analysis of putative KLK7 substrates from a representative ovarian cancer cell line, SKOV-3, secreted proteins. The Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates (TAILS) approach was used to determine the exact cleavage sites and to validate qPROTOMAP-identified putative substrates. By employing these two technically divergent approaches, exact cleavage sites on 16 novel putative substrates and two established substrates, matrix metalloprotease (MMP) 2 and insulin growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP3), were identified in the SKOV-3 secretome. Eight of these substrates were also identified on TAILS analysis of another ovarian cancer cell (OVMZ-6) secretome, with a further seven OVMZ-6 substrates common to the SKOV-3 qPROTOMAP profile. Identified substrates were significantly associated with the common processes of cell adhesion, extracellular matrix remodeling and cell migration according to the gene ontology (GO) biological process analysis. Biochemical validation supports a role for KLK7 in directly activating pro-MMP10, hydrolysis of IGFBP6 and cleavage of thrombospondin 1 with generation of a potentially bioactive N-terminal fragment. Overall, this study constitutes the most comprehensive analysis of the putative KLK7 degradome in any cancer to date, thereby opening new avenues for KLK7 research.
PXD011912	30705637	Velvet Antler Mobilizes Endothelial Progenitor Cells to Promote Angiogenesis and Repair Vascular Endothelial Injury in Rats Following Myocardial Infarction. 	LC-MS Results of Velvet Antler	LC-MS, Velvet Antler	Objective: This investigation examined the effect of velvet antler (VA) on endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) and the associated effects to promote angiogenesis and repair vascular endothelial injury in rats with myocardial infarction (MI). Methods: VA was analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Male Sprague Dawley rats were randomly divided into four groups: sham, MI, VA, and VA + DAPT (gamma-secretase inhibitor IX, a specific blocker of the Notch signaling pathway) group. The rats underwent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery for the establishment of MI. Sham-operated rats were used as controls. Blood was taken from the orbital plexus on the first and third days after the operation, and all rats were euthanized on the 7th day after surgery. The blood samples were used to detect the contents of circulating endothelial progenitor cells (CEPCs) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Echocardiography was used to test the cardiac function. Cardiac tissue was used for immunohistochemistry and electron microscope, and the marginal zone of the MI tissue was used for western blot and reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Results: The number of basically qualitative metabolites is 445. Among them, there are 74 substances with relative content greater than 0.05%. VA increased the concentration of CEPCs and VEGF in serum, CD133 content and microvessel density (MVD), and protected the morphology of microvascular endothelial cells in the marginal area of MI at 7 days post-MI surgery. CEPCs and MVD in the VA +DAPT group were lower than those of VA group. VA increased the protein expressions of Jagged-1, Notch1, NICD and HES1, and the mRNA expressions of Hes1 and Hey2, while some of the effects could be suppressed by DAPT. Conclusion: These results suggest that VA promotes the mobilization of EPCs to promote angiogenesis and repair vascular endothelial cell damage in post-MI rats, and these effects may be due to activation of the Notch signal pathway.
PXD010999	30707844	A Novel Truncated Form of Nephronectin Is Present in Small Extracellular Vesicles Isolated from 66cl4 Cells. 	A novel truncated form of Nephronectin is present in small extracellular vesicles isolated from 66cl4-cells	Breast Cancer, MaxLFQ, Nephronectin, Small Extracellular Vesicles	Extracellular vesicles are emerging as biomarkers in breast cancer. Our recent report suggested that an intracellular granular staining pattern of the extracellular matrix protein nephronectin (NPNT) in breast tumor sections correlated with a poor prognosis. Furthermore, the results showed that NPNT is localized in extracellular vesicles derived from mouse breast cancer cells. In this study, we performed proteomic analysis that revealed that several proteins, including tumor-promoting molecules, are differentially expressed in the cargo of small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) derived from NPNT-expressing mouse breast cancer cells. We also identified three different forms of NPNT at 80, 60, and 20 kDa. We report that the native form of NPNT at 60 kDa becomes further glycosylated and is detected as the 80 kDa NPNT, which may be processed by matrix metalloproteinases to a shorter form of around 20 kDa, which has not previously been described. Although both 80 and 20 kDa NPNT are detected in sEVs derived from breast cancer cells, the 20 kDa form of NPNT is concentrated in sEVs. In summary, we show that a novel truncated form of NPNT is found in sEVs derived from breast cancer cells.
PXD039794	30707948	Sensitive profiling of cell surface proteome by using an optimized biotinylation method. 	Sensitive profiling of cell surface proteome by using an optimized biotinylation method	Surfaceome, cell surface proteins	Cell surface proteins are responsible for many critical functions. Systematical profiling of these proteins would provide a unique molecular fingerprint to classify cells and provide important information to guide immunotherapy. Cell surface biotinylation method is one of the effective methods for cell surface proteome profiling. However, classical workflows suffer the disadvantage of poor sensitivity. In this work, we presented an optimized protocol which enabled identification of more cell surface proteins from a smaller number of cells. When this protocol was combined with a tip based fractionation scheme, 4510 proteins, including 2055 annotated cell surface-associated proteins, were identified with only 20 microgram protein digest, showing the superior sensitivity of the approach. To enable process 10 times fewer cells, a pipet tip based protocol was developed, which led to the identification of about 600 cell surface-associated proteins. Finally, the new protocol was applied to compare the cell surface proteomes of two breast cancer cell lines, BT474 and MCF7. It was found that many cell surface-associated proteins were differentially expressed. The new protocols were demonstrated to be easy to perform, time-saving, and yielding good selectivity and high sensitivity. We expect this protocol would have broad applications in the future. SIGNIFICANCE: Cell surface proteins confer specific cellular functions and are easily accessible. They are often used as drug targets and potential biomarkers for prognostic or diagnostic purposes. Thus, efficient methods for profiling cell surface proteins are highly demanded. Cell surface biotinylation method is one of the effective methods for cell surface proteome profiling. However, classical workflows suffer the disadvantage of poor sensitivity. In this work, we presented an optimized protocol which enabled identification of more cell surface proteins from a smaller number of starting cells. The new protocol is easier to perform, time-saving and has less protein loss. By using a special pipet tip, sensitive and in-depth cell surface proteome analysis could be achieved. In combination with label-free quantitative MS, the new protocol can be applied to the differential analysis of the cell surface proteomes between different cell lines to find genetically- or drug-induced changes. We expect this protocol would have broad application in cell surface protein studies, including the discovery of diagnostic marker proteins and potential therapeutic targets.
PXD008853	30707949	On the characterisation of the porcine gland-specific salivary proteome. 	On the characterisation of the porcine gland-specific salivary proteome using MALDI-TOF/TOF MS and Q-Exactive orbitrap MS/MS	LC-MS, Pig, gland-specific saliva, iTRAQ, salivary proteome	To expand the knowledge on the porcine salivary proteome, secretions from the three major salivary glands were collected from anaesthetised piglets. Pilocarpine and isoproterenol were simultaneously injected intraperitoneally to increase the volume and protein concentration of the saliva, respectively. The protein composition and relative protein-specific abundance of saliva secreted by the parotid gland and by the mandibular and monostomatic sublingual gland, were determined using iTRAQ. When combining two detection methods, MALDI-TOF/TOF MS and Q-Exactive orbitrap MS/MS, a total of 122 porcine salivary proteins and 6 mammalian salivary proteins with a predicted porcine homolog were identified. Only a quantitative and not a qualitative difference was observed between both ductal secretions. The 128 proteins were detected in both secretions, however, at different levels. Twenty-four proteins (20 porcine and 4 mammalian with a predicted porcine homolog) were predominantly secreted by the parotid gland, such as carbonic anhydrase VI and alpha-amylase. Twenty-nine proteins (all porcine) were predominantly secreted by the mandibular and sublingual glands, for example salivary lipocalin and submaxillary apomucin protein. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008853. SIGNIFICANCE: In humans, more than 3000 salivary proteins have been identified. To our knowledge, previous studies on porcine saliva only identified a total of 34 proteins. This research increased the total number of identified proteins in porcine saliva to 143. This insight into the porcine salivary proteome will facilitate the search for potential biomarkers that may help in the early detection of pathologies and follow-up of animal welfare. Moreover, it can also endorse the value of a porcine animal model and contribute to a better understanding of the animal's physiology. Additionally, this was the first study to collect and analyse gland specific saliva of pigs. The obtained relative-quantitative knowledge of the identified proteins is valuable when comparing data of stimulated (chewing on a device) vs. unstimulated (passive) saliva collection in the future, since salivary stimulation changes the relative contribution of the major salivary glands to the whole saliva in the oral cavity. For example, carbonic anhydrase VI, which is present in higher concentrations in parotid saliva, has a higher concentration in stimulated whole saliva because of the larger contribution of the parotid gland after stimulation by chewing.
PXD010939	30710757	Univariate and classification analysis reveals potential diagnostic biomarkers for early stage ovarian cancer Type 1 and Type 2. 	Univariate and classification analysis reveals potential diagnostic biomarkers for early-stage ovarian cancer type 1 and type 2	Biomarker, Cyst fluid, FIGO stage I type 1 and type 2, Orbitrap Fusion, Ovarian cancer, Q Exactive	Biomarkers for early detection of ovarian tumors are urgently needed. Tumors of the ovary grow within cysts and most are benign. Surgical sampling is the only way to ensure accurate diagnosis, but often leads to morbidity and loss of female hormones. The present study explored the deep proteome in well-defined sets of ovarian tumors, FIGO stage I, Type 1 (low-grade serous, mucinous, endometrioid; n = 9), Type 2 (high-grade serous; n = 9), and benign serous (n = 9) using TMT-LC-MS/MS. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010939. We evaluated new bioinformatics tools in the discovery phase. This innovative selection process involved different normalizations, a combination of univariate statistics, and logistic model tree and naive Bayes tree classifiers. We identified 142 proteins by this combined approach. One biomarker panel and nine individual proteins were verified in cyst fluid and serum: transaldolase-1, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase A (ALDOA), transketolase, ceruloplasmin, mesothelin, clusterin, tenascin-XB, laminin subunit gamma-1, and mucin-16. Six of the proteins were found significant (p < .05) in cyst fluid while ALDOA was the only protein significant in serum. The biomarker panel achieved ROC AUC 0.96 and 0.57 respectively. We conclude that classification algorithms complement traditional statistical methods by selecting combinations that may be missed by standard univariate tests. SIGNIFICANCE: In the discovery phase, we performed deep proteome analyses of well-defined histology subgroups of ovarian tumor cyst fluids, highly specified for stage and type (histology and grade). We present an original approach to selecting candidate biomarkers combining several normalization strategies, univariate statistics, and machine learning algorithms. The results from validation of selected proteins strengthen our prior proteomic and genomic data suggesting that cyst fluids are better than sera in early stage ovarian cancer diagnostics.
PXD011315	30710758	Proteome analysis of non-small cell lung cancer cell line secretomes and patient sputum reveals biofluid biomarker candidates for cisplatin response prediction. 	Proteome Analysis of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Cell Line Secretomes and Patient Sputum Reveals Biofluid Biomarker Candidates for Cisplatin Response Prediction	Label-free GeLC-MS/MS, biomarkers, cisplatin sensitivity, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), secretome, sputum	Molecular markers are urgently needed to select non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients most likely to benefit from platinum-based chemotherapies. Of particular interest are proteins that can be found in biofluids like sputum for non-invasive detection. Therefore, we profiled the secretomes of 6 NSCLC cell lines with varying IC50-values for cisplatin, using label-free GeLC-MS/MS-based proteomics. Out of a total dataset of 2610 proteins, 304 proteins showed significant differences in expression levels between cisplatin sensitive and insensitive cell lines. Functional data mining revealed that the secretion of typically extracellular factors was associated with a higher sensitivity towards cisplatin, while cisplatin insensitivity correlated with increased secretion of theoretically intra-cellular proteins. Stringent statistical analysis and quantitative filtering yielded 58 biomarker candidates, 34 of which could be detected in clinical biofluids of lung cancer patients such as sputum using label-free LC-MS/MS-based proteomics. To assess performance of these biofluid biomarker candidates, we correlated protein expression with patient survival using a publically available clinical gene expression data set (GSE14814). We thus identified 3 top candidates with potential predictive value in determining cisplatin response (UGGT1, COL6A1 and MAP4) for future development as non-invasive biomarkers to guide treatment decisions. SIGNIFICANCE: Platinum-based chemotherapies are still the standard of care for NSCLC and other lung cancer types in the clinic today. However, due to chemoresistance, many patients suffer from the toxic side effects of these treatments without gaining any benefit in terms of survival. To date, no molecular biomarkers are available to predict clinical outcome of platinum-based chemotherapy. Because proteins present the functional read-out of genetic, epigenetic and translational events in the cell, a protein test is likely to be particularly suitable for response prediction. Of high relevance are proteins that are shed or secreted from cells, for example at primary tumor sites, and can be found in easily accessible biofluids like sputum for non-invasive detection. Here, we report the proteome profiling of the conditioned media (secretomes) of a panel of NSCLC cell lines in relation to cisplatin IC50 values, as a pre-clinical model, and of patient sputum as a clinical, lung cancer relevant biofluid. Using this approach in conjunction with exploration of the predictive potential in a transcriptome lung cancer patient dataset, we reveal biofluid biomarker candidates that, with further validation, may be used for non-invasive cisplatin response prediction in the future.
PXD010083	30711108	Floral nectar chitinase is a potential marker for monofloral honey botanical origin authentication: A case study from loquat (Eriobotrya japonica Lindl.). 	Characterization of loquat (Eriobotrya japonica Lindl.) honey botanical origin according to its chitinase activity	Authentication, Botanical originChitinase, Eriobotrya japonica Lindl., Floral nectar, Monofloral honey, Nectarin	Honey, as a commercial product, is a target of adulteration through inappropriate production practices and deliberate mislabelling of botanical origin. Floral nectar protein could be a good marker for determining the source flowers of honey, especially monofloral honeys. Here, nectar and monofloral honey from Eriobotrya japonica Lindl. (loquat) were systematically compared, especially regarding proteomic and enzymatic activity. Using two-dimensional electrophoresis and mass spectrometry, only bee-originated proteins were detected in loquat honey. Xylosidase, thaumatin, and two kinds of chitinases were detected in loquat floral nectar, and their activity in loquat nectar and honey were quantified. Following gel electrophoresis, loquat honey had similar chitinase activity profiles to loquat nectar, but both were clearly distinguishable from Camellia sinensis nectar and Brassica napus honey. To our knowledge, this is the first examination of nectar-origin enzyme activity in honey. Zymography of chitinases is a potential marker for determining or authenticating the botanical origin of honeys.
PXD011051	30711543	On the Mechanism and Origin of Isoleucyl-tRNA Synthetase Editing against Norvaline. 	On the mechanism and origin of isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase editing against norvaline	E. coli, isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase, mistranslation	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (aaRSs), the enzymes responsible for coupling tRNAs to their cognate amino acids, minimize translational errors by intrinsic hydrolytic editing. Here, we compared norvaline (Nva), a linear amino acid not coded for protein synthesis, to the proteinogenic, branched valine (Val) in their propensity to mistranslate isoleucine (Ile) in proteins. We show that in the synthetic site of isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase (IleRS), Nva and Val are activated and transferred to tRNA at similar rates. The efficiency of the synthetic site in pre-transfer editing of Nva and Val also appears to be similar. Post-transfer editing was, however, more rapid with Nva and consequently IleRS misaminoacylates Nva-tRNA(Ile) at slower rate than Val-tRNA(Ile). Accordingly, an Escherichia coli strain lacking IleRS post-transfer editing misincorporated Nva and Val in the proteome to a similar extent and at the same Ile positions. However, Nva mistranslation inflicted higher toxicity than Val, in agreement with IleRS editing being optimized for hydrolysis of Nva-tRNA(Ile). Furthermore, we found that the evolutionary-related IleRS, leucyl- and valyl-tRNA synthetases (I/L/VRSs), all efficiently hydrolyze Nva-tRNAs even when editing of Nva seems redundant. We thus hypothesize that editing of Nva-tRNAs had already existed in the last common ancestor of I/L/VRSs, and that the editing domain of I/L/VRSs had primarily evolved to prevent infiltration of Nva into modern proteins.
PXD010494	30712865	Unexpected Receptor Functional Mimicry Elucidates Activation of Coronavirus Fusion. 	LC-MS/MS EThcD of MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV S N-linked glycopeptides from recombinant spike ectodomains and whole MERS virions	EThcD, MERS, N-linked glycosylation, SARS	Recent outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome and Middle East respiratory syndrome, along with the threat of a future coronavirus-mediated pandemic, underscore the importance of finding ways to combat these viruses. The trimeric spike transmembrane glycoprotein S mediates entry into host cells and is the major target of neutralizing antibodies. To understand the humoral immune response elicited upon natural infections with coronaviruses, we structurally characterized the SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV S glycoproteins in complex with neutralizing antibodies isolated from human survivors. Although the two antibodies studied blocked attachment to the host cell receptor, only the anti-SARS-CoV S antibody triggered fusogenic conformational changes via receptor functional mimicry. These results provide a structural framework for understanding coronavirus neutralization by human antibodies and shed light on activation of coronavirus membrane fusion, which takes place through a receptor-driven ratcheting mechanism.
PXD011840	30713027	Structural and Functional Characterization of Ubiquitin Variant Inhibitors of USP15. 	Structural and functional characterization of ubiquitin variant inhibitors of USP15	USP15	The multi-domain deubiquitinase USP15 regulates diverse eukaryotic processes and has been implicated in numerous diseases. We developed ubiquitin variants (UbVs) that targeted either the catalytic domain or each of three adaptor domains in USP15, including the N-terminal DUSP domain. We also designed a linear dimer (diUbV), which targeted the DUSP and catalytic domains, and exhibited enhanced specificity and more potent inhibition of catalytic activity than either UbV alone. In cells, the UbVs inhibited the deubiquitination of two USP15 substrates, SMURF2 and TRIM25, and the diUbV inhibited the effects of USP15 on the transforming growth factor beta pathway. Structural analyses revealed that three distinct UbVs bound to the catalytic domain and locked the active site in a closed, inactive conformation, and one UbV formed an unusual strand-swapped dimer and bound two DUSP domains simultaneously. These inhibitors will enable the study of USP15 function in oncology, neurology, immunology, and inflammation.
PXD011770	30715476	Characterization of a metazoan ADA acetyltransferase complex. 	MudPIT analyses of the proteins co-purified with Ada2b-PB-FLAG-HA FLAG-affinity purified from Drosophila melanogaster S2 cells	ADA complex, SAGA complex, acetyl transferase	The Gcn5 acetyltransferase functions in multiple acetyltransferase complexes in yeast and metazoans. Yeast Gcn5 is part of the large SAGA (Spt-Ada-Gcn5 acetyltransferase) complex and a smaller ADA acetyltransferase complex. In flies and mammals, Gcn5 (and its homolog pCAF) is part of various versions of the SAGA complex and another large acetyltransferase complex, ATAC (Ada2A containing acetyltransferase complex). However, a complex analogous to the small ADA complex in yeast has never been described in metazoans. Previous studies in Drosophila hinted at the existence of a small complex which contains Ada2b, a partner of Gcn5 in the SAGA complex. Here we have purified and characterized the composition of this complex and show that it is composed of Gcn5, Ada2b, Ada3 and Sgf29. Hence, we have named it the metazoan 'ADA complex'. We demonstrate that the fly ADA complex has histone acetylation activity on histones and nucleosome substrates. Moreover, ChIP-Sequencing experiments identified Ada2b peaks that overlap with another SAGA subunit, Spt3, as well as Ada2b peaks that do not overlap with Spt3 suggesting that the ADA complex binds chromosomal sites independent of the larger SAGA complex.
PXD011643	30716505	Secretome analysis of human bone marrow derived mesenchymal stromal cells. 	Secretome analysis of human bone marrow derived mesenchymal stromal cells	bone marrow, hematopoiesis, mesenchymal stromal cells, secretome	As an essential cellular component of the bone marrow (BM) microenvironment mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) play a pivotal role for the physiological regulation of hematopoiesis, in particular through the secretion of cytokines and chemokines. Mass spectrometry (MS) facilitates the identification and quantification of a large amount of secreted proteins (secretome), but can be hampered by the false-positive identification of contaminating proteins released from dead cells or derived from cell medium. To reduce the likelihood of contaminations we applied an approach combining secretome and proteome analysis to characterize the physiological secretome of BM derived human MSC. Our analysis revealed a secretome consisting of 315 proteins. Pathway analyses of these proteins revealed a high abundance of proteins related to cell growth and/or maintenance, signal transduction and cell communication thereby representing key biological functions of BM derived MSC on protein level. Within the MSC secretome we identified several cytokines and growth factors such as VEGFC, TGF-beta1, TGF-beta2 and GDF6 which are known to be involved in the physiological regulation of hematopoiesis. By comparing the peptide patterns of secretomes and cell lysates 17 proteins were identified as candidates for proteolytic processing. Taken together, our combined MS work-flow reduced the likelihood of contaminations and enabled us to carve out a specific overview about the composition of the secretome from human BM derived MSC. This methodological approach and the specific secretome signature of BM derived MSC may serve as basis for future comparative analyses of the interplay of MSC and HSPC in patients with hematological malignancies.
PXD006999	30718282	The antiviral protein viperin regulates chondrogenic differentiation via CXCL10 protein secretion. 	Viperin; regulating chondrogenic differentiation via CXCL10 protein secretion	chondrogenic differentiation, viperin	Viperin (also known as radical SAM domain-containing 2 (RSAD2)) is an interferon-inducible and evolutionary conserved protein that participates in the cell's innate immune response against a number of viruses. Viperin mRNA is a substrate for endoribonucleolytic cleavage by RNase mitochondrial RNA processing (MRP) and mutations in the RNase MRP small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) subunit of the RNase MRP complex cause cartilage-hair hypoplasia (CHH), a human developmental condition characterized by metaphyseal chondrodysplasia and severe dwarfism. It is unknown how CHH-pathogenic mutations in RNase MRP snoRNA interfere with skeletal development, and aberrant processing of RNase MRP substrate RNAs is thought to be involved. We hypothesized that viperin plays a role in chondrogenic differentiation. Using immunohistochemistry, real-time quantitative PCR, immunoblotting, ELISA, siRNA-mediated gene silencing, plasmid-mediated gene overexpression, label-free MS proteomics, and promoter reporter bioluminescence assays, we discovered here that viperin is expressed in differentiating chondrocytic cells and regulates their protein secretion and the outcome of chondrogenic differentiation by influencing transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta)/SMAD family 2/3 (SMAD2/3) activity via C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10). Of note, we observed disturbances in this viperin-CXCL10-TGF-beta/SMAD2/3 axis in CHH chondrocytic cells. Our results indicate that the antiviral protein viperin controls chondrogenic differentiation by influencing secretion of soluble proteins and identify a molecular route that may explain impaired chondrogenic differentiation of cells from individuals with CHH.
PXD010567	30718293	Immunomic Identification of Malaria Antigens Associated With Protection in Mice. 	Immunomic identification of antigens	2D western blot, emPAI, immunoprecipitation, malaria	Efforts to develop vaccines against malaria represent a major research target. The observations that 1) sterile protection can be obtained when the host is exposed to live parasites and 2) the immunity against blood stage parasite is principally mediated by protective antibodies suggest that a protective vaccine is feasible. However, only a small number of proteins have been investigated so far and most of the Plasmodium proteome has yet to be explored. To date, only few immunodominant antigens have emerged for testing in clinical trials but no formulation has led to substantial protection in humans. The nature of parasite molecules associated with protection remains elusive. Here, immunomic screening of mice immune sera with different protection efficiencies against the whole parasite proteome allowed us to identify a large repertoire of antigens validated by screening a library expressing antigens. The calculation of weighted scores reflecting the likelihood of protection of each antigen using five predictive criteria derived from immunomic and proteomic data sets, highlighted a priority list of protective antigens. Altogether, the approach sheds light on conserved antigens across Plasmodium that are amenable to targeting by the host immune system upon merozoite invasion and blood stage development. Most of these antigens have preliminary protection data but have not been widely considered as candidate for vaccine trials, opening new perspectives that overcome the limited choice of immunodominant, poorly protective vaccines currently being the focus of malaria vaccine researches.
PXD010811	30718433	Most viral peptides displayed by class I MHC on infected cells are immunogenic. 	The majority of viral peptides displayed on class I MHC are immunogenic during infection	vaccinia virus	CD8(+) T cells are essential effectors in antiviral immunity, recognizing short virus-derived peptides presented by MHC class I (pMHCI) on the surface of infected cells. However, the fraction of viral pMHCI on infected cells that are immunogenic has not been shown for any virus. To approach this fundamental question, we used peptide sequencing by high-resolution mass spectrometry to identify more than 170 vaccinia virus pMHCI presented on infected mouse cells. Next, we screened each peptide for immunogenicity in multiple virus-infected mice, revealing a wide range of immunogenicities. A surprisingly high fraction (>80%) of pMHCI were immunogenic in at least one infected mouse, and nearly 40% were immunogenic across more than half of the mice screened. The high number of peptides found to be immunogenic and the distribution of responses across mice give us insight into the specificity of antiviral CD8(+) T cell responses.
PXD009378	30718813	A chemoproteomic portrait of the oncometabolite fumarate. 	A chemoproteomic portrait of the oncometabolite fumarate	Cysteine reactivity, Fumarate, Fumarate hydratase (FH), Succination, UOK262, hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma (HLRCC)	Hereditary cancer disorders often provide an important window into novel mechanisms supporting tumor growth. Understanding these mechanisms thus represents a vital goal. Toward this goal, here we report a chemoproteomic map of fumarate, a covalent oncometabolite whose accumulation marks the genetic cancer syndrome hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma (HLRCC). We applied a fumarate-competitive chemoproteomic probe in concert with LC-MS/MS to discover new cysteines sensitive to fumarate hydratase (FH) mutation in HLRCC cell models. Analysis of this dataset revealed an unexpected influence of local environment and pH on fumarate reactivity, and enabled the characterization of a novel FH-regulated cysteine residue that lies at a key protein-protein interface in the SWI-SNF tumor-suppressor complex. Our studies provide a powerful resource for understanding the covalent imprint of fumarate on the proteome and lay the foundation for future efforts to exploit this distinct aspect of oncometabolism for cancer diagnosis and therapy.
PXD012369	30723173	Inhibition of T cell activation and function by the adaptor protein CIN85. 	Inhibition of T cell activation and function by the CIN85 adaptor protein	CIN85, TCR, adaptor	T cell activation is initiated by signaling molecules downstream of the T cell receptor (TCR) that are organized by adaptor proteins. CIN85 (Cbl-interacting protein of 85 kDa) is one such adaptor protein. Here, we showed that CIN85 limited T cell responses to TCR stimulation. Compared to activated wild-type (WT) T cells, those that lacked CIN85 produced more IL-2 and exhibited greater proliferation. After stimulation of WT T cells with their cognate antigen, CIN85 was recruited to the TCR signaling complex. Early TCR signaling events, such as phosphorylation of zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70 (Zap70), Src homology 2 (SH2) domain-containing leukocyte protein of 76 kDa (SLP76), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk), were enhanced in CIN85-deficient T cells. The inhibitory function of CIN85 required the SH3 and PR regions of the adaptor, which associated with the phosphatase suppressor of TCR signaling-2 (Sts-2) after TCR stimulation. Together, our data suggest that CIN85 is recruited to the TCR signaling complex and mediates inhibition of T cell activation through its association with Sts-2.
PXD006535	30723174	Hypoxic cancer-associated fibroblasts increase NCBP2-AS2/HIAR to promote endothelial sprouting through enhanced VEGF signaling. 	Hypoxia-induced proteomic remodeling of human mammary cancer associated fibroblast	CAF, angiogenesis, breast cancer, hypoxia, secretome	Intratumoral hypoxia causes the formation of dysfunctional blood vessels, which contribute to tumor metastasis and reduce the efficacy of therapeutic treatments. Blood vessels are embedded in the tumor stroma of which cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) constitute a prominent cellular component. We found that hypoxic human mammary CAFs promoted angiogenesis in CAF-endothelial cell cocultures in vitro. Mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of the CAF secretome unraveled that hypoxic CAFs contributed to blood vessel abnormalities by altering their secretion of various pro- and anti-angiogenic factors. Hypoxia induced pronounced remodeling of the CAF proteome, including proteins that have not been previously related to this process. Among those, the uncharacterized protein NCBP2-AS2 that we renamed HIAR (hypoxia-induced angiogenesis regulator) was the protein most increased in abundance in hypoxic CAFs. Silencing of HIAR abrogated the pro-angiogenic and pro-migratory function of hypoxic CAFs by decreasing secretion of the pro-angiogenic factor VEGFA and consequently reducing VEGF/VEGFR downstream signaling in the endothelial cells. Our study has identified a regulator of angiogenesis and provides a map of hypoxia-induced molecular alterations in mammary CAFs.
PXD011563	30723407	Platelet-Derived Microparticles From Obese Individuals: Characterization of Number, Size, Proteomics, and Crosstalk With Cancer and Endothelial Cells. 	Platelet-derived microparticles from obese individuals: characterization of number, size, proteomics and crosstalk with cancer and endothelial cells	microparticles, obesity, platelets	Rationale: Obesity is a risk factor for atherothrombosis and various cancers. However, the mechanisms are not yet completely clarified. Objectives: We aimed to verify whether the microparticles (MPs) released from thrombin-activated platelets differed in obese and non-obese women for number, size, and proteomics cargo and the capacity to modulate in vitro the expression of (i) genes related to the epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) and the endothelial to mesenchymal transition (EndMT), and (ii) cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 involved in the production of angiogenic and inflammatory mediators. Methods and Results: MPs were obtained from thrombin activated platelets of four obese and their matched non-obese women. MPs were analyzed by cytofluorimeter and protein content by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. MPs from obese women were not different in number but showed increased heterogeneity in size. In obese individuals, MPs containing mitochondria (mitoMPs) expressed lower CD41 levels and increased phosphatidylserine associated with enhanced Factor V representing a signature of a prothrombotic state. Proteomics analysis identified 44 proteins downregulated and three upregulated in MPs obtained from obese vs. non-obese women. A reduction in the proteins of the alpha-granular membrane and those involved in mitophagy and antioxidant defenses-granular membrane was detected in the MPs of obese individuals. MPs released from platelets of obese individuals were more prone to induce the expression of marker genes of EMT and EndMT when incubated with human colorectal cancer cells (HT29) and human cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (HCMEC), respectively. A protein, highly enhanced in obese MPs, was the pro-platelet basic protein with pro-inflammatory and tumorigenic actions. Exclusively MPs from obese women induced COX-2 in HCMEC. Conclusion: Platelet-derived MPs of obese women showed higher heterogeneity in size and contained different levels of proteins relevant to thrombosis and tumorigenesis. MPs from obese individuals presented enhanced capacity to cause changes in the expression of EMT and EndMT marker genes and to induce COX-2. These effects might contribute to the increased risk for the development of thrombosis and multiple malignancies in obesity. Clinical Trial Registration: www.ClinicalTrials.gov, identifier NCT01581801.
PXD009055	30726209	The sensitivity to Hsp90 inhibitors of both normal and oncogenically transformed cells is determined by the equilibrium between cellular quiescence and activity. 	Global proteome changes of normal NIH 3T3 versus Ras-transformed NIH cells treated with 3 different Hsp90 inhibitors (geldanamycin, PU-H71 and pochoxime A)	Hsp90, Hsp90 inhibition, Hsp90 inhibition sensitivity, Ras-transformation, normal vs cancer, pharmacoproteomic profiling, quantitative proteomics	The molecular chaperone Hsp90 is an essential and highly abundant central node in the interactome of eukaryotic cells. Many of its large number of client proteins are relevant to cancer. A hallmark of Hsp90-dependent proteins is that their accumulation is compromised by Hsp90 inhibitors. Combined with the anecdotal observation that cancer cells may be more sensitive to Hsp90 inhibitors, this has led to clinical trials aiming to develop Hsp90 inhibitors as anti-cancer agents. However, the sensitivity to Hsp90 inhibitors has not been studied in rigorously matched normal versus cancer cells, and despite the discovery of important regulators of Hsp90 activity and inhibitor sensitivity, it has remained unclear, why cancer cells might be more sensitive. To revisit this issue more systematically, we have generated an isogenic pair of normal and oncogenically transformed NIH-3T3 cell lines. Our proteomic analysis of the impact of three chemically different Hsp90 inhibitors shows that these affect a substantial portion of the oncogenic program and that indeed, transformed cells are hypersensitive. Targeting the oncogenic signaling pathway reverses the hypersensitivity, and so do inhibitors of DNA replication, cell growth, translation and energy metabolism. Conversely, stimulating normal cells with growth factors or challenging their proteostasis by overexpressing an aggregation-prone sensitizes them to Hsp90 inhibitors. Thus, the differential sensitivity to Hsp90 inhibitors may not stem from any particular intrinsic difference between normal and cancer cells, but rather from a shift in the balance between cellular quiescence and activity.
PXD009796	30726726	Important Role of the GLP-1 Axis for Glucose Homeostasis after Bariatric Surgery. 	Peptidomics profiling of murine intestine	gut hormones, peptidomics	Bariatric surgery is widely used to treat obesity and improves type 2 diabetes beyond expectations from the degree of weight loss. Elevated post-prandial concentrations of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), peptide YY (PYY), and insulin are widely reported, but the importance of GLP-1 in post-bariatric physiology remains debated. Here, we show that GLP-1 is a major driver of insulin secretion after bariatric surgery, as demonstrated by blocking GLP-1 receptors (GLP1Rs) post-gastrectomy in lean humans using Exendin-9 or in mice using an anti-GLP1R antibody. Transcriptomics and peptidomics analyses revealed that human and mouse enteroendocrine cells were unaltered post-surgery; instead, we found that elevated plasma GLP-1 and PYY correlated with increased nutrient delivery to the distal gut in mice. We conclude that increased GLP-1 secretion after bariatric surgery arises from rapid nutrient delivery to the distal gut and is a key driver of enhanced insulin secretion.
PXD011375	30726738	Respiratory Phenomics across Multiple Models of Protein Hyperacylation in Cardiac Mitochondria Reveals a Marginal Impact on Bioenergetics. 	Comprehensive respiratory phenomics across multiple models of mitochondrial protein hyperacylation reveals a paradoxically marginal impact on bioenergetics	ATP Synthase, Complex V, Mitochondrial Bioenergetics, Protein Malonylation	Acyl CoA metabolites derived from the catabolism of carbon fuels can react with lysine residues of mitochondrial proteins, giving rise to a large family of post-translational modifications (PTMs). Mass spectrometry-based detection of thousands of acyl-PTMs scattered throughout the proteome has established a strong link between mitochondrial hyperacylation and cardiometabolic diseases; however, the functional consequences of these modifications remain uncertain. Here, we use a comprehensive respiratory diagnostics platform to evaluate three disparate models of mitochondrial hyperacylation in the mouse heart caused by genetic deletion of malonyl CoA decarboxylase (MCD), SIRT5 demalonylase and desuccinylase, or SIRT3 deacetylase. In each case, elevated acylation is accompanied by marginal respiratory phenotypes. Of the >60 mitochondrial energy fluxes evaluated, the only outcome consistently observed across models is a ~15% decrease in ATP synthase activity. In sum, the findings suggest that the vast majority of mitochondrial acyl PTMs occur as stochastic events that minimally affect mitochondrial bioenergetics.
PXD009408	30726745	Fission Yeast NDR/LATS Kinase Orb6 Regulates Exocytosis via Phosphorylation of the Exocyst Complex. 	Fission yeast NDR/LATS kinase Orb6 regulates exocytosis via phosphorylation of exocyst complex	Fission yeast, Orb6, SILAC, cell polarity, phosphoproteomics	NDR/LATS kinases regulate multiple aspects of cell polarity and morphogenesis from yeast to mammals. Fission yeast NDR/LATS kinase Orb6 has been proposed to control cell polarity by regulating the Cdc42 guanine nucleotide exchange factor Gef1. Here, we show that Orb6 regulates polarity largely independently of Gef1 and that Orb6 positively regulates exocytosis. Through Orb6 inhibition in vivo and quantitative global phosphoproteomics, we identify Orb6 targets, including proteins involved in membrane trafficking. We confirm Sec3 and Sec5, conserved components of the exocyst complex, as substrates of Orb6 both in vivo and in vitro, and we show that Orb6 kinase activity is important for exocyst localization to cell tips and for exocyst activity during septum dissolution after cytokinesis. We further find that Orb6 phosphorylation of Sec3 contributes to exocyst function in concert with exocyst protein Exo70. We propose that Orb6 contributes to polarized growth by regulating membrane trafficking at multiple levels.
PXD011625	30728462	MINA-1 and WAGO-4 are part of regulatory network coordinating germ cell death and RNAi in C. elegans. 	MINA-1 and WAGO-4 are part of regulatory network coordinating germ cell death and RNAi in C. elegans	C.elegans, germ cell death, mina-1	Post-transcriptional control of mRNAs by RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) has a prominent role in the regulation of gene expression. RBPs interact with mRNAs to control their biogenesis, splicing, transport, localization, translation, and stability. Defects in such regulation can lead to a wide range of human diseases from neurological disorders to cancer. Many RBPs are conserved between Caenorhabditis elegans and humans, and several are known to regulate apoptosis in the adult C. elegans germ line. How these RBPs control apoptosis is, however, largely unknown. Here, we identify mina-1(C41G7.3) in a RNA interference-based screen as a novel regulator of apoptosis, which is exclusively expressed in the adult germ line. The absence of MINA-1 causes a dramatic increase in germ cell apoptosis, a reduction in brood size, and an impaired P granules organization and structure. In vivo crosslinking immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that MINA-1 binds a set of mRNAs coding for RBPs associated with germ cell development. Additionally, a system-wide analysis of a mina-1 deletion mutant compared with wild type, including quantitative proteome and transcriptome data, hints to a post-transcriptional regulatory RBP network driven by MINA-1 during germ cell development in C. elegans. In particular, we found that the germline-specific Argonaute WAGO-4 protein levels are increased in mina-1 mutant background. Phenotypic analysis of double mutant mina-1;wago-4 revealed that contemporary loss of MINA-1 and WAGO-4 strongly rescues the phenotypes observed in mina-1 mutant background. To strengthen this functional interaction, we found that upregulation of WAGO-4 in mina-1 mutant animals causes hypersensitivity to exogenous RNAi. Our comprehensive experimental approach allowed us to describe a phenocritical interaction between two RBPs controlling germ cell apoptosis and exogenous RNAi. These findings broaden our understanding of how RBPs can orchestrate different cellular events such as differentiation and death in C. elegans.
PXD011153	30728824	The Schistosomiasis SpleenOME: Unveiling the Proteomic Landscape of Splenomegaly Using Label-Free Mass Spectrometry. 	Proteome characterization of Spleen during Schistosoma mansoni infection	Schitosoma mansoni, Spleen, immunology	Schistosomiasis is a neglected parasitic disease that affects millions of people worldwide and is caused by helminth parasites from the genus Schistosoma. When caused by S. mansoni, it is associated with the development of a hepatosplenic disease caused by an intense immune response to the important antigenic contribution of adult worms and to the presence of eggs trapped in liver tissue. Although the importance of the spleen for the establishment of immune pathology is widely accepted, it has received little attention in terms of the molecular mechanisms operating in response to the infection. Here, we interrogated the spleen proteome using a label-free shotgun approach for the potential discovery of molecular mechanisms associated to the peak of the acute phase of inflammation and the development of splenomegaly in the murine model. Over fifteen hundred proteins were identified in both infected and control individuals and 325 of those proteins were differentially expressed. Two hundred and forty-two proteins were found upregulated in infected individuals while 83 were downregulated. Functional enrichment analyses for differentially expressed proteins showed that most of them were categorized within pathways of innate and adaptive immunity, DNA replication, vesicle transport and catabolic metabolism. There was an important contribution of granulocyte proteins and antigen processing and presentation pathways were augmented, with the increased expression of MHC class II molecules but the negative regulation of cysteine and serine proteases. Several proteins related to RNA processing were upregulated, including splicing factors. We also found indications of metabolic reprogramming in spleen cells with downregulation of proteins related to mitochondrial metabolism. Ex-vivo imunophenotyping of spleen cells allowed us to attribute the higher abundance of MHC II detected by mass spectrometry to increased number of macrophages (F4/80(+)/MHC II(+) cells) in the infected condition. We believe these findings add novel insights for the understanding of the immune mechanisms associated with the establishment of schistosomiasis and the processes of immune modulation implied in the host-parasite interactions.
PXD008739	30729181	Regional protein expression in human Alzheimer's brain correlates with disease severity. 	Localised protein expression changes in different regions of human Alzheimer's brain correlate with disease severity - Hippocampus	Alzheimer's, Brain, Dementia, Hippocampus, iTRAQ	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that currently affects 36 million people worldwide with no effective treatment available. Development of AD follows a distinctive pattern in the brain and is poorly modelled in animals. Therefore, it is vital to widen the spatial scope of the study of AD and prioritise the study of human brains. Here we show that functionally distinct human brain regions display varying and region-specific changes in protein expression. These changes provide insights into the progression of disease, novel AD-related pathways, the presence of a gradient of protein expression change from less to more affected regions and a possibly protective protein expression profile in the cerebellum. This spatial proteomics analysis provides a framework which can underpin current research and open new avenues to enhance molecular understanding of AD pathophysiology, provide new targets for intervention and broaden the conceptual frameworks for future AD research.
PXD010433	30729447	The Antarctic psychrophiles Chlamydomonas spp. UWO241 and ICE-MDV exhibit differential restructuring of photosystem I in response to iron. 	The Antarctic Chlamydomonas spp. UWO241 and ICE-MDV exhibit differential restructuring of Photosystem I in response to iron	Antarctica, Photosystem I, iron, psychrophile	Chlamydomonas sp. UWO241 is a psychrophilic alga isolated from the deep photic zone of a perennially ice-covered Antarctic lake (east lobe Lake Bonney, ELB). Past studies have shown that C. sp. UWO241 exhibits constitutive downregulation of photosystem I (PSI) and high rates of PSI-associated cyclic electron flow (CEF). Iron levels in ELB are in the nanomolar range leading us to hypothesize that the unusual PSI phenotype of C. sp. UWO241 could be a response to chronic Fe-deficiency. We studied the impact of Fe availability in C. sp. UWO241, a mesophile, C. reinhardtii SAG11-32c, as well as a psychrophile isolated from the shallow photic zone of ELB, Chlamydomonas sp. ICE-MDV. Under Fe-deficiency, PsaA abundance and levels of photooxidizable P700 (DeltaA820/A820) were reduced in both psychrophiles relative to the mesophile. Upon increasing Fe, C. sp. ICE-MDV and C. reinhardtii exhibited restoration of PSI function, while C. sp. UWO241 exhibited only moderate changes in PSI activity and lacked almost all LHCI proteins. Relative to Fe-excess conditions (200 microM Fe(2+)), C. sp. UWO241 grown in 18 microM Fe(2+) exhibited downregulation of light harvesting and photosystem core proteins, as well as upregulation of a bestrophin-like anion channel protein and two CEF-associated proteins (NdsS, PGL1). Key enzymes of starch synthesis and shikimate biosynthesis were also upregulated. We conclude that in response to variable Fe availability, the psychrophile C. sp. UWO241 exhibits physiological plasticity which includes restructuring of the photochemical apparatus, increased PSI-associated CEF, and shifts in downstream carbon metabolism toward storage carbon and secondary stress metabolites.
PXD009870	30729	The anti-reproductive pharmacology of LH-RH and agonistic analogues. 	Proteomics of JHS samples identifies proteins associated with heart failure	Jackson Heat Study, heart failure, myocardial infarction	LH-RH and three particular ("super") analogues were evaluated for agonistic (ovulation-induction and short-term uterotrophic properties) and  postcoital contraceptive activity in rodents. Additionally, LH-RH and/or a representative analogue (D-Ala6-des Gly10-Pro9-LH-RH ethylamide) were tested for postcoital contraceptive/vaginal smear/return to fertility effects, precoital contraceptive activity, and effects on puberty in the immature female. All compounds induced ovulation and uterotrophic effects and terminated pregnancy when administered either pre- or post-implantation. LH-RH and the representative analogue, while terminating pregnancy postcoitally, produced an associated break in the characteristic leucocytic vaginal smear of pregnancy to one of cornification by day 12; at this time mating and insemination were reestablished and all rats carried to normal term. Precoitally, LH-RH administered to nembutalized (but not to unblocked) rats produced a 50% reduction in the pregnancy rate and a 38% decrease in the number of viable pups delivered. In immature rats, the representative analogue delayed puberty (i.e. vaginal canalization) and retarded the growth of the ovaries, uteri, and anterior pituitary gland. The collective data strongly support the concept that LH-RH and agonistic derivatives, in spite of their putative pro-fertility classification, are characteristically antifertility by nature. Since the latter effect appears to be the paradoxically dominant one, it is suggested that LH-RH agonism is synonymous with contraception. Furthermore, such peptides may represent a new potential approach to fertility control.
PXD011922	30733280	The intramembrane protease SPPL2c promotes male germ cell development by cleaving phospholamban. 	Proteomics of testis from SPPL2c KO mice	Testis	Signal peptide peptidase (SPP) and the four homologous SPP-like (SPPL) proteases constitute a family of intramembrane aspartyl proteases with selectivity for type II-oriented transmembrane segments. Here, we analyse the physiological function of the orphan protease SPPL2c, previously considered to represent a non-expressed pseudogene. We demonstrate proteolytic activity of SPPL2c towards selected tail-anchored proteins. Despite shared ER localisation, SPPL2c and SPP exhibit distinct, though partially overlapping substrate spectra and inhibitory profiles, and are organised in different high molecular weight complexes. Interestingly, SPPL2c is specifically expressed in murine and human testis where it is primarily localised in spermatids. In mice, SPPL2c deficiency leads to a partial loss of elongated spermatids and reduced motility of mature spermatozoa, but preserved fertility. However, matings of male and female SPPL2c(-/-) mice exhibit reduced litter sizes. Using proteomics we identify the sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA2)-regulating protein phospholamban (PLN) as a physiological SPPL2c substrate. Accumulation of PLN correlates with a decrease in intracellular Ca(2+) levels in elongated spermatids that likely contribute to the compromised male germ cell differentiation and function of SPPL2c(-/-) mice.
PXD011923	30733281	Signal peptide peptidase-like 2c impairs vesicular transport and cleaves SNARE proteins. 	Quantitative Proteomics of SPPL2c overexpressing HEK cells	HEK cells, SPPL2c	Members of the GxGD-type intramembrane aspartyl proteases have emerged as key players not only in fundamental cellular processes such as B-cell development or protein glycosylation, but also in development of pathologies, such as Alzheimer's disease or hepatitis virus infections. However, one member of this protease family, signal peptide peptidase-like 2c (SPPL2c), remains orphan and its capability of proteolysis as well as its physiological function is still enigmatic. Here, we demonstrate that SPPL2c is catalytically active and identify a variety of SPPL2c candidate substrates using proteomics. The majority of the SPPL2c candidate substrates cluster to the biological process of vesicular trafficking. Analysis of selected SNARE proteins reveals proteolytic processing by SPPL2c that impairs vesicular transport and causes retention of cargo proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. As a consequence, the integrity of subcellular compartments, in particular the Golgi, is disturbed. Together with a strikingly high physiological SPPL2c expression in testis, our data suggest involvement of SPPL2c in acrosome formation during spermatogenesis.
