PXD055040	40651979	LINC00622 transcriptionally promotes RRAGD to repress mTORC1-modulated autophagic cell death by associating with BTF3 in cutaneous melanoma. 	LncRNA LINC00622 directly bingding proteins in melanoma cells	HPLC-MS, LINC00622, melanoma	Autophagy plays critical and complicated roles in tumors. As the central hub of nutrient signaling and cell growth, mTOR constitutes mTORC1 to be the main gateway for modulating autophagy. Yet, the regulatory mechanisms of mTORC1-regulated autophagy in tumors are not fully deciphered. Here, we report a novel long noncoding RNA, LINC00622, which modulates mTORC1-regulated autophagy in cutaneous melanoma. Functionally, LINC00622 acts as a pro-oncogenic factor to promote proliferation, colony formation, migration and invasion in melanoma while suppressing cell death. Mechanistically, LINC00622 associates with and recruits BTF3 to transcriptionally enhance RRAGD expression for activating mTORC1 and thus inhibiting autophagic cell death, which contributes to the development of cutaneous melanoma. Our findings not only demonstrated the oncogenic role of LINC00622 via RRAGD/mTORC1 axis to repress autophagic cell death in cutaneous melanoma, but also offer novel treatment targets for melanoma therapy.
PXD065508	40652086	Novel insights on remnant stomach following Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery based on histological evaluation and quantitative proteomics analysis. 	Novel insights on remnant stomach following Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass surgery based on histological evaluation and quantitative proteomics analysis	Proteomic Remnant stomach, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass	Patients undergoing weight-reducing Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) have immediate positive effects on metabolic health, including type 2 diabetes (T2D). Refeeding via the secluded stomach, either by a gastrotube or after gastro-gastric fistulation result in T2D relapse and weight regain. The stomach therefore seems to play an active role in metabolism. To explore histological and protein expression changes in the gastric mucosa before compared to after RYGB. Perioperatively, biopsies were taken in a non-paired manner from the stomach (fundus, corpus, antrum) in patients undergoing Sleeve Gastrectomy (SG) and patients > 8 months postoperatively after RYGB by balloon-enteroscopy. The included SG and RYGB patients did not display any obvious mucosal or luminal pathology during surgery or the balloon-enteroscopies. The gastric biopsies both at perioperatively and postoperatively were prepared foer histological evaluation and for quantitative (comparative) non-targeted proteomics. The results were compared by Volcano plots, Principal Component Analysis and STRING functional protein association networks. Histologically the gastric mucosa looked normal in biopsies from all the different parts of the postoperative bypassed stomach with no clear differences compared to the perioperative samples. The perioperative biopsies generally contained significantly higher amounts of proteins involved in fatty acid metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation and ATP metabolic processes, citric acid cycle and the respiratory chain. Postoperative biopsies instead showed overall increased quantities of proteins associated with ribosomes, RNA-metabolic processes, the mitotic cycle and pancreatic secretion. The results provide novel insights into the mucosal proteome-changes in the secluded stomach following RYGB.
PXD056695	40652336	Nanomaterials Trigger Functional Anti-Tumoral Responses in Primary Human Immune Cells. 	Nanomaterials trigger functional responses in primary human immune cells	Differential analysis, Human Lymphocytes, Nanomaterials, SP3-SPE, nLC-MS/MS	Targeting the immune system with nanoparticles (NPs) to deliver immunomodulatory molecules emerged as a solution to address intra-tumoral immunosuppression and enhance therapeutic response. While the potential of nanoimmunotherapies in reactivating immune cells has been evaluated in several preclinical studies, the impact of drug-free nanomaterials on the immune system remains unknown. Here, the molecular and functional response of human NK cells and pan T cells to a selection of five NPs that are commonly used in biomedical applications are characterized. After a pre-screen to evaluate the toxicity of these nanomaterials on immune cells, ultrasmall silica-based gadolinium (Si-Gd) NPs and poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) NPs are selected for further investigation. Bulk RNA-sequencing and flow cytometry analysis showcase that PLGA NPs trigger a transcriptional priming toward activation in NK and pan T cells. While PLGA NPs improved NK cells anti-tumoral functions in a cytokines-deprived environment, Si-Gd NPs significantly impaired T cells activation as well as functional responses to a polyclonal antigenic stimulation. Altogether, PLGA NPs are identified as an attractive strategy for reactivating the immune system of cancer patients.
PXD059048	40653316	Coupling tRNAGly gene redundancy with staphylococcal cell wall integrity, antibiotic susceptibility, and virulence potential. 	Coupling tRNAGly gene redundancy with staphylococcal cell wall integrity, antibiotic susceptibility and virulence potential	Staphylococcus aureus, genome editing, tRNA gene redundancy, tRNA-mediated metabolism regulation	Redundancy in transfer RNA (tRNA) gene copies across species remains poorly understood and, in many cases, largely unexplored. In Staphylococcus aureus, multiple tRNAGly genes encode isoacceptors involved in protein synthesis and cell wall formation, aminoacylated by a sole glycyl-tRNA synthetase (GlyRS) which is under the transcription regulation of a species-specific glyS T-box riboswitch. The T-box can interact with all tRNAGly isoacceptors to adopt species-specific conformations and affect both pathways. Using CRISPR/Cas9 editing, we ablated a gene copy corresponding to the proteinogenic P1 tRNAGlyGCC. Surprisingly, the growth and the overall translational activity of the edited strain were found unaffected, suggesting functional compensation by the remaining tRNAGly genes. On the other hand, transcriptomics and proteomics analyses combined with functional assays revealed nutrient-dependent stress responses with surprisingly impaired cell wall integrity and increased susceptibility to cell wall-targeting antibiotics. Additionally, the edited strain displayed reduced biofilm formation but retained the ability to invade human cells in vitro. Overall, the present study underscores the critical role of tRNA gene redundancy in the physiology of S. aureus and highlights tRNAs as regulators of metabolic homeostasis in pathogenic bacteria.
PXD065307	40653514	CXCL14 drives age-related intervertebral disc degeneration via NF-kappaB pathway activation in a multiomic study. 	Proteomic Analysis of Human Nucleus Pulposus in Young and Elderly Individuals Using TMT Quantification	Aging, Differential Proteins, Human Samples, Nucleus Pulposus, Protein Expression, TMT Quantification, Young vs Elderly	Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD), a common cause of chronic low back pain, strongly impacts daily life. Although previous studies have identified certain biomarkers indicating IDD, comprehensive analyses that integrate transcriptomic and proteomic data to elucidate age-related changes in IDD are lacking. We addressed this issue by integrating transcriptomic and proteomic analyses to identify key molecular signatures that may be potential therapeutic targets for improving the treatment of age-related IDD. We used transcriptomic and proteomic analyses to identify key regulatory genes associated with IDD. We performed RNA sequencing and mass spectrometry of 3 elderly patients with IDD and 3 younger patients with intervertebral disc lesions. Statistical analysis and GO and KEGG enrichment analyses were employed to interpret the transcriptomic and proteomic data. Validation was performed with external datasets and RT-qPCR. Gene regulatory network and ceRNA network analyses revealed the factors associated with characteristic genes. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed 45 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 34 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) associated with IDD. We identified CXCL14 as the sole molecule significantly upregulated in IDD at both the transcriptome (4.2-fold, p < 0.001) and proteome levels (3.8-fold, p = 0.003). RT-qPCR confirmed CXCL14 overexpression in elderly IDD patients (|log2-fold change| =4.1, p < 0.001), consistent with external dataset analysis (GSE147383: |log2-fold change| =1.3, p = 0.008). Gene regulatory networks revealed that CXCL14 interacts with inflammatory mediators (IL-1beta and TNF-alpha) and activates the NF-kappaB pathway, a key driver of extracellular matrix degradation and inflammation. ceRNA network analysis further identified hsa-miR-582-3p and hsa-miR-150-5p as potential upstream regulators of CXCL14. We analysed the expression profiles of elderly IDD patients and younger patients through transcriptomic and proteomic analyses, identifying unique molecular features associated with IDD. These findings lay a foundation for developing targeted treatments for elderly IDD patients and provide broader insights into potential therapeutic strategies for managing ageing-related IDD across different patient populations. CXCL14 is a potential therapeutic target for pain associated with age-related IDD and could inform the development of novel drug therapies and diagnostic tools, potentially improving clinical outcomes and providing a basis for personalized treatment approaches in managing chronic low back pain and IDD.
PXD063350	40654079	Isomerized and Racemized Aspartyl and Deamidated Asparagine Residues Identified in gammaS-Crystallin. 	Identification of peptide isoforms in gS-crystallin using stable isotope labeled peptides	Lens, cataract, crystallins, deamidation, isomerization, racemization	gammaS-crystallin is a major protein of the human lens and is highly modified with age and cataract due to a lack of lens protein turnover. Previous studies identify some sites of isomerization and racemization of deamidated asparaginyl and aspartyl residues in gammaS but have been limited due to the complexity of isoforms and difficulty in characterizing deamidation posttranslational modifications. A total of 32 stable isotope-labeled peptides are created for gammaS residues 7-18, 72-78, and 131-145, containing L-Asp, D-Asp, L-isoAsp, and D-isoAsp at D12, N14, N76, D77, and N143 to act as internal chromatography standards spiked into tryptic digests of nuclear insoluble protein of a cataractous human lens. High-resolution mass spectrometry is used to accurately assign deamidation status using the 19 mDa mass defect between isotopic peaks of deamidated and nondeamidated peptides. While peptides containing D-forms of Asp and isoAsp were assigned, the predominant isoforms contained L-isoAsp. High-resolution mass spectrometry using wide single ion monitoring data-independent acquisition also greatly improved the reliable identification of peptide deamidation states. These results will aid creation of gammaS using native chemical ligation to examine the role of isoAsp in crystallin aggregation and cataract.
PXD066426	40654815	Hydroxyl and Trifluoromethyl Radical Carbohydrate Footprinting for Probing Protein Binding Components of Oligosaccharides. 	Hydroxyl Radical and Trifluoromethyl Carbohydrate Footprinting for Probing Protein Binding Components of Oligosaccharides	CF3 radical, NAG3, RCF, hydroxyl radical, modification, oxidation	Carbohydrates are found in various forms in living organisms, both as free-standing glycans as well as glycoconjugates including glycoproteins, glycolipids, and glycosaminoglycans. These structures play crucial roles in many biological processes, often mediated or influenced by interactions of carbohydrates with other biomolecules. However, studying these interactions is particularly challenging due to the structural complexity of carbohydrates, their dynamic conformational behavior, and the low binding affinities often involved. To address these challenges, we are developing a novel method that leverages mass spectrometry-based radical footprinting of carbohydrates (RFC). We monitored changes in the solvent accessibility of specific regions within oligosaccharides by measuring variations in the apparent rate of hydroxyl radical and trifluoromethyl radical-mediated oxidation. In our studies, a collection of trisaccharide isomers and N, N',N''-triacetylchitotriose (NAG 3 ) shows no significant change in modification in non-binding protein solutions. However, in the presence of two proteins that bind NAG 3 specifically, NAG 3 oxidation is reduced. We find that the free reducing end is the primary site of hydroxyl radical oxidation under covalent labeling conditions, allowing it to distinguish interactions at the glycan reducing end. Trifluoromethyl radicals, conversely, label broadly across the trisaccharide by substitution into a C-H bond. Overall, this approach offers a powerful new approach for identifying glycan-protein interactions and mapping the binding interface of glycans.
PXD063111	40654848	Carbohydrates and the oxidative branch of the pentose phosphate pathway modify Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron phage resistance by phase variable S-layers. 	Carbohydrates and the oxidative branch of the pentose phosphate pathway modify Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron phage resistance by phase variable S-layers	bacteroides, phage, surface layer	The human gut microbiota consists of hundreds of bacterial species, some of which persist in the presence of lytic phage that infect them. Bacteroides employ numerous phase-variable strategies to survive in the presence of phage, including capsular polysaccharides (CPS) and S-layer lipoproteins. We previously reported that a Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron strain lacking CPS exhibits almost complete resistance to multiple phages when forced to express the S-layer protein BT1927. However, this strain was only resistant after certain growth conditions, suggesting nutritional variables alter infection and resistance. We grew this strain on various simple sugars and polysaccharides finding that some substrates (fructose, glucose) promote strong resistance to a single phage (ARB25) while others like N -acetylgalactosamine (GalNAC) and mucin O -glycans increase susceptibility. Mixing fructose and GalNAc indicates the effects of GalNAc are dominant. Despite increasing ARB25 susceptibility, GalNAc did not reduce BT1927 transcript or protein levels. Instead, GalNAc reduced the amount of BT1927 displayed on the cell surface and increased outer membrane vesiculation. Mutants in any of the 3 steps of the oxidative branch of the pentose phosphate pathway-grown in fructose-behaved similarly to wild-type cells grown in GalNAc, illuminating this pathway in regulation of sugar-mediated phage-resistance. Despite promoting strong resistance, cells grown in glucose/fructose sometimes displayed sub-populations that appeared to completely lack surface BT1927, suggesting another checkpoint exists to control whether this phage defense is deployed. Finally, we show the mucin sugar GalNAc increases susceptibility to several other phage, which has implications for B. thetaiotaiomicron persistence in niches like the mucus layer. Importance: The persistence of viruses that infect bacteria (bacteriophages or phages) in the human gut microbiome and their effects on bacterial physiology and host health are active areas of investigation. Our study investigates how various sugars and polysaccharides alter phage susceptibility and resistance in the model gut symbiont Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron to lytic phages that are capable of infecting it. Our finding that the mucin sugar, N -acetylgalactosamine, and mucin O -glycans that contain this sugar reduce B. thetaiotaomicron resistance to multiple phages has implications for how this symbiont persists in different gut microhabitats, such as the mucus layer, and which defense mechanisms it can deploy to survive in these niches.
PXD055641	40656636	EBI2-oxysterol signalling regulates VE-cadherin expression and multiple sclerosis CD4(+) T cell attachment to a human tri-cell spheroid blood-brain barrier model. 	EBI2/oxysterol signalling modulates the expression of VE-cadherin and attachment of multiple sclerosis CD4+ T cells to an in vitro blood-brain barrier model	Multiple sclerosis, human brain	Changes in the function of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) are one of the hallmarks of multiple sclerosis (MS) and are observed at very early stages of the disease. Several disease-modifying therapies for MS regulate tight junction and adherence junction proteins in the BBB thus limiting the entry of peripheral immune cells into the central nervous system (CNS). The Epstein-Barr virus-induced gene 2 (EBI2) was shown to drive immune cell migration towards high concentration of its endogenous ligand, oxysterol 7alpha,25OHC, which concentrations increase during inflammation in the CNS. Here, the data showed upregulated transcripts of EBI2 and CH25H, the first enzyme in 7alpha, 25OHC synthesis pathway, in MS brain lesions. In vitro, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from patients with MS downregulated HSD3B7, the 7alpha, 25OHC degrading enzyme, and VE-cadherin levels in the tri-cell human BBB spheroid model. Importantly, EBI2 signalling mediated the attachment of MS patient-derived CD4(+) T cells to the BBB spheroids. The data raises the possibility that elevated oxysterol levels in an inflamed brain might trigger a downregulation of VE-cadherin in endothelial cells, potentially easing the CNS infiltration of EBI2-expressing immune cells. This process can be modulated through the use of EBI2 ligands, suggesting a potential pathway for therapeutic intervention.
PXD062995	40657929	The PDZ domain of EpsC is required for extracellular secretion of VesB by the Type II secretion system in Vibrio cholerae. 	Comparison of culture supernatants from wild-type Vibrio cholerae and a mutant lacking the PDZ domain of the type II secretion system	GspC, PDZ, T2SS, Vibrio cholerae, protein secretion	The Type II Secretion System (T2SS) of the Gram-negative pathogen Vibrio cholerae is considered a virulence factor primarily because it facilitates the secretion of cholera toxin upon arrival of this pathogen in the human intestinal lumen, resulting in the profuse watery diarrhea associated with infection. Results from transposon mutagenesis screens suggest that the V. cholerae eps genes that code for the T2SS are essential. The deletion of these genes impairs the secretion of the T2SS's nearly two dozen protein substrates, leading to the selection of suppressor mutations, extracytoplasmic stress, and poor growth of the mutant bacteria. Here, we explore the role of the C-terminal PDZ domain of the T2SS component EpsC, and why transposon insertions in pdz do not affect bacterial viability unlike insertions in most other eps genes. Our data show that the deletion of pdz does not affect the growth of V. cholerae, and we demonstrate via mass spectrometry that the serine protease VesB is the only known T2SS substrate fully reliant on PDZ for secretion. We confirm this finding with immuno- and enzyme assays and show that the immunoglobulin (Ig)-like fold of VesB contains PDZ-dependent secretion information that can be grafted onto beta-lactamase, causing this normally periplasmic protein to be secreted in a PDZ-dependent manner. This work adds to a growing body of evidence about substrate selection by the T2SS and reinforces the view that the C-terminal domain of EpsC and its homologs are required for the secretion of only a subset of T2SS substrates within a given species. IMPORTANCE: The T2SS is common in Gram-negative pathogens, facilitating the secretion of various toxins and enzymes; however, the mechanisms of substrate selection and secretion remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that the C-terminal PDZ domain of the T2SS "clamp" protein EpsC is only required for secretion of VesB in V. cholerae and that VesB's Ig-fold contains PDZ-dependent secretion information that can be functionally grafted onto a non-secreted periplasmic protein.
PXD058594	40659611	KDM6A downregulation promotes tumor-prone cytokines expression in cancer-associated fibroblasts by activating enhancers. 	KDM6A downregulation promotes tumor-prone cytokines expression in cancer-associated fibroblasts by activating enhancers	KDM6A	Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are activated fibroblasts that secrete numerous cytokines and chemokines to accelerate tumor progression. However, the mechanism underlying cytokine production by CAFs remains unclear. This study reports that CAFs isolated from colon cancer tissue, TGF-beta1-induced CAFs, or HCT116 co-cultured CAFs secrete more cytokines and growth factors represented by IGF1, ELN, and SFRP2. Mechanistic investigations demonstrate that aerobic glycolysis metabolites fumarate and succinate can induce the transcription of IGF1, ELN, and SFRP2 in CAFs, while alpha-ketoglutarate (alpha-KG) can antagonize the induction effect of fumarate and succinate. Moreover, the downregulation of KDM6A in CAFs is observed compared to quiescent fibroblasts (NAFs). Additionally, integrated analysis of ATAC sequencing and RNA sequencing revealed altered chromatin structure during fibroblast activation. CUT-tag sequencing and co-IP assays demonstrate that KDM6A is bound to WDR5, facilitating its association with the COMPASS complex and the polycomb repressive complex at the expected target loci. Depletion of KDM6A disrupts the homeostasis between polycomb and COMPASS complexes, leading to an increase in the expression of IGF1, ELN, and SFRP2. However, the inhibitor GSK-J4, specific for both KDM6A and KDM6B, reduces IGF1 expression, indicating that KDM6B compensates for the demethylase function of KDM6A but cannot replace KDM6A to maintain the homeostasis of COMPASS and polycomb repressive complexes. These findings suggest a metabolism-related epigenetic mechanism for cytokine expression, where reduced KDM6A levels enhance the tumor-promoting effect of CAFs. This may provide insights into why colon cancer is more prevalent in men than in women, since KDM6A is an X-chromosome-associated gene.
PXD058522	40659819	Long-term benefits of TUDCA supplement in ARSACS zebrafish model. 	Long-Term Benefits of TUDCA Supplement in ARSACS Zebrafish Model	Ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay, sacs-ko model, tauroursodeoxycholic acid, zebrafis	Autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS) is an early-onset neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorder characterized by ataxia, spasticity, and peripheral neuropathy. However, several studies have highlighted that some patients also experience cognitive, emotional and social deficits, suggesting a more complex clinical picture that extends beyond motor symptoms. Building on these findings, this study aimed to: (i) investigate locomotor, social and cognitive deficits in adult sacs(-/-) zebrafish versus wild-type (WT) controls through behavioural tests; (ii) identify molecular patterns associated with the adult disease phenotype using transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of sacs(-/-) and WT brains; (iii) evaluate the effectiveness of long-term treatment with tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA) on behavioural outcomes and omics profiles in the zebrafish sacs(-/-) model. Our findings indicate impairments in cognitive, social, and emotional behaviors in aged sacs(-/-) zebrafish, which resemble some deficits observed in human patients. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of adult brains identified alterations in genes related to circadian rhythms and neuroinflammation. Notably, disruptions in sleep and circadian rhythms are frequently reported in individuals with cerebellar ataxia and may contribute to cognitive and behavioral changes. Long-term treatment with TUDCA, a neuroprotective molecule, was associated with partial improvements in social and cognitive behaviors and modifications in omics profiles in the zebrafish model. These results support the potential of further exploring TUDCA in future preclinical and clinical studies, while also emphasizing the need for additional investigations to better understand its mechanisms of action.
PXD067419	40661614	Proximity-labeling proteomics reveals remodeled interactomes and altered localization of pathogenic SHP2 variants. 	myc-SHP2 IP to identify SHP2 interactors through proteomics IP	IP, PTP, SHP2, interactomics	Missense mutations in PTPN11 , which encodes the protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP2, are common in several developmental disorders and cancers. While many mutations disrupt auto-inhibition and hyperactivate SHP2, several do not enhance catalytic activity. Both activating and non-activating mutations could potentially drive pathogenic signaling by altering SHP2 interactions or localization. We employed proximity-labeling proteomics to map the interaction networks of wild-type SHP2, ten clinically-relevant mutants, and SHP2 bound to an inhibitor that stabilizes its auto-inhibited state. Our analyses revealed mutation- and inhibitor-dependent alterations in the SHP2 interactome, with several mutations also changing localization. Some mutants had increased mitochondrial localization and impacted mitochondrial function. This study provides a resource for exploring SHP2 signaling and offers new insights into the molecular basis of SHP2-driven diseases. Furthermore, this work highlights the capacity for proximity-labeling proteomics to detect missense-mutation-dependent changes in protein interactions and localization.
PXD056319	40664356	Comparative Proteomic Characterization of Serum-Free Cultivated HepG2 Cells Reveals Upregulated Drug Metabolism and Increased Oxidative Stress Protection. 	Comparison of serum-free cultivated HepG2 cells with cells cultivated under FBS containing conditions using proteomic analysis	FBS, HepG2 cells, serum-free	Fetal bovine serum (FBS) is commonly used in cell culture models despite being considered critical from both an ethical and scientific standpoint. Since it has been used for many years with a variety of different cells and cell types, research has become dependent on its use, and scientists hesitate to change their working model without solid data demonstrating the usability of serum-free cultivated cells in their desired applications. To shed light on the highly complex issue of dietary demands of cells in culture and the impact of media supplements on cellular behavior, we performed a comparative proteomic characterization between HepG2 cells cultivated in serum-free or FBS-containing conditions with a focus set on drug metabolism and oxidative stress response, the main application field of the HepG2 cell line. We observed the predicted upregulation of multiple pathways associated with drug metabolism and oxidative stress protection, as well as a strong overexpression of multiple antioxidative enzymes such as glutathione peroxidase and glutathione S-transferase at the protein expression level. We confirmed that increased enzyme expression correlates with higher enzyme activity in vitro and linked increased glutathione peroxidase activity to selenium supranutrition under serum-free conditions.
PXD063915	40664649	Unlocking tumor barrier: annexin A2-mediated transcytosis boosts drug delivery in pancreatic and breast tumors. 	Analysis of the protein corona on nanoparticles in mouse plasma	nanoparticle, protein corona	The efficacy of many cancer nanocarriers has traditionally been attributed to enlarged tumor vasculature fenestrations, giving rise to the concept of the enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect. However, emerging evidence suggests that active biological processes, such as transcytosis, may play a central (and sometimes dominant) role in nanoparticle transport across tumor vasculature. In this study, we develop lipid-coated mesoporous silica nanoparticles (LC-MSNP) as a model platform to investigate the contribution of surface-bound proteins to transcytosis-mediated tumor delivery. Through comparative analysis, we identify Annexin A2 (A2) as a key endogenous protein that facilitates this process. Pre-coating LC-MSNP with A2 significantly enhances the delivery of irinotecan and doxorubicin to breast and pancreatic tumors in vivo. This strategy is successfully extended to both an in-house liposome formulation and a commercial doxorubicin liposome, leading to improved therapeutic efficacy, including long-term survival in a subset of treated mice. Mechanistic studies reveal that this enhancement is governed by a specific nanosurface-A2-alpha5beta1 integrin interaction. In both murine and patient-derived xenograft models, therapeutic benefit correlates with alpha5beta1 integrin expression on tumor vasculature. These findings establish a mechanistic basis for protein-mediated transcytosis and provide a translational strategy to improve the performance of clinically approved nanomedicines.
PXD064812	40664668	DDX39B K63-linked ubiquitination mediated by TRIM28 promotes NSCLC metastasis by enhancing ECAD lysosomal degradation. 	DDX39B K63-linked ubiquitination mediated by TRIM28 promotes NSCLC metastasis by enhancing ECAD lysosomal degradation	DDX39B PTMs (ubiquitination, etc.), phosphorylation	Metastasis is a leading cause of treatment failure and high mortality in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Recently, we demonstrated that DEAD box helicase 39B (DDX39B) was upregulated and activated metabolic reprogramming in colorectal cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the function of DDX39B and the therapeutic potential for targeting DDX39B in NSCLC remain unclear. Herein, we discovered that DDX39B was an independent marker for poor survival in NSCLC patients. Strikingly, DDX39B protein, but not its mRNA, was elevated in clinical metastatic brain lesions and metastatic cell models (in vitro EMT-metastatic and in vivo carotid artery injection-induced brain-metastatic cell model). Mechanistically, DDX39B interacted with E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM28 via Pro322 residue and underwent TRIM28-mediated K63-linked ubiquitination at Lys241, Lys384, and Lys398, leading to DDX39B protein stabilization and upregulation. Subsequently, DDX39B directly bound to ECAD and promoted ECAD lysosomal degradation by recruiting Src and Hakai, which was independent of its RNA helicase activity, followed by activating beta-catenin oncogenic signaling and facilitating NSCLC aggressive phenotype. According to structure-based virtual screening, we discovered a clinical antimalarial drug, artesunate, that disrupted the association of DDX39B-TRIM28 complex, resulting in DDX39B degradation and blocking the pro-metastatic effects of DDX39B. Overall, our findings uncover that TRIM28/DDX39B/ECAD axis contributes to NSCLC metastasis and targeting DDX39B degradation by artesunate is an effective and promising therapeutic approach for the treatment of NSCLC.
PXD052584	40664703	Structural stabilization of the intrinsically disordered SARS-CoV-2 N by binding to RNA sequences engineered from the viral genome fragment. 	Cross-linking MS supporting: Structural stabilization of the intrinsically disordered SARS-CoV-2 N by binding to RNA sequences engineered from the viral genome	SARS-CoV-2 N, XL-MS, cross-linking	The nucleocapsid N is one of four structural proteins of the coronaviruses. Its essential role in genome encapsidation makes it a critical therapeutic target for COVID-19 and related diseases. However, the inherent disorder of full-length N hampers its structural analysis. Here, we describe a stepwise method using viral-derived RNAs to stabilize SARS-CoV-2 N for EM analysis. We identify pieces of RNA from the SARS-CoV-2 genome that promote the formation of structurally homogeneous N dimers, intermediates of assembly, and filamentous capsid-like structures. Building on these results, we engineer a symmetric RNA to stabilize N protein dimers, the building block of high-order assemblies, for EM studies. We combine domain-specific monoclonal antibodies against N with chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry to validate the spatial arrangement of the N domains within the dimer. Additionally, our cryo-EM analysis reveals novel antigenic sites on the N protein. Our findings provide insights into N protein's architectural and antigenic principles, which can guide design of pan-coronavirus therapeutics.
PXD050981	40665417	H2A.X N-terminal acetylation is a newly identified NAA40-mediated modification that is responsive to UV irradiation. 	Function of the histone N-terminal acetyltransferase Naa40 in DNA damage response	histone N-terminal acetylation, histone post-translational modifications	BACKGROUND: N-terminal acetylation (Nt-Ac), mediated by N-terminal acetyltransferases (NATs) is one of the most abundant protein modifications occurring approximately in 80% of all eukaryotic proteins. In contrast to the broad spectrum NATs, the human N-alpha-acetyltransferase 40 (NAA40) is highly specific, currently known to Nt-acetylate only the two histone proteins H4 and H2A, which share an Ser(1)-Gly(2)-Arg(3)-Gly(4) N-terminal sequence. Previous work from our lab and others has highlighted the biological and clinical relevance of this NAA40-mediated modification. RESULTS: In this study, by performing in silico analysis of protein sequences combined with biochemical assays we identify the histone variants H2A.X and H2A.J and the chromatin remodeler SMARCD2 as new potential substrates of human NAA40. Subsequently, focusing on H2A.X, we show for the first time by mass spectrometry analysis that H2A.X is N-terminally acetylated (Nt-acH2A.X) within human cells. Next, we demonstrate that NAA40 specifically interacts and N-terminally acetylates histone H2A.X, in vitro and within cells. Finally, we provide evidence that H2A.X N-terminal acetylation is responsive to Ultraviolet B (UVB)-induced DNA damage and its associated enzyme NAA40 affects the survival of cells exposed to UVB irradiation. CONCLUSION: Our findings identify H2A.X as a novel bona fide substrate of NAA40. Moreover, the responsiveness of H2A.X N-terminal acetylation to UV-induced DNA damage indicates that this is a dynamic modification with potential biological functions.
PXD064788	40667337	In-depth analysis of the tear fluid glycoproteome reveals diverse lacritin glycosylation and spliceoforms. 	Eye opening discoveries: uncovering lacritin glycoforms and the tear fluid glycoproteome	Immunoglobulin A, glycoproteomics, lacritin, mucin, mucinase, tear fluid	Tear fluid comprises a diverse group of extracellular glycoproteins which are critical for ocular homeostasis. Within the tear fluid glycoproteome, lacritin is highly expressed and plays a key role in immune response, tear secretion, and antimicrobial activity. Importantly, glycosylation constitutes over 50% of lactritin's molecular weight. However, despite this fact, nothing is known about the specific glycan structures on lacritin and how they influence its protein folding, function, or downstream biological processes. Similarly, it remains completely unknown whether alterations to lacritin glycans are correlated with ocular pathologies. To address this gap in knowledge, we harnessed mass spectrometry (MS) to conduct the first O-glycoproteomic study of tear fluid. Here, we report unprecedented coverage of lacritin glycosylation, detailing 19 O-glycosites bearing a myriad of glycan structures. Further, we leveraged Alphafold 3.0 and GlycoShape to visualize the impact of these glycans on its structure, demonstrating that O-glycosylation renders the protein backbone rigid and extended. Surprisingly, we also detected protein-level evidence of two lacritin spliceoforms, representing the first observation of these isoforms by MS. Simultaneously, we describe the most comprehensive characterization of the tear fluid glycoproteome to date, elucidating the glycosylation profile of Immunoglobulin A (IgA), lactoferrin, and other glycoproteins with demonstrated clinical relevance as diagnostic biomarkers. Overall, this study lays critical groundwork for future biochemical investigation of tear fluid glycoproteins and their application as diagnostic or therapeutic tools for ocular diseases.
PXD062619	40668933	NRBP1 pseudokinase binds to and activates the WNK pathway in response to osmotic stress. 	NRBP1 pseudokinase binds to and activates the WNK pathway in response to osmotic stress - Figure 5B / 6A	NRBP1 pseudokinase, WNK pathway, osmotic stress	WNK family kinases are regulated by osmotic stress and control ion homeostasis by activating SPAK and OXSR1 kinases. Using a proximity labeling approach, we found that osmotic stress promotes the association of WNK1 with the NRBP1 pseudokinase and TSC22D2/4 adaptor proteins, results that are confirmed by immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, and immunoblotting studies. NRBP1 pseudokinase is closely related to WNK isoforms and contains a RPhi-motif-binding conserved C-terminal (CCT) domain, like the CCT domains in WNKs, SPAK, and OXSR1. Knockdown or knockout of NRBP1 markedly inhibited basal as well as sorbitol-induced activation of WNK1 and downstream components. We demonstrate that recombinant NRBP1 can directly induce the activation of WNK4 in vitro. AlphaFold-3 modeling predicts that WNK1, SPAK, NRBP1, and TSC22D4 form a complex, in which two TSC22D4 RPhi-motifs interact with the CCTL1 domain of WNK1 and the CCT domain of NRBP1. Our data indicate that NRBP1 and likely its close homolog NRBP2 function as an upstream activator of the WNK pathway.
PXD055089	40669378	In-depth patient-specific analysis of tumor heterogeneity in melanoma brain metastasis: Insights from spatial transcriptomics and multi-region bulk sequencing. 	High resolution proteome profiling of multiple neighboring regions with each tumor tissue of patients with melanoma brain metastasis using bulk tumor sequencing.	PD-1, immune signaling, immunotherapy, melanoma brain metastases, multi-omics, targeted therapy, transcriptomics	Melanoma brain metastases (MBM) exhibit extensive intertumor and intratumor heterogeneity (ITH), driven by a complex tumor microenvironment. The aim of this study was to perform a detailed analysis of individual MBM patient tumors using a multiomics approach, integrating spatial transcriptomics with multi-region bulk exome, proteome, and transcriptome profiling for a small group of four patient samples. We identified significant patient-specific variations in immune cell infiltration, particularly in B/plasma cells, myeloid cells, and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). Notably, immunotherapy-treated patients showed enriched pathways related to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) signaling, oxidative phosphorylation, T-cell signaling, inflammation and DNA damage, which aligned with distinct cellular compositions observed in the spatial analysis. We also uncovered considerable ITH, especially at the protein level, revealing differential expression patterns of key tumor and immune-related markers. The correlation between mRNA and protein data highlighted consistent enrichment of critical pathways across multiomics layers. These findings highlight the molecular and cellular landscape of individual patient MBM, underscoring the importance of addressing tumor heterogeneity in the development of effective therapeutic strategies.
PXD052819	40669465	EPLINalpha controls integrin recycling from Rab21 endosomes to drive breast cancer cell migration. 	EPLINalpha controls integrin recycling from Rab21 endosomes to drive breast cancer cell migration	BioID, breast cancer	Epithelial protein lost in neoplasm (EPLIN), an actin-binding protein, has been described as both a tumor promoter and tumor suppressor in different cancers. The roles of EPLIN isoforms (alpha/beta) remain largely unknown and could explain these opposing views. We observed distinct EPLIN isoform localization in breast cancer cells; EPLINalpha is recruited to actin in plasma membrane ruffles and endosomes, while EPLINbeta resides on stress fibers. EPLINalpha localizes to early endosomes in an actin-dependent manner, where it interacts with Rab21, an established regulator of beta1-integrin endosomal trafficking. This supports beta1-integrin recycling and cell migration. Using proximity biotinylation (BioID), we identified coronin 1C as an EPLIN-proximal protein, which also localizes at Rab21-containing endosomes and controls integrin recycling downstream of EPLINalpha. EPLINalpha expression was linked to increased breast cancer cell motility, and a high EPLINalpha-to-EPLINbeta ratio correlated with a mesenchymal phenotype in patient samples. Our work identifies previously unknown EPLIN-isoform-specific functions relevant to breast cancer and beyond.
PXD061073	40669752	Dissecting Branch-Specific Unfolded Protein Response Activation in Drug-Tolerant BRAF-Mutant Melanoma using Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry. 	Dissecting Branch-Specific Unfolded Protein Response Activation in Drug-Tolerant BRAF-Mutant Melanoma using Data-Independent Acquisition	Activating Transcription Factor 6, Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA), Inositol requiring enzyme 1, Protein Kinase R-like ER Kinase, Proteomics automation, Unfolded Protein Response	Cells rely on the Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) to maintain ER protein homeostasis (proteostasis) when faced with elevated levels of misfolded and aggregated proteins. The UPR is comprised of three main branches-ATF6, IRE1, and PERK-that coordinate the synthesis of proteins involved in folding, trafficking, and degradation of nascent proteins to restore ER function. Dysregulation of the UPR is linked to numerous diseases, including neurodegenerative disorders, cancer, and diabetes. Despite its importance, identifying UPR targets has been challenging due to their heterogeneous induction, which varies by cell type and tissue. Additionally, defining the magnitude and range of UPR-regulated genes is difficult because of intricate temporal regulation, feedback between UPR branches, and extensive cross-talk with other stress-signaling pathways. To comprehensively identify UPR-regulated proteins and determine their branch specificity, we developed a data-independent acquisition (DIA) liquid-chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS) pipeline. Our optimized workflow improved identifications of low-abundant UPR proteins and leveraged an automated SP3-based protocol on the Biomek i5 liquid handler for label-free peptide preparation. Using engineered stable cell lines that enable selective pharmacological activation of each UPR branch without triggering global UPR activation, we identified branch-specific UPR proteomic targets. These targets were subsequently applied to investigate proteomic changes in multiple BRAF-mutant melanoma cell lines treated with a BRAF inhibitor (PLX4720, i.e., vemurafenib). Our findings revealed differential regulation of the XBP1s branch of the UPR in the BRAF-mutant melanoma cell lines after PLX4720 treatment, likely due to calcium activation, suggesting that the UPR plays a role as a non-genetic mechanism of drug tolerance in melanoma. In conclusion, the validated branch-specific UPR proteomic targets identified in this study provide a robust framework for investigating this pathway across different cell types, drug treatments, and disease conditions in a high-throughput manner.
PXD060950	40669753	Multi-omics characterization of acquired Olaparib resistance in BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutant breast cancer cell lines. 	Multi-omics characterization of acquired Olaparib resistance in BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutant breast cancer cell lines	ADP-ribosylation, BRCA1/2 mutations, DNA damage, EThcD, Olaparib resistance, PARP inhibitors, Phosphoproteomics	Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPi) are widely used as targeted therapies against breast cancers with BRCA mutations. However, the development of resistance to PARPi poses a significant challenge for long-term efficacy of these therapies, warranting further understanding of mechanisms of PARPi resistance. Here, we generated and characterized Olaparib resistance (OR) in BRCA1/2 mutant breast cancer cell lines MDAMB436 and HCC1428 using a systems-level multi-omics approach, including transcriptome, proteome, phosphoproteome, and ADP-ribosylation analysis. Our analyses revealed that resistance development strongly correlated with protein expression changes, while modest effects on phosphorylation- and ADP-ribosylation-dependent signaling pathways were observed. We found that BRCA1 expression was reestablished in OR MDAMB436 cell lines, while PARP1 expression was decreased. In OR HCC1428 cell lines, the BRCA2 mutation was not reverted. However, we observed increased expression of Fanconi anemia group D2 (FANCD2), histone parylation factor 1 (HPF1), and Nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) in various cell lines, suggesting increased replication fork protection, and changes in the ADPr pathway and adaptation of metabolic pathways as resistance mechanisms. Our findings provide valuable insights into the complex landscape of PARPi resistance, offering potential targets for further investigation and therapeutic intervention.
PXD060840	40670430	Lactic acid inhibits melanin synthesis by regulating histone H3 lactylation and suppressing tyrp1 transcription in B16 melanoma cells. 	The mass spectrometry analysis detected differences in protein lactylation in B16 cells after lactic acid treatment.	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP), lactic acid treatment	Lactic acid, a widely distributed metabolic intermediate, exhibits superior permeability and mild acidity, making it a common reagent in skincare products. Lactic acid could significantly reduce melanin synthesis both in vitro and in vivo. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain less clear. To reveal the molecular mechanism by which lactic acid inhibits melanin synthesis through epigenetic pathways, proteins with significantly increased levels of lactylation modifications after lactic acid addition were identified through HPLC-MS/MS. Key genes affected by lactic acid addition were identified using ChIP-seq, and validated through qPCR and Western blot analyses. We reveal that lactic acid could promote protein lactylation in a dose-dependent manner in B16 cells. HPLC-MS analysis revealed that histone H3 showed the most significant increase in lactylation following lactic acid treatment. Through ChIP-seq analysis, we observed that lactylated histone H3 binding at the promoter region of the key melanogenesis gene, Tyrp1, significantly decreased after lactic acid treatment. This was accompanied by a notable reduction in Tyrp1 protein level. Our findings suggest that protein lactylation play a crucial role in lactic acid induced melanin synthesis inhibition.
PXD060121	40670556	Poneratoxin as a key tool for investigating the relationship between sodium channel hypersensitivity and impaired nerve cell function. 	Proteomic analysis on the underlying mechanisms of PoTX-induced nerve injury	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Toxicoproteomics (B/D-HPP)	Poneratoxin (PoTX) is a 25-residue peptide derived from the venom of bullet ant, Paraponera clavata, recognized for its potent activation of NaV channel and pain-inducing effects in murine models. In this study, for the first time, we conducted the evaluation of the excitotoxicity of PoTX and performed an in-depth analysis of transcriptomics and proteomics in vitro to elucidate its impact on the nervous system and underlying pharmacological mechanisms. Our results demonstrated that PoTX significantly induced calcium accumulation in SH-SY5Y cell model. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed that PoTX treatment led to cell cycle arrest, reduced neuronal plasticity, and accelerated cellular senescence. Additionally, PoTX significantly increased tau protein phosphorylation and aggregation via PI3K-Akt-mediated activation of GSK-3 and upregulation of CDK5. It also impaired autophagy by inhibiting ULK1 expression and activity, while concurrently downregulating multiple proteins associated with neuronal excitability. Given these findings and the high tolerance of nerve cells to PoTX treatment alone, along with its potent and sustained activation of NaV channels, PoTX may serve as a valuable tool for investigating the pharmacological relationship between hypersensitivity of NaV channels and the progression of neurological disorders, thereby facilitating the identification of potential therapeutic targets and corresponding drug development.
PXD058143	40670614	Peculiar proteome of dark-cultivated Euglena gracilis. 	Peculiar proteome of dark-cultivated Euglena gracilis	Microalga, Photosynthetic pigments, Proline, Stress, beta-Oxidation of fatty acids	Euglena gracilis is a flagellate photosynthetic microalga that, thanks to its metabolic adaptability, can grow under both autotrophic and heterotrophic conditions. This adaptability makes euglena an interesting species for applied biotechnology. We focused on the proteome of E. gracilis cultivated in Cramer-Myers medium (supplemented with ethanol) in dark and light conditions. Cultures grown in the light showed a characteristic green coloration, while cultures incubated in the dark were bright yellow. When cultured in the dark, microalga showed reduced concentration of chlorophylls (a, b, and total) and carotenoids compared to cells cultured in the light. Conversely, there was an increase in proline content in the dark compared to light cultivation. Using proteomic approach, we revealed 162 differentially accumulated proteins in light- and dark-grown cells classified into 12 functional groups. Notably, alterations in the metabolism of fatty acids and amino acids, secondary metabolism, and accumulation of stress- and detoxification-related proteins in microalgal cells cultivated in darkness with ethanol as a carbon source may help euglena adapt to these conditions. Based on our results and literature, we hypothesize that vitamin B12 potentially plays an important role in light/dark metabolic switch, similarly as in bacteria.
PXD047282	40670683	Evidence for trans-synaptic propagation of oligomeric tau in human progressive supranuclear palsy. 	Human brain homogenate and synaptoneurosome proteomics	Brain, DIA, PSP	In the neurodegenerative disease progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), tau pathology progresses through the brain in a stereotypical spatiotemporal pattern, and where tau pathology appears, synapses are lost. We tested the hypothesis that pathological tau contributes to synapse loss and may spread through the brain by moving from presynapses to postsynapses. Using postmortem PSP brain samples and a living human brain slice culture model, we observe pathological tau in synaptic pairs and evidence that oligomeric tau can enter live human postsynapses. Proteomics revealed increased clusterin in synapses in PSP, and super-resolution imaging showed clusterin colocalized with tau in synapses in close enough proximity to be binding partners, which may mediate tau spread. Accumulation of tau in synapses correlated with synapse loss, and synaptic engulfment by astrocytes was observed, suggesting that astrocytes contribute to synapse loss. Together, these data indicate that targeting synaptic tau is a promising approach to treat PSP.
PXD063955	40670786	Imidazole propionate is a driver and therapeutic target in atherosclerosis. 	Host sensing of microbially produced imidazole propionate is a driver and therapeutic 1 target in atherosclerosis	atherosclerosis, imidazole propionate, microbiota	Atherosclerosis is the main underlying cause of cardiovascular diseases. Its prevention is based on the detection and treatment of traditional cardiovascular risk factors(1). However, individuals at risk for early vascular disease often remain unidentified(2). Recent research has identified new molecules in the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis(3), highlighting the need for alternative disease biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve early diagnosis and therapy efficacy. Here, we observed that imidazole propionate (ImP), produced by microorganisms, is associated with the extent of atherosclerosis in mice and in two independent human cohorts. Furthermore, ImP administration to atherosclerosis-prone mice fed with chow diet was sufficient to induce atherosclerosis without altering the lipid profile, and was linked to activation of both systemic and local innate and adaptive immunity and inflammation. Specifically, we found that ImP caused atherosclerosis through the imidazoline-1 receptor (I1R, also known as nischarin) in myeloid cells. Blocking this ImP-I1R axis inhibited the development of atherosclerosis induced by ImP or high-cholesterol diet in mice. Identification of the strong association of ImP with active atherosclerosis and the contribution of the ImP-I1R axis to disease progression opens new avenues for improving the early diagnosis and personalized therapy of atherosclerosis.
PXD060402	40671522	sRNA-mediated crosstalk between cell wall stress and galactose metabolism in Staphylococcus aureus. 	sRNA-mediated crosstalk between cell wall stress and galactose metabolism in Staphylococcus aureus	Acidic stress, Galactose metabolism, Staphylococcus aureus, small RNA regulation	Staphylococcus aureus is an opportunistic pathogen responsible for a wide range of diseases in humans. During infections, this bacterium is exposed to various stresses that target its cell wall, such as oxidative or acid environments as well as various cell wall-acting antimicrobials. Staphylococcus aureus has effective regulatory systems for responding to environmental stresses, enabling the expression of factors necessary for its survival. Bacterial small RNAs (sRNAs) play a crucial role in this adaptation process. In this study, we show that RsaOI, an S. aureus sRNA, accumulates under acid stress conditions. This response is mediated via the two-component system VraSR, which is associated with the cell wall damage response. As a component of the VraSR regulon, RsaOI contributes to the survival of S. aureus under acid stress and affects its susceptibility to glycopeptide antibiotics. Our findings reveal that RsaOI targets the lacABCDFEG operon, which encodes components of tagatose pathway, a unique mechanism responsible for galactose metabolism in S. aureus. By antisense base pairing near the ribosome binding site of lacD, RsaOI inhibits the expression of this gene, encoding tagatose-6-phosphate aldolase. This regulation disrupts the tagatose pathway, impairing galactose utilization in S. aureus. These findings highlight the role of RsaOI in the mediation between cell wall stress responses and a specific metabolic pathway.
PXD061013	40671572	An Optimized SP3 Sample Processing Workflow for In-Depth and Reproducible Phosphoproteomics. 	An optimized SP3 sample processing workflow for in-depth phos-phoproteomics and improved identification of multiply phosphory-lated peptides	C18., PTM, SP3, TiO2, multiply phosphorylated, phosphorylation	Protein phosphorylation is a ubiquitous post-translational modification (PTM) found across the kingdoms of life and is critical for the regulation of protein function in health and disease. Advances in high-throughput mass spectrometry have transformed our ability to interrogate the phosphoproteome. However, sample preparation methodologies optimized for phosphoproteomics have not kept pace, compromising the ability to fully exploit these technological advances. In this study, we present an optimized phosphoproteomics workflow using carboxylated SP3 magnetic beads, which have simplified proteomics sample preparation. By employing a washing step with 8 M urea and omitting the conventional C18 SPE cleanup, we demonstrate a significant improvement in phosphopeptide identifications, with application of this refined protocol to HEK-293T cell extracts increasing the number nearly 2-fold compared to standard SP3 techniques (7908 cf. 4129). We also observed substantial improvement in the detection of multiply phosphorylated peptides. Our findings suggest that the complexity of PTM cross-talk using current peptide-based proteomics workflows is currently under-represented and underscores the necessity of methodological innovations to better capture the intricacies of the phosphoproteome landscape.
PXD055890	40673955	Laser capture proteomics reveals new candidates for sperm-interacting proteins in the bovine oviduct epithelium. 	Laser capture proteomics reveals new candidates for sperm-interacting proteins in the bovine oviduct epithelium	DIA, Data Independant Analysis, apical part, cell bodies, laser microdissection, oviduct epithelium	In brief: The molecular interactions between spermatozoa and the oviduct epithelium that are involved in capacitation and sperm availability during fertilization still remain largely unknown in many species. This study provides comprehensive proteomes of the apical and basal part of the bovine oviduct epithelium (isthmus and ampulla, pre- and post-ovulatory) and presents new protein candidates for sperm binding in the bovine functional sperm reservoir. Abstract: The proximal region of the oviduct (isthmus) serves as a sperm reservoir in many mammalian species. This reservoir is composed of epithelial cells that bind sperm primarily to their apical cilia and ensure the survival of high-quality sperm until ovulation. The species-specific molecular interactions between spermatozoa and the oviduct epithelium, however, are still poorly understood. The aim of this study is to identify new candidates for sperm-interacting proteins in the bovine reservoir using laser capture proteomics. Ipsilateral oviducts were collected from cyclic cows at pre- and post-ovulatory stages. Isthmus and ampulla tissue samples were fixed, paraffin-embedded, sectioned and subjected to laser microdissection to establish pools of microsamples separating the apical part of the epithelium, containing potential sperm-interacting proteins, from the basal part, containing proteins not currently located or secreted on the cell surface. Proteins were analyzed by nanoLC-MS/MS, and differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were identified using t-tests. A total of 505 and 512 proteins could be identified in apical and basal microsamples, respectively. Only 8/141 regional and 1/79 cycle stage-related DAPs were shared between both epithelium parts, indicating a selective regulation of protein expression. Of the apical proteins, 19 were predicted to be candidates for sperm interactions, including annexins (ANXA) 1, 2, 5 and 8; oviduct glycoprotein 1 (OVGP1); voltage-dependent anion-selective channel proteins (VDAC) 1 and 2; apolipoprotein A1 (APOA1). This work provides the first proteomic characterization of microdissected cellular compartments of the bovine oviduct epithelium and presents new candidates for improving sperm quality in assisted reproductive technologies.
PXD052235	40674449	A hypoxia-responsive tRNA-derived small RNA confers renal protection through RNA autophagy. 	Protein interactions of a novel tRNA-derived small RNA	HEK293, protein binding, tRNA	Transfer RNA-derived small RNAs (tsRNAs, or tDRs) perform a range of cellular functions. Here, we showed that a hypoxia-induced tDR, derived from the 3' end of tRNA-Asp-GTC (tRNA-Asp-GTC-3'tDR), activated autophagic flux in kidney cells, while its silencing blocked autophagic flux. Functional gain/loss-of-function studies in murine kidney disease models demonstrated a significant reno-protective function of tRNA-Asp-GTC-3'tDR. Mechanistically, tRNA-Asp-GTC-3'tDR assembled stable G-quadruplex structures and sequestered pseudouridine synthase PUS7, preventing catalytic pseudouridylation of histone mRNAs. The resulting pseudouridylation deficiency directed histone mRNAs to the autophagosome-lysosome pathway, triggering RNA autophagy. This tDR-induced RNA autophagy pathway was activated during murine and human kidney diseases, suggesting clinical relevance. Thus, tRNA-Asp-GTC-3'tDR plays a role in regulating RNA autophagy, which helps to maintain homeostasis in kidney cells and protects against kidney injury.
PXD059581	40675503	First report of natural co-infections and protein profile of Indian Major Carp, Labeo rohita. 	First report of natural co-infections and protein profile of Indian Major Carp, Labeo rohita	Co-infection, E. tarda, Labeo rohita	Aquaculture is a crucial component of global animal protein production, highlighting its significant role in food security. Bacterial co-infections are common in fish farms and severely impact fish health. The prevalence of Aeromonas and Pseudomonas species has been documented in natural co-infections on rohu farms. Infected fish exhibited prominent ulcerative skin lesions, scale erosion, and tail rot. Molecular analysis revealed that Aeromonas veronii was the most dominant species in infected tissues, followed by A. hydrophila, A. dhakensis, Pseudomonas mosselii, and P. fluorescens. The coinfected fish displayed histopathological changes, such as necrotic gills, lymphocytic infiltration, and tubular necrosis in the liver and kidney. Antibiotic susceptibility profiling using nine antibiotic discs indicated the highest sensitivity to oxytetracycline, whereas ampicillin, methicillin, and penicillin exhibited complete resistance across all tissue-associated bacterial isolates. Label-free proteomic analysis of the kidney showed pathogenicity mechanisms related to metabolic pathways, ion binding, oxidoreductase activity and the cellular response to stress in the kidneys of coinfected rohu. Notably, proteins involved in apoptosis, inflammation, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) regulation were upregulated, suggesting their roles in the host response to coinfection. This study specifies for the first time that coinfection on rohu farms is capable of causing pathological changes in the kidney, liver, and gill. The identification of novel host-response proteins may facilitate the development of therapeutic targets and strategies to increase disease resistance and climate resilience in aquaculture.
PXD061743	40675804	PRMT1 oligomerization regulates RNA-binding protein cascade to promote pancreatic cancer. 	Oligomerization of PRMT1 Regulated RNA-Binding Protein Cascade Promotes Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma	Oligomerization, PRMT1, Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, Protein arginine methylation, RGG/RG motif, RNA-binding proteins	PRMT1 is the predominant type I protein arginine methyltransferase responsible for generating monomethylarginine and asymmetric dimethylarginine (MMA and ADMA) in various protein substrates. It regulates numerous biological processes, including RNA metabolism, mRNA splicing, DNA damage repair, and chromatin dynamics. The crystal structure of rat PRMT1 has been previously reported as a homodimer; however, higher-order oligomeric species of human PRMT1 have been observed in vivo, and their structural basis remains elusive. In this study, we present the cryo-EM structure of human PRMT1 in its oligomeric form, revealing novel interfaces crucial for PRMT1 self-assembly and normal function. PRMT1 shows a strong preference for intrinsically disordered RGG/RG motifs, which are commonly found in RNA-binding proteins, highlighting its critical role in regulating RNA metabolism. In vitro studies indicate that disrupting PRMT1 oligomerization impairs its binding affinity for RGG motif substrates, thereby reducing arginine methylation levels on these substrates. This finding emphasizes the essential role of the oligomeric state of PRMT1 in its function with RGG motif-containing RNA-binding proteins. In vivo, the loss of PRMT1 oligomerization leads to decreased global ADMA levels in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells and inhibits PDAC tumor growth. Collectively, we propose that PRMT1 oligomerization, rather than mere dimerization, is sufficient for PRMT1-driven PDAC tumor growth, offering novel insights into the potential therapeutic targeting of PRMT1 oligomeric forms in PDAC.
PXD064762	40675966	Phosphorylated Toll-like receptor 3 nuclear translocation in cancer cell promotes metastasis and chemoresistance. 	Mass spectrometry to analyse  expressed proteins in Panc1 with or without siRNA silencing PRMT5	MS, PRMT5, cMyc	Aberrant expression and subcellular location of innate sensors in cancer cells, such as Toll-like receptors (TLRs), correlates with pro-tumoral inflammation and cancer progression, but the mechanism is still largely unknown. Deciphering the proinflammatory mediators in tumor microenvironment will contribute to the development of cancer therapeutics. By using immunohistochemistry in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and multiple other cancer samples, here we found that cancer cell TLR3, a well-known cytoplasmic dsRNA sensor, translocated to the nucleus especially upon chemotherapy stress. Nuclear TLR3 increased the invasive and proliferative properties, and inhibited chemotherapy-induced apoptosis of cancer cells in vitro. Meanwhile, mice bearing cancer cells with nuclear TLR3 exhibited increased liver metastasis and shortened survival. Mechanistically, phosphokinase JAK1 was responsible for TLR3 phosphorylation at S155 to induce its nuclear translocation in cooperation with a nuclear transport factor importin alpha5. Chemotherapeutic stress induced the aberrant aggregation of dsRNA in the nucleus, which potentially contributed to nuclear TLR3 activation. Then nuclear TLR3 recruited protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) and bound to c-Myc to promote symmetrical dimethylation and multimerization of c-Myc, resulting in the activation of c-Myc downstream target genes and pro-tumoral signaling pathways. Accordingly, high levels of cancer cell nuclear TLR3 in clinical samples predicted patients' worse prognosis with shorter disease-free survival, overall survival and poor response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Therefore, the identification of nuclear TLR3 provides new insight into non-classical functions of innate immune sensors in cancer, and JAK1/TLR3/PRMT5/c-Myc axis may sever as a potential prognostic indicator and therapeutic target to overcome chemoresistance.
PXD061433	40675974	Targeting CD37 promotes macrophage-dependent phagocytosis of multiple cancer cell types and facilitates tumor clearance in mice. 	Targeting CD37 promotes phagocytosis against multi cancer cell	CD37, cancer cell, phagocytosis	Macrophages play vital roles in innate and adaptive immunity, and their functions are mediated via phagocytosis and antigen presentation. Despite the effort to identify phagocytic checkpoints and explore their mechanism of action, current checkpoint-scanning strategies cannot provide a complete and systematic list of such immune checkpoints. Here, we perform in vitro phagocytosis assays using primary healthy donor macrophages co-cultured with breast cancer cells followed by ribosome profiling of sorted macrophages, to identify immune system-specific checkpoints. We observe a downregulation of CD37 in phagocytic macrophages and demonstrate that targeting CD37 with a specific antibody promotes the phagocytosis of multiple cancer cells in vitro. Mechanistically, tumorous macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) directly binds to CD37, promoting the phosphorylation of CD37Y(13) and activating a transduction cascade that involves the recruitment of SHP1 and inhibition of AKT signaling, ultimately impairing phagocytosis. In vivo, targeting CD37 promotes tumor clearance in multiple preclinical mouse models and synergizes with anti-CD47 therapy. Thus, our study identifies a previously unidentified phagocytic checkpoint and provides new potential for precise therapy.
PXD056711	40675975	Inhibiting CD36 palmitoylation improves cardiac function post-infarction by regulating lipid metabolic homeostasis and autophagy. 	Identification and sequencing of CD36 interacting proteins in cardiomyocytes	CD36, cardiomyocyte	Alterations in myocardial energy substrate metabolism and mitochondrial injury following myocardial infarction (MI) lead to structural and functional abnormalities of the heart. The fatty acid translocase CD36 (CD36) plays a pivotal role in regulating lipid homeostasis and mitochondrial metabolism. Here, we demonstrate that inhibiting the palmitoylation of CD36 and the resulting alteration in its subcellular localization alleviates lipid metabolism disorders and mitochondrial dysfunction in cardiomyocytes of male mice post-MI. Mechanistically, the inhibition of CD36 palmitoylation enhances cardiac function through a dual mechanism: first, by alleviating fatty acid overload mediated by plasma membrane CD36, thereby restoring lipid metabolic balance; second, by augmenting the activity of the mitochondrial CD36-PGAM5 signaling axis and modulating Fundc1 and Drp1 Dephosphorylation, which subsequently improves mitophagy efficiency. Overall, our study highlights the significant role of CD36 palmitoylation in preserving heart function by regulating downstream metabolic signaling pathways, suggesting that targeting CD36 palmitoylation could be a promising therapeutic strategy for MI.
PXD040143	40676151	Impact of diabetes on proteomic changes in circulating extracellular vesicles in individuals with obesity before and after bariatric surgery. 	Effect of diabetes on the proteomic profile of serum extracellular vesicles in morbidly obese patients after bariatric surgery	Bariatric surgery, Diabetes, Exosome, SWATH-MS, Serum	OBJECTIVES: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are implicated in the pathophysiology of obesity and diabetes. This study aimed to analyze the impact of diabetes on EV protein dynamics in patients with obesity before and after bariatric surgery. METHODS: This prospective study assessed the serum EV proteins in 30 patients with obesity, with and without diabetes, and 37 healthy controls using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. EV proteins were also analyzed 6 months after bariatric surgery in patients with obesity. RESULTS: We found 19 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in EVs between healthy controls and patients with obesity. In addition, 20 DEPs between patients with obesity who had and did not have diabetes were identified. After bariatric surgery, 14 DEPs mainly involved in the immune system were identified in patients with obesity and diabetes; adiponectin (ADIPOQ), mannose binding lectin 2 (MBL2), and hornerin (HRNR) were associated with glycemic control, body mass index, and weight loss, respectively. In patients with obesity without diabetes, 13 DEPs after bariatric surgery were predominantly involved in reactive oxygen species metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes affects the differences in EV protein profiles in patients with obesity before and after bariatric surgery. These DEPs may serve as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for obesity-related diabetes.
PXD064555	40676152	Reduced maternal SCFAs in GDM diminish GPR43 signaling and induce offspring CAKUT. 	Effect of gestational diabetes mellitus on intestinal flora and its effect on congenital kidney malformation through gpr43 pathway	Gestational diabetes mellitus	Gestational diabetes during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of developmental abnormalities in offspring, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. It is not known how maternal metabolism and gut microbes influence kidney development in the fetus. Here we show that gestational diabetes alters maternal gut microbiota and reduces the production of key fatty acids that normally support kidney development in offspring. We find that these changes impair a molecular pathway involving the receptor GPR43, which promotes the growth and migration of kidney cells. In a mouse model, restoring short-chain fatty acids or transferring gut bacteria from healthy donors improves kidney development in offspring, while blocking GPR43 reverses this effect. This study reveals a previously unknown link between maternal gut metabolism and fetal kidney formation and may guide future strategies to prevent congenital kidney disorders in children born to mothers with gestational diabetes.
PXD037505	40677326	Complement Proteins Identify Rapidly Progressive Diabetic Kidney Disease. 	Urinary proteomics anlaysis of Type 2 Diabetic Nephropathy	T2D, Urine	Introduction: Mechanisms underlying diabetic kidney disease (DKD) progression remain incompletely understood. This study used untargeted and targeted mass spectrometry-based proteomics in 2 independent cohorts to capture rapidly progressive DKD. Methods: We conducted untargeted and targeted mass spectrometry on urine samples from Korean patients with type 2 diabetes and biopsy-confirmed diabetic nephropathy (SNUH-DN cohort; n = 64) and a DKD subgroup of the Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort (CRIC-T2D; n = 282), respectively. Urine proteins associated with kidney disease progression (doubling of serum creatinine, >= 50% decrease in estimated glomerular filtration rates [eGFRs], or progression to end-stage kidney disease[ESKD]) were identified after adjusting for eGFR, proteinuria, and other clinical variables. Results: In the SNUH-DN patients, urine proteins clustered into 2 groups, with cluster 1 exhibiting a 4.6-fold higher hazard of disease progression (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.9-11.5) than cluster 0. Proteins in cluster 1 mapped to 10 pathways, 4 of the top 5 being complement-related. A high complement score, derived from urine complement protein abundance, correlated with histopathologic features of DKD and conferred a 2.4-fold greater hazard of disease progression (95% CI: 1.0-5.4) than a low complement score. In CRIC-T2D, targeted mass spectrometry similarly confirmed that complement score stratified patients into rapid and slow DKD progression groups. In both cohorts, complement score exhibited a linear association with disease progression. Conclusion: The strong association between complement activation and rapid DKD progression highlights the need to explore complement inhibition as a potential therapeutic strategy for DKD.
PXD057978	40678214	ADAM17 is an HIV-1 Restriction Factor Antagonized by Nef. 	Murine Leukemia Virus GlycoGag Antagonizes SERINC5 via the ER-phagy Receptor RETREG1	MS results of  Ser5, Nef, Nef-HA), Ser5+glycoGag, and Nef+Ser5both with a C-terminal HA tag (glycoGag-HA, glycoGag	Nef is an HIV-1 accessory protein critical to viral pathogenesis. While its role in immune evasion is well established, the mechanism by which Nef enhances virion infectivity remains incompletely understood. Here, we identify ADAM17 (TACE) as a host restriction factor through affinity purification-mass spectrometry. ADAM17 associates with HIV-1 Env in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), reducing Env expression and incorporation into virions, leading to an approximately 100-fold reduction in infectivity. This restriction is independent of ADAM17's metalloprotease activity and instead depends on its prodomain, which alters Env intracellular trafficking and broadly inhibits both laboratory-adapted and circulating HIV-1 strains. Nef counteracts this restriction by decreasing cellular ADAM17 levels through Rab11 (+) endosome- and CD63 (+) exosome-mediated extracellular export. Given ADAM17's known role in TNF signaling, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized link between Nef-induced pro-inflammatory responses and evasion of host restriction during HIV-1 pathogenesis.
PXD065416	40678495	Transcriptome and proteome of ovarian tissues revealed the differences in the ovaries of dairy goats during the breeding and non-breeding seasons. 	Transcriptome and proteome of ovarian revealed the differences in the ovaries of dairy goats during the breeding and non-breeding seasons	dairy goat, ovary, seasonal reproduction, transcriptome	Dairy goats represent a crucial species within global dairy livestock. In temperate regions with distinct seasons, dairy goats exhibit reduced reproductive activity under long photoperiod conditions-a phase termed the non-breeding season. This poses a significant challenge to sustaining year-round goat milk production. As the pivotal organ for reproduction, the molecular regulatory mechanisms of the ovary in seasonal breeding remain incompletely characterized. This study investigated the variations in gonadotropin levels in dairy goats across breeding and non-breeding seasons, alongside an evaluation of follicle size and quantity. Furthermore, ovarian differences were explored at the molecular level using transcriptomic and proteomic methodologies. The findings indicate that follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) levels in dairy goats are significantly reduced during the non-breeding season compared to the breeding season (p < 0.05). Furthermore, follicle sizes in dairy goats are notably larger during the breeding season relative to the non-breeding season (p < 0.05). A total of 1,115 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, comprising 749 upregulated and 366 downregulated genes. Additionally, 520 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified, with 162 upregulated and 358 downregulated. The identified common DEGs and DEPs exhibiting consistent expression patterns include TMEM205, TM7SF2, SLC35G1, GSTM1, and ABHD6. These DEGs and DEPs suppress follicular development during the non-breeding season by regulating steroid hormone biosynthesis. In conclusion, this study reveals the molecular basis underlying seasonal reproductive differences at the ovarian level in dairy goats, offering new insights into the mechanisms of their seasonal reproduction.
PXD041677	40678584	Cargo Analysis and MRI-Based Therapeutic Assessment of Iron Oxide Labelled Extracellular Vesicles of Hypoxia Human Stem Cells in Ischemic Stroke. 	Mechanism of recovery following human stem cell-derived extracellular vesicle treatment to cerebral ischemia	extracellular vesicles, human mesenchymal stem cells, hypoxia, ischemia	Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) have been under investigation in preclinical and clinical settings for treating neurological disorders in recent years. Predominantly due to paracrine effects in vivo, hMSC-secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs) are at the forefront of these investigations. In this study, the therapeutic efficacy of hypoxia hMSCs and the secreted EVs labelled with iron oxides was evaluated in a preclinical model of ischemic stroke. Transcriptome and proteomics analysis of hMSCs under hypoxia indicated alterations in metabolic pathways and EV biogenesis. Hypoxia preconditioning increased EV yield by 57% with similar EV size and exosomal marker expression. EV cargo analysis using proteomics and microRNA-sequencing revealed that hypoxia preconditioning upregulated expression of metabolic proteins related to hypoxia-inducible factor signalling, neurogenesis and EV biogenesis. Magnetic resonance imaging following in vivo administration of iron oxide-labelled hMSCs and EVs provided assessment of biodistribution and therapeutic efficacy. The results indicated differential recovery in sodium levels in rats following hMSC and EV administration compared to the vehicle-only group, supported by lactate levels and functional assessment. hMSC-EVs localized to the ischemic lesion and evoked a therapeutic response after a single bolus injection. This study has significance in developing human stem cell-free therapeutics for treating ischemic stroke.
PXD056519	40679152	Evaluation of the False Discovery Rate in Library-Free Search by DIA-NN Using In Vitro Human Proteome. 	Evaluation  of the False Discovery Rate in Library-free Search by DIA-NN Using in vitro Human Proteome	DIA-NN, False Discovery Rate (FDR), contamination, data-independent acquisition (DIA), in vitro human proteome	Recently, deep-learning-based in silico spectral libraries have gained increasing attention. Several data-independent acquisition (DIA) software tools have integrated this feature, known as a library-free search, thereby making DIA analysis more accessible. However, controlling the false discovery rate (FDR) is challenging owing to the vast amount of peptide information in in silico libraries. In this study, we introduced a stringent method to evaluate FDR control using DIA software. Recombinant proteins were synthesized from full-length human cDNA libraries and analyzed by using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and DIA software. The results were compared with known protein sequences to calculate the FDR. Notably, we compared the identification performance of DIA-NN versions 1.8.1, 1.9.2, and 2.1.0. Versions 1.9.2 and 2.10 identified more peptides than version 1.8.1, and versions 1.9.2 and 2.1.0 used a more conservative identification approach, thus significantly improving the FDR control. Across the synthesized recombinant protein mixtures, the average FDR at the precursor level was 0.538% for version 1.8.1, 0.389% for version 1.9.2, and 0.385% for version 2.1.0; at the protein level, the FDRs were 2.85%, 1.81%, and 1.81%, respectively. Collectively, our data set provides valuable insights for comparing FDR controls across DIA software and aiding bioinformaticians in enhancing their tools.
PXD047351	40680248	Elevated ITGAX/CD11c in CSF-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Reflects Disability Progression in Multiple Sclerosis. 	Protein profiling of cerebrospinal fluid exracellular vesiles	CSF, EV, multiple sclerosis	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membrane-bound particles that are released into the extracellular space and are believed to play a role in the pathogenesis of neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. Nevertheless, the precise role of these vesicles in the context of multiple sclerosis (MS) remains uncertain. The objective of this study was to identify the distinctive characteristics of EVs associated with MS. METHODS: EVs were isolated from CSF using phosphatidylserine affinity methods. Mass spectrometry was used to analyze CSF samples and EVs isolated from those CSF samples collected from a discovery cohort of 10 patients with other neurologic diseases (ONDs) and 10 patients with MS. In addition, mass spectrometry was used to analyze EVs isolated from CSF samples in a validation cohort of 24 patients with ONDs, 38 patients with MS, and 14 patients with neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders. RESULTS: The results revealed notable increases in the levels of 33 proteins in the CSF samples and 100 proteins in the CSF-derived EVs from patients with MS in the validation cohort. Increases in the levels of ITGA4, ITGAX (CD11c), MS4A1 (CD20), CD3E, CD4, and CD8A, which are marker proteins of lymphocytes and myeloid cells, including activated microglia and dendritic cells, were observed in the CSF-derived EVs in the discovery cohort. The results of the validation cohort revealed that the levels of 4 proteins, ITGA4, ITGAX, MS4A1, and CD3E, were significantly greater in patients with MS than in patients with ONDs. Furthermore, the level of ITGAX was greater in the patients with confirmed disability worsening (CDW) than in those without CDW. The results of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) and Kaplan-Meier analyses indicated that ITGAX levels in CSF-derived EVs may prove useful in predicting disease prognosis. DISCUSSION: Our findings suggest that CSF-derived EVs reflect immunologic changes in MS and other neuroimmune diseases. In addition, these results raise the possibility that changing in myeloid cells and lymphocytes may also play a role in the pathogenesis of MS. CSF-derived EVs may serve as indicators of MS disease severity and could be used as biomarkers in the future.
PXD060787	40680841	The ubiquitin ligase Triad1 influences myeloid leukemogenesis by regulating the integrated stress response. 	The ubiquitin ligase Triad1 influences myeloid leukemogenesis by regulating the integrated stress response	E3 ubiquitin ligase, gene expression, innate immunity, leukemia, ubiquitination	Increased expression of a set of homeodomain transcription factors, including HoxA10, characterizes an adverse prognosis subtype of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Examples of this subtype include AML with KMT2A or MYST3/CREBBP gene rearrangements, and an AML subset with normal cytogenetics. Previously, we identified ARIH2, the gene encoding Triad1, as a HoxA10 target gene. We determined that transcriptional activation of ARIH2 by HoxA10 was necessary to terminate emergency granulopoiesis during the innate immune response, but also antagonized leukemogenesis in a murine model of KMT2A-rearranged AML. Triad1 expression progressively decreases during the latent period preceding AML in this model, and Triad1-knockdown accelerates AML development. Triad1 is an E3 ubiquitin ligase, and we found knocking down Triad1 decreased protein ubiquitination in myeloid cells. Therefore, proteins with Triad1-dependent ubiquitination might regulate leukemogenesis and/or the innate immune response. By proteomic screen, we identified Triad1-dependent ubiquitination of a set of proteins that regulate the integrated stress response (ISR), including Gcn1. The ISR prevents metabolic exhaustion during sustained inflammation by decreasing total mRNA translation and global protein synthesis, while altering the translatome to correct metabolic deficiencies and inhibit apoptosis. In cells with Triad1-knockdown, we defined a translatome consistent with ISR-activation and reversed by co-knockdown of Gcn1. Gcn1-knockdown also delayed AML development in a KMT2A-rearranged murine model, and reversed effects of Triad1-knockdown on leukemogenesis. These results suggest ISR-inhibition mediates Triad1-related leukemia suppression, and activation of the ISR enhances leukemogenesis in this adverse prognosis AML subtype.
PXD053649	40680886	Spatial proteomics reveals distinct protein patterns in cortical migration disorders caused by LIN28A overexpression and WNT activation. 	Spatial proteomics reveals distinct protein patterns in a lissencephaly-like cortical migration disorder caused by LIN28A overexpression and WNT activation	CTNNB1, LIN28A, Spatial proteomics, cortical migration disorder	Developmental signalling pathways act in stage and tissue dependent relation and mis-activation can drive tumour formation. The RNA-binding protein LIN28A binds to mRNA and miRNA and thereby affects the protein turnover and maintains stemness. LIN28A is overexpressed in embryonal brain tumours which show low correlation between transcriptome and proteome signatures. Additionally, stabilising CTNNB1 mutations activating the WNT pathway have been reported in brain tumours with LIN28A overexpression. The aim of this study was to co-activate these oncogenic proteins during embryonal brain development and investigate the histomorphology of the cerebral cortex in relation to proteome levels with spatial resolution using the nanosecond infrared laser (NIRL) system for nano-volume sampling. The combination of both oncogenic factors in in vivo model did not lead to brain tumour formation during embryonal development but resulted in disturbed lamination and impaired cell migration in the cerebral cortex. Spatially resolved proteome analysis of the cortices reveal unique layer signatures across ablated layers. Moreover, the extracellular matrix receptors RPSA and ITGB1 were spatially disturbed comparing the mouse models and accompanied by a porous pial border and overmigration of neural cells. Cajal-Retzius cells were misplaced in deeper cortex regions without affecting general REELIN levels. Additionally, the glycosylated levels of alpha-DYSTROGLYCAN were reduced in this model. Taken together, the interplay of LIN28A and CTNNB1 resulted in a cortical migration disorder showing histomorphological and molecular similarities to human Cobblestone lissencephaly (type 2) disorder. This highlights novel implications of the oncogene LIN28A in extracellular matrix integrity.
PXD064127	40681486	Anti-sense oligonucleotide probing as a structural platform for studying ribonucleoprotein complex assembly. 	Anti-sense oligonucleotide inhibited iSAT reaction	iSAT, ribosome biogenesis, sucrose gradient fractions	Investigating the intricate and rapid folding kinetics of large RNA-protein complexes (RNPs), like the bacterial ribosome, remains a formidable challenge in structural biology. Previous genetic approaches to probe assembly have focused on modulating the expression of either r-proteins or assembly factors. Here, anti-sense oligonucleotides (ASOs) were used to disrupt native RNA/RNA and RNA/protein interactions, in order to generate previously uncharacterized folding intermediates. In an in vitro co-transcriptional ribosome assembly assay, 10 assembly inhibitor ASOs were identified. Using cryo-electron microscopy, 38 intermediate structures were determined resulting from the specific inhibitions generated by 6 inhibitory ASOs. A notable intermediate class provided compelling evidence for independent rRNA domain folding before proper interdomain docking. Three PNAs targeting domain-I of 23S rRNA further subdivide the previously identified assembly core into smaller blocks representing the earliest steps in assembly. The resulting assembly graph reveals template-directed RNA docking of defined regions as foldons, and domain consolidation, which provides a hierarchical view of the RNP assembly process. This approach not only identifies potential targets for antibiotic development but also establishes a platform for probing the structure and dynamics of RNP assemblies.
PXD031051	40681505	The potassium channel K2P2.1 shapes the morphology and function of brain endothelial cells via actin network remodeling. 	K2P2.1 shapes morphology and function of brain endothelial cells via actin network remodeling	EAE, K2P2.1, Kcnk2, TREK1, actin remodeling, blood-brain-barrier	K2P2.1 (gene: Kcnk2), a two-pore-domain potassium channel, regulates leukocyte transmigration across the blood-brain barrier by a yet unknown mechanism. We demonstrate that Kcnk2(-/-) mouse brain microvascular endothelial cells (MBMECs) exhibit an altered cytoskeletal structure and surface morphology with increased formation of membrane protrusions. Cell adhesion molecules cluster on those protrusions and facilitate leukocyte adhesion and migration in vitro and in vivo. We observe downregulation of K2P2.1 and activation of actin modulating proteins (cofilin 1, Arp2/3) in inflamed wildtype MBMECs. In the mechanosensitive conformation, K2P2.1 shields the phospholipid PI(4,5)P2 from interaction with other actin regulatory proteins, especially cofilin 1. Consequently, after stimulus-related K2P2.1 downregulation and dislocation from PI(4,5)P2, actin rearrangements are induced. Thus, K2P2.1-mediated regulatory processes are essential for actin dynamics, fast, reversible, and pharmacologically targetable.
PXD065336	40681550	Machine learning-guided evolution of pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase for improved incorporation efficiency of diverse noncanonical amino acids. 	Machine learning-guided evolution of pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase for improved incorporation efficiency of diverse noncanonical amino acids	LC-MS, Noncanonical amino acids, sfGFP	The pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase (PylRS) is widely used to incorporate noncanonical amino acids (ncAAs) into proteins. However, the yields of most ncAA-containing protein  remain low due to the limited activity of PylRS variants. Here, we apply machine learning to engineer the tRNA-binding domain of PylRS. The FFT-PLSR model is first applied to explore pairwise combinations of 12 single mutations, generating a variant Com1-IFRS with an 11-fold increase in stop codon suppression (SCS) efficiency. Deep learning models ESM-1v, Mutcompute, and ProRefiner are then used to identify additional mutation sites. Applying FFT-PLSR on these sites yields a variant Com2-IFRS showing a 30.8-fold increase in SCS efficiency, and up to 7.8-fold improvement in the catalytic efficiency (kcat/Km(tRNA)). Transplanting these mutations into 7 PylRS-derived synthetases significantly improves the yields of proteins containing 6 types of ncAAs. This paper presents improved PylRS variants and a machine learning framework for optimizing the enzyme activity.
PXD061304	40683561	Parenchymal and Dyshoric Fibrillar Amyloid Pathology in the rTg-D Rat Model of Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy Type-2. 	Parenchymal and Dyshorric Fibrillar Amyloid Pathology in the rTg-D Rat Model of Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy Type-2	Alzheimers disease, Cerebral amyloid angiopathy, cerebral small vessel disease, preclinical model	Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a common disorder of the elderly, prominent comorbidity of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and causes vascular cognitive impairment and dementia. Previously, a novel transgenic rat model (rTg-D) was generated that produces human familial CAA Dutch E22Q mutant amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) in brain and hemizygous (HEM) animals develop arteriolar CAA type-2. Presented here, homozygous (HOM) rTg-D rats develop more extensive CAA type-2, accumulating abundant fibrillar amyloid pathology including parenchymal congophilic plaques and dyshorrhic vascular amyloid. Similar to vascular amyloid, fibrillar amyloid plaques in rTg-D HOM rats are chiefly composed of Abeta40. The rTg-D HOM rats exhibit strong astrocytic and microglial responses as well as phospho-tau accumulating in surrounding dystrophic neurites and early tangle-like structures. Cerebral proteomic analyses revealed rTg-D HEM rats and rTg-D HOM rats share some common differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) compared to wild-type rats although the rTg-D HOM animals exhibit many more elevated proteins. Since the parenchymal fibrillar plaques of rTg-D HOM rats are reminiscent of AD the cerebral proteomes were compared between rTg-D HOM rats and a transgenic rat AD model indicating that they share many DEPs and activated pathways including activation of TGFbeta1 signaling and swarming of neutrophils. In conclusion, the present findings show that rTg-D HOM rats develop more extensive CAA type-2 than rTg-D HEM rats coupled with AD-like pathological features.
PXD059160	40683967	Genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 screening identifies PTGR2 as a potential therapeutic target for sunitinib resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma. 	Proteomics exploration of the human PTGR2 interactome	PTGR2	Acquired and intrinsic resistance to sunitinib is a major obstacle to improving the therapeutic efficacy of treatment for clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC). This study aimed to identify novel therapeutic targets and the potential molecular mechanisms to overcome sunitinib resistance in ccRCC. Utilizing genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 screening and resistant transcriptomics, we identified that prostaglandin reductase 2 (PTGR2) is a novel therapeutic target to overcome sunitinib resistance in ccRCC. The silencing of PTGR2 enhanced the cytotoxic effects of sunitinib in ccRCC cells, as measured by cell viability assays, and suppressed tumor growth in xenograft models. Mechanistically, PTGR2 physically interacts with lysine specific demethylase 6A (KDM6A) via endogenous/exogenous co-immunoprecipitation. PTGR2 knockdown reduced KDM6A protein expression, while KDM6A overexpression partially reversed the sensitization effect of PTGR2 silencing, suggesting KDM6A is a major downstream effector. Our findings establish the PTGR2-KDM6A axis as a potential target for overcoming sunitinib resistance in ccRCC. Pharmacological inhibition of PTGR2 or targeted modulation of KDM6A activity represents a promising combination strategy to overcome sunitinib resistance and improve patient outcomes.
PXD064740	40686606	Integrative multi-omics characterization of 12 syngeneic mouse models. 	Phosphoproteomics Characterization of 12 Syngeneic Mouse Models	Phosphoproteomics Characterization of 12 Syngeneic Mouse Models	Mouse syngeneic models serve as indispensable tools for elucidating tumor-immune interactions and assessing immunotherapy efficacy. In this study, we first conducted a comprehensive evaluation of six label-free protein quantification pipelines across 12 mouse syngeneic models, revealing that data-independent acquisition (DIA) significantly outperforms data-dependent acquisition (DDA) in terms of data coverage, reproducibility, and inter-model discrimination. We next performed an integrative multi-omics analysis to uncover molecular mechanisms associated with treatment response. Our analysis identified Dnmt3a and Igf2r, which are correlated with resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), and highlighted key pathways including interferon signaling and oxidative phosphorylation that distinguish responders from non-responders. To facilitate broader research applications, we have developed an interactive web resource that shares our multi-omics datasets and analytical results, equipped with user-friendly tools for further exploration. This resource aims to accelerate preclinical research and contribute to the development of personalized cancer therapies.
PXD063080	40687836	Engineering a cell-based orthogonal ubiquitin transfer cascade for profiling the substrates of RBR E3 Parkin. 	Engineering a Cell-Based Orthogonal Ubiquitin Transfer Cascade for Profiling the Substrates of RBR E3 Parkin	E3, Parkin, Ubiquitin	The E3 ubiquitin (UB) ligase Parkin utilizes a Ring-Between-Ring (RBR) domain to mediate UB transfer to substrate proteins, and mutations affecting Parkin catalysis promote cancer and are associated with Parkinson's disease. An essential role of Parkin is to initiate mitophagy by ubiquitinating mitochondrial proteins. Still, it is unclear how Parkin carries out other cellular functions, such as the regulation of the cell cycle, metabolism, and the neuronal synapse. Here, we used phage display to engineer the RBR domain of Parkin and assembled an orthogonal ubiquitin transfer (OUT) cascade to profile Parkin substrates in living cells. Guided by the substrate profile from the OUT screen, we verified a panel of Rab GTPases and CDK5 as Parkin substrates. We also showed mitophagy stimulation enhanced Parkin-mediated ubiquitination of Rab proteins. Our work demonstrates that the OUT cascade can be an empowering tool for identifying Parkin substrates to elucidate its multifaceted cellular functions.
PXD064577	40689558	Dynamic sperm proteome remodelling during epididymal maturation in a marsupial, Macropus giganteus. 	Dynamic sperm proteome remodelling during epididymal maturation in a marsupial, Macropus giganteus	epididymal, epididymis, kangaroo, macropod, marsupial, sperm, spermatozoa	While assisted reproductive technologies (ARTs) are widely used in domestic animals, successful implementation of ARTs to conserve wildlife species remains challenging. In macropods, crucial aspects of fundamental reproductive biology, including changes induced by epididymal maturation, remain unknown, limiting the development of ARTs. In this context we performed a proteomic analysis of spermatozoa from the caput, corpus, and cauda epididymis of Eastern Grey Kangaroos (n = 6) to profile changes over epididymal maturation. Samples prepared by FASP digestion were analysed by LC-MS/MS with SWATH acquisition. A total of 4304 proteins were identified, with significant overlap across epididymal regions. Highly abundant proteins in common across caput, corpus and cauda spermatozoa had strong enrichment for tubulins and included 4 histone proteins. The most significant proteomic remodelling was observed in the corpus to cauda transition, late in epididymal transit (728 differentially abundant proteins). Overall proteomic changes across epididymal maturation (1131 differentially abundant proteins) suggested a loss of sperm glycosidases and an increase in flagellar proteins, including tubulins and dyneins. These findings serve to highlight both consistencies with eutherian sperm epididymal maturation (e.g. bias towards protein loss over transit, transfer of proteins via extracellular vesicles) and elements which are likely unique to marsupials (e.g. reduced chromatin stability, potential use of beta-oxidation as a major metabolic pathway). This critical information can now be leveraged to further develop ARTs in marsupials.
PXD065573	40691144	Mechanism of Rad51 filament formation by Rad52 and Rad55-Rad57 in homologous recombination. 	Mechanism of Rad51 filament formation by Rad52 and Rad55-Rad57 in homologous recombination	cross-linking	Homologous recombination (HR) repairs double-stranded DNA breaks (DSBs) by generating single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), which is initially coated by Replication Protein A (Rpa). Rad51, a recombinase, catalyzes strand invasion but binds ssDNA with lower affinity than Rpa, necessitating mediator proteins like Rad52 (yeast) or BRCA2 (humans) for Rad51 loading. The mechanisms of this exchange remain unclear. We show that Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad52 uses its disordered C-terminus to sort polydisperse Rad51 into discrete monomers. Using fluorescent-Rad51 and single-molecule optical tweezers, we visualize Rad52-mediated Rad51 filament formation on Rpa-coated ssDNA, preferentially at ssDNA-dsDNA junctions. Deleting the C-terminus of Rad52 disrupts Rad51 sorting and loading. Addition of the Rad51 paralog Rad55-Rad57 enhances Rad51 binding by ~60%. Despite structural differences, Rad52 and BRCA2 share conserved functional features. We propose a unified "Sort, Stack & Extend" (SSE) mechanism by which mediator proteins and paralogs coordinate Rad51 filament assembly during HR.
PXD064560	40691326	CacyBP/SIP - RPL6 interaction: potential influence on ribosome function. 	CacyBP/SIP - RPL6 interaction: potential influence on ribosome function	CacyBP/SIP, IP, RPs	Previously, we have shown that CacyBP/SIP interacts with NPM1, a protein involved in ribosome biogenesis. In this work, we extended our previous studies to look for the potential impact of CacyBP/SIP on ribosome biogenesis and/or function. Using mass spectrometry analysis, we have found that several RPs could be potential CacyBP/SIP targets. Since RPL6 was one of the proteins with the best quality scores identified in this analysis we focused on the possible interaction between CacyBP/SIP and RPL6. By applying various biochemical methods, we confirmed this interaction and showed that it was direct. Moreover, in silico analysis allowed us to establish the domains/fragments of both proteins involved in the binding. To further explore the possible role of CacyBP/SIP in ribosome function we performed several analyses using neuroblastoma NB2a cell line with stably silenced CacyBP/SIP expression. We have found, by applying OPP (O-propargyl-puromycin), which labels nascent polypeptides, that the number of cells with enhanced staining in the perinuclear area, reminiscent of rough ER localization, was significantly lower in the cell line with diminished CacyBP/SIP level. To verify the influence of CacyBP/SIP on the efficiency of protein synthesis we investigated the level of Hsp70, a stress-inducible protein, in NB2a cells subjected to heat shock. The results, showing markedly higher Hsp70 production in control cells, indicate that CacyBP/SIP, most probably through interaction with RPL6 and/or other RPs, may have some influence on ribosome function and, possibly, on protein synthesis in the cell.
PXD055740	40691417	mTORC1 senses glutamine and other amino acids through GCN2. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of control and GCN2KO cells upon glutamine deprivation	GCN2, glutamine, mTORC1	mTORC1 promotes cell growth when nutrients such as amino acids are available. While dedicated sensors relaying availability of leucine, arginine and methionine to mTORC1 have been identified, it is still unclear how mTORC1 senses glutamine, one of its most potent inducers. Here, we find that glutamine is entirely sensed through the protein kinase GCN2, whose initial activation is not triggered by depletion of glutamine itself, but by the concomitant depletion of asparagine. In turn, GCN2 leads to a succession of events that additively inhibit mTORC1: within 1 h, GCN2 inhibits mTORC1 through the Rag GTPases, independently of its function as an eIF2alpha kinase. Later, GCN2-mediated induction of ATF4 upregulates Ddit4 followed by Sestrin2, which together cause additional mTORC1 inhibition. Additionally, we find that depletion of virtually any other amino acid also inhibits mTORC1 through GCN2. GCN2 and the dedicated amino acid sensors thus represent two independent systems that enable mTORC1 to perceive a wide spectrum of amino acids.
PXD064804	40691464	Determination of trunk neural crest cell fate and susceptibility to splicing perturbation by the DLC1-SF3B1-PHF5A splicing complex. 	Determination of Trunk Neural Crest Cell Fate and Susceptibility to Splicing Perturbation by the DLC1-SF3B1-PHF5A splicing complex	Neural crest development, Splicing factors	How the ubiquitously expressed splicing factors specifically regulate neural crest (NC) development and enhance their vulnerability to splicing perturbations remain poorly understood. Here, we show that NC-specific DLC1, partnering with SF3B1-PHF5A splicing complex, are crucial for determining avian trunk NC cell fate by regulating the splicing of NC specifiers SOX9 and SNAI2 pre-mRNAs rather than their upstream regulators BMP4, WNT1, and PAX7. Mechanistically, SF3B1-PHF5A binds to the intronic branch site (BS) sequences of all factors, while DLC1 interacts with a specific motif near the BS sequences of SOX9 and SNAI2, thereby determining their functional specificity in NC specification. Moreover, DLC1 increases NC cells' vulnerability to splicing modulator pladienolide B (PB) by reducing the binding capacity of the SF3B1-PHF5A splicing complex to the shorter length of both SOX9 intron 2 and SNAI2 intron 1, which possess weaker polypyrimidine tract 3' of the BS sequence, resulting in intron retention and loss of NC progenitors. Conversely, somite specific SLU7-SF3B1-PHF5A splicing complex regulates SOX9 and SNAI2 expression and imparts resistance to PB. Our data reveal the cell-type specific splicing complexes with distinct vulnerabilities to PB, highlighting the critical role of the DLC1-SF3B1-PHF5A in determining trunk NC cell fate and enhancing its susceptibility to splicing perturbation.
PXD060357	40691760	Comparative Analysis of Platelet-Derived Extracellular Vesicle Protein Extraction Methodologies for Mass Spectrometry. 	Comparative analysis of platelet-derived extracellular vesicles protein extraction methodologies for mass spectrometry	extracellular vesicles, methodologies, platelets., proteins	The aim of this study is to present a comparative study of different methodologies for the extraction of proteins from platelet-derived extracellular vesicles (pEVs) prior to subsequent mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. pEVs were isolated by size exclusion chromatography (SEC) from human platelet lysates (PL) and characterized by identifying specific markers by Western blot, visualizing morphology by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and analyzing concentration and size via nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA). Protein isolation was performed through three different methodologies based on SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), organic solvent precipitation (OSP), or magnetic beads (MB), followed by protein digestion and sample acquisition by LC-MS/MS. Clustering of the samples according to methodology is observed in the principal component analysis (PCA), although no significant differences in terms of normalized abundances are reached. Similarly, a small number of proteins were identified as unique by each methodology, with 91.3% coincidence among all three procedures. In addition, the bioinformatic results of the enrichment analysis and the numbers of proteins already identified in the Vesiclepedia database are highly similar for the three methodologies. Overall, all three methodologies analyzed are optimal for the extraction of proteins from pEV and could be considered according to their intrinsic characteristics, in accordance with the research requirements.
PXD055430	40692258	Proteomic Comparison between Hyphae and Spores Reveals Pathogenicity of Mucor Irregularis. 	Proteomic Comparison Between Hyphae and Spores Reveals Pathogenicity Diversity in Mucor Irregularis	Pathogenicity Diversity, proteomics, Mucor Irregularis	Mucor irregularis, an emerging causative agent of disfiguring mucormycosis, demonstrates distinct clinical manifestations between hyphae and spore forms, though the pathogenic determinants between these two forms remain elusive. Utilizing TMT (tandem mass tag)-based quantitative proteomics (ProteomeXchange: PXD055430), we conducted a comparative analysis of these morphotypes, followed by Gene Ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment and protein-protein interaction network construction. Critically, we identified the following: (i) tRNA sulfur modification (NCS6) in spore dormancy maintenance; (ii) adenylate kinase (adenylate kinase 1)-mediated energy metabolism during germination; and (iii) COQ3-dependent mitochondrial function in spore germination. This first proteomic profiling of M. irregularis morphotypes delineates distinct phase-specific adaptations. Notably, the ribosomal and dormancy-associated machinery as NCS6 in spores contrasts sharply with the metabolic activation and upregulated virulence determinants as PAC1 in hyphae. Findings highlight NAT10 critical for spore readiness and RhoGEF GTPases central to hyphal invasion as particularly promising candidate therapeutic targets. Building upon this foundation, future investigations must now delineate the immunomodulatory roles of these effector proteins during host invasion to advance mucormycosis management strategies.
PXD025405	40692484	Functional Cargo in Membrane Vesicles From a Citrus Pathogen. 	Resource sharing by outer membrane vesicles from a citrus pathogen	TonB, outer membrane vesicles, receptors, xanthomonas	The causative agent of citrus canker disease, Xanthomonas citri pv. citri, was found to produce copious amounts of outer membrane vesicles (OMVs), frequently forming long membranous tubes under different culture conditions. Lipidomic analysis revealed significant differences in lipid composition between purified vesicles in relation to whole cells. The results suggest an enrichment in saturated cardiolipins and a decrease in unsaturated lipids in the OMV samples. The vesicles' proteome was found to be significantly enriched in TonB-dependent receptors related to the acquisition of different nutrients. These proteins are known to transport siderophores, which were evidenced to be present in purified X. citri OMVs, along with essential metals including iron, zinc, and manganese quantified by elemental analysis. The availability of vesicle-associated nutrients to be incorporated by cells was demonstrated by the use of OMVs as the sole carbon source for bacterial growth. At last, the vesicles also presented esterase and protease activities, which have been associated with virulence in phytopathogens. These evidences point that OMVs from X. citri can share resources within microbial communities, which has potential implications for microbial interactions and plant colonisation, affecting their survival and persistence on the host and in the environment.
PXD062826	40692775	Germline encoded residues dominate the interaction of a human monoclonal antibody with decorin binding protein A of Borrelia burgdorferi. 	Germline encoded residues dominate the interaction of a human monoclonal antibody with Decorin binding protein A (DbpA) of  Borrelia burgdorferi	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Borrelia, DbpA, HDX-MS, Human Proteome Project, Monoclonal, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP)	During the course of Lyme disease, humans mount a robust and sustained antibody response against dozens of Borrelia burgdorferi outer surface lipoproteins. Identifying which antibodies are associated with spirochete clearance and disease resolution is of paramount importance in therapeutic development. In this study, we describe the isolation and structural characterization of a human monoclonal antibody (MAb) against decorin binding protein A (DbpA), one of the most immunogenic of B. burgdorferi's outer surface proteins. High-resolution epitope mapping by HDX-MS and X-ray crystallography revealed that F945 associates with a lateral face of DbpA in a side-on orientation without obstructing resides associated with DbpA's ability to bind components of the extracellular matrix. The structure of the DbpA-F945 Fab complex revealed an outsized role for variable light chain (VL) germline encoded residues in mediating DbpA interactions. In fact, the majority of the critical contacts between F945 and DbpA involved Vk1-33 germline encoded residues, suggesting that certain human B cell receptors (BCR) may be preconfigured to recognize DbpA and therefore have a lower threshold for B cell activation and clonal development. Passive administration of F945 IgG was not sufficient to protect against B. burgdorferi in a mouse model of needle infection, although these experiments do not rule out a role for F945 in influencing B. burgdorferi tissue tropism and/or retention within specific niches. Nonetheless, it is tempting to speculate that F945 represents a class of DbpA antibodies with value in Lyme disease diagnostics, but that may not contribute to B. burgdorferi clearance or disease resolution in humans.
PXD064519	40693462	N6-methyladenosine (m6A) dysregulation contributes to network excitability in temporal lobe epilepsy. 	Hippocampal proteome in human model of Temporal Lobe Epilepsy	MS/MS, TLE, Temporal lobe epilepsy	Analogous to DNA methylation and protein phosphorylation, it is now well understood that RNA is also subject to extensive processing and modification. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is the most abundant internal RNA modification and regulates RNA fate in several ways, including stability and translational efficiency. The role of m6A in both experimental and human epilepsy remains unknown. Here, we used transcriptome-wide m6A arrays to obtain a detailed analysis of the hippocampal m6A-ome from both mouse and human epilepsy samples. We combined this with human proteomic analyses and show that epileptic tissue displays disrupted metabolic and autophagic pathways that may be directly linked to m6A processing. Specifically, our results suggest that m6A levels inversely correlate with protein pathway activation. Finally, we show that elevated levels of m6A decrease seizure susceptibility and severity in mice. Together, our findings indicate that m6A represents an additional layer of gene regulation complexity in epilepsy and may contribute to the pathomechanisms that drive the development and maintenance of hyperexcitable brain networks.
PXD064331	40693605	Proteomic Analysis of Extracellular Vesicles Identifies CDCP1 as Critical Metastasis-Related Glycoprotein in Lung Cancer. 	Proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles identifies CDCP1 as critical metastasis-related glycoprotein in lung cancer	CDCP1, Extracellular Vesicles, Glycoproteomics, Lung Cancer, Metastasis	Lung cancer is the most prevalent malignancy worldwide, with the majority of fatalities attributed to metastasis. Recent studies have demonstrated the pivotal role of extracellular vesicles (EVs) and glycoproteins in tumor progression. In this study, we compared the glycoproteome of EVs from 95C (low metastatic) and 95D (high metastatic) lung cancer cells to discover key targets in metastasis. Through coupling lectin affinity chromatography with quantitative proteomics, 1562 glycoproteins were identified. Compared to 95C EVs, 23 glycoproteins were significantly upregulated more than 20-fold in 95D EVs, including CDCP1, TNC, NCAM2, and ITGA4. CUB-domain containing protein 1 (CDCP1) was upregulated 143-fold in 95D EVs, which is significantly correlated with poor prognosis of lung cancer patients in the TCGA database. We subsequently performed site-specific glycoform profiling of CDCP1 using intact glycopeptide enrichment. Then we generated CDCP1 knockout (KO) 95D cell lines and revealed that the absence of CDCP1 reduced cell migration ability, which was also confirmed by EVs and cell co-culture experiments. We further performed Ti(4+)-IMAC-based phosphoproteomic analysis to investigate the changes in signaling pathways in CDCP1 KO cell lines. 147 differentially expressed phosphoproteins were revealed. Verification experiments confirmed that the levels of phosphorylated SRC and JUN proteins, markers of ErbB signaling pathway, were decreased 5.5-fold and 4.2-fold, respectively. Glycosylation site mutagenesis identified N339 and N386 as critical functional determinants of CDCP1. Collectively, our data demonstrate that glycoprotein CDCP1 was selectively packed into EVs and potentially contributed to cancer metastasis, which is a critical target for anti-metastasis research and cancer therapy.
PXD070494	40693832	Multi-omic Characterization of Pre- and Post-neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Treated Ovarian Cancer Reveals Mediators of Tumorigenesis and Chemotherapy Response. 	Pre- and Post- NACT ovarian cancer	neoadjuvant chemotherapy, ovarian cancer	High-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSC) accounts for more than 200,000 deaths each year. Despite recent advances in treating HGSC with neoadjuvant chemotherapy, the majority of patients ultimately develop chemotherapy resistance. HGSC is characterized by TP53 mutations and widespread copy number alterations and occurs frequently in the setting of deleterious germline BRCA1/2 variations, but many cases lack putative driver mutations. Here, we performed whole-exome, whole-genome, and whole transcriptome sequencing along with mass spectrometry to characterize the molecular landscape of HGSC in 22 paired samples obtained before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Responsiveness to chemotherapy was determined for each patient. Evidence at the DNA, RNA, and protein level revealed numerous defects in cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions as well as disruption of cell polarity and cytoskeletal regulation in HGSC, indicating that defects in epithelial integrity were present in the majority of HGSC patients. Non-responsive HGSC harbored subclones with putative survival mutations. Additionally, ineffective nonsense mediated decay resulted in the persistence of transcripts with frameshift mutations that were translated into aberrant proteins detectable in HGSC samples. Together, these findings suggest that HGSC may arise through defects in maintenance of epithelial integrity that lead to shedding of malignant cells throughout the peritoneum, and the presence of resistant subclones prior to chemotherapy may decrease the chemosensitivity of patients.
PXD047189	40696381	Retinoic acid-induced 2 deficiency impairs genomic stability in breast cancer. 	Retinoic acid-induced 2 protein contributes to proficient homologous recombination and maintains genomic stability in breast cancer	breast cancer, genomic instability, homologous recombination, poly-(ADP-ribose), premature mitotic entry	BACKGROUND: Genome instability is a fundamental feature and hallmark of cancer, associated with aggressiveness, drug resistance and poor prognosis. RAI2 was initially identified as a novel metastasis suppressor protein specifically associated with the presence of disseminated tumour cells in the bone marrow of breast cancer patients, but its molecular function is largely unknown. METHODS: We analysed the consequences of RAI2 depletion on gene expression and genomic stability in luminal breast cancer cell lines, performed cytotoxicity profiling using a library of pharmacologically active compounds, and characterized a potential function of the RAI2 protein in the DNA damage response. We performed in silico validation in different breast cancer datasets. RESULTS: Analysis of clinical samples revealed that in primary breast tumours, low RAI2 gene expression is significantly associated with genomically unstable tumours and poor prognosis. RAI2 depletion in breast cancer cell lines resulted in loss of mitotic fidelity characterized by prolonged mitosis with increased chromosome segregation errors and micronuclei formation. Drug screening revealed increased sensitivity of RAI2-depleted breast cancer cells to topoisomerase I and Aurora A inhibitors. We also found that genotoxic stress induces the RAI2 protein, which has an affinity for and colocalises with poly-(ADP-ribose). We validated the association of RAI2 gene expression with DNA repair capacity in clinical samples. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support, for the first time, a functional role of RAI2 in the maintenance of genomic stability. Understanding the underlying the molecular mechanism could help to improve patient diagnosis and treatment.
PXD054602	40696421	Shift in the metabolic profile of sediment microbial communities during seagrass decline. 	Influence of seagrass decline on the metabolic profile of sediment microbial communities	marine microbial metaproteome	BACKGROUND: Seagrass meadows are highly productive ecosystems that are considered hotspots for carbon sequestration and microbial activity. In seagrass sediments, microbial communities break down organic matter, facilitating the release and transformation of nutrients that support plant growth and primary production. The decline of seagrass meadows of various species has been documented worldwide, including that of Cymodocea nodosa (Ucria) Ascherson, a widespread seagrass in the Mediterranean Sea. To assess the influence of seagrass decline on the metabolic profile of sediment microbial communities, metaproteomes from two sites, one without vegetation and one with a declining Cymodocea nodosa meadow, were characterised at monthly intervals from July 2017 to October 2018. RESULTS: Prior to seagrass decline, differences in the metabolic profiles between the vegetated and nonvegetated sediment were found, particularly in the deeper sediment layers. During the decline, these differences diminished as microbial communities in nonvegetated sediments exhibited increased protein richness and diversity, aligning more closely with those at the vegetated site. Notably, temporal variations in the structure of the metabolic profile were only observable in the nonvegetated sediment and were also more pronounced at greater sediment depths. Finally, the assessment of proteins involved in organic matter degradation such as ABC transporters, fermentation-mediating enzymes, and proteins involved in dissimilatory sulphate reduction mirrored these shifts. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the main results of this study suggest that the presence of seagrass meadows influences the metabolic profile of microbial communities in sediments, highlighting the distinctions between nonvegetated and seagrass-colonised sediments. In particular, the loss of seagrass leads to a shift in the metabolic profile of sediment communities in the surrounding area, while the metabolic profiles of previously colonised sediments appear to be more resilient to seagrass loss.
PXD052036	40696438	Disruption of ZC3H15 compromises telomere length maintenance by entrapping telomerase within cajal bodies. 	Disruption of ZC3H15 Compromises Telomere Length Maintenance by Sequestering Telomerase within Cajal bodies	Cajal body, Telomerase, Telomere, ZC3H15	BACKGROUND: Telomere homeostasis is pivotal in various biological processes including ontogeny, reproduction, physiological aging, and the onset of numerous diseases such as tumors. In human stem cells and approximately 85% of tumor cells, telomerase formed by TERT and TERC RNA complex is responsible for elongating telomeres. However, the intricate and precise regulatory mechanisms governing telomerase remain largely elusive. METHODS AND RESULTS: We developed a genome-wide trimolecular fluorescence complementation (TriFC) screen to identify TERC RNA-interacting proteins and found ZC3H15 (Zinc finger CCCH domain-containing protein 15) to interact with telomerase. ZC3H15 interacts with TERT via its N-terminal domain in an RNA-dependent manner. The proximity labeling technique PhastID revealed that ZC3H15 associates with proteins involved in regulation of ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex biogenesis, snRNP assembly and RNA localization. Deletion of ZC3H15 upregulated telomerase activity but interestingly resulted in shortened telomeres and induced senescence in HTC75 cells, suggesting an unknown mechanism in regulating telomere length. Notably, we found ZC3H15 to associate with GEMs nuclear bodies, and its deletion led to the spatiotemporal fusion of GEMs and Cajal bodies, resulting in the sequestration of telomerase within Cajal bodies and a reduction in telomerase recruitment to telomeres during the S phase. Consistent with these findings, ZC3H15 ablation accumulated TERC precursor RNA. CONCLUSIONS: These observations provide valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms by which ZC3H15 regulates telomerase dynamics and cellular senescence. ZC3H15 may represent a new target for cancer treatment and anti-aging therapies.
PXD064459	40699144	The ERVK3-1 Microprotein Interacts with the HUSH Complex. 	The ERVK3-1 microprotein interacts with the HUSH complex	hERVs, proximity labelling	Human endogenous retroviruses (hERVs) are noninfectious molecular remnants of ancient exogenous retroviruses that now make up 8% of the human genome. The ubiquitously expressed human ERVK3-1 locus was recently annotated as encoding a 109-amino acid endogenous retroviral Rec microprotein. However, because this locus was thought to be noncoding until recently, it is currently unknown whether the ERVK3-1 microprotein has a function in human cells. We demonstrate that the ERVK3-1 microprotein interacts with PPHLN1, a component of the HUSH complex. The HUSH complex promotes transcriptional repression of intron-less genes, which include parasitic genomic elements such as retrotransposons and endogenous retroviruses. We show that the ERVK3-1 microprotein is essential for transcriptional repression of previously identified HUSH target genes. We thus suggest that the ERVK3-1 Rec microprotein contributes to sensing or regulation of target gene expression by the HUSH complex.
PXD063297	40700094	Unraveling the Regulatory Impact of LncRNA Hnf1aos1 on Hepatic Homeostasis in Mice. 	Unraveling the Regulatory Impact of Hnf1aos1 on Hepatic Homeostasis	HNF1a, Hepatocytes, cytochrome P450, liver, lncRNA	Background/Objectives: Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play significant roles in tissue development and disease progression and have emerged as crucial regulators of gene expression. The hepatocyte nuclear factor alpha antisense RNA 1 (HNF1A-AS1) lncRNA is a particularly intriguing regulatory molecule in liver biology that is involved in the regulation of cytochrome P450 enzymes via epigenetic mechanisms. Despite the growing recognition of lncRNAs in liver disease, the comprehensive role of HNF1A-AS1 in liver function remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the roles of the mouse homolog of the human HNF1A-AS1 lncRNA HNF1A opposite strand 1 (Hnf1aos1) in liver function, gene expression, and cellular processes using a mouse model to identify potential therapeutic targets for liver disorders. Methods: The knockdown of Hnf1aos1 was performed in in vitro mouse liver cell lines using siRNA and in vivo livers of AAV-shRNA complexes. Changes in the global expression landscapes of mRNA and proteins were revealed using RNA-seq and proteomics, respectively. Changes in the selected genes were further validated via real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Phenotypic changes were assessed via histological and absorbance-based assays. Results: After the knockdown of Hnf1aos1, RNA-seq and proteomics analysis revealed the differential gene expression of the mRNAs and proteins involved in the processes of molecular transport, liver regeneration, and immune signaling pathways. The downregulation of ABCA1 and SREBF1 indicates their role in cholesterol transport and fatty acid and triglyceride synthesis. Additionally, significant reductions in hepatic triglyceride levels were observed in the Hnf1aos1-knockdown group, underscoring the impact on lipid regulation. Notably, the knockdown of Hnf1aos1 also led to an almost complete depletion of CYP7A1, the rate-limiting enzyme in bile acid synthesis, highlighting its role in cholesterol homeostasis and hepatotoxicity. Histological assessments confirmed these molecular findings, with increased hepatic inflammation, hepatocyte swelling, and disrupted liver architecture observed in the Hnf1aos1-knockdown mice. Conclusions: This study illustrated that Hnf1aos1 is a critical regulator of liver health, influencing both lipid metabolism and immune pathways. It maintains hepatic lipid homeostasis, modulates lipid-induced inflammatory responses, and contributes to viral immunity, indirectly affecting glucose and lipid metabolic balance.
PXD063969	40700272	Evaluating Protein Extraction Techniques for Elucidating Proteomic Changes in Yeast Deletion Strains. 	Evaluating Protein Extraction Techniques for Elucidating Proteomic Changes in Yeast Deletion Strains	SUMOylation, Yeast proteomics, bead-based lysis, gene deletion, protein extraction	BACKGROUND: Alterations in protein abundance profiles in yeast deletion strains are frequently utilized to gain insights into cellular functions and regulatory networks, most of which are conserved in higher eukaryotes. METHODS: This study investigates the impact of protein extraction methodologies on the whole proteome analysis of S. cerevisiae, comparing detergent-based lysis versus mechanical lysis with silica beads. We evaluated the proteomic profiles of wild-type and two yeast deletion strains, siz1Delta and nfi1Delta (siz2Delta), which are SUMO E3 ligases. Combining isobaric TMTpro-labeling with mass spectrometry using real-time search MS3, we profiled over 4700 proteins, covering approximately 80% of the yeast proteome. RESULTS: Hierarchical clustering and principal component analyses revealed that the choice of protein extraction method significantly influenced the proteomic data, overshadowing the genetic variances among these strains. Notably, the detergent-based lysis showed superior performance in extracting proteins compared to mechanical lysis. Despite minimal proteomic alterations among strains, we observed consistent changes regardless of the lysis strategy in proteins such as Ino1, Rep1, Rep2, Snz1, and Fdh1 in both SUMO E3 ligase deletion strains, implying potential redundant mechanisms of control for these proteins. CONCLUSION: These findings underscore the importance of method selection at each step of sample preparation in proteomic studies and enhance our comprehension of cellular adaptations to genetic perturbations.
PXD062366	40700273	Alterations in Tear Proteomes of Adults with Pre-Diabetes and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus but Without Diabetic Retinopathy. 	Alterations in tear proteomes of adults with pre-diabetes and type 2 diabetes mellitus but without diabetic retinopathy	Tear film, machine learning., type 2 diabetes mellitus	BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is an epidemic chronic disease that affects millions of people worldwide. This study aims to explore the impact of T2DM on the tear proteome, specifically investigating whether alterations occur before the development of diabetic retinopathy. METHODS: Flush tear samples were collected from healthy subjects and subjects with preDM and T2DM. Tear proteins were processed and analyzed by mass spectrometry-based shotgun proteomics using a data-independent acquisition parallel acquisition serial fragmentation (diaPASEF) approach. Machine learning algorithms, including random forest, lasso regression, and support vector machine, and statistical tools were used to identify potential biomarkers. RESULTS: Machine learning models identified 17 proteins with high importance in classification. Among these, five proteins (cystatin-S, S100-A11, submaxillary gland androgen-regulated protein 3B, immunoglobulin lambda variable 3-25, and lambda constant 3) exhibited differential abundance across these three groups. No correlations were identified between proteins and clinical assessments of the ocular surface. Notably, the 17 important proteins showed superior prediction accuracy in distinguishing all three groups (healthy, preDM, and T2DM) compared to the five proteins that were statistically significant. CONCLUSIONS: Alterations in the tear proteome profile were observed in adults with preDM and T2DM before the clinical diagnosis of ocular abnormality, including retinopathy.
PXD061512	40700274	SDS Depletion from Intact Membrane Proteins by KCl Precipitation Ahead of Mass Spectrometry Analysis. 	Bovine Liver Membrane Preparation	KCl preciptation, SDS depleted, pH, urea	BACKGROUND: Membrane proteins are preferentially solubilized with sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), which necessitates a purification protocol to deplete the surfactant prior to mass spectrometry analysis. However, maintaining solubility of intact membrane proteins is challenged in an SDS-free environment. SDS precipitation with potassium salts (KCl) offers a potentially viable workflow to deplete SDS and permit proteoform analysis. The purpose of this study is to devise a robust detergent-based protocol applicable for processing and analysis of intact membrane-associated proteoforms. METHODS: The precipitation conditions impacting SDS removal from spinach chloroplasts and liver membrane proteome preparations were evaluated, capitalizing on optimization of pH (highly basic), addition of MS-compatible solubilizing additives (urea) and adjustment of the KCl to SDS ratio to maximize recovery and purity. RESULTS: Characterization of the SDS-solubilized, KCl-precipitated spinach membrane preparation revealed multiple charge envelope MS spectra displaying high signal to noise, free of SDS adducts. Precipitation at pH 12 or with urea improved protein recovery and purity. Bottom-up analysis identified 1826 distinct liver protein groups from four independent SDS precipitation conditions. While precipitation at pH 8 without urea revealed a greater number of protein identifications by mass spectrometry, precipitation under highly basic conditions (pH 12) with urea provided higher membrane protein recovery and achieved the greatest number (732 of 1056) and largest percentage (69.3%) of membrane proteins identified in the SDS removal workflow. CONCLUSION: This workflow provides new opportunities for MS-based proteoform analysis by capitalizing on the benefits of SDS for protein extraction while maintaining high solubility and purity of intact proteins though KCl precipitation of the surfactant.
PXD063191	40700505	M6A-dependent RNA condensation underlies FUS autoregulation and can be harnessed for ALS therapy development. 	Label-free LC-MS/MS analysis of proteins associated with specific RNAs in HeLa cells	ACTB, FUS, PNCTR., RNA-protein interactions, hybridization-proximity labeling, lncRNA, pre-mRNA	Mutations in the FUS gene cause aggressive amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS-FUS). Beyond mRNA, FUS generates partially processed transcripts retaining introns 6 and 7. We demonstrate that these FUSint6&7-RNA molecules form nuclear condensates, scaffolded by the highly structured intron 7 and associated with nuclear speckles. Using hybridization-proximity labeling proteomics, we show that the FUSint6&7-RNA condensates are enriched for splicing factors and the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) reader YTHDC1. These ribonucleoprotein structures facilitate posttranscriptional FUS splicing and depend on m6A/YTHDC1 for integrity. In cells expressing mutant FUS, FUSint6&7-RNAs become hypermethylated, which in turn stimulates their condensation and splicing. We further show that FUS protein is repelled by m6A. Thus, ALS-FUS mutations may cause abnormal activation of FUS posttranscriptional splicing through altered RNA methylation. Notably, ectopic expression of FUS intron 7 sequences dissolves endogenous FUSint6&7-RNA condensates, down-regulating FUS mRNA and protein. Our findings reveal a condensation-dependent mechanism regulating FUS splicing, with possible therapeutic implications for ALS.
PXD057614	40701521	Cerebrospinal fluid lipoprotein-mediated cholesterol delivery to neurons is impaired in Alzheimer's disease and involves APOE4. 	Human Cerebrospinal Fluid HDL-like proteome from Alzheimer Disease patients	AD, CSF, HDL	In the central nervous system, apolipoprotein (APO)E-containing lipoprotein particles mediate the transport of glial-derived cholesterol to neurons, which is essential for neuronal membrane remodeling and maintenance of the myelin sheath. We aimed to examine cholesterol transport via lipoprotein particles in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients compared to control individuals. Additionally, we explored the ability of reconstituted HDL containing different APOE isoforms to regulate cholesterol transport. We evaluated the capacity of CSF lipoprotein particles to facilitate radiolabeled unesterified cholesterol efflux from A172 human glioblastoma astrocytes and to deliver cholesterol to SH-SY5Y human neuronal cells. The CSF lipoprotein proteome was analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Reconstituted HDL nanoparticles were prepared by combining phospholipids and cholesterol with human APOE3 or APOE4, followed by radiolabeling with unesterified cholesterol. Our results showed that cholesterol efflux from astrocytes to CSF were similar between AD patients and controls, both under baseline conditions and after activation of ABCA1 and ABCG1. However, CSF lipoprotein-mediated neuronal cholesterol uptake was significantly reduced in the AD group. LC-MS/MS analysis identified 239 proteins associated with CSF lipoproteins in both groups, with no major alterations in proteins linked to cholesterol metabolism. However, 27 proteins involved in non-cholesterol-related processes were differentially expressed. Notably, synthetic reconstituted HDL particles containing APOE4 exhibited reduced capacity to deliver cholesterol to neurons compared to those with APOE3. These findings indicate that CSF lipoproteins from patients with AD demonstrate impaired cholesterol delivery to neurons. Our study highlights APOE4 as a critical contributor to abnormal neuronal cholesterol uptake in AD pathophysiology.
PXD057241	40702081	Small intestinal gammadelta T17 cells promote SAE through STING/C1q-induced microglial synaptic pruning in male mice. 	Small intestinal gammadelta T17 cells promote SAE through STING/C1q-induced microglial synaptic pruning	"gut-brain" axis, Sepsis-associated encephalopathy	Sepsis is a severe global health issue with high mortality rates, and sepsis-associated encephalopathy (SAE) further exacerbates this risk. While recent studies have shown the migration of gut immune cells to the lungs after sepsis, their impact on the central nervous system remains unclear. Our research demonstrates that sepsis could induce the migration of IL-7R(high) CD8(low) gammadelta T17 cells from the small intestine to the meninges, where they secrete IL-17A, impairing mitochondrial function in microglia and activating the cGAS-STING-C1q pathway in male mice. This process is accompanied by inhibited ubiquitination of STING at the K150 site, resulting in STING accumulation and increased release of C1q-tagged hippocampal synapses, which are subsequently pruned by activated microglia. Importantly, 4-octyl itaconate mitigates the excessive synaptic pruning by inhibiting gammadelta T17 cell migration and promoting STING ubiquitination, thereby alleviating SAE. Our findings suggest a potential mechanism of synaptic pruning by microglia via the cGAS-STING-C1q pathway, emphasize the critical role of gut-derived gammadelta T17 cell migration to the meninges in SAE, and highlight the importance of STING ubiquitination in modulating C1q-mediated excessive synaptic pruning.
PXD064318	40703348	STAT3 mediates CAF-induced osimertinib resistance via regulating protein secretion in non-small cell lung cancer. 	Research on the mechanism by which cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) promote EGFR-TKI resistance in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) via secretory proteins	CAF, EGFR-TKI	Introduction: EGFR-TKI resistance is an important factor limiting the clinical application of targeted drugs in NSCLC, but the mechanism remains unclear. The tumor microenvironment is the internal environment for cancer cells to survive, and it plays an important role in tumor resistance. Methods: In vitro assays: CCK-8 assay, wound healing, Transwell and Colony formation assay. Protein expression analyzed via Western blot. In vivo antitumor efficacy assessed by xenograft study. Target expression in tumors confirmed by immunohistochemical staining. Statistical analysis used t-test/ANOVA (p<0.05). Results: This study discovered that cancer associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in the tumor microenvironment induce Osimertinib resistance in NSCLC, and further study revealed that CAF-induced Osimertinib resistance in NSCLC is realized through its protein secretion. Interestingly, STAT3 is the key factor regulating CAF activation and secretion. Knockdown of STAT3 can block the secretory function of CAF, thereby reversing Osimertinib resistance in lung cancer. Furthermore, we blocked STAT3 activation in CAF with the novel STAT3 small molecule inhibitor LL1. LL1 effectively reversed CAF induced osimertinib resistance in NSCLC. Discussion: This project contributes to a deeper understanding of the molecular mechanism of tumor microenvironment mediated EGFR-TKI resistance in NSCLC, and provides theoretical basis and experimental data for the development of novel resistance reversal agents against the tumor microenvironment.
PXD040677	40703971	How to Reproduce in the Siberian Winter: Proteome Dynamics Reveals the Timing of Reproduction-Related Processes in an Amphipod Species Endemic to Lake Baikal. 	Proteomes of individuals of Eulimnogammarus verrucosus collected in the field in fall-winter months	TMT-labeling, amphipods, cold adaptation, reproduction	The winters in the region of the vast global freshwater biodiversity hotspot Lake Baikal are extremely cold. Although the conditions for reproduction may seem unfavorable during winter, the lake is inhabited by a major endemic winter-reproducing amphipod species complex. Compared with Baikal's summer-reproducing amphipod species, the duration of a reproduction cycle in the winter-reproducing species is more extended. We hence hypothesized that in those species, reproduction-related processes dependent on external resources are scheduled to occur outside of winter when the conditions are more advantageous. To receive insights into the ongoing processes, we analyzed sex-specific seasonal proteome dynamics in Eulimnogammarus verrucosus as a representative of the winter-reproducing amphipod species. Individuals of the species were collected during five field samplings from the beginning of fall to the following summer (2019/2020) and their proteomes were analyzed. Especially, the female proteomes were dominated by sampling time point-specific hallmarks of reproduction-related processes and events. It was evident that the formation of the oocytes in female E. verrucosus already took place in the summer. Embryo development, not depending on external resources but fueled by the yolk reserves in the egg, proceeded over the winter, and juveniles hatched from the eggs in the following spring. Adjustments of the amphipods of both sexes to environmental winter conditions were reflected by abundance changes of digestive system-related enzymes, indicating a proteome response to seasonal diet changes, and of enzymes involved in RNA biosynthesis, protein folding, and homeoviscous adaptation processes, possibly related to decreasing water temperatures. The characteristics of the proteome dynamics revealed here, set in relation to season-specific environmental parameters, indicate a strategy of a cold-adapted amphipod to cope with the unique and extreme environmental conditions of Baikal, which is directed to the pace and timing of the resource-dependent reproduction-related processes.
PXD061613	40704459	Thin-diaPASEF: diaPASEF for maximizing proteome coverage in single-shot proteomics. 	Validation of Thin-diaPASEF for maximizing proteome coverage	Thin-diaPASEF, diaPASEF, single-shot proteomics, slice-PASEF, synchro-PASEF	Proteomics using mass spectrometry (MS) has significantly advanced, offering deep insights into complex proteomes. The timsTOF MS platform with its parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation (PASEF) technology has achieved high scan speeds and high-quality spectra. Buker's timsTOF HT, which features TIMS-XR technology, offers an improved dynamic range and analysis depth, supporting high sample loadings. Moreover, various improvements to the data-independent acquisition method based on the PASEF technology (diaPASEF) have been reported. Despite these advancements, most high-level deep proteomic reports are based on the Orbitrap Astral and Orbitrap Exploris 480, and analytical systems using timsTOF MS still require improvement. Here, Bruker's timsTOF HT was used to validate and optimize key diaPASEF parameters, leading to the development of a Thin-diaPASEF method. This method provides a high quantitative accuracy and consistency. In our validation, 9,400 proteins were identified in a single shot from HEK cells (strictly controlled Protein false discovery rate < 1%), the highest number analyzed by the timsTOF MS series using standard human cultured cells. Furthermore, by combining Thin-diaPASEF with an improved Lycopersicon esculentum lectin method, over 5,000 proteins were identified in a 24-sample/d analysis from the plasma, and we succeeded in constructing a system with high proteome coverage that can be used for biomarker discovery.
PXD060249	40705922	tRNA hydroxylation is an epitranscriptomic modulator of metabolic states affecting Pseudomonas aeruginosa pathogenicity. 	tRNA hydroxylation is an epitranscriptomic modulator of metabolic states affecting Pseudomonas aeruginosa pathogenicity	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, epitranscriptomics, tRNA modification	Post-transcriptional modification of transfer RNAs (tRNAs) represents an essential layer of translational regulation critical for bacterial adaptation to environmental changes. Increasing evidence links the tRNA epitranscriptome to pivotal roles in the regulation of gene expression and various cellular processes, including stress responses and establishment of virulence. In this study, we used mass spectrometry and nanopore sequencing to quantify and identify the sites of TrhPO-dependent tRNA hydroxylation in total and purified Pseudomonas aeruginosa tRNAs. Furthermore, transcriptome, ribosome profiling, and proteome data were integrated to demonstrate the post-transcriptional consequences of the absence of xo5U34 modifications at the wobble position of selected tRNAs. We suggest that the impaired ability to infect host cells and attenuated virulence in Galleria mellonella are driven by changes in metabolic fluxes. In the absence of TrhPO-mediated tRNA modification, chorismate, the precursor for the biosynthesis of xo5U modifications, is funneled into alternative pathways, including the production of aromatic amino acids and phenazines. Our findings that metabolic rerouting, rather than changes in proteome profiles, attenuates P. aeruginosa virulence highlight the multifunctional roles of tRNA-modifying enzymes and suggest an underexplored role for these enzymes in monitoring and modulating metabolic fitness. These insights open new avenues for combatting the pathogenicity of this challenging opportunistic pathogen.
PXD061307	40706777	Combined dietary omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids protect against hyperglycemia-associated retinopathy in neonatal mice. 	Combined dietary omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids protect against hyperglycemia-associated retinopathy in neonatal mice	DHA, postnatal hyperglycemia, retinal vasculature, retinopathy of prematurity	Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) with early vessel loss (Phase I) followed by uncontrolled vessel growth (Phase II) causes visual impairment in premature infants. Although supplementation with omega-3 (n-3) docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) alone shows mixed results in preventing ROP, supplementation with both n-3 DHA and n-6 arachidonic acid (ARA) in early postnatal life reduces severe ROP by 50% (Mega Donna Mega study). In the Mega Donna Mega study, 146 (72.6%) of 201 included infants had at least one hyperglycemic episode during the first 14 days of life, which is a strong ROP risk factor. We therefore evaluated the protective effects and mechanisms of combined dietary n-3 DHA and n-6 ARA in a neonatal mouse model of hyperglycemia-induced suppression of retinal vascular development (Phase I ROP). At postnatal day (P)10, retinal vessel growth was improved in pups from mothers on diets enriched with 1%DHA+2%ARA versus 3%DHA. Lipid changes in pup plasma and RPE complex (retinal pigment epithelium with choroid and sclera) were in accordance with maternal diets' DHA and ARA levels indicating that milk lipids reflected maternal diets. Proteomic retinal analysis revealed increased abundances of proteins related to mitochondrial respiration and glucose metabolism with the combined diet. Inhibition of mitochondrial ATP synthase negated the protective effects of the combined diet. In conclusion, combined DHA+ARA oral maternal supplementation protects against hyperglycemia-induced retinopathy in mouse neonates (Phase I ROP model) through enhanced retinal metabolism, suggesting the potential of balanced lipid supplementation for ROP prevention.
PXD062902	40707439	Renal tubular GSDME protects cisplatin nephrotoxicity by impeding OGT-STAT3-S100A7A axis in male mice. 	Identification of GSDME-interacting proteins in HK-2 cells by immunoprecipitation-coupled LC-MS/MS analysis	GSDME, HK-2 cells, immunoprecipitation, protein interaction	Gasdermin E (GSDME) is known as a key executive protein of pro-inflammatory pyroptosis. However, the function diversity of GSDME needs further investigation. Here, we show that GSDME expression is downregulated in kidney tissues after cisplatin treatment without detectable N-terminal fragment. Global and tubule-specific Gsdme deficiency aggravates cisplatin-induced renal injury. Mechanistically, loss of GSDME in proximal tubular cells facilitates the recruitment of OGT to the CUL4B-DDB1-WDR26 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, promoting OGT degradation and subsequently reducing STAT3 O-GlcNAcylation. This post-translational shift enhances STAT3 phosphorylation and induces upregulation of its downstream target gene, S100a7a. Elevated S100A7A promotes macrophage infiltration via RAGE activation, amplifying renal inflammation. Tubule-specific depleting S100a7a improves renal function and reduces renal injury and inflammation. These findings uncover a protective, non-pyroptotic function of GSDME in modulating O-GlcNAcylation and STAT3-S100A7A-RAGE signaling to maintain renal homeostasis under cisplatin stress in male mice.
PXD055840	40708816	The use of three-dimensional primary human myospheres to explore skeletal muscle effects of in vivo krill oil supplementation. 	The use of three-dimensional primary human myospheres to explore skeletal muscle effects of in vivo krill oil supplementation	3D muscle cell model, krill oil, label-free proteomics, myosphere	Purpose: Supplementation with krill oil has shown effects on whole-body lipid and glucose metabolism, as well as on skeletal muscle strength and function. We previously showed that krill oil intervention in vivo promoted fatty acid metabolism and protein synthesis in cultured human myotubes in a two-dimensional (2D) model. The aim of this study was to explore the effects of krill oil supplementation in vivo in a 3D myosphere model, and to compare a the human skeletal muscle 3D cell model to a 2D model. Methods: Myospheres were formed from myoblasts obtained before and after 7 weeks of in vivo krill oil intervention. Glucose and oleic acid metabolism were assessed, and transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were performed. Results: In vivo intervention with krill oil increased glucose metabolism in myospheres, while no effect was observed on fatty acid metabolism. Transcriptomic analyses of myospheres after krill oil intervention showed increased expression of genes involved in pathways like motor proteins and hypertrophy, as well as in calcium signaling, of which motor proteins and hypertrophy pathways have not been described in 2D myotube cultures. Proteomic analyses after krill oil intervention showed increased expression of proteins in glycolysis/gluconeogenesis and fatty acid degradation. Comparison of proteins expressed in the 3D myosphere model and the 2D myotube model at the basal level showed that in myospheres, mitochondrial gene expression and translation dominated, while in 2D cultures, mitochondrial organization and response to oxidative stress were more important. Conclusion: These findings suggest that in vivo krill oil intervention induces different metabolic effects when comparing 3D and 2D cultures. In contrast to the 2D model, data obtained with the 3D model showed gene expression changes that are more compatible with previously observed results in vivo concerning skeletal muscle motoric function. Hence, the 3D cell model might better reflect krill oil-induced modifications in skeletal muscle performance in vivo than the 2D model. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s44164-025-00087-6.
PXD061735	40709343	Effects of one-week intake of different edible oils on the urinary proteome of rats. 	Effects of One-week Intake of Different Edible Oils on the Urinary Proteome of Rats	Butter, Hydrogenated vegetable oil, Lard, Olive oil, Post-translational modification, Rapeseed oil, Urinary proteome	Objective: To investigate the effects of different edible oils on the rat body, we analyzed alterations in the urinary proteome and post-translational modifications (PTMs) following a one-week intake of olive oil, butter, lard, hydrogenated vegetable oil, and rapeseed oil. Methods: Thirty male Wistar rats (7 weeks old, ~200 g) were randomly allocated into six groups (n = 5 per group). Group A served as the control group, while groups B-F were administered different edible oils. The daily intakes were calculated, respectively, according to the "2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans" and the "Dietary Guidelines for Chinese Residents." Urine samples collected after 1 week were analyzed using label-free quantitative proteomics via LC-MS/MS. Differentially expressed proteins and differential post-translational modifications in the urinary proteome were screened for functional analysis. Results: All edible oil groups exhibited significant alterations in metabolic pathways, with distinct proteomic profiles observed across oil types, but there were few common differentially expressed proteins among different groups. In addition, the olive oil group and the butter group were enriched with many biological pathways related to the nervous system, and the rapeseed oil group produced more differentially expressed proteins and biological pathways related to immunity. Conclusion: The urinary proteome of rats showed significant changes after one-week intake of edible oils, and the effects of various edible oils on the rat urinary proteome were different from each other. This effect is comprehensive and multi-dimensional at the level of the rat body. The changes in post-translational modifications of the proteome were relatively small.
PXD052488	40710368	Integrative Multi-Omics Profiling of Rhabdomyosarcoma Subtypes Reveals Distinct Molecular Pathways and Biomarker Signatures. 	Multi-omics characterization of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma	metabolomics, multiomics	Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS), the most common pediatric soft tissue sarcoma, comprises embryonal (ERMS) and alveolar (ARMS) subtypes with distinct histopathological features, clinical outcomes, and therapeutic responses. To better characterize their molecular distinctions, we performed untargeted plasma proteomics and metabolomics profiling in children with ERMS (n = 18), ARMS (n = 17), and matched healthy controls (n = 18). Differential expression, functional enrichment (GO, KEGG, RaMP-DB), co-expression network analysis (WGCNA/WMCNA), and multi-omics integration (DIABLO, MOFA) revealed distinct molecular signatures for each subtype. ARMS displayed elevated oncogenic and stemness-associated proteins (e.g., cyclin E1, FAP, myotrophin) and metabolites involved in lipid transport, fatty acid metabolism, and polyamine biosynthesis. In contrast, ERMS was enriched in immune-related and myogenic proteins (e.g., myosin-9, SAA2, S100A11) and metabolites linked to glutamate/glycine metabolism and redox homeostasis. Pathway analyses highlighted subtype-specific activation of PI3K-Akt and Hippo signaling in ARMS and immune and coagulation pathways in ERMS. Additionally, the proteomics and metabolomics datasets showed association with clinical parameters, including disease stage, lymph node involvement, and age, demonstrating clear molecular discrimination consistent with clinical observation. Co-expression networks and integrative analyses further reinforced these distinctions, uncovering coordinated protein-metabolite modules. Our findings reveal novel, subtype-specific molecular programs in RMS and propose candidate biomarkers and pathways that may guide precision diagnostics and therapeutic targeting in pediatric sarcomas.
PXD064002	40711164	Explaining Echis: Proteotranscriptomic Profiling of Echis carinatus carinatus Venom. 	Explaining Echis envenoming: Transcriptomic and proteomic profiling of Echis carinatus venom	Echis carinatus, Transcriptome, antivenom, in vivo	Snakebite remains the most neglected tropical disease globally, with India experiencing the highest rates of mortality and morbidity. While most envenomation cases in India are attributed to the 'big four' snakes, research has predominantly focused on Russell's viper (Daboia russelii), spectacled cobra (Naja naja), and common krait (Bungarus caeruleus), leading to a considerable gap in our understanding of saw-scaled viper (Echis carinatus carinatus) venoms. For instance, the venom gland transcriptome and inter- and intra-population venom variation in E. c. carinatus have largely remained uninvestigated. A single study to date has assessed the effectiveness of commercial antivenoms against this species under in vivo conditions. To address these crucial knowledge gaps, we conducted a detailed investigation of E. c. carinatus venom and reported the first venom gland transcriptome. A proteotranscriptomic evaluation revealed snake venom metalloproteinases, C-type lectins, L-amino acid oxidases, phospholipase A2s, and snake venom serine proteases as the major toxins. Moreover, we assessed the intra-population venom variation in this species using an array of biochemical analyses. Finally, we determined the venom toxicity and the neutralising efficacy of a commercial antivenom using a murine model of snake envenoming. Our results provide a thorough molecular and functional profile of E. c. carinatus venom.
PXD054140	40713947	Nucleosomes specify co-factor access to p53. 	Nucleosomes gate cofactor access to the transcription factor p53 P53-pos8-NCP	DSSO, Nucleosomes, Proteome Discoverer, XL-MS, cofactors, crosslinking, transcription factor, ubiquitin proteasome system, xlinkx	Pioneer transcription factors (TFs) engage chromatinized DNA motifs. However, it is unclear how the resultant TF-nucleosome complexes are decoded by co-factors. In humans, the TF p53 regulates cell-cycle progression, apoptosis, and the DNA damage response, with a large fraction of p53-bound sites residing in nucleosome-harboring inaccessible chromatin. We examined the interaction of chromatin-bound p53 with co-factors belonging to the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS). At two distinct motif locations on the nucleosome (super-helical location [SHL]-5.7 and SHL+5.9), the E3 ubiquitin ligase E6-E6AP was unable to bind nucleosome-engaged p53. The deubiquitinase USP7, on the other hand, readily engages nucleosome-bound p53 in vitro and in cells. A corresponding cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure shows USP7 engaged with p53 and nucleosomes. Our work illustrates how chromatin imposes a co-factor-selective barrier for p53 interactors, whereby flexibly tethered interaction domains of co-factors and TFs govern compatibility between co-factors, TFs, and chromatin.
PXD058638	40713952	Comprehensive human proteome profiles across a 50-year lifespan reveal aging trajectories and signatures. 	The proteomic navigator of human aging	Biomarker, Human Aging, Mechanism	Proteins are the cornerstone of life. However, the proteomic blueprint of aging across human tissues remains uncharted. Here, we present a comprehensive proteomic and histological analysis of 516 samples from 13 human tissues spanning five decades. This dynamic atlas reveals widespread transcriptome-proteome decoupling and proteostasis decline, characterized by amyloid accumulation. Based on aging-associated protein changes, we developed tissue-specific proteomic age clocks and characterized organ-level aging trajectories. Temporal analysis revealed an aging inflection around age 50, with blood vessels being a tissue that ages early and is markedly susceptible to aging. We further defined a plasma proteomic signature of aging that matches its tissue origins and identified candidate senoproteins, including GAS6, driving vascular and systemic aging. Together, our findings lay the groundwork for a systems-level understanding of human aging through the lens of proteins.
PXD065332	40713963	Ubiquitin-Specific Protease 7-Mediated Stabilization of Discoidin Domain Receptor 1 Drives Progression of TP53-Mutant Cancers. 	Identification of DDR1-interacting proteins by IP-MS screening	Co-immunoprecipitated proteins, DDR1, IP-MS	Receptor tyrosine kinase DDR1 (Discoidin Domain Receptor 1) interacts with the extracellular matrix (ECM) to promote tumor cell proliferation through its intracellular kinase activity, while its extracellular non-enzymatic domain creates a physical barrier for immune evasion. Although DDR1 inhibitors and antibodies have been developed, targeting DDR1 kinase activity alone cannot fully block the biological effects mediated by its scaffold function. Therefore, developing DDR1 degraders presents a potentially more effective therapeutic strategy. Through screening a proprietary small-molecule ubiquitination library, we identified NSC632839, which significantly induces DDR1 protein degradation. Mechanistically, chemical proteomics and genetic studies demonstrated that NSC632839 functions by inhibiting USP7, which interacts with, stabilizes, and deubiquitinates DDR1, preventing its proteasomal degradation. Importantly, we observed that TP53 loss or mutation in tumor cells and clinical samples markedly upregulates DDR1 expression, thereby enhancing its interaction with USP7. Inhibition of USP7 with NSC632839 or other selective inhibitors restores TP53 expression, resulting in a significant reduction in DDR1 levels. In various preclinical models, targeting USP7 with NSC632839 effectively eliminates tumor cells, offering a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome tumor relapse driven by TP53 mutations, both in vitro and in vivo. This study highlights the potential of DDR1 degradation via USP7 inhibition as a novel approach to treat TP53 mutation-enriched tumors.
PXD060280	40714634	An updated inventory of genes essential for oxidative phosphorylation identifies a mitochondrial origin in familial Meniere's disease. 	An updated inventory of genes essential for oxidative phosphorylation identifies a mitochondrial origin in familial Mnire's disease - FAM136A IP-MS	Mitochondria, OXPHOS, intermembrane space, mitochondrial disease, respiratory chain	Mitochondrial disorders (MDs) are among the most common inborn errors of metabolism, and dysfunction in oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) is a hallmark. Their complex mode of inheritance and diverse clinical presentations render the diagnosis of MDs challenging, and, to date, most lack a cure. Here, we build on previous efforts to identify genes necessary for OXPHOS and report a highly complementary galactose-sensitized CRISPR-Cas9 "growth" screen, presenting an updated inventory of 481 OXPHOS genes, including 157 linked to MDs. We further focus on FAM136A, a gene associated with Meniere's disease, and demonstrate that it supports intermembrane space protein homeostasis and OXPHOS in cell lines, mice, and patients. Our study identifies a mitochondrial basis in familial Meniere's disease, provides a comprehensive resource of OXPHOS-related genes, and sheds light on the pathways involved in MDs, with the potential to guide future diagnostics and treatments for MDs.
PXD058189	40714756	Psidium Defenses Against Meloidogyne enterolobii: Proteomic and Microscopic Analysis of this Plant-Predator Association. 	Plant defense against nematodes: Crucial role of Heat Shock Proteins and adaptive strategies	Guava (Psidium guajava). Plant-parasitic nematodes. Immune mechanisms. Root anatomy. Proteomic analysis. Crop resistance.	Guava (Psidium guajava), referred to as the "tropical apple," is esteemed for its sweet flavor, nutritional density, and medicinal attributes, being rich in ascorbic acid, phenolics, carotenoids, fibers, and minerals. Despite its agricultural significance, guava cultivation faces considerable challenges from plant-parasitic nematodes, particularly root-knot nematodes from the Meloidogyne spp. In South America, Meloidogyne enterolobii causes severe root damage and economic losses to this crop. Plants fight nematodes through complex immune mechanisms involving pattern recognition receptors and signaling pathways, such as pattern-triggered immunity. The present research employed comparative shotgun proteomic analysis complemented by microscopic imaging and histochemical assays of roots from susceptible P. guajava and resistant P. guineense, inoculated or not with M. enterolobii. Psidium-M. enterolobii interactions revealed intricate plant cellular responses such as giant cells formation, hypersensitivity reactions, and biochemical pathway adjustments in sucrose transport and antioxidant enzyme activities. Synthesis and accumulation of secondary metabolites like terpenes, alkaloids, and phenolics in inoculated and resistant plants were positively correlated to plant resilience. Heat shock proteins and protein disulfide isomerases also emerged as pivotal in plant response, being upregulated during nematode infection. SUMMARY: The work addresses and unravels some of the puzzle pieces in the net of processes triggered in a plant prey (Psidium spp.), of either susceptible (P. guajava) or resistant (P. guineense) phenotypes, when confronted by its nematode predator (Meloidogyne enterolobii). The main alterations detected in the roots of these plants ranged from giant cells formation, hypersensitivity reactions, biochemical adjustments in sucrose transport pathways and in antioxidant enzyme activities, to increases in secondary metabolites (terpenes, alkaloids, and phenolics) and in heat shock proteins and protein disulfide isomerases. All these defensive mechanisms were triggered by the nematode attack on both species and were more prominent in P. guineense, which positively correlates them to the plant resistance against M. enterolobii.
PXD064881	40715042	Repurposing BCL2 inhibitors: Venetoclax protects against acinar cell necrosis in acute pancreatitis by promoting apoptosis. 	Repurposing BCL2 inhibitors: Venetoclax protects against acinar cell necrosis in acute pancreatitis by promoting apoptosis	ABT-199, ABT-263, BCL2 inhibitors, Navitoclax, Pancreatitis, Venetoclax, apoptosis, calcium signaling, fibrosis, necrosis, pancreas	Acute pancreatitis (AP), a severe inflammatory disorder of the pancreas, lacks effective pharmacological treatment. The disease is primarily driven by necrosis of pancreatic acinar cells (PACs), which intensifies inflammation and organ injury. This study explores the potential of BCL2 inhibitors, specifically Navitoclax and Venetoclax, to shift cell death pathways from necrosis to apoptosis and thereby mitigate disease severity. Ex vivo models using cerulein or ethanol/palmitoleic acid (EtOH/POA) showed that both inhibitors significantly reduced necrosis, increased apoptosis, and improved PAC viability and ATP levels. In mouse models of AP, both drugs promoted apoptosis and decreased tissue necrosis, with Venetoclax showing superior efficacy and safety. Venetoclax markedly reduced disease severity in two AP models without affecting healthy tissue or inducing thrombocytopenia. In contrast, Navitoclax caused apoptosis even in healthy tissue and triggered thrombocytopenia. Additionally, both drugs attenuated pathological Ca(2+) responses in PACs and upregulated the expression of Ca(2)+-binding proteins S100A8/A9 and the chemokine CCL8. The latter may mediate enhanced apoptotic clearance and limit secondary necrosis, supporting the therapeutic shift from necrosis to apoptosis. Proteomic analyses revealed extensive drug-induced remodeling. In the short-term AP model, both inhibitors altered expression of proteins linked to intracellular compartments and extracellular signaling, reflecting cellular adaptation. In CP, Navitoclax upregulated ECM and lysosomal proteins while downregulating ribosomal components-indicating intensified fibrosis and suppressed protein synthesis. Venetoclax had milder effects and did not worsen fibrosis. Despite Navitoclax's efficacy toward activated pancreatic stellate cells in vitro, it exacerbated fibrosis and tissue atrophy in CP in vivo, likely due to ongoing parenchymal damage and stellate cell activation. Together, these findings demonstrate that selective BCL2 inhibition with Venetoclax promotes apoptosis, reduces necrosis, and improves outcomes in AP, supporting its repurposing as a therapeutic strategy. However, BCL2 inhibition does not benefit CP and may aggravate fibrosis, underscoring the need for context-specific approaches.
PXD064004	40716486	OTUD3-Mediated Stabilization of SLC7A11 Drives Sunitinib Resistance by Suppressing Ferroptosis in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma. 	OTUD3-Mediated Stabilization of SLC7A11 Drives Sunitinib Resistance by Suppressing Ferroptosis in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma	786O shOTUD3 LC/MSMS	Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), as the main type of RCC was treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) at the late stage. While drug resistance is the main challenge for TKIs like sunitinib, and the underline mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we found that OTUD3 is over-expressed in ccRCC and promotes sunitinib resistance in tumor cells. OTUD3 deubiquitinates the cystine/glutamate transporter SLC7A11 and protect it from proteasome degradation, which promotes cystine transport into cells and reduces intracellular ROS levels, thereby inhibiting sunitinib-induced ferroptosis. Our findings suggest that targeting OTUD3 could be a potential strategy to enhance ferroptosis and improve the therapeutic efficacy of sunitinib in ccRCC.
PXD063409	40716488	Quantitative proteomic analysis of the Toxoplasma gondii cytoskeleton and bioinformatic identification of highly antigenic proteins. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of the Toxoplasma gondii cytoskeleton and bioinformatic identification of highly antigenic proteins	Cytoskeleton, Immunogenic peptides, Quantitative Mass Spectrometry, Toxoplasma gondii	The Toxoplasma gondii cytoskeleton is a highly organized structure essential for parasite motility, replication, and host cell invasion. To identify its components, a highly enriched fraction of tachyzoite cytoskeletons was obtained and quantitatively analyzed by mass spectrometry. We identified 623 proteins classified into 18 functional groups, including 30 IMC proteins, 34 cytoskeleton proteins, and 14 uncharacterized proteins. A comprehensive bioinformatic analysis was conducted to assess protein abundance (fmol), antigenicity, accessibility, interactome, and homology, with the aim of identifying immunogenic targets. Among the top vaccine candidates were -GRA12, IMC1, ROP8, and -IMC4, with ROP8 emerging as the most promising based on epitope prediction. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD063409. SIGNIFICANCE: Toxoplasma gondii represents one of the most virulent and successful parasites in human and veterinary pathogenesis. Since T. gondii is a highly dynamic parasite that depends on its cytoskeleton to invade and disseminate through tissues, knowledge of its cytoskeleton composition is essential for understanding the biological mechanisms involved in parasite-host interactions and for the design of pharmaceutical and vaccination strategies. Quantitative proteomic analysis of the T. gondii cytoskeleton provided new and extensive information on its composition and, through bioinformatics approaches, allowed us to suggest several candidate molecules for future immunoprotective design.
PXD061927	40716748	Integrating deep learning for post-translational modifications crosstalk on Hsp90 and drug binding. 	Deciphering PTM Crosstalk on Hsp90: Integrating Deep Learning for Drug Sensitivity Prediction	AI, Acetylation, Deep learning, Ganetespib, HDAC, Hsp90, Phosphorylation	Post-translational modification (PTM) of proteins regulates cellular proteostasis by expanding protein functional diversity. This naturally leads to increased proteome complexity as the result of PTM crosstalk. Here, we used the molecular chaperone protein, Heat shock protein-90 (Hsp90), which is subject to a plethora of PTMs, to investigate this concept. Hsp90 is at the hub of proteostasis and cellular signaling networks in cancer and is, therefore, an attractive therapeutic target in cancer. We demonstrated that deletion of histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) and histone deacetylase 8 (HDAC8) in human cells led to increased binding of Hsp90 to both ATP and its ATP-competitive inhibitor, Ganetespib. When bound this inhibitor, Hsp90 from both HDAC3 and HDAC8 knock out human cells exhibited similar PTMs, mainly phosphorylation and acetylation, and created a common proteomic network signature. We used both a deep-learning artificial intelligence (AI) prediction model and data based on mass-spectrometry analysis of Hsp90 isolated from the mammalian cells bound to its drugs to decipher PTM crosstalk. The alignment of data from both methods demonstrates that the deep-learning prediction model offers a highly efficient and rapid approach for deciphering PTM crosstalk on complex proteins such as Hsp90.
PXD035149	40716750	Oxysterol-Binding Protein ORP6 Regulates Lipid Metabolism and Brain Abeta Production. 	ORP6 regulates astrocytic cholesterol metabolism and brain Abeta deposition	Brain, HPLC-ESI-MS/MS, Label-Free	The mammalian brain is the most cholesterol-rich organ of the body, relying on in situ de novo cholesterol synthesis. Maintaining cholesterol homeostasis is crucial for normal brain function. Oxysterol-binding protein (OSBP)-related proteins (ORPs) are highly conserved cytosolic proteins that coordinate lipid homeostasis by regulating cell signaling, inter-organelle membrane contact sites, and non-vesicular transport of cholesterol. Here, we show that ORP6 is highly enriched in the mammalian brain, particularly within neurons and astrocytes, with widespread expression across distinct brain regions, including the hippocampus, which is essential for learning and memory. Whole-body ablation of ORP6 (Osbpl6(-/-)) in mice resulted in dysregulation of systemic and brain lipid homeostasis, with elevated levels of brain desmosterol and amyloid-beta oligomers (AbetaOs). Mechanistically, ORP6 knockdown in astrocytes altered the expression of cholesterol metabolism genes, promoting the accumulation of esterified cholesterol in lipid droplets, reducing cholesterol efflux and plasma membrane cholesterol content, and increasing amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) processing. Our findings underscore the role of ORP6 in systemic and brain lipid homeostasis, highlighting its importance in maintaining overall brain health.
PXD053297	40716780	tRNA modification profiling reveals epitranscriptome regulatory networks in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	tRNA modification profile of PA14 transposon insertion mutant library	LCMS, MRM, UCBPP-PA14, tRNA modification	Transfer RNA (tRNA) modifications have emerged as critical post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression affecting diverse biological and disease processes. While there is extensive knowledge about the enzymes installing the dozens of post-transcriptional tRNA modifications-the tRNA epitranscriptome-very little is known about how metabolic, signaling, and other networks integrate to regulate tRNA modification levels. Here, we took a comprehensive first step at understanding epitranscriptome regulatory networks by developing a high-throughput tRNA isolation and mass spectrometry-based modification profiling platform and applying it to a Pseudomonas aeruginosa transposon insertion mutant library comprising 5746 strains. Analysis of >200,000 tRNA modification data points validated the annotations of predicted tRNA modification genes, uncovered novel tRNA-modifying enzymes, and revealed tRNA modification regulatory networks in P. aeruginosa. Platform adaptation for RNA-seq library preparation would complement epitranscriptome studies, while application to human cell and mouse tissue would facilitate biomarker and drug discovery and development.
PXD060808	40717965	Aloin protects against UVB-induced apoptosis by modulating integrated signaling pathways. 	Aloin Protects Against UVB-Induced Apoptosis	Aloin, HaCaT cells, UVB-induced apoptosis	Aloin, an anthraquinone compound, is naturally abundant in the Aloe. This study comprehensively investigates the photoprotective effects of aloin against UVB-induced damage in HaCaT cells, elucidating its antioxidant capacity and its role in preventing cellular apoptosis. Aloin demonstrated significant antioxidant activity in ABTS and DPPH assays, with a dose-dependent reduction in intracellular reactive oxygen species levels as evidenced by fluorescence analysis. Western blot analysis revealed that aloin inhibited the phosphorylation of both p38 and JNK, with a more pronounced effect on p38. This was further supported by IC50 values, indicating a higher inhibitory potency of aloin against p38 compared to JNK. Assessments using MTT, Hoechst, Calcein/PI staining, and flow cytometry collectively verified that aloin effectively mitigated UVB-induced apoptosis in cells. Proteomic analysis showed that aloin modulated the expression of proteins involved in critical signaling pathways, including PI3K-Akt, p53, TGF-beta and pathways in cancer, promoting cell survival. Aloin upregulated proteins associated with cell cycle regulation and antioxidant responses, such as CCND3, GSTM4, GNA12, SKIL, YWHAZ, and PKN3 while downregulating pro-apoptotic protein FOXO3. These findings highlight aloin's potential as a therapeutic agent for UVB-induced skin damage by effectively modulating cellular stress responses.
PXD031118	40718630	Correction to Journal of Extracellular Biology Articles. 	Palmitoylation proteins in extracellular vesicles	Extracellular vesciles, Palmitoylation, sepsis	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1002/jex2.70051.].
PXD058183	40721481	The unfolded protein response influences therapy outcome and disease progression in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. 	Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia cells exhibit functional heterogeneity in the unfolded protein response: a proteomic study	Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, disease heterogeneity, response to therapy, unfolded protein response	Since genomics, epigenomics and transcriptomics have provided only a partial explanation of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) heterogeneity, and since concordance between mRNA and protein expression is incomplete, we related the CLL proteome to clinical outcome. CLL samples from patients who received fludarabine-containing chemoimmunotherapy were analysed by mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS). One dataset compared pre-treatment samples associated with an optimal versus suboptimal response, while another compared paired samples collected before treatment and at disease progression. eIF2 signalling (pivotal to the unfolded protein response (UPR)), was identified as the most enriched pathway in both datasets (respective z-scores: - 6.245 and 3.317; p < 0.0001), as well as in a fludarabine-resistant CLL cell line established from HG3 cells (z-score: - 2.121; p < 0.0001). Western blotting revealed that fludarabine-resistant HG3 cells expressed higher levels of PERK, which phosphorylates the regulatory eIF2alpha subunit, and lower levels of BiP, an HSP70 molecular chaperone that inactivates PERK but preferentially binds to misfolded proteins during ER stress. The PERK inhibitor, GSK2606414, sensitised resistant, but not sensitive, HG-3 cells to fludarabine without affecting background cell viability or cytotoxicity induced by the BCL-2 inhibitor venetoclax. These findings identify the UPR as a novel determinant of therapy outcome and disease progression in CLL.
PXD057865	40721560	Inhibition of HDAC6 alters fumarate hydratase activity and mitochondrial structure. 	A NOVEL REGULATION OF FUMARATE HYDRATASE ACTIVITY THROUGH HISTONE DEACETYLASE 6 BINDING	Fumarate Hydratase, Histone Deacetylase 6., Regulation	Fumarate hydratase (FH), a key node of mitochondrial metabolism, is also a tumour suppressor. Despite its prominent roles in tumourigenesis and inflammation, its regulation remains poorly understood. Herein, we show that histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) regulates FH activity. In triple-negative breast cancer cells, HDAC6 inhibition or knockdown results in alterations to mitochondrial cristae structure, as detected by live-cell super-resolution STED nanoscopy and electron microscopy, along with the release of mitochondrial DNA. Mass-spectrometry immunoprecipitation reveals multiple mitochondrial HDAC6-interactors, with FH emerging as a top hit. Super-resolution 3D-STORM shows HDAC6 interactions with FH in mitochondrial networks, which increases after perturbation of HDAC6 activity with BAS-2. Treatment with BAS-2 leads to fumarate accumulation by (13)C glucose labelling, along with downstream succination of proteins and cell death. Together, these results identify HDAC6 inhibition as a regulator of endogenous FH activity in tumour cells, and highlight it as a promising candidate for indirectly targeting tumour metabolism.
PXD056272	40721635	PPP6R3-mediated dephosphorylation regulates mRNA translation during spermatogonial differentiation. 	PPP6R3 immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry (IP-MS) data	IP-MS, KIT+ spermatogonia, PPP6R3	Protein dephosphorylation mediated by phosphatases regulates spermatogenesis. However, which proteins are dephosphorylated and how they regulate spermatogenesis are largely unknown. Here, we show that germline-specific deletion of protein phosphatase 6 regulatory subunit 3 (PPP6R3), which determines substrate specificity of protein phosphatase 6 (PP6), causes abnormal spermatogonial differentiation and male infertility, accompanied by translation inhibition. PPP6R3 directly interacts with EIF3C and EIF4G1 in KIT(+) spermatogonia. Decreased levels of non-phosphorylated EIF3C and EIF4G1 after PPP6R3 deletion attenuate their enrichment for mRNAs associated with spermatogonial differentiation, and increased phosphorylation levels promote their degradation. Specifically, the phosphorylation status both of EIF3C(S39) and EIF4G1(S1217) are significantly up-regulated in mutant mice. Overexpression of EIF3C(S39A) and EIF4G1(S1217A) mutants in Ppp6r3-cKO spermatogonial progenitor cells compensates for the deficiency of differentiation potential by upregulating translation rates of differentiation-associated mRNAs. Our findings demonstrate EIF3C and EIF4G1, as specific substrates of PPP6R3/PP6 holoenzyme, are required for translation activation during spermatogonial differentiation.
PXD055882	40721659	LAMP5 modulates IRF4 stability and nuclear transport: a critical mechanism in myeloma progression and therapy. 	LC-MS of LAMP5 in human multiple myeloma cells	LAMP5, Multiple myeloma, Prognosis	Multiple myeloma is a malignant hematopoietic neoplasm characterized by unclear molecular mechanisms and lack of highly effective targeted therapies for clinical application. Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) is a well-known core transcription factor that regulates the progression of myeloma, but the molecular mechanisms underlying its protein homeostasis regulation are unknown. Our research shows that lysosomal-associated membrane protein 5 (LAMP5) interacts with IRF4 and prevents its degradation through the autophagy-lysosome pathway, thereby facilitating the progression of myeloma. Additionally, LAMP5 enhances the interaction between IRF4 and the nuclear transport protein karyopherin alpha2 (KPNA2), facilitating the nuclear transport of IRF4 and preventing its cytoplasmic retention and subsequent autophagy-lysosome degradation. Nuclear IRF4 promotes the transcription of c-MYC, and the c-MYC protein positively feeds back to activate LAMP5 transcription. This vicious regulatory loop drives rapid progression of myeloma. High-throughput drug screening shows pyrazofurin that significantly disrupts the interaction between LAMP5 and IRF4, leading to the degradation of IRF4 and inhibition of myeloma progression. This study elucidates a novel mechanism underlying IRF4 protein homeostasis maintenance and provides a potential inhibitor for myeloma treatment.
PXD066529	40722118	Protein phosphorylation networks in Baylisascaris procyonis revealed by phosphoproteomic analysis. 	Protein phosphorylation networks in Baylisascaris procyonis revealed by phosphoproteomic analysis	Baylisascaris procyonis, Function, Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, Phosphoproteome, Raccoon, signaling pathway	BACKGROUND: Baylisascaris procyonis is an intestinal ascarid worm that parasitizes in raccoons and causes fatal neural, visceral, and ocular larva migrans in humans. Phosphorylated proteins and protein kinases have been studied as vaccine and drug target candidates against parasitic infections. However, no data are available on protein phosphorylation in the raccoon roundworm. METHODS: In this study, the entire proteome of adult B. procyonis was enzymatically digested. Then, phosphopeptides were enriched using immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) and analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). RESULTS: Our phosphoproteome analysis displayed 854 unique phosphorylation sites mapped to 450 proteins in B. procyonis (3308 phosphopeptides total). The annotated phosphoproteins were associated with various biological processes, including cytoskeletal remodeling, supramolecular complex assembly, and developmental regulation. The phosphopeptide functional enrichment revealed that B. procyonis phosphoproteins were mostly involved in the cytoskeleton cellular compartment, protein binding molecular function, and multiple biological processes, including regulating supramolecular fiber and cytoskeleton organization and assembling cellular protein-containing complexes and organelles. The significantly enriched pathways of phosphoproteins included the insulin signaling pathway, tight junction, endocytosis, longevity-regulating, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, and apelin signaling pathways. Domain analysis revealed that the Src homology 3 domain was significantly enriched. CONCLUSIONS: This study presents the first phosphoproteomic landscape of B. procyonis, elucidating phosphorylation-mediated regulation of cytoskeletal dynamics, host interaction pathways, and metabolic adaptations. The identified 450 phosphoproteins and enriched functional domains establish a foundation for targeting conserved mechanisms critical to B. procyonis survival.
PXD065059	40723830	The Proteomic Landscape of Parkin-Deficient and Parkin-Overexpressing Rat Nucleus Accumbens: An Insight into the Role of Parkin in Methamphetamine Use Disorder. 	The proteomic landscape of parkin-deficient and parkin-overexpressing rat nucleus accumbens: an insight into the role of parkin in methamphetamine use disorder	methamphetamine, mitochondria, nucleus accumbens, parkin	In recent years, methamphetamine (METH) misuse in the US has been rapidly increasing, and there is no FDA-approved pharmacotherapy for METH use disorder (MUD). We previously determined that ubiquitin-protein ligase parkin is involved in the regulation of METH addictive behaviors in rat models of MUD. Parkin is not yet a "druggable" drug target; therefore, this study aimed to determine which biological processes, pathways, and proteins downstream of parkin are likely drug targets against MUD. Employing young adult Long Evans male rats with parkin deficit or excess in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), label-free proteomics, and molecular biology, we determined that the pathways downstream of parkin that are candidates for regulating METH addictive behaviors in young adult male rats are mitochondrial respiration, oxidative stress, AMPA receptor trafficking, GABAergic neurotransmission, and actin cytoskeleton dynamics.
PXD063531	40724906	The Discovery, Characterization, and Quantification of Bioactive Peptides Contained in Palbio Porcine Intestinal Mucosa Hydrolysate Products. 	Discovery, characterization and quantification of bioactive peptides contained in Palbio porcine intestinal mucosa hy-drolysate products.	animal by-products, antimicrobial peptides, bio-compound valorization, bioactive peptides, porcine digestible peptides, porcine intestinal mucosa hydrolysate, sustainable processing	Porcine intestinal mucosa hydrolysates (PIMHs) are by-products of heparin production obtained through a specific enzymatic hydrolysis process, which can theoretically generate bioactive peptides (BAPs). This study aimed to identify, characterize, and quantify BAPs in two Palbio products manufactured by Bioiberica S.A.U. (Palafolls, Spain), which are PIMH protein sources used for animal feed: Palbio((R)) HP (PHP) and Palbio((R)) 62 SP((R)) (P62). Using mass spectrometry (MS)-based peptidomics, we analyzed three samples from each product, fractionated based on molecular weight (<3 kDa, 3 to 10 kDa, and >10 kDa). The <3 kDa fraction was analyzed directly, while the other two fractions were enzymatically digested before MS analysis. The workflow identified 961 peptides in PHP and 1134 in P62. Subsequent bioinformatic analysis using public databases (APD2, StraPep, AHTPDB, and BIOPEP-UWM) led to the identification of six significant BAPs in both PHP and P62, with respective quantified amounts (pg peptide/mug sample): DAVEDLESVGK (0.1626, 0.1939), EGIPPDQQRLIFAGK (0.2637, 0.1852), TITLEVEPSDTIENVK (0.3594, 0.4327), TNVPRASVPDGFLS (1.4596, 0.1898), TNVPRASVPDGFLSEL (8.0500, 0.9224), and VHVVPDQLMAF (0.0310, 0.0054). The first three BAPs are related to antimicrobial activity, while the latter three are associated with cytokine/growth factor-like, antioxidant, and immunomodulatory activities. These bioactivities align with previously reported in vivo benefits observed in animal nutrition using Palbio products. Our findings demonstrate that PHP and P62 are valuable sources of BAPs, supporting their potential role in improving animal health and performance.
PXD061845	40725001	A New GlyT2 Variant Associated with Hyperekplexia. 	COS7 GlyT2 variants associated with hyperekplexia	CO7 cells, GlyT2 variants	Hyperekplexia (OMIM 149400), a sensorimotor syndrome of perinatal clinical relevance, causes newborns to display an energic startle reflex in response to certain trivial stimuli. This condition can be lethal due to apnea episodes. The disease is caused by a blockade of glycinergic neurotransmission. Glycinergic interneurons preserve their identity by the activity of the surface glycine transporter GlyT2, which supplies glycine to presynaptic terminals to maintain glycine content in synaptic vesicles. Loss-of-function mutations in the GlyT2 gene (SLC6A5) cause a presynaptic form of human hyperekplexia. Here, we describe a new GlyT2 variant found in an infantile patient diagnosed with hyperekplexia. A missense mutation in the open reading frame of the GlyT2 gene inherited in homozygosity caused the substitution G449E in a residue highly conserved across the phylogenetic scale. The sequences of the glycine receptor genes GLRA1 and GLRB did not show abnormalities. We expressed the recombinant GlyT2 variant in heterologous cells and analyzed its pathogenic mechanism. The transporter was totally inactive, behaving as a bona fide loss-of-function mutant. Furthermore, the mutation promoted the abnormal insertion of the protein into the membrane, leading to its large incorporation into lipid rafts. However, there was no apparent alteration of wild-type trafficking upon mutant coexpression, as the mutant was prematurely degraded from the endoplasmic reticulum. Rescue with chemical chaperones was not possible for this mutant. Proteomics demonstrated that the expression of the mutant induced the unfolded protein response and interfered with raft-dependent processes. Therefore, the new variant causes a loss of function regarding GlyT2 activity but a gain of function as a cell proteostasis disturber.
PXD065520	40725160	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Fh15 as an Antagonist of TLR4 Downregulating the Activation of NF-kappaB, Inducible Nitric Oxide, Phagosome Signaling Pathways, and Oxidative Stress of LPS-Stimulated Macrophages. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Fh15 as an Antagonist of TLR4 Downregulating the Activation of NF-B, Inducible Nitric Oxide, Phagosome Signaling Pathways, and Oxidative Stress of LPS-stimulated Macrophages	CD36, Fasciola hepatica, Fh15, LPS, Lck, NF-B, TLR, TMT-labeling, iNOS, macrophages, sepsis	There is a present need to develop alternative biotherapeutic drugs to mitigate the exacerbated inflammatory immune responses characteristic of sepsis. The potent endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a major component of Gram-negative bacterial outer membrane, activates the immune system via Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), triggering macrophages and a persistent cascade of inflammatory mediators. Our previous studies have demonstrated that Fh15, a recombinant member of the Fasciola hepatica fatty acid binding protein family, can significantly increase the survival rate by suppressing many inflammatory mediators induced by LPS in a septic shock mouse model. Although Fh15 has been proposed as a TLR4 antagonist, the specific mechanisms underlying its immunomodulatory effect remained unclear. In the present study, we employed a quantitative proteomics approach using tandem mass tag (TMT) followed by LC-MS/MS analysis to identify and quantify differentially expressed proteins that participate in signaling pathways downstream TLR4 of macrophages, which can be dysregulated by Fh15. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD065520. Based on significant fold change (FC) cut-off of 1.5 and p-value <= 0.05 criteria, we focused our attention to 114 proteins that were upregulated by LPS and downregulated by Fh15. From these proteins, TNFalpha, IL-1alpha, Lck, NOS2, SOD2 and CD36 were selected for validation by Western blot on murine bone marrow-derived macrophages due to their relevant roles in the NF-kappaB, iNOS, oxidative stress, and phagosome signaling pathways, which are closely associated with sepsis pathogenesis. These results suggest that Fh15 exerts a broad spectrum of action by simultaneously targeting multiple downstream pathways activated by TLR4, thereby modulating various aspects of the inflammatory responses during sepsis.
PXD063941	40725299	Comparative Proteomic Insights into the Immune Response of Conogethes punctiferalis Challenged with Beauveria bassiana. 	Proteomic data of Conogethes punctiferalis infected with Beauveria bassiana	Beauveria bassiana, Conogethes punctiferalis, infection	The yellow peach moth (YPM), Conogethes punctiferalis, is an important agricultural insect pest causing severe damage to corn in eastern China. Beauveria bassiana is an effective, eco-friendly, and promising alternative agent for controlling this insect pest. However, insect immunity can limit the ability of fungal infections. In order to understand the immune response mechanism of YPM, a comparative proteomic analysis of non-infected and B. bassiana-infected larvae was conducted using the isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) technique. On the basis of proteomic analysis, 4195 quantifiable proteins were identified from a total of 29,155 peptides. The functions of the identified proteins were annotated in four databases (GO, COG, KEGG, and IPR). A total of 132 immune-related proteins were screened, including 46 pathogen recognition proteins, 27 extracellular signal modulation proteins, and 59 immune effectors. Furthermore, 70 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified, including 57 up-regulated proteins and 13 down-regulated proteins. Among these, four DEPs were related to immunity, namely one defense protein and three peptidoglycan recognition proteins. Six randomly selected immune-related proteins associated with target genes were validated for qRT-PCR, and the results indicated that the accuracy and reliability of the proteome sequencing data were high. Taken together, the results enrich the fundamental knowledge of YPM immune responses to B. bassiana infection and provide a new insight into insect-pathogen interactions.
PXD063043	40726225	High-throughput plasma/serum proteomics by coupling nanoparticle protein corona-based sample preparation and capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem mass spectrometry. 	High-throughput plasma/serum proteomics by coupling nanoparticle protein corona-based sample preparation and capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem mass spectrometry	CZE-MS/MS, biomarker, bottom-up proteomics, high-throughput, nanoparticle protein corona	A high-throughput workflow for bottom-up proteomics (BUP) of human plasma using capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem mass spectrometry (CZE-MS/MS) and nanoparticle protein corona-assisted sample preparation is presented. The streamlined approach enabled the identification and quantification of hundreds of proteins from plasma/serum samples in 3.5 hours from sample to data. Nanoparticles with varied physiochemical properties studied in this work captured different pools of the plasma/serum proteome in the protein coronas, and the protein corona-based sample preparation approach enabled the measurement of low-abundance proteins compared to the approach without nanoparticles. Applying this high-throughput workflow to serum samples of a mouse NUT carcinoma (NC) cancer model allowed the determination of differentially expressed serum proteins between NC bearing mice and healthy controls. By comparing our quantitative proteomics data with published transcriptomics data, we revealed a handful of potential serum protein biomarkers of NC cancer (e.g., secreted phosphoprotein 1, SPP1). We expect this high-throughput workflow, with additional improvement in the speed of the mass spectrometer, will be useful for advancing the discovery of new protein biomarkers of diseases (e.g., cancer) using plasma/serum samples.
PXD060036	40727930	Retrograde rearrangement of mitochondria correlates with nuclear deformation and genotoxic damage. 	Proteome analysis of T24 bladder cancer cell nuclear extracts after tailored chemical interventions	DNA damage, T24 cell line, genotoxicity, mechanotransduction, mitochondria, mitochondrial retrograde response, nuclear deformation, oxidative stress	The elucidation of molecular mechanisms underlying DNA damage and repair belongs to the fundamental questions of pathophysiology and toxicology. Increasing attention is focusing on the role of mechanical stress exerted on the nucleus and its function as a mechanosensor. Hypothesizing that physical cues arising from the intracellular rearrangements could contribute to the genotoxic damage, we observed that the retrograde relocalization of the mitochondria coincides with increased nuclear stiffness in T24 bladder cells. Perinuclear mitochondrial clustering aligned with the deformation of the nucleus and was accompanied by DNA strand breaks. In the tested experimental layouts, these events appeared scarcely dependent on oxidative stress, strengthening a possible contribution of mechanical nuclear deformation. Proof of principle experiments in SK-OV-3 and HCT 116 cells underpinned the role of cellular architecture and its heterogeneity. These findings open new avenues for understanding how physical changes in the intracellular compartment may drive genotoxicity, potentially supporting genetic instability and carcinogenesis.
PXD058270	40730563	2-oxoglutarate:acceptor oxidoreductase-catalyzed redox cycling effectively targets coccoid forms of Helicobacter pylori. 	Targets Identification of NPB by the combined use of DARTS technology and proteomics	DARTS technology, NPB, TMT, Targets	Helicobacter pylori, a globally significant pathogen, plays a central etiological role in diverse gastric pathologies ranging from chronic gastritis and peptic ulcers to gastric adenocarcinoma. Although conventional antibiotics effectively inhibit or kill growing helical H. pylori, metabolically dormant coccoid forms of H. pylori exhibit considerable tolerance, posing a persistent and clinically significant challenge. Here, we report napabucasin (2-acetylfuro-1,4-naphthoquinone) as a redox-cycling antibiotic with potent bactericidal activity against both drug-resistant helical and coccoid forms of H. pylori. Notably, napabucasin does not induce acquired resistance in vitro and demonstrates superior efficacy compared to standard triple therapy in murine infection models. Mechanistic studies reveal that napabucasin acts through 2-oxoglutarate:acceptor oxidoreductase (OOR)-catalyzed futile redox cycling, generating bactericidal levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Compared to menaquinone 6, a proposed physiological electron acceptor, napabucasin exhibits enhanced oxidative capacity. Structural, biochemical, and microbiological analyses identify Leu44 and Lys46 within the OorD subunit as critical residues for napabucasin recognition and catalysis. These findings establish OOR-mediated redox cycling as a robust antimicrobial strategy that sustains endogenous ROS production to combat refractory H. pylori infections.
PXD058273	40731028	Pharmacological CLK inhibition disrupts SR protein function and RNA splicing blocking cell growth and migration in TNBC. 	Pharmacological CLK inhibition disrupts SR protein function and RNA splicing blocking cell growth and migration in TNBC	Triple-negative breast cancer, alternative splicing, cdc2-like kinase inhibitor, serine/arginine-rich proteins	BACKGROUND: Dysregulation of alternative splicing plays a pivotal role in tumorigenesis and metastasis in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Serine/arginine-rich (SR) proteins, essential components of the spliceosome, undergo phosphorylation by Cdc2-like kinase (CLK). Here we explored the impact of pharmacological inhibition of CLK using a novel inhibitor, T-025, on the spliceosome complex and transcriptional responses in relation to cell proliferation and migration in TNBC. METHODS: We evaluated the anti-proliferative and anti-migratory efficacy of T-025 in a spectrum of TNBC cell lines. Fluorescent reporter cell lines and flowcytometry were used to determine the effect of T-025 on cell cycle. Deep RNA sequencing was performed to unravel the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and alternatively spliced genes (ASGs) upon T-025 treatment. Pulldown/MS was used to uncover the impact of T-025 on SRSF7 interactome. Live-cell imaging and photobleaching experiments were conducted to determine the subnuclear localization of SRSF7-GFP and its dynamic mobility. RESULTS: T-025 exhibited a potent anti-proliferative effect in a spectrum of TNBC cell lines, particularly in highly proliferative cell lines. Treatment with T-025 induced cell cycle arrest in the G1-S phase, resulting in an increased proportion of aneuploidy cells and cells with 4 N DNA. T-025 significantly inhibited cell migration in highly migratory TNBC cell lines. Deep RNA sequencing uncovered numerous DEGs and ASGs upon T-025 treatment, which were significantly enriched in pathways related to cell division, RNA splicing and cell migration. Pulldown/MS showed that SRSF7 interacted more with nuclear-speckle-residing proteins, while less with RNA helicases and polymerases upon T-025 treatment. Enhanced interactions between SRSF7 and other phosphorylated SR proteins localized at nuclear speckles were also observed. Live-cell imaging indicated that T-025 treatment induced the accumulation of SRSF7-GFP at nuclear speckles and nuclear speckles' enlargement, restricting its protein dynamic mobility. CONCLUSIONS: CLK inhibition using T-025 leads to the accumulation of splicing factors at nuclear speckles and stalls their release to splicing sites, resulting in the RNA splicing reprogramming of a large number of genes involved in cell division, migration and RNA splicing. Our findings provide evidence that T-025 could be a promising therapeutic drug for TNBC patients.
PXD057751	40733406	The Proteomic and Peptidomic Response of Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) to Drought Stress. 	The proteomic and peptidomic response of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) to drought stress	Spring wheat "Leningradskaya 6" cultivar, drought, iTRAQ, peptidome, secretome	Drought conditions impact plants at the morphological, physiological, and molecular levels. Plant tolerance to drought conditions is frequently associated with maintaining proteome stability, highlighting the significance of proteomic analysis in understanding the mechanisms underlying plant resilience. Here, we performed proteomic and peptidomic analysis of spring wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) under drought stress conditions. Using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ), we identified 497 and 157 differentially abundant protein (DAP) groups in leaves and roots, respectively. The upregulated DAP groups in leaves were primarily involved in stress responses, such as oxidative stress and heat response, whereas those in roots were associated with responses to water deprivation and sulfur compound metabolic processes. The analysis of the extracellular root peptidome revealed 2294 native peptides, including members of small secreted peptide (SSP) families. In the peptidomes of stress-induced plants, we identified 16 SSPs as well as peptides derived from proteins involved in cell wall catabolism, intercellular signaling, and stress response. These peptides represent potential candidates as regulators of drought responses. Our results help us to understand adaptation mechanisms and develop new agricultural technologies to increase productivity.
PXD053387	40734174	Axonal tau reduction ameliorates tau and amyloid pathology in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. 	Axonal tau reduction ameliorates tau and amyloid pathology in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimers disease, amyloid, antisense oligonucleotide, hnRNP R, tau	BACKGROUND: Pathological deposition of hyperphosphorylated tau in the brain closely correlates with the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Tau pathology occurs in axons of affected neurons and tau removal from axons might thus be an early intervention strategy. METHODS: We investigated the role of the RNA-binding protein hnRNP R in axonal localization and local translation of Mapt mRNA in neurons cultured from hnRNP R knockout mice. hnRNP R knockout mice were crossed with 5xFAD mice, an AD mouse model, and the effects of hnRNP R loss on the deposition of phospho-tau and amyloid-beta plaques were evaluated. We designed antisense oligonucleotides (MAPT-ASOs) to block the binding of hnRNP R to Mapt mRNA. Cultured mouse and human neurons were treated with MAPT-ASOs and axonal Mapt mRNA and tau protein levels were quantified. MAPT-ASO was injected intracerebroventricularly into 5xFAD mice followed by quantification of phospho-tau aggregates and amyloid-beta plaques in their brains. Protein changes in brains of 5xFAD mice treated with the MAPT-ASO were measured by mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Mapt mRNA and tau protein were reduced in axons but not cell bodies of primary neurons cultured from hnRNP R knockout mice. Brains of 5xFAD mice deficient for hnRNP R contained less phospho-tau aggregates and amyloid-beta plaques in the cortex and hippocampus. Treatment of neurons with MAPT-ASOs to block hnRNP R binding to Mapt similarly reduced axonal tau levels. Intracerebroventricular injection of a MAPT-ASO reduced the phospho-tau and plaque load and prevented neurodegeneration in the brains of 5xFAD mice, accompanied by rescue of proteome alterations. CONCLUSION: Lowering of tau selectively in axons thus represents an innovative therapeutic perspective for treatment of AD and other tauopathies.
PXD059828	40734647	Mitochondrial protein aggregates recruit key chaperones and are sequestered in a fission/fusion-dependent process. 	Prevention of mitochondrial proteotoxicity by formation of a chaperone-dependent protective shell around aggregated polypeptides	Hsp70, chaperone, mitochondria, protein aggregation, proteostasis	The potential proteotoxicity of mitochondrial aggregates in yeast cells is reduced by a sequestration of affected polypeptides into a mitochondrial protein quality control compartment (IMiQ). Based on the expression of an aggregation-prone protein in the mitochondrial matrix, we determined the effect of organelle dynamics on aggregate sequestration. Fusion deficient cells were unable to accumulate the aggregates in the IMiQ, resulting in a stress-sensitive phenotype. In contrast, fission deficient cells could not separate the aggregate from the mitochondrial network. In these mitochondria, the aggregates were neutralized by the formation of a shell formed by mitochondrial chaperones. We also performed quantitative mass spectrometry to analyse the mitochondrial proteome and the extent of co-aggregation of mitochondrial proteins. While only minor changes of the total proteome were detected in response to aggregate accumulation, we found a recruitment of proteins of the respiratory chain complexes and of the protein quality control system (PQC). In particular members of the Hsp70 chaperone family were prominently associated with the aggregate. We conclude that this chaperone-dependent neutralization prevents a major co-aggregation of endogenous mitochondrial proteins.
PXD058592	40734674	RACK7 senses and fine-tunes enhancer activity. 	RACK7 Senses and Fine-Tunes Enhancer Activity	IP-MS, RACK7	Enhancers regulate dynamic gene expression in a spatiotemporal specific manner. A number of positive as well as negative regulators of enhancers have been reported so far. However, whether and how these regulators sense enhancer activity dynamics remains unclear. In this study, we show that a specific enhancer regulator, RACK7, swiftly re-distributes from repressed enhancers to activated enhancers in response to a plethora of acute stimulations. We further show that this process depends on transcription and RACK7 positively regulates enhancer activation by promoting the recruitment of RNA polymerase II. Taken together, our findings suggest that RACK7 senses enhancer activity changes and facilitates their activation during acute stimulations.
PXD063033	40735685	Design and characterisation of photoactivatable and lysine reactive o-nitrobenzyl alcohol-based crosslinkers. 	Design and Characterisation of Photoactivatable and Lysine Reactive Ortho Nitrobenzyl Alcohol-Based Crosslinkers	XL-MS, crosslinking, oNBA	Photoreactive groups are invaluable tools in structural proteomics, offering reagent-free activation and temporal control of protein labelling. However, traditional UV-activatable functional groups often produce unstable intermediates and diverse products, making these chemistries difficult to deploy at scale. In this study, we performed a systematic analysis of ortho-nitrobenzyl alcohol (oNBA) reactivity for integration into novel reagents for chemical crosslinking-mass spectrometry. oNBA photochemistry represents a promising alternative to traditional photoactivatable crosslinkers due to its unique specificity towards lysine residues. Here, we synthesised two molecules containing oNBA functional groups with different substituents and assessed their labelling efficiency against a model protein. To ensure high labelling yields while maintaining a short irradiation time, we constructed a high power 365 nm irradiation device which improves the efficiency of oNBA photolysis. Our studies identified an amide-substituted probe that labels proteins with high efficiency. We next incorporated this optimised oNBA moiety into a homo-bifunctional crosslinker and a hetero-bifunctional crosslinker in combination with an NHS ester, which both resulted in high yields of crosslinked products. Our findings highlight that optimised oNBA-based reactive groups are viable UV-activated warheads that can deliver high labelling yields and efficient protein crosslinking, unlocking a wealth of potential structural proteomics applications.
PXD057758	40736352	Improved Detection of Differentially Abundant Proteins through FDR-Control of Peptide-Identity-Propagation. 	Improved detection of differentially abundant proteins through FDR-control of peptide-identity-propagation	E. coli, LFQ, MBR, PIP, Quantification	The goal of proteomics is to identify and quantify peptides and proteins within a biological sample. Almost all algorithms for the identification of peptides in LC-MS/MS data employ two steps: peptide/spectrum matching and peptide-identity-propagation (PIP), also known as match-between-runs. PIP can routinely account for up to 40% of all results, with that proportion rising as high as 75% in single-cell proteomics. Unlike peptide identities derived through peptide/spectrum matches, for which error estimation has been strictly enforced for decades, peptide identities derived through PIP have not historically been subject to statistical evaluation. As an indispensable component of label-free quantification, PIP needs a statistically rigorous method for estimating its false-discovery rate (FDR). We present a method for FDR control of PIP, called PIP-ECHO, and devise a rigorous protocol for evaluating FDR control of any PIP method. Using three different benchmark data sets, we evaluate PIP-ECHO alongside the PIP procedures implemented by FlashLFQ, IonQuant, and MaxQuant. These analyses show that only PIP-ECHO can accurately control the FDR of PIP at 1% across all data sets. When analyzing a spike-in data set, PIP-ECHO increases both the accuracy and sensitivity of differential expression analysis, yielding substantially more differentially abundant proteins than either MaxQuant or IonQuant.
PXD059419	40736767	Advanced Proteomics Approaches Hold Potential for the Risk Assessment of Metabolism-Disrupting Chemicals as Omics-Based NAM: A Case Study Using the Phthalate Substitute DINCH. 	Effects of DINCH and MINCH exposure on the proteome of differentiating primary human stromal vascular fraction cells	DINCH, Human stromal vascular fraction, MINCH, adipogenesis, subcutaneous adipose tissue	The concept of metabolic disruption through exposure to chemicals has expanded our understanding of how environmental pollution can contribute to metabolic dysregulation and, ultimately, diseases like obesity. New strategies for assessing the risks posed by chemicals are needed, and omics technologies, including proteomics, have proven to be powerful tools for investigating the molecular mechanisms of these metabolism-disrupting chemicals (MDCs). A potential MDC is the plasticizer DINCH-an alternative to legacy phthalates like DEHP, whose primary metabolite MINCH has been linked to the induction of adipogenesis and lipid accumulation. Here, global proteomics was complemented with insights into protein thermal stability and the profiles of post-translational modification (PTM) acetylation and phosphorylation to provide a profound understanding of chemical-induced metabolic disruption in adipocytes. We demonstrate the utility of advanced proteomics approaches in assessing the effects of potential MDCs by using the human SGBS adipocyte cell line. Adipose tissue PTM data from dietary DINCH-exposed mice were assessed as an in vivo model, and in vitro data shed light on DINCH's molecular effects, including protein interactions beyond its primary target PPARgamma. The results emphasize the potential of omics approaches to enhance current risk assessment frameworks for emerging contaminants.
PXD063376	40737399	Biomimetic targeted self-adaptive nanodrug for inflammation optimization and AT2 cell modulation in precise ARDS therapy. 	Biomimetic Targeted Self-Adaptive Nanodrug for Inflammation Optimization and AT2 Cell Modulation in Precise ARDS Therapy	ARDS therapy, AT2 cells, Biomimetic nanodrug, inflammation alleviation	Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a lethal respiratory condition, while effective pharmacological treatments remain elusive. We identified the decreased mechanical capacity and impaired proliferation of alveolar type 2 (AT2) epithelial cells in the inflammatory environment as the primary contributors to respiratory failure of ARDS. A biomimetic, self-adaptive, 7,8-dihydroxyflavone-loaded hollow mesoporous cerium oxide coated with a platelet membrane (HCeOx-D@PM) was developed for precise ARDS therapy. HCeOx-D@PM comprises a platelet membrane (PM) shell for targeted delivery to injured lungs and an HCeOx core, which enables high drug loading, efficient reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging, and penetration of the alveolar-capillary barrier. Initially, HCeOx-D@PM suppresses the inflammation and mitigates the adverse effects of lesions on AT2 cell by scavenging accumulated ROS. It then adaptively releases 7,8-dihydroxyflavone in response to cysteine-aspartic acid protease 3 activation, facilitating AT2 cell proliferation and notably improving survival rates in vivo, offering a promising advancement in the precise treatment of respiratory diseases.
PXD061918	40738907	Mapping of endosomal proximity proteomes reveals Retromer as a hub for RAB GTPase regulation. 	Human endosomal proximity proteome	Endosomes, HeLa, Proximity proteomics, TMT label	Endosomal retrieval and recycling of integral cargo proteins is essential for cell and organism development and homeostasis and is orchestrated through a specialised endosomal nanodomain, the retrieval sub-domain. Sub-domain dysfunction is associated with human disease, but our mechanistic understanding of its function remains poorly described. Here, using proximity proteomics of retrieval sub-domain components Retromer and Retriever we identify mechanistic details of retrieval sub-domain composition and organization, including an unrecognised complexity in the interface with RAB GTPase switching. Combining X-ray crystallography and in silico predictions with biochemical and cellular analysis, we reveal that Retromer directly associates and recruits the RAB10 regulators DENND4A, DENND4C, TBC1D1, and TBC1D4, and the RAB35 regulator TBC1D13 to regulate retrieval sub-domain function. The retrieval sub-domain therefore constitutes a hub for integrating cargo recycling with the regulated switching of selected RAB GTPases. We propose this constitutes a major component of the neuroprotective role of the retrieval sub-domain.
PXD051143	40739087	The SOX11:SMARCA4 complex is a driver of oncogenic transcriptional programs in mantle cell lymphoma. 	SOX11-SMARCA4 Complex Drives Oncogenic Gene Regulation in Mantle Cell Lymphoma	CUT&RUN-sequencing., Mantle cell lymphoma, Pioneer Transcription Factor, SMARCA4, SRY-related HMG-box 11 (SOX11), SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex	Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is considered one of the most aggressive B-cell lymphoid neoplasms. The transcription factor SOX11 is aberrantly expressed in conventional aggressive MCL, while it is not or weakly expressed in the leukemic non-nodal MCL subtype with a predominantly indolent clinical evolution. SOX11 is a key driver of MCL through the regulation of several oncogenic mechanisms, suggesting that it may be interacting with different protein complexes to exert its multiple actions. Using proteomic strategies, we characterized the SOX11-interactome and validated its physical interaction with SMARCA4, the catalytic subunit of the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex. SMARCA4 expression is directly regulated by SOX11, and its upregulation significantly associates with worse outcomes of patients. Integration of global DNA-binding and transcriptomic profiles revealed that SOX11 and SMARCA4 share binding sites enriched in open chromatin and active promoters and regulate common key oncogenic pathways crucial for MCL progression and aggressiveness. The SMARCA4-specific PROTAC-degrader AU-15330 significantly reduced SOX11 binding to specific regulatory regions and diminished the activation of BCR-, NIK-, and BCL2-signaling pathways. Moreover, SMARCA4 degradation significantly reduced proliferation and induced apoptosis of SOX11-positive MCL cells, highlighting AU-15330 as a promising therapeutic approach for patients who may relapse from current target therapies in MCL.
PXD061745	40739098	Metabolomics and proteomics reveal blocking argininosuccinate synthetase 1 alleviates colitis in mice. 	Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis for normal and inflamed colonic mucosa from patients with ulcerative colitis	Inflamed colonic mucosa, Label-free quantification, Ulcerative colitis	To date, treating ulcerative colitis (UC) remains a significant challenge due to its complex etiology. In this study, metabolomics and proteomics analysis for multi-center cohorts reveal that both serum arginine levels and the rate-limiting enzyme argininosuccinate synthetase 1 (ASS1) are significantly elevated in UC patients. Exogenous arginine infusion and ASS1 overexpression exacerbate the pathological features of colitis in mice, while inhibiting or silencing ASS1 offers protection against experimental colitis. The induction of ASS1 is accompanied by increased levels of acetylated H3 and trimethylated H3K4, along with decreased levels of dimethyl H3K9 around the ASS1 promoters, suggesting epigenetic activation of ASS1 in colitis. The ASS1/arginine axis triggers mTOR and iNOS activation and induces gut microbiota dysbiosis, leading to experimental colitis. Additionally, we identify a screened compound, C-01, which significantly improves colitis by highly binding to ASS1. Our findings suggest that ASS1 could be a promising target for UC treatment.
PXD062622	40739120	Magnetic nanoparticles influence the biological function of mesenchymal stem cells. 	Magnetic nanoparticles influence the biological function of mesenchymal stem cells	Magnetic nanoparticles,mesenchymal stem cells	Mesenchymal' stem cells (MSC) are widely used for transplantation to treat various diseases due to their strong immune regulatory and tissue repair abilities. Magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs) can be used to track transplanted MSC. However, the potential impact of the MNPs we developed on MSC function remains unclear. In this study, we treated MSC with poly-L-lysine (PLL)-modified MNPs (MSC-MNPs) at a concentration of 0.1 microg/microL to assess their effects on MSC. The results showed that there were no significant effects on cell morphology, differentiation potential, proliferation, apoptosis, or the cell cycle after MSC were treated with MNPs. Interestingly, further experiments revealed that MNPs significantly enhanced the migratory capacity of MSC. Bio-Plex analysis revealed that MNPs promoted the expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines while inhibiting the secretion of pro-inflammatory factors. Flow cytometry also detected a significant increase in the number of MSC subpopulations, including CD184+MSC, CD106+MSC, and CD55+MSC, after MNPs labeling, which was further supported by proteomic analysis. Moreover, MSC-MNPs promoted the phenotypic transition of reactive astrocytes from A1 to A2 after coculture with activated astrocytes. In conclusion, MNPs have no cytotoxic effects on MSC labeling and significantly enhance their anti-inflammatory functions, offering new possibilities for the clinical application of MSC.
PXD058624	40739316	The phosphatases TCPTP, PTPN22, and SHP1 play unique roles in T cell phosphotyrosine maintenance and feedback regulation of the TCR. 	The phosphatases TCPTP, PTPN22, and SHP1 play unique roles in T cell phosphotyrosine maintenance and feedback regulation of the TCR	PTPN22, SHP1, T cell signaling, TCPTP, phosphoproteomics	The protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) TCPTP, PTPN22, and SHP1 are critical regulators of the activating phosphotyrosine (pY) site on the initiating T cell kinase, Lck(Y394). Still, the broader implications of these phosphatases in T cell receptor (TCR) signalling and T cell biology remain unclear. By combining CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing and mass spectrometry, we evaluate the protein- and pY-level effects of TCPTP, PTPN22, and SHP1 in the Jurkat T cell model system. We find that deletion of each phosphatase corresponds to unique changes in the proteome of T cells, with few large-scale changes to TCR signalling proteins. Notably, PTPN22 and SHP1 deletions have opposing effects on pY abundance globally, while TCPTP deletion modestly elevates pY levels. Finally, we show that TCPTP is indirectly involved in Erk1/2 positive feedback to the TCR. Overall, our work provides evidence for alternative functions of three T cell phosphatases long thought to be redundant.
PXD051220	40739398	A systems-based approach to uterine fibroids identifies differential splicing associated with abnormal uterine bleeding. 	A systems-based approach to uterine fibroids identifies differential splicing associated with abnormal uterine bleeding	Uterine Fibroids	BACKGROUND: Uterine fibroids (UFs), benign tumours prevalent in up to 80% of women of reproductive age, are associated with significant morbidity, including abnormal uterine bleeding, pain and infertility. Despite identification of key genomic alterations in MED12 and HMGA2, the pathogenic mechanisms underlying UFs and heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) remain poorly understood. METHODS: To correlate systematically genetic, transcriptional and proteomic phenotypes, we conducted an integrative multi-omic approach utilising targeted DNA sequencing, RNA sequencing and proteomic methodologies, encompassing fibroid, myometrium, and endometrium tissues from 91 patients. RESULTS: In addition to confirming the presence of MED12 mutations, we identify variants in AHR and COL4A6. Multi-omic analysis of endometrium identifies latent factors that correlate with HMB and fibroid presence with driver mutations of MED12, AHR, and COL4A6, which are associated with pathways involved in angiogenesis, extracellular matrix organisation and RNA splicing. We propose a model, supported by in vivo evidence, where altered signalling of MED12-mutated fibroids influences RNA transcript isoform expression in endometrium, potentially leading to abnormal uterine bleeding. CONCLUSIONS: This study presents a comprehensive integrative approach, revealing that genetic alterations in UF may influence endometrial function via signalling impacts on the RNA splicing mechanism. Our findings advance the understanding of complex molecular pathways in UF pathogenesis and UF-associated endometrial dysfunction, offering insights for targeted therapeutic development.
PXD057921	40740030	Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA)-Based Label-Free Redox Proteomics (DIALRP) Identifies Prominent Cysteine Oxidations in Translation Machinery in Prostate Cancer Cells Under Oxidative Stress. 	Redox proteomics DIALRP to study MND response in DU145 cells	DIA-MS, oxidative stress, prostate cancer cells, redox proteomics	Oxidative stress is a key factor in numerous physiological and pathological processes, including aging, cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases. Protein cysteine residues are particularly susceptible to oxidative stress-induced modifications that can alter their structure and function, thereby affecting intracellular signaling pathways. In this study, we performed a data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS)-based label-free redox proteomics method, termed DIALRP, to comprehensively analyze cysteine oxidative modifications in the prostate cancer cell line DU145 under oxidative stress induced by menadione (MND). Of 10,821 cysteine-containing peptides identified, we successfully quantified the redox changes in 3665 peptides. We also observed that 1407 peptides were significantly oxidized in response to MND treatment. Gene ontology analysis revealed that a group of translation-related molecules was most enriched among highly MND-sensitive cysteine-containing proteins. Notably, our data demonstrated that MND-induced oxidative stress inhibits EIF2, EIF6, and EEF2 complex formation, suggesting that these complex inhibitions become functional factors for a dramatic reduction in translation activity. Our results show that DIALRP is utilized as a robust and cost-effective approach for investigating redox-regulated cellular processes. Moreover, these findings provide significant insights into translation regulation under oxidative stress and provide a valuable framework for future studies on redox-mediated cellular processes.
PXD064847	40740986	Proteomics analysis reveals elevated RAB21 in serum-derived extracellular vesicles from patients with follicular thyroid carcinoma. 	Proteome analysis of extracellular vesicles  derived from folicular thyroid carcinoma	extracellular vesicles, follicular thyroid carcinoma	Follicular thyroid carcinoma (FTC) is a common thyroid malignancy that poses diagnostic challenges because of its cytological similarity to benign follicular thyroid adenoma (FTA). The present study aimed to identify characteristic protein signatures in serum-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) of FTC and FTA for potential diagnostic and therapeutic applications. Serum EVs from patients with FTC and FTA were purified using the phosphatidylserine affinity method. Proteomics analysis via nano liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry identified 18 significantly differentially expressed proteins between the two patient groups. RAB21, a small GTPase involved in cellular trafficking, was markedly elevated in serum EVs from patients with FTC. Furthermore, cell invasion and migration assays of a human FTC cell line revealed that RAB21 knockdown reduced cell migratory ability, suggesting its role in the malignant phenotype of FTC. The present findings indicated that RAB21 in serum EVs may be a candidate biomarker able to distinguish FTC from FTA, and that RAB21 could be a potential therapeutic target for FTC.
PXD062631	40741711	Retinal vascular dysfunction in the Mthfr(677C>T) mouse model of cerebrovascular disease. 	Examining differential protein expression in brain and retinal tissue from the Mthfr677C>T mouse model	Mouse model characterization, brain, neurovascular dysfunction, retina, vascular contributions to cognitive impairment and dementia (VCID)	INTRODUCTION: Investigations of retinal biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and AD and related dementias (ADRD), has increased significantly. We examine retinal vascular health in a mouse containing the ADRD risk variant Mthfr(677C>T) to determine if changes in retina mirror similar changes in cerebrovasculature. METHODS: Morphology and function of retinal vasculature and neurons were assessed using in vivo imaging, immunohistochemistry, and pattern electroretinography. RNAscope and proteomics were employed to determine Mthfr gene expression and differential protein expression in mice carrying Mthfr(677C>T). RESULTS: Mice show age- and sex-dependent retinal vascular deficits, displaying similarities to previously published brain data. Mthfr is widely expressed and co-localizes with vascular cell markers. Proteomics identified common molecular signatures across the brain and retina. DISCUSSION: Results demonstrate that Mthfr-dependent vascular phenotypes occur in brain and retina similarly. These data suggest that assessing age and genetic-driven changes within retinal vasculature represents a minimally invasive method to predict AD-related cerebrovascular damage. HIGHLIGHTS: Mthfr(677C>T) retinal vascular phenotypes align with cerebrovascular phenotypes. Mthfr(677C>T) brain and retina share Alzheimer's disease (AD)-)relevant differentially expressed proteins. Retinal imaging may provide insight regarding genetic risk for vascular dysfunction.
PXD060667	40743371	Cryo-EM structure of endogenous Plasmodium falciparum Pfs230 and Pfs48/45 fertilization complex. 	Cryo-EM structure of endogenous Plasmodium falciparum Pfs230 and Pfs48/45 fertilization complex	Pfs230, Pfs48/45, Plasmodium falciparum, cryo-EM, fertilization, mRNA-LNP, malaria, nanobody, transmission blocking, vaccine	Malaria parasite fertilization occurs in the midgut of a female Anopheles mosquito. Blocking fertilization within the mosquito can prevent malaria transmission. Plasmodium falciparum Pfs230 and Pfs48/45 are critical for male fertility and transmission of the malaria parasite. They form a core fertilization complex, but it is unknown how they interact. We determined a cryo-electron microscopy structure of endogenous Pfs230-Pfs48/45 complex showing that Pfs48/45 interacts with Pfs230 domains 13 and 14. Transgenic parasite lines with these domains removed were defective in Pfs230 gamete localization and showed reduced oocyst formation. Nanobodies against domains 13 and 14 inhibited Pfs230-Pfs48/45 complex formation, reduced transmission and structural analyses revealed their epitopes. These Pfs230 domains were targets of naturally acquired immunity and immune sera from mRNA-lipid nanoparticle immunizations blocked parasite transmission.
PXD058169	40743395	Neuronal processes contain the essential components for the late steps of ribosome biogenesis. 	Neuronal processes contain the essential components for the late steps of ribosome biogenesis	data-independent acquisition, dendrites, neuron, ribosome biogenesis, ribosome enrichment, soma	Neurons rely on spatial and temporal control of protein synthesis to respond rapidly and locally to external stimuli, a process facilitated by the dynamic localization and modification of ribosomes. While previous research has shown that neuronal activity can regulate ribosome localization and modify translation rates, little is known about ribosomal assembly within neuronal processes. Here, we investigated the potential for local ribosome maturation in rat neurons using proteomics, RNA sequencing, and imaging methods. We detected an abundance of ribosome biogenesis factors in distal neuronal compartments, particularly those associated with the late stages of ribosome assembly. Moreover, we detected cytosolic pre-ribosomal RNA species in dendrites, as well as the enzymes necessary for their processing, suggesting that local ribosome maturation can occur far from the nucleus. These findings challenge conventional models that confine ribosome biogenesis to nuclear and perinuclear regions and suggest that neurons may fine-tune local protein synthesis by regulating ribosome assembly near synaptic sites. This mechanism may enable rapid modulation of the translational capacity in response to physiological changes, regulating synaptic plasticity and local protein synthesis in neurons.
PXD061276	40744492	SUMO operates from a unique long tandem repeat to keep innate immunity in check. 	SUMO operates from a unique long tandem repeat to keep innate immunity in check	H3.3, H3K9me3, IFN1, MORC3, SUMO, SUMOylation	The SUMO pathway mainly functions to repress innate immunity in myeloid cells. Inactivating sumoylation triggers a strong, noncanonical, type I interferon (IFN1) response, amplified and coupled with inflammation upon stimulation. These findings transposed to pre-clinical models with the demonstration that sumoylation inhibitors activate antitumor immunity in an IFN1-dependent manner. Yet, how sumoylation represses immune signaling remains largely unknown. Here, we identified MORC3, a negative regulator of IFNB1, as the top SUMO2/3 substrate in myeloid cells. We show that, in monocytes, SUMO functions to repress basal IFNB1 in cis through a single long tandem repeat regulated by MORC3 [MORC3-regulated element (MRE)] that concentrates multiple motifs for the myeloid-enriched PU.1 factor. Inhibiting sumoylation induces a 3D genome reorganization nucleated from the MRE, which acquires both insulator and PU.1-activated enhancer activities, together with loss of H3.3 and H3K9me3 repressive marks and recruitment of PU.1. Paradoxically, MORC3, that interacts with PU.1, is massively recruited, yet unable to repress the MRE. Finally, we show that both sumoylation and MORC3 ATPase cycle are critical for MORC3 repressive activity. Our study thus uncovers an unconventional mechanism in which sumoylation, in concert with MORC3, orchestrates a metastable H3.3/H3K9me3 heterochromatin state on a multi-PU.1 binding platform to prevent an uncontrolled myeloid-specific immune response.
PXD055135	40744923	vPro-MS enables identification of human-pathogenic viruses from patient samples by untargeted proteomics. 	vPro-MS enables identification of human-pathogenic viruses from patient samples by untargeted proteomics	pathogen detection, virome, virus, virus identification	Viral infections are commonly diagnosed by the detection of viral genome fragments or proteins using targeted methods such as PCR and immunoassays. In contrast, metagenomics enables the untargeted identification of viral genomes, expanding its applicability across a broader spectrum. In this study, we introduce proteomics as a complementary approach for the untargeted identification of human-pathogenic viruses from patient samples. The viral proteomics workflow (vPro-MS) is based on an in-silico derived peptide library covering the human virome in UniProtKB (331 viruses, 20,386 genomes, 121,977 peptides). A scoring algorithm (vProID score) is developed to assess the confidence of virus identification from proteomics data ( https://github.com/RKI-ZBS/vPro-MS ). In combination with diaPASEF-based data acquisition, this workflow enables the analysis of up to 60 samples per day. The specificity is determined to be >99,9% in an analysis of 221 plasma, swab and cell culture samples covering 17 different viruses. The sensitivity of this approach for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 in nasopharyngeal swabs corresponds to a PCR cycle threshold of 27 with comparable quantitative accuracy to metagenomics. vPro-MS enables the integration of untargeted virus identification in large-scale proteomic studies of biofluids such as human plasma to detect previously undiscovered virus infections in patient specimens.
PXD065112	40745064	Molecular basis of Fab-dependent IgA antibody recognition by gut-bacterial metallopeptidases. 	Molecular basis of Fab-dependent IgA antibody recognition by gut-associated metallopeptidases	IgA, IgA protease, metallopeptidase	Immunoglobulin A (IgA) is essential for mucosal immunity and has been implicated in autoimmune diseases, such as IgA nephropathy. Certain pathogenic and commensal bacteria produce IgA proteases that selectively cleave IgA, potentially aiding bacterial colonization as well as suggesting therapeutic avenues for IgA nephropathy. Here, we investigate the substrate specificities of two enzymes of the M64 metallopeptidase family, the IgA protease ThomasA from Thomasclavelia ramosa and BF3526 from Bacteroides fragilis. Our structural, biochemical, and mutagenesis analyses demonstrate that ThomasA cleaves IgA through exclusive recognition of the Fab region. This mechanism is distinct from that of other antibody-specific peptidases, which typically require engagement of the Fc region. In contrast, X-ray crystal structures of BF3526 in complex with substrate and product peptides, combined with enzymology assays, show that this enzyme targets the N-terminus of pre-digested proteins, but does not act on intact IgA. These findings reveal divergent substrate recognition strategies between M64 family members, while providing new structural insights into their conserved catalytic mechanism.
PXD062913	40747017	Dissecting In Vivo Cross-Linker Performance: Insights into Structural Dynamics and Molecular Rigidity. 	Analysis of Nucleocytoplasmic Protein Separation in DPST-Crosslinked Human Neuroblastoma SY5Y Cells	crosslinking, cytoplasmic, nuclear	Understanding protein structure and dynamics is crucial to elucidating their biological functions. Recent advancements in experimental techniques and AI-driven predictions, such as AlphaFold, have significantly enhanced our ability to determine protein structures. However, most methods are based on in vitro studies, which often fail to capture the complexities of protein behavior in vivo. This study focuses on in vivo chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) as a promising approach to investigate protein structures within their native cellular environments. We systematically evaluate the performance of four commonly used cross-linkers, analyzing their structural characteristics, like length and dihedral angles, as well as the resulting thermodynamic and kinetic behaviors. By combining extensive in vivo XL-MS data with all-atom molecular dynamics simulations, we elucidate the relationship between cross-linker structure and their effectiveness in probing protein dynamics. The results reveal the relationship between the flexibility of cross-linkers and their structural characteristics and further elucidate that more rigid cross-linkers are able to capture more protein dynamic information, especially the dynamics of disordered regions. This study provides critical insights into cross-linker selection and design, offering a framework for future in vivo XL-MS applications aimed at advancing our understanding of protein dynamics and interactions in living cells.
PXD063029	40747612	FGF Signaling Promotes Lysosome Biogenesis in Chondrocytes via the Mannose Phosphate Receptor Pathway. 	FGF signaling modulates lysosome biogenesis in chondrocytes via the Mannose Phosphate Receptor pathway	FGF, chordrocytes, lysosome	The mannose 6-phosphate (M6P) pathway is critical for lysosome biogenesis, facilitating the trafficking of hydrolases to lysosomes to ensure cellular degradative capacity. Fibroblast Growth Factor (FGF) signaling, a key regulator of skeletogenesis, has been linked to the autophagy-lysosomal pathway in chondrocytes, but its role in lysosome biogenesis remains poorly characterized. Here, using mass spectrometry, lysosome immune-purification, and functional assays, we reveal that RCS (Swarm rat chondrosarcoma cells) lacking FGF receptors 3 and 4 exhibit dysregulations of the M6P pathway, resulting in hypersecretion of lysosomal enzymes and impaired lysosomal function. We found that FGF receptors control the expression of M6P receptor genes in response to FGF stimulation and during cell cycle via the activation of the transcription factors TFEB and TFE3. Notably, restoring M6P pathway-either through gene expression or activation of TFEB-significantly rescues lysosomal defects in FGFR3;4-deficient RCS. These findings uncover a novel mechanism by which FGF signaling regulates lysosomal function, offering insights into the control of chondrocyte catabolism and the understanding of FGF-related human diseases.
PXD060225	40748179	Convergence in Symbiont-Induced Plant-Mediated Responses to Herbivory: Cascading Effects for Foraging Parasitoids. 	Hidden players in plant-insect interactions: effects of third-trophic level symbionts on responses of plants to herbivory	Insect parasitoids, PDVs	Convergent evolution arises when unrelated species develop similar traits without a shared ancestral origin possessing those characteristics. While typically observed at the organismal level, it can also occur at higher levels of biological organisation. Polydnaviruses represent a striking example of convergent evolution. These viruses, divided into bracoviruses and ichnoviruses, were independently acquired by braconid and ichneumonid parasitoid wasps respectively, to deliver pathogenic genes to caterpillar hosts. Here we show convergent patterns across trophic levels, demonstrating that both bracoviruses and ichnoviruses induce changes in plant-phenotypic traits that specifically benefit their parasitoid partners, facilitating plant-mediated host discrimination. This is achieved through an interaction network triggered by changes in the polydnavirus-infected herbivore (via alteration in regurgitant composition) which eventually affected parasitoids' foraging decisions. Our findings unveil a novel ecological benefit that polydnaviruses offer to their parasitoid partners through intricate, plant-mediated effects, providing evidence of convergence in symbiont-induced responses in terrestrial trophic systems.
PXD061695	40748385	Genomic and secretomic analyses of Blastobotrys yeasts reveal key xylanases for biomass decomposition. 	Genomic and Secretomic analysis of Blastobotrys yeasts reveal key xylanases for biomass decomposition	GH11, GH30, Xylanolytic yeast, xylan	Xylanolytic enzyme systems in ascomycetous yeasts remain underexplored, despite the presence of yeasts in various xylan-rich ecological niches. In this study, we investigated the secreted xylanolytic machineries of three Blastobotrys species-B. mokoenaii, B. illinoisensis, and B. malaysiensis-by integrating genome annotation, bioinformatics, and secretome analyses of cultures grown on beechwood glucuronoxylan. Our findings demonstrate that these yeasts effectively hydrolyze xylan through the secretion of xylanases from the glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 11, which play a central role in cleaving the xylan backbone. Additionally, the yeasts produce a diverse array of other CAZymes, including members of GH families 3, 5, and 67, with putative roles in xylan degradation. We also report on the heterologous expression and functional characterization of the GH30_7 xylanase BmXyn30A from B. mokoenaii, which exhibits both glucuronoxylanase and xylobiohydrolase activities. We demonstrate additive effects between GH family 30 BmXyn30A and GH family 11 BmXyn11A during the hydrolysis of beechwood glucuronoxylan, where the enzymes exhibit complementary roles that enhance the deconstruction of this complex hemicellulose substrate. These findings broaden our understanding of the xylanolytic systems in yeasts and underscore the potential of Blastobotrys species as cell factories and natural xylanase producers. The enzymes they produce hold promise for biorefining applications, enabling efficient utilization of renewable xylan-rich plant biomass resources. KEY POINTS: * Extracellular GH11 xylanases dominate glucuronoxylan degradation in Blastobotrys yeasts. * Yeast GH30_7 enzyme shows multifaceted activity, supporting complex xylan breakdown. * Blastobotrys yeasts show promise as cell factories for industrial biotechnology applications.
PXD055625	40749049	eIF2A regulates cell migration in a translation-independent manner. 	eIF2A regulates cell migration without overtly affecting translation	Melanoma, eIF2A, immunoprecipitation Mass spectrometry	The RNA-binding protein eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2A (eIF2A) is an alternative translation initiation factor shown to drive tumor formation by facilitating translation from near-cognate initiation codons. Here, we uncover a function for eIF2A in regulating cell migration in a manner independent of overt control of translation. Using a melanoma cell model consisting of nontumoral melanocytic Mel-ST cells and their metastatic counterpart obtained by H-Ras transformation, we unexpectedly find minimal effects of eIF2A depletion on translation. Interactome studies identified centrosomal proteins as major binding partners of eIF2A. We found that eIF2A colocalizes with the centrosome, enhances centrosome composition, and promotes centrosome orientation during cell migration. Migration requires the C-terminal disordered region of eIF2A, involved in mRNA binding. Interaction with mRNA, however, does not require ongoing translation. These findings reveal a role for eIF2A in centrosome dynamics beyond its traditional function in translation.
PXD060290	40749681	Proteogenomic characterization unveils biomarkers associated with chemoresistance in muscle-invasive bladder cancer. 	Proteogenomic characterization of muscle invasive bladder cancer	Bladder Cancer, Cancer, TMT	To explore potential chemoresistance mechanisms and identify therapeutic opportunities in muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC), we conduct comprehensive proteogenomic characterization of 46 pre- and 14 post-treatment MIBC tumors incorporating genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and phosphoproteomics. Multi-omics clustering not only recapitulated established molecular subtypes but also revealed subtypes associated with chemotherapy sensitivity. Protein isoform level analysis identifies protein abundance of a short isoform of ATAD1 and RAF family proteins as biomarkers of chemosensitivity. Integration of proteomic and phosphoproteomic data reveals Wnt signaling via GSK3B-S9 phosphorylation and the JAK/STAT pathway as potential targets to overcome chemoresistance. Correlations between PD-L1 and TROP-2/NECTIN-4 indicate an additive benefit of combination therapy targeting these proteins. Overall, this study serves as a valuable resource for researchers and clinicians aiming to better understand and treat chemoresistant MIBC.
PXD055276	40750768	High-selective HDAC6 inhibitor alleviates bone marrow fibrosis through inhibiting collagen formation and extracellular matrix deposition. 	Mouse bone marrow fibrosis LC-MS/MS	bone marrow fibrosis	Bone marrow fibrosis (BMF) impairs normal hematopoietic functions in patients. The overactivation of the TGF-beta signaling pathway is regarded as one of the offenders causing disease progression. Thus, factors capable of regulating TGF-beta secretion hold great potential in reversing fibrotic diseases. One such factor is histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACis), which can modulate the expression of TGF-beta. Our previous study successfully synthesized a selective HDAC6 inhibitor, J22352, for pulmonary fibrosis; however, the treatment efficacies on BMF remain unclear. Therefore, in this study, we treated bone marrow-derived myofibroblasts with J22352. The results showed that J22352 significantly reduced cell viability, induced apoptosis, and inhibited extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis was employed to disclose potential mechanisms, identifying 334 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). The DEPs were involved in cell apoptosis, programmed cell death, ECM deposition, and collagen formation. These results suggest that J22352 efficiently alleviated BMF by inducing cell apoptosis and inhibiting ECM deposition. This study introduces a novel selective HDAC6 inhibitor as a potential option for slowing down the progression of BMF. We aim to provide a promising selective HDACi for clinical medicine through a detailed analysis of its mechanisms and efficacy, offering new prospects in the field.
PXD057734	40750851	Repurposing Etalocib suppresses multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus aureus by disrupting the bacterial membrane. 	Repurposing Etalocib suppresses multidrug-resistant staphylococcus aureus	Etalocib, Staphylococcus aureus	BACKGROUND: The emergence of multidrug-resistant (MDR) Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) seriously poses a serious threat to human health and presents a significant clinical challenge. Therefore, it is urgent to explore alternative treatments and develop novel antimicrobial agents. To investigate the antibacterial activity of Etalocib against S. aureus and elucidate its underlying mechanism of action. RESULTS: Etalocib, a drug previously investigated in clinical trials, exhibited notable antibacterial activity against S. aureus, with a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of <= 25 muM. Time-kill curves demonstrated concentration-dependent bactericidal effects. Etalocib could significantly inhibited biofilm formation and kill bacteria within mature biofilms. Moreover, permeability assays revealed that Etalocib treatment caused bacterial membrane damage, accompanied by dissipation of membrane potential. Checkerboard analysis showed that bacterial membrane phospholipids, including phosphatidylglycerol and cardiolipin, could neutralize the antibacterial activity of Etalocib in a dose-dependent manner. These findings suggest that the primary mechanism of action involves disruption of the bacterial membrane, potentially through interactions with membrane phospholipids, alterations in protein homeostasis, and disturbances in energy and metabolic processes. Notably, Etalocib significantly improved the survival rate of the Galleria mellonella in the methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) infection model. CONCLUSIONS: The findings highlight the potential of Etalocib as an effective antibacterial agent for combating MDR S. aureus infections. It holds significant promise as a novel therapeutic option for the treatment of severe infections caused by Gram-positive pathogens.
PXD062319	40751234	Integrative analysis of saliva-derived exosomal proteome and lipidome for the diagnosis of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. 	Integrative Analysis of Saliva-Derived Exosomal Proteome and Lipidome for the Diagnosis of Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma	diagnosis, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, exosomes, lipidomics	BACKGROUND: Early diagnosis of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is crucial for improving patient prognosis. Currently, the diagnosis of ESCC primarily relies on endoscopic biopsy. Salivary exosomes have shown great potential in non-invasive screening, but their proteomic and lipidomic characteristics remain to be reported. METHODS: Exosomes were isolated from salivary samples of 54 patients with ESCC and 62 healthy controls using ultracentrifugation, and subsequently subjected to non-targeted proteomic and lipidomic analysis by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Differentially expressed proteins and lipids in salivary exosomes were identified through differential analysis, and a comprehensive analysis of multi-omics data was performed using correlation analysis. RESULTS: Significant proteomic and lipidomic differences were observed between ESCC patients and healthy controls. The proteomic characteristics of ESCC were primarily manifested in immune responses, disruption of tissue structural homeostasis, and enhanced antifungal and antimicrobial humoral immune responses. Through multi-omics analysis, we found that ESCC may regulate fatty acid metabolism by modulating epigenetic modifications, thereby influencing the oral immune microenvironment. Finally, a diagnostic model constructed using 28 lipid features achieved excellent diagnostic performance (Are Under the Curve = 1.000) for ESCC diagnosis. CONCLUSIONS: Our study revealed significant alterations in the proteomic and lipidomic profiles of the oral microenvironment in ESCC patients, which may provide new insights into the development and progression of ESCC. We found that lipid features have high potential for diagnosing ESCC, providing support for further validation in larger cohorts.
PXD059792	40753078	The EMC acts as a chaperone for membrane proteins. 	The EMC acts as a chaperone to labile transmembrane domains	chaperone, endoplasmic reticulum, membrane proteins, protein folding	Structure formation of membrane proteins is error-prone and thus requires chaperones that oversee this essential process in cell biology. The ER membrane protein complex (EMC) is well-defined as a transmembrane domain (TMD) insertase. In this study, we characterize an additional chaperone function of the EMC. We use interactomics and systematic studies with model proteins to comprehensively define client features for this EMC chaperone mode. Based on this data, we develop a machine learning-based tool for client prediction. Mechanistically, our study reveals that the EMC engages TMDs via its EMC1 subunit and modulates their orientation within the lipid bilayer. Productive TMD assembly reduces binding to the EMC chaperone site. Taken together, our study provides detailed insights into an EMC chaperone function, further establishing the role of the EMC as a multifunctional molecular machine in membrane protein biogenesis.
PXD040634	40753349	Quantitative proteomic analysis deciphers mechanisms of sheath blight resistance in novel rice landrace against Rhizoctonia solani. 	IDENTIFICATION OF NOVEL RESISTANCE SOURCES AND COMPARATIVE PROTEOMIC ANALYSIS IN RICE- SHEATH BLIGHT (Rhizoctonia solani Kuhn) DISEASE INTERACTION	Comparative proteomics, Rhizoctonia solani, sheath blight of rice	Sheath blight (ShB) disease, caused by Rhizoctonia solani Kuhn, poses a significant economic threat to rice production world wide. Acknowledging the limited understanding of ShB resistance proteomics in highly resistant germplasm, our study aimed to unravel the proteomic intricacies underlying the interaction between resistant landrace Nizam Shait and R. solani. Utilizing Nizam Shait and BPT-5204 as representatives of ShB resistance and susceptibility, a comparative proteome analysis was performed using Orbitrap-Fusion mass spectrometry. The analysis unveiled 5133 differentially expressed proteins, with 118 significantly upregulated and 172 significantly downregulated at 0.05 p-value. Functional annotation revealed that the proteins associated with jasmonic acid-induced systemic resistance (JA-ISR), brassinosteroid (BR) signaling pathway, terpenoid biosynthesis, cell wall remodeling and carbohydrate metabolism showed significant upregulation in Nizam Shait upon ShB infection. The proteins associated with systemic acquired resistance (SAR), pathogenesis related proteins, cell redox homeostasis and cell death were downregulated, Notably, the 14-3-3 like protein GF-E exhibited highest upregulation, indicating its pivotal role in defense modulation through the brassinosteroid signaling pathway. The two key proteins of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) shunt mediated defense, Succinate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase and Gamma-aminobutyrate transaminase were upregulated in Nizam Shait versus BPT-5204 and many other defense proteins were upregulated. Key signaling pathways involved in ShB resistance in Nizam Shait encompassed PTI via JA-ISR, cell wall strengthening, and brassinosteroid mediated resistance. Validation of the proteome data through RT-qPCR corroborated the findings, highlighting the significance of this research for future proteome assisted breeding efforts aimed at developing ShB resistant rice varieties.In conclusion, the current study deciphers pathways responsible for high resistance in landrace Nizam Shait against R. solani and identifies key proteins in Rice-R. solani interaction.
PXD055996	40753721	Discovery and validation of biomarkers for Parkinson's disease from human cerebrospinal fluid using mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis. 	Discovery and validation of biomarkers for Parkinson's disease from human cerebrospinal fluid using mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis	CSF, Parkinsons disease, biomarker	BACKGROUND: Proteomic biomarkers for Parkinson's disease (PD) are critical for identifying new targets for disease-modifying therapies and expanding our understanding of disease pathophysiology. METHODS: Deep proteome analysis of a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cohort (40 PD, 40 controls) coupled with previous data from the substantia nigra (SN) proteome was used to discover low abundance biomarkers involved in PD pathogenesis. We validated our findings using parallel reaction monitoring mass spectrometry with an independent cohort of CSF samples (80 PD, 80 controls). We further evaluated our biomarkers with a separate cohort of 80 individuals with Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB). We then correlated our candidate biomarkers with motor and cognitive performance. FINDINGS: We identified 3683 unique proteins, 1425 of them quantified across all 80 discovery samples and 505 that separated PD from controls. Using a stepwise criterion and integrating with 1140 differentially expressed proteins in SN, we identified 34 candidate biomarker proteins. The validation study resulted in 8 proteins (VSTM2A, VGF, SCG2, PI16, OMD, FAM3C, EPHA4, and CCK) with expression patterns and effect sizes like the discovery set. When controlling for age and gender, CCK and OMD maintained their significance and two additional proteins trended toward significance (VGF and PI16, p = 0.057). PI16 and OMD were upregulated in PD, while the others were downregulated. Our investigation is the first to our knowledge to identify PI16 as a possible biomarker and to identify CCK in the CSF of individuals with PD. Combining 4 of the proteins had modest ability to separate PD from controls. CCK and VGF significantly predicted MoCA total scores amongst the DLB group. INTERPRETATION: These candidate biomarkers add to our understanding of PD pathophysiology and the relationship between PD and DLB. They provide further research directions toward disease-modifying therapies. FUNDING: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.
PXD059888	40754140	Structural Insights into Complement Inhibition: Visualizing Distinct Binding Modes of C4b-binding Protein Complexes with C4b and SAP. 	Structural Insights into Complement Inhibition: Visualizing Distinct Binding Modes of C4b-binding Protein Complexes with C4b and SAP	C4b, C4b-binding protein, complement regulation, cross-linking mass spectrometry, high-speed atomic force microscopy, mass photometry, serum amyloid P component.	C4b-binding protein (C4BP) is an innate immune inhibitor found in serum. Human C4BP adopts spider-like higher-order structures (HOS) formed by disulfide-linked C4BPalpha and C4BPbeta chains that non-covalently bind vitamin K-dependent protein S (ProS). These spider-like structures can form even larger complexes as C4BP interacts with other, mostly complement-related, proteins. The complement inhibitory role of C4BP is primarily mediated through its interaction with C4b. C4BP also binds with high affinity to serum amyloid P component (SAP), a pentraxin family member associated with amyloidosis conditions. Here, we structurally and compositionally characterize C4BP interactions with these two natively occurring binders. To achieve this, we combine mass photometry, high-speed atomic force microscopy, and cross-linking mass spectrometry. By integrating the results, we reveal two distinct binding modes of C4BP when bound to C4b or SAP. Given the spider-like assembly of C4BP, C4b interacts with the N-terminal region of a single C4BPalpha leg, enabling multiple C4b molecules to bind to the C4BP HOS. Conversely, SAP engages with the entire spider-like HOS: the C4BPalpha-C4BPbeta oligomerization core binds to SAP, and the C4BPalpha legs wrap around it.
PXD050875	40756675	ShortStop: a machine learning framework for microprotein discovery. 	Microprotein discovery in HEK293T and K562 cells	LC MS/MS, microprotein	Background: The human genome contains over 3 million small open reading frames (smORFs, <= 150 codons). Ribosome profiling and proteogenomics transformed our understanding of these sequences by showing that thousands are actively translated, and hundreds produce detectable peptides by mass spectrometry. However, the random arrangement of codons across the 3-gigabase human genome naturally generates smORFs by chance, suggesting many may represent translational noise or regulatory elements rather than functional proteins. This is supported by the fact that most translating smORFs occur in upstream open reading frames (uORFs), which typically regulate translation of canonical coding sequences rather than encode bioactive microproteins. As interest grows in uncovering biologically meaningful microproteins, a key challenge remains: distinguishing functional smORFs from non-functional or regulatory translation products. Although empirical methods such as individual microprotein studies or large-scale screens can help, these approaches are time-consuming, expensive, and come with technical limitations. New complementary strategies are needed. Methods: To address this challenge, we developed ShortStop, a computational framework based on the idea that not all translating smORFs produce functional proteins, but the ones that do may resemble experimentally characterized microproteins. ShortStop classifies smORFs into two reference groups: Swiss-Prot Analog Microproteins (SAMs), which resemble known microproteins, and PRISMs (Physicochemically Resembling In Silico Microproteins), which are synthetic sequences designed to match the composition of translating smORFs but lacking sequence order or evolutionary selection, and therefore serving as a proxy for non-functional peptides. This two-class system enables machine learning to help prioritize smORFs for downstream study. Results: ShortStop achieved high precision (90-94%), recall (87-96%), and F1 scores (90-93%) across all classes. When applied to a published dataset of translating smORFs, ShortStop classified about 8% as candidates with biochemical properties resembling Swiss-Prot microproteins (i.e., called SAMs). The remaining 92% resembled in silico generated sequences (i.e., called PRISMs), representing noncanonical proteins, non-functional peptides, or regulatory translation events. SAMs showed lower C-terminal hydrophobicity-linked to reduced proteasomal degradation-and greater N-terminal hydrophilicity at neutral pH, suggesting improved solubility and intracellular stability. ShortStop also identified microproteins overlooked by other methods, including one encoded by an upstream overlapping smORF in the StAR gene, which was detectable in human cells and steroid-producing tissues. In a clinical lung cancer dataset, ShortStop uncovered differentially expressed microprotein candidates, several of which were validated by mass spectrometry. Discussion: ShortStop addresses a key gap in microprotein research-the lack of scalable tools to characterize microproteins and standardized negative training data to train machine learning models for microproteins. By providing a classification framework rooted in biochemical features, ShortStop offers a practical solution for targeting smORFs in functional studies, benchmarking new discovery tools, and advancing microprotein research. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s44330-025-00037-4.
PXD065822	40759792	Development of a novel therapy for systolic heart failure. 	Development of a novel therapy for systolic heart failure	Apoptosis/Bim/beta-AR/HF/PKA	Heart failure presents a critical health challenge with a 5-year mortality rate of up to 50%. Conventional treatments often lead to bradycardia or hypotension due to their impact on patient hemodynamics. To address this issue, we utilized high-throughput drug screening combined with structure-activity relationship-based medicinal chemistry to develop a novel drug-like compound that effectively blocks the beta-adrenergic receptor (beta-AR) mediated apoptosis pathway. This compound demonstrated both safety and efficacy in pre-clinical mouse models without adversely affecting cardiac output. Through thermal proteome profiling mass spectrometry, we identified the compound's target as Wdr3, a regulator of the Hippo signaling pathway. This target identification was further validated using CRISPR-based knockout experiments. Our findings provide a valuable framework for the development of hemodynamically neutral therapies aimed at treating systolic heart failure.
PXD058262	40760450	Blocking CXCR4(+) CD4(+) T cells reprograms Treg-mediated immunosuppression via modulating the Rho-GTPase/NF-kappaB signaling axis. 	Blocking CXCR4+ CD4+ T cells reprograms Treg-mediated immunosuppression via modulating the Rho-GTPase/NF-B pathway	CD4, CXCR4, Rho-GTPase/NF-B pathway	BACKGROUND: While clinical trials have shown that CXCR4 antagonists can enhance the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy, the molecular mechanisms by which CXCR4 modulates the tumor microenvironment remain poorly understood. We recently identified CXCR4 as a regulator of exhausted CD8(+) T cell phenotypes in cancer. Here, we investigate its role in orchestrating regulatory T (Treg) cell-mediated immunosuppression within tumors. METHODS: We conducted meta-analyses of single-cell RNA-seq datasets from pan-cancer tissues to characterize CXCR4 expression patterns in CD4(+) T cells. Using CXCR4 antagonists and conditional knockout mice (Cxcr4(flox/flox), Lck(Cre)), we inhibited Treg phenotypes in vivo. Through single-cell transcriptomics and single-cell ATAC-seq of the cervical cancer mouse model, phosphoproteomics, and ChIP-seq analyses, we elucidated how CXCR4 blockade in CD4(+) T cells suppresses activated Treg phenotypes by modulating the Rho-GTPase/NF-kappaB signaling axis. We further integrated RNA-seq data, clinical trial datasets (NCT02826486 and NCT04516616), and human organoid models to validate the therapeutic potential of CXCR4 inhibition in enhancing antitumor immunotherapy. RESULTS: Single-cell transcriptomics of CD4(+) T cells across multiple cancers revealed CXCR4 expression was associated with Treg cell developmental trajectories. Pharmacological and genetic inhibition of CXCR4 inhibited Treg phenotypes in cervical cancer and breast cancer. Mechanistically, phosphoproteomics and ChIP-seq analyses unveiled that blocking CXCR4(+) CD4(+) T cells reduced activated Treg phenotypes by modulating the Rho-GTPase/NF-kappaB signaling axis. Single-cell transcriptomic and multi-omic analyses demonstrated that blocking CXCR4(+) CD4(+) T cells promoted immunotherapy via reprogramming Treg-mediated immunosuppression. Furthermore, clinical trial data and human cervical cancer organoids confirmed that blocking CXCR4 enhances antitumor immunotherapy by reducing Treg phenotypes. CONCLUSIONS: Our study highlights the crucial role of CXCR4 in deriving Treg-mediated immunosuppression via regulating the Rho-GTPase/NF-kappaB signaling axis, informing the potential of combining CXCR4 blockades with T cell-targeted immunotherapies.
PXD056807	40761126	EMG1 cooperates with GRHL3 in beta-catenin-mediated surface ectoderm differentiation to regulate neural tube closure. 	EMG1 cooperates with GRHL3 in beta-catenin-mediated surface ectoderm differentiation to regulate neural tube closure	Bowen-Conradi syndrome, Van der Woude syndrome 2, canonical Wnt/beta-catenin, epidermal differentiation, neurulation, palatogenesis	Grainyhead-like transcription factor 3 (GRHL3) directs surface ectoderm differentiation under the control of the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. However, the molecular mechanisms that control nuclear GRHL3 expression through beta-catenin are not fully understood. Here, we show that the essential for mitotic growth 1 (EMG1) protein constitutes a protein complex with GRHL3, and that EMG1 is required for correct nuclear localization of GRHL3, and for activation of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway. Conditional knockout mutation of Emg1 in the GRHL3-positive surface ectoderm causes neural tube defects at the level of the spinal cord, i.e. spina bifida. Additionally, the severity of compound mutant phenotypes of Emg1 and Grhl3 indicates that they interact genetically in neurulation and palate development. These lines of evidence demonstrate that EMG1 cooperates with GRHL3 in beta-catenin-mediated surface ectoderm differentiation. Since the EMG1 mutation causes Bowen-Conradi syndrome and the GRHL3 mutation causes Van der Woude syndrome 2, both of which are associated with neural tube dysplasia and cleft palate, our study will help to improve our understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms of these two human genetic diseases.
PXD055505	40761293	Integrated omics identifies molecular networks of brain-body interactions of brain injury. 	The exploration of brain-body interactions of brain injury reveals organ-specific and diverse signatures	Brain injury, brain-body interactions, ischemic stroke	The molecular mechanisms of brain-body interactions in the progression of brain diseases remain unknown. Through integrative analysis of multi-organ proteomic, metabolomic, and transcriptomic data following ischemic stroke, we identified dynamic molecular signatures across organs. The heart exhibited the highest number of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), followed by spleen and intestine. Ten DEPs were shared among three organs post-stroke, with eight in heart, six in spleen, and five in intestine. Notably, organs displayed accelerated biological aging, particularly the intestine, which is implicated in neurobehavioral regulation. Conjoint analysis further confirmed that DEPs originated from both intrinsic and immune cells that systemically infiltrated multiple organs. Finally, plasma DEPs showed high correlations with corresponding protein levels in distinct organs, potentially resulting in the systemic circulation of stroke. Our findings provide a comprehensive atlas of stroke-induced multi-organ molecular remodeling and establish a foundational framework for developing systemic therapeutic strategies targeting brain-body interactions in brain injury.
PXD045073	40761926	Modulating the serine metabolism in human differentiated astrocytes: an integrated multi omics approach. 	Multi-omic analyses of hiPSC-derived astrocytes during differentiation	nanoLC-MS/MS	Introduction: Astrocytes are the major source of L-serine (L-Ser) in the brain: the glycolytic intermediate D-3-phosphoglycerate is converted into L-Ser through the phosphorylated pathway (PP) made up of three enzymes, phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH), phosphoserine aminotransferase (PSAT) and phosphoserine phosphatase (PSP), recently proposed to generate a metabolic assembly named serinosome. In the central nervous system, L-Ser is used for a number of functions, including the synthesis of glycine (Gly) and D-serine (D-Ser), the two key NMDAR co-agonists. Methods: Here, we used iPSC-derived human astrocytes as a cellular model to evaluate the impact on cell metabolism of the overexpression of each of the three enzymes of the PP as GFP-tagged proteins. Results: The subcellular cytosolic localization of PP enzymes remains unchanged compared to endogenous proteins, while the complex formation is increased in all cases. Notably, among the factors involved, the overexpression of PHGDH appears to play a pivotal role in promoting the serinosome assembly and/or stabilization, highlighting the critical importance of this multi-domain protein. Particularly, the overexpression of each enzyme of the PP alters the cellular metabolism in a specific way. The L-Ser and Gly levels increase more in PHGDH overexpressing cells, in agreement with the known kinetics of the PP. A consistent increase in the TCA cycle, as well as in mitochondrial activities, serine-glycine-one carbon pathway, asparagine, arginine, purine and pyrimidines metabolism is also observed. Discussion: Peculiar alterations are observed when each enzyme of the PP is overexpressed, strongly supporting the use of human iPSC-derived astrocytes overexpressing the PP pathway enzymes as a valuable cellular model for understanding how Ser glial metabolism occurs in a non-tumor system under both physiological and pathological conditions.
PXD064208	40763070	New Approaches To Identify Urine and Hair Adulteration Attempts in Forensic Toxicology: A Proof-of-Concept Study Using a Proteomics Approach Based on Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS). 	Proteomics approach to identify sample manipulation in forensic toxicology for hair and urine	LC-MS, forensics, hair, manipulation, urine	Urine and hair are among the primary biological matrices used for drug and abstinence testing in clinical, forensic, and antidoping settings. A persistent challenge in such analyses is the adulteration of samples: through dilution, substitution, or chemical modification, aimed at concealing the presence of xenobiotics such as drugs of abuse, ethanol, or doping agents. In this study, we investigated whether chemical adulteration, specifically oxidative treatment with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), induces detectable and characteristic changes in the proteomes of urine and hair samples. Using a bottom-up proteomics approach involving LC-HR-MS/MS with data-dependent acquisition, we compared urine samples before and after treatment (10% H2O2) and untreated hair samples with those exposed to increasing concentrations of hydrogen peroxide (3%, 6%, 9%, and 12%). Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD064208. We identified distinct peptides, including oxidatively modified forms, that were exclusively present in either untreated or chemically treated groups. In hair samples, the appearance of some of those peptides was dependent on the peroxide concentration. Peptides detectable only after oxidative exposure were of particular interest, as they appeared to be nonphysiological and specific to the adulteration process. These species serve as candidate biomarkers for indirect detection of sample manipulation or for assessing the integrity of compromised samples. The extraction and characterization of these potential marker peptides constitute the primary outcomes of this study. These findings should lay the groundwork for further validation and the development of proteomic methods aimed at enhancing the reliability of drug testing and sample authenticity assessment in forensic and antidoping contexts.
PXD065524	40764463	Convergent activation of the integrated stress response and ER-mitochondria uncoupling in VAPB-associated ALS. 	Convergent Activation of the Integrated Stress Response and ER-Mitochondria Uncoupling in VAPB-Associated ALS	ALS, ALS Type VIII, ER-MAM, ISR, ISRIB, Mitochondria, VAPB, neurodegeneration	Vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein-B (VAPB) is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane-bound protein. The P56S mutation in VAPB causes a dominant, familial form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). However, the mechanism by which this mutation leads to motor neuron (MN) degeneration remains unclear. Utilizing inducible pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived MNs expressing either wild-type (WT) or P56S VAPB, we demonstrate that the mutant protein reduces neuronal firing and disrupts ER-mitochondria-associated membranes (ER MAMs), with a time-dependent decline in mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), hallmarks of MN pathology. These findings were validated in patient-derived iPSC-MNs. Additionally, VAPB P56S MNs show increased susceptibility to ER stress, elevated expression of the Integrated Stress Response (ISR) regulator ATF4 under stress, and reduced global protein synthesis. Notably, pharmacological ISR inhibition using ISRIB rescued ALS-associated phenotypes in both VAPB P56S and patient-derived iPSC-MNs. We present the first evidence that the VAPB P56S mutation activates ISR signaling via mitochondrial dysfunction in human MNs. These findings support ISR modulation as a strategy for ALS intervention and highlight the need for patient stratification in clinical trials.
PXD065634	40764612	SERBP1-PCIF1 complex-controlled m6Am modification in glutamatergic neurons of the primary somatosensory cortex is required for neuropathic pain in mice. 	SERBP1-PCIF1 complex-controlled m6Am modification in S1HLGlu neurons is required for neuropathic pain in mice	PCIF1	Nerve injury-induced changes in pain-associated genes contribute to genesis of neuropathic pain and comorbid anxiety. Phosphorylated CTD interacting factor-1 (PCIF1)-triggered N6, 2'-O-dimethyladenosine (m(6)Am) mRNA modification represents an additional layer of gene regulation. However, the role of PCIF1 in these disorders is elusive. Here, we report PCIF1 is increased in glutamatergic neurons of the hindlimb region of the primary somatosensory cortex in mouse with neuropathic pain and anxiety, but not inflammatory pain or anxiety alone. Serpine-1 mRNA-binding protein-1 (SERBP1) is identified as a PCIF1 cofactor, their complex mediates m(6)Am deposition onto mRNA. Blocking SERBP1-PCIF1 upregulation in glutamatergic neurons of the hindlimb region of the primary somatosensory cortex abolishes m(6)Am gain on maf1 homolog, negative regulator of RNA polymerase III (Maf1), elevates MAF1 protein, and mitigates neuropathic pain and anxiety. Conversely, mimicking this increase adds m(6)Am onto Maf1, reduces MAF1, and induces comorbidity symptoms. These findings highlight the significance of m(6)Am in neuropathic pain-anxiety comorbidity and identify SERBP1-PCIF1 in glutamatergic neurons of the hindlimb region of the primary somatosensory cortex as a potential therapeutic target.
PXD060784	40764671	Mass spectrometry-based top-down proteomics for proteoform profiling of protein coronas. 	Mass Spectrometry-Based Top-Down Proteomics for Proteoform Profiling of Protein Corona	nanomedicine, protein corona, top-down proteomics	The protein corona is a layer of biomolecules-primarily proteins-that adsorbs to nanoparticle (NP) surfaces in biological fluids. If the purpose of the NP is therapeutic, this can have a profound effect on its biological activity and function in vivo. Protein corona formation can also be exploited for diagnostic purposes and to differentially enrich proteins for biomarker discovery. For all of these applications, it is useful to determine which proteins, and which specific proteoforms, bind to different types of NP. The traditional mass spectrometry (MS)-based bottom-up proteomics does not accurately identify specific proteoforms within the protein corona. This limitation impedes the nanomedicine field's ability to precisely predict the biological fate and pharmacokinetics of nanomedicines and their effectiveness in early-stage biomarker discovery and disease detection because many different proteoforms of the same gene could exist in the corona, and they have divergent biological functions. Here, we describe how to use capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE)-MS-based top-down proteomics to characterize the proteoform landscape of the protein corona. Our procedures detail the recovery of intact proteoforms from NP surfaces by using detergent-assisted proteoform elution and the measurement of these proteoforms by using CZE-tandem MS (MS/MS) and CZE-high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS)-MS/MS. The entire workflow is completed within 3-4 d. Using this protocol, hundreds of proteoforms from the protein corona of polystyrene NPs can be identified. Distinct protein corona proteoform profiles were observed from NPs with different physicochemical properties. The addition of FAIMS is beneficial for more in-depth proteoform characterization.
PXD054007	40764949	Chloroplast acetyltransferase GNAT2 acts as a redox-regulated switch for state transitions in tomato. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of SlLhcb2	LC_MS, Lhcb2, Tomato	State transition is a dynamic process to balance the amount of light energy received by photosystem I (PSI) and photosystem II (PSII) so as to maintain an optimal photosynthetic yield and to minimize photo-damage in a fluctuating light environment. Recent studies show that chloroplast acetyltransferase participates in the acetylation of photosynthetic proteins and state transitions. However, the exact molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. In this study, we characterized a chloroplast acetyltransferase in Solanum lycopersicum, SlGNAT2, and found that mutants lacking this enzyme are deficient in state transitions and retarded in growth under fluctuating light. Acetyltransferase activity assays and fluorescence measurements suggest that (6)Lys of mature SlLhcb2 protein is a target of SlGNAT2 and might be involved in state transitions. In addition, (131)Cys-related redox changes of SlGNAT2 affect its acetylation activity on SlLhcb2 and influence the assembly of the PSI-LHCI-LHCII supercomplex. Therefore, we propose that the chloroplast redox state may regulate the activity of SlGNAT2 which in turn acetylates SlLhcb2 and mediates state transitions in higher plants.
PXD065879	40765000	Harnessing extracellular vesicles from adipose-derived stem cells for the treatment of 4-vinylcyclohexene diepoxide-induced premature ovarian insufficiency. 	Harnessing extracellular vesicles from adipose-derived stem cells for the treatment of 4-vinylcyclohexene diepoxide-induced premature ovarian insufficiency	ADSC-EVs, ADSCs	BACKGROUND: Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) is a challenging condition with limited effective treatments. Adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) have demonstrated potential in tissue repair, and their extracellular vesicles (ADSC-EVs) show more safety in clinical translation. However, the role and mechanism of ADSC-EVs in the treatment of POI are not yet fully understood. This study aims to investigate the protective effects of ADSC-EVs on rat POI models induced by 4-vinylcyclohexene diepoxide (VCD) and to explore the potential therapeutic mechanisms. METHODS: Rat ADSCs and ADSC-EVs were isolated and characterized. The POI rat model was established via intraperitoneal injection of VCD for 15 consecutive days. ADSCs and ADSC-EVs were injected into the ovaries for treatment. Ovary function was assessed by monitoring estrous cycles, follicle counts, sexual hormone levels, and ovulation. Molecular mechanisms were investigated using TUNEL staining, immunohistochemistry, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and western blotting. In vitro, primary rat granulosa cells were treated with VCD in the presence or absence of ADSC-EVs. Cell proliferative ability, hormone secretion, apoptosis rate, and relative molecular expression were measured. Whole-transcriptome sequencing and DIA proteomics of ADSC-EVs were performed to identify bioactive molecules. RESULTS: ADSC-EVs protected granulosa cells from VCD-induced apoptosis, promoted cell proliferation, enhanced hormone secretion, and upregulated KITL expression. Treatment with ADSCs and ADSC-EVs in POI rats significantly improved estrous cycles, follicle counts, and serum levels of estradiol (E2), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH). These treatments activated the KITL/KIT/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, downregulated pro-apoptotic genes (Bax, Caspase3), and upregulated anti-apoptosis genes (Bcl2). ADSC-EVs are highly enriched in mRNA of Kit and PI3K, and both transcriptomic and proteomics enrichment analysis predominantly focused on PI3K/AKT pathway. CONCLUSIONS: ADSCs and ADSC-EVs effectively protect and restore ovarian function in VCD-induced POI rats. The mechanism involves inhibiting apoptosis in granulosa cells and activating the KITL/KIT/PI3K/AKT pathway in ovary. ADSC-EVs, with advantages in clinical translation, hold significant potential for POI treatment.
PXD061521	40765826	BAY11-7082 Targets RNF25 to Reverse TRIP4 Ubiquitination-dependent NF-kappaB Activation and Apoptosis Resistance in Renal Cell Carcinoma. 	RNF25-Mediated NF-B Activation Drives Anti-Apoptosis and Therapy Resistance in Cancer	NF-B activation, RNF25, TRIP4, anti-apoptosis, therapy resistance	NF-kappaB pathway dysregulation, a common driver of therapy resistance in cancer, promotes survival by suppressing apoptosis. While the anti-apoptotic role of NF-kappaB is recognized, the molecular mechanisms underlying this process remain poorly defined. Here, we identify the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF25 as a key mediator of NF-kappaB-dependent apoptosis resistance in renal cell carcinoma cells, enabling evasion of multiple targeted therapies. Mechanistically, RNF25 binds TRIP4 and catalyzes its non-degradative ubiquitination at lysine 135, disrupting TRIP4-p65 interactions. This modification liberates p65 to activate NF-kappaB signaling, upregulating anti-apoptotic effectors (e.g., cIAP2, Bcl-2). We further demonstrate that the NF-kappaB inhibitor BAY11-7082 directly interacts with RNF25, reversing its pro-survival effects and restoring apoptosis sensitivity. Our findings establish RNF25 as a druggable orchestrator of therapy resistance through NF-kappaB pathway modulation and propose pharmacological targeting of RNF25 by BAY11-7082 as a strategy to overcome apoptosis resistance in renal malignancies.
PXD059761	40766212	Selectivity for TP53 signalling drives the mode of action of a highly potent N,O,O-tridentate naphthoquinone-based organo-ruthenium anticancer drug candidate. 	Selectivity for TP53 signalling drives the mode of action of a highly potent N,O,O-tridentate naphthoquinone-based organoruthenium anticancer drug candidate - in vivo plasma	Cancer, In vivo, Metal(arene), Metals in medicine, Mode of Action, Osmium, Ruthenium, Structure-activity relationship	The metallodrug candidate [(3-ethyl-4-oxo-(pyrazolyl)-dihydronaphthalene)(cymene)ruthenium(ii)] (1a) was recently shown to exhibit exceptional antiproliferative activity towards the chemo-resistant SW480 cancer cell line with nanomolar potency. This study was conducted to elucidate the determining parameters of the mode of action of this N,O,O-tridentate organoruthenium compound in vitro and in vivo. Four metal(arenes) based on 3-ethyl naphthoquinone (3-Et-NQ, a) and 3-morpholine naphthoquinone (3-Morph-NQ, b) with ruthenium (1) and osmium (2) were synthesized and characterized. The 3-Morph-NQ ligand increased the solubility of the complexes, but showed a 30-fold reduction in antiproliferative activity compared to the 3-Et-NQ ligand and its complexes served as biologically inactive analogues. The solution reactivity of the four compounds was ligand- and metal-dependent, but they all showed selectivity for amino acids over nucleotides at biologically relevant concentrations. Drug effects were elucidated by proteome profiling at subcellular resolution and showed a pronounced ligand-dependent impact. The 3-Et-NQ containing ruthenium- and osmium(arenes) down-regulated TP53 as a central hub in the perturbation network, connected to down-regulated proliferative MAPK3 signalling. Complex 1a strongly down-regulated TP53 and potently inhibited cell cycle progression at the G2/M phase. Furthermore, 1a was found to disrupt the TP53-DDX3X-p21 signalling axis by direct interaction with DDX3X and loss of p21 expression. The 3-Et-NQ complexes, particularly 1a, showed tumour inhibitory effects in vivo in a CT26 colon carcinoma mouse model, while the 3-Morph-NQ complexes were inactive. Tissue proteome analyses of livers of 1a-treated mice displayed similar stress responses as observed in vitro. Finally, tumour tissue of 1a-treated mice revealed down-regulated EGFR, consistent with the impact on the TP53 signalling axis in vitro.
PXD062540	40767086	Expanding Targeted Instrumentation for Discovery Applications: Complement Reporter Ion Quantification with a Quadrupole-Ion Trap Instrument. 	Complement Reporter Ion Quantification with a Quadrupole-Ion Trap Instrument	Stellar, complement reporter ion, multiplexed shotgun proteomics, quadrupole-ion trap	Proteomic workflows have traditionally been divided into discovery-based and targeted approaches with instrumentation optimized specifically for each. Discovery experiments typically utilize high-resolution analyzers, while targeted workflows rely on the sensitivity and specificity of triple quadrupole systems. Recently, a quadrupole-ion trap instrument (Stellar MS) has demonstrated superior performance for targeted applications compared to conventional triple quadrupoles. In this study, we expand the capabilities of this platform to multiplexed shotgun proteomics using complement reporter ion quantification in an ion trap (iTMTproC). Benchmarking experiments with defined standards show that iTMTproC achieves quantification accuracy and interference reduction comparable to MultiNotch MS(3) on the Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, a dedicated quadrupole-ion trap-Orbitrap tribrid instrument optimized for this purpose. Notably, iTMTproC quantifies slightly more proteins than does MultiNotch MS(3). We further validate this approach through a developmental time-series analysis of frog embryos, obtaining proteomic data nearly indistinguishable from those from MultiNotch MS(3), with slightly increased protein quantification depth. These findings significantly extend the functionality of targeted instrumentation, underscoring the versatility of quadrupole-ion trap systems and providing cost-effective access to highly accurate, multiplexed quantitative shotgun proteomics.
PXD063356	40767769	In Vivo Metabolic Labeling with an Isoprenoid Probe Reveals APOE Allele-Specific Differences in the Prenylome. 	In Vivo Metabolic Labeling with an Isoprenoid Probe Reveals APOE Allele-specific Differences in the Prenylome	APOE3, APOE4, kidney, liver, prenylation, transgenic mice	Prenylation is a ubiquitous process in eukaryotes consisting of the irreversible post-translational modification of proteins through the attachment of a lipophilic isoprenoid moiety to a cysteine residue near their C-terminus. Due to the important functional roles of prenylated proteins, their participation and/or dysregulation has been linked to numerous diseases, including ALS, progeria, cancer, and Alzheimer's disease (AD). In humans, the APOE4 variant is the greatest known genetic risk factor for late-onset sporadic AD with carriers of two E4 alleles having up to 15 times the risk of developing AD. To begin to unravel the potential relationship between protein prenylation, AD, and APOE variants, it is necessary to study whether different APOE genotypes affect protein prenylation systemically. In the work described here, a methodology for metabolic labeling of prenylated proteins in living mice was first developed. It was then applied to humanized mouse strains that carry human APOE3 or APOE4 alleles. Prenylomic profiling revealed that a number of prenylated proteins were present at higher levels in animals harboring the APOE4 gene compared with those with the APOE3 allele, especially in the liver-a major APOE-producing organ. Importantly, some of these proteins have links to AD neuropathology.
PXD058279	40768595	Sex Identification and Species Confirmation in Modern and Archeological Caprine Enamel. 	Part II: Proteomics Target Approach for Taxonomic and Sex Identification in Modern and Archaeological Enamel Caprines	caprines amels, enam, species	Proteomics has become a transformative tool for species and sex determination. This study introduces a novel methodology that integrates amelogenin (Amel) and enamelin (Enam) proteins extracted from the tooth enamel of caprines. Since morphologically, osteological remains of sheep and goats often cannot be easily discriminated, we developed our method on both modern domestic sheep (Ovis aries) and goats (Capra hircus) to establish unique proteomic signatures for each species for sex and species identification. Applying a targeted parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) assay, we validated the sex and species of 8 modern domestic sheep and 6 domestic goats. We then applied the same method to 10 ancient samples dating to the early eighth millennium BC Neolithic period. For sex determination, AmelY peptides were exclusively detected in modern male samples, while AmelX peptides were present in both sexes. Sex determination in 10 Neolithic samples demonstrated 40% males. For species determination, Enam species-specific peptides with single amino acid variations (SAAVs) successfully distinguished the modern caprine species. In the 10 archeological samples, only goat-specific Enam peptides were detected, validating previous zooarcheological results for this assemblage using morphology and mtDNA analysis. Robust peptide intensities and strong statistical correlations between modern and ancient data sets confirm the preservation of these unique markers in caprine enamel, expanding the application of proteomics to modern, archeological, and paleontological samples.
PXD056024	40769161	Metalloproteome Factory: From Crude Extract to Identification of Metalloproteins via 3-Dimensional HPLC-ICP-MS. 	Metalloproteome factory: from crude extract to identification of metalloproteins via 3-dimensional HPLC-ICP-sfMS	HPLC, ICP-MS, metal-free high performance liquid chromatography, metallomics, metalloproteomics, ultra-trace protein analysis	Metalloproteins are essential for a vast array of biological processes in all living organisms. Identification of multiple metalloproteins from native expression ("metalloproteomics") based on a single chromatography has low resolution and/or sensitivity, while classical protein purification lacks the versatility required for purifying multiple proteins for proteomics. We present a new metalloproteomics method based on three dimensions of metal-free liquid chromatography (HPLC) hyphenated online with inductively coupled sector-field mass spectrometry (ICP-sfMS): anion exchange chromatography (AEC) followed by either chromatofocusing (CF) or hydrophobic interaction chromatography (HIC) and finally size exclusion chromatography (SEC). We used this 3D technique to purify naturally abundant metalloproteins from crude extracts mainly from plants but also from bacteria to a quantity and purity sufficient for protein identification and quantification by mass spectrometry (Tims-TOF-MS). Protein mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD056024. Sensitivity and signal/background ratio were sufficient to identify proteins at concentrations <1 nM and total amounts <1 pmol in the final SEC. As shown by application examples, the method can be immediately applied to various biological materials from a large range of organisms without individual optimization for single proteins or organisms. It can thus be used to resolve mechanisms of metal metabolism in various contexts, e.g., metal deficiency, nutrition, toxicity, and detoxification.
PXD066271	40771922	Machine learning analysis of ARVC informed by sodium channel protein-based interactome networks. 	Proteomic analysis of ARVC rat with PKP2 mutation heart	ARVC, Heart, PKP2, Rat	Background: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is an inherited cardiac disorder characterized by sodium channel dysfunction. However, the clinical management of ARVC remains challenging. Identifying novel compounds for the treatment of ARVC is crucial for advancing drug development. Purpose: In this study, we aim to identify novel compounds for treating ARVC. Methods: Machine learning (ML) models were constructed using proteins analyzed from the scRNA-seq data of ARVC rats and their corresponding protein-protein interaction (PPI) network to predict binding affinity (BA). To validate these predictions, a series of experiments in cardiac organoids were conducted, including Western blotting, ELISA, MEA, and Masson staining to assess the effects of these compounds. Results: We first discovered and identified SCN5A as the most significantly affected sodium channel protein in ARVC. ML models predicted that Kaempferol binds to SCN5A with high affinity. In vitro experiments further confirmed that Kaempferol exerted therapeutic effects in ARVC. Conclusion: This study presents a novel approach for identifying potential compounds to treat ARVC. By integrating ML modeling with organoid validation, our platform provides valuable support in addressing the public health challenges posed by ARVC, with broad application prospects. Kaempferol shows promise as a lead compound for ARVC treatment.
PXD061994	40772958	Mass Spectrometry-Based Analysis of Surface Proteins in Staphylococcus aureus Clinical Strains: Identification of Promising k-mer Targets for Diagnostics. 	Tryptic shaving of Staphylococcus aureus	Diagnostic peptides, Staphylococcus aureus, Surface proteins, Tryptic shaving	Surface proteins of Gram-positive bacteria are critical for adherence to host tissues, evasion of the immune system, and interaction with the environment. They can be utilized as biomarkers in diagnostics, for vaccine development, and as therapeutic targets due to their accessibility and role in pathogenicity. If utilized as diagnostic targets, surface biomarkers should be highly conserved across different strains of the pathogen, unique to the species to avoid cross-reactivity, abundantly expressed on the bacterial surface, and accessible to antibodies or detection reagents. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics methods have advanced the studies of surface proteins, often in combination with selective enrichment strategies such as tryptic "shaving". In this study, 11 clinical strains of Staphylococcus aureus underwent tryptic shaving to identify common surface proteins. Further bioinformatics analysis confirmed that these proteins are encoded in the core genome of S. aureus strains and contain species-specific peptides. In silico analysis identified 26 k-mer peptides in 15 surface proteins with structural accessibility to detection agents, making them the ideal targets for molecular diagnostics or as linear epitope targets for vaccine development or therapeutics. Among the identified candidates were known virulence-associated proteins such as PbpA, Sbi, and Asp23-previously studied in the context of vaccines-as well as uncharacterized proteins encoded by the gene loci SAUSA300_1904 and SAUSA300_1685, whose unique and surface-exposed features suggest unexplored diagnostic potential.
PXD058138	40776855	SIMPLEX Enriches Hydrophobic and Lipidated Proteins in Membrane Proteomics Experiments. 	SIMPLEX  enriches  hydrophobic and lipidated proteins in membrane proteomics experiments	Liquid-liquid extraction, domains, membrane-enriched sample, synaptic junctions, synaptosomes, transmembrane proteins	Synaptosomes (Syn) and synaptic junctions (SJ) are key neuronal compartments that have been widely characterized in omics studies to understand neurotransmitter- and signal transduction-related events. While synapses are lipid-rich, multiomics approaches integrating lipids and proteins remain largely underexplored. Liquid-liquid extraction (LLE), commonly used in lipidomics, offers significant potential for multiomics analyses by enabling the extraction of diverse molecular classes from a single sample. However, its impact on protein and phosphoprotein analysis in membrane-enriched samples has not been thoroughly investigated or compared to one-phase extraction methods. In this study, we assessed SIMPLEX (Simultaneous Metabolite, Protein, Lipid Extraction), an LLE-based method, against conventional acetone protein precipitation for mass spectrometry-based protein identification. SIMPLEX proved superior for proteomics and phosphoproteomics of SJ, achieving a 42% enrichment in membrane proteins compared to acetone precipitation. It enriched not only transmembrane proteins but also S-palmitoylated proteins. Enriched phosphoproteins included those with beta-transducin repeats (WD40), Armadillo repeats (ARM), and various transmembrane domains, highlighting the SIMPLEX potential and enhanced performance for multiomics analyses.
PXD065500	40778264	Extracellular vesicles as prospective biological indicators for midgestational placental complications in the mouse. 	Proteomic profiling of extracellular vesicles from Nodal KO and control mouse placentas	EVs, Knockout, Nodal, Placenta	Background: Placental dysfunction is often associated with reproductive complications such as preeclampsia, intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), and preterm birth. Currently, the early diagnosis and intervention of these pathologies remain challenging due to the invasive nature of placental tissue sampling. Liquid biopsies of extracellular vesicles (EVs) released from the placenta have emerged as a prospective minimally invasive diagnostic strategy that could provide insight into the maternal-fetal interface because of the active role EVs play in mediating placental development and function. However, the lack of information on EVs directly from placenta at disease onset has questioned the representativeness of placental EVs as pathological indicators. To address these concerns, this study assessed the accuracy with which tissue-derived D10.5 placental EVs could identify phenotypes exhibited by a reproductively challenged Nodal conditional knockout mouse model at mid-gestation. Method: Implantation sites from female mice with a uterine-specific knockdown of the Nodal gene were examined from D8.5 to D14.5 utilizing histological analysis, Western blotting, and RT-qPCR to characterize their mid-gestational phenotypes. Placental EVs were then isolated from D10.5 placenta using enzymatic digestion, differential centrifugation, filtration, and size-exclusion chromatography. The final EV fractions were concentrated and validated with size analysis, canonical protein markers, and morphology assessment. Differential expression analysis across the EV samples was performed using proteomics and miRNA-Seq. Functional enrichment analysis of dysregulated EV factors was then completed using several gene ontology databases along with a literature review to determine whether placental EVs could indicate the reproductive abnormalities presented by the mutant mice. Results: Uterine-specific deletion of Nodal resulted in IUGR and fetal loss in mutant dams. Decidualization and placentation defects were observed, including thinner decidual and placental tissues, impaired angiogenesis, and an altered junctional zone within the maternal-fetal interface. Bioinformatics analysis of EV cargo identified 31 differentially expressed proteins and 10 miRNAs specifically linked to placental development, oxidative stress, angiogenesis, and immunomodulation. Notably, 15 of these proteins and six of these miRNAs have been previously associated with pregnancy complications, further supporting the prospects of placental EVs as biomarkers for various placental diseases. Conclusion: These findings suggest that placental EVs can reflect compromised placental function and could serve as pathological indicators for the early detection of pregnancy complications. Their potential diagnostic utility could improve maternal and neonatal health outcomes by enabling earlier intervention and monitoring of high-risk pregnancies.
PXD053394	40778476	Maintaining basal B-RAF kinase activity for abscisic acid signaling via reciprocal phosphoregulation of a single serine residue. 	Maintaining Basal B-RAF Kinase Activity and ABA signaling via Single Serine Dephosphorylation and Autophosphorylation	Abscisic acid (ABA), Protein phosphatase 2C(PP2C), Protein phosphorylation, Raf kinase, abiotic stress	The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) regulates plant responses to environmental stresses, development, and immunity. Under unfavorable conditions, ABA forms a complex with its receptor proteins Pyrabactin Resistance 1 (PYR1)/PYR1-likes (PYLs)/Regulatory Component of ABA Receptors (RCARs), inhibiting Clade A Protein Phosphatases Type 2C (PP2Cs) and releasing Sucrose Non-Fermenting-1-Related Protein Kinase 2s (SnRK2s) from PP2C-mediated inhibition. Rapidly Accelerated Fibrosarcoma (RAF) kinases from the B1, B2, and B3 subgroups phosphorylate and reactivate SnRK2s, initiating ABA responses. While ABA does not significantly activate B-RAFs, their basal activity is essential for initiating ABA signaling. However, the mechanisms sustaining this basal B-RAF activity are not fully understood. In this study, we revealed that Clade A PP2Cs interact with and dephosphorylate a certain number of B3 subgroup RAFs at a conserved serine residue, corresponding to Ser619 in RAF3, within the phosphate-binding loop. A phosphomimicking mutation at this residue, RAF3(S619D), failed to bind ATP and exhibited diminished kinase activity in vitro and in vivo. Ser619 in RAF3 is an autophosphorylation site, phosphorylated by recombinant RAF3-KD but not by its substrate SnRK2.6. The RAF3(S619A) mutant, abolishing Ser619 autophosphorylation, displayed increased kinase activity in vitro. The B-RAF high-order mutant OK(100)-B3 carrying RAF3(S619A) showed enhanced ABA sensitivity compared with those with wild-type RAF3. Thus, PP2C-mediated dephosphorylation and the autophosphorylation of this unique serine residue dynamically regulate ATP binding affinity and tightly control RAF3 activity during various ABA signaling phases. This intricate mechanism ensures rapid RAF-SnRK2 cascade activation during stress while promptly desensitizing RAFs once stress signaling commences.
PXD050833	40778924	Pancreatic Cancer Progression Involves Increased Lysyl Oxidase-Mediated Collagen Cross-Links as Part of the Desmoplastic Reaction. 	Lysyl Oxidase Mediated Collagen Cross-linking in Pancreatic Cancer	Collagen, Cross-linked peptide, LOX, Lysyl hydroxylase, N-telo peptide, NTX, PDAC, PLOD, lysyl oxidase, xAAA	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly aggressive and lethal disease characterized by extensive extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and fibrosis. In general, the formation of a desmoplastic stroma is associated with dynamic ECM remodeling and resistance to most standard-of-care treatments, such as conventional chemotherapy. Here, we report on alterations to core ECM and ECM remodeling enzymes, which include significant changes in levels of lysyl hydroxylase and oxidase enzymes that modulate collagen cross-linking reactions. Amino acid analysis and a novel cross-linking proteomics approach were employed to further explore these structural changes, revealing significantly elevated levels of collagen cross-linked products and several type I collagen cross-linked N-terminal telopeptides (NTX). Our findings suggest that these modifications not only enhance tumor stiffness and facilitate cancer cell invasion but also present potential biomarkers for early PDAC detection. This research contributes to the evolving landscape of PDAC treatment strategies, proposing new avenues for therapeutic intervention targeting ECM remodeling.
PXD059100	40780198	PML is crucial for neural stem cell differentiation, stress tolerance and mitochondrial integrity. 	Promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) is a regulator of eNSC differentiation, survival and mitochondrial metabolism.	PML, Stem Cell, eNSC	The tumor suppressor promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) has important roles in brain development; however, the molecular and cellular pathways regulated by PML in neuronal cells remain largely unknown. To address this issue, we analyzed gene expression changes caused by loss of PML in neural stem cells. Our findings revealed that PML-deficient cells exhibited increased mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) pathway activation and protein translation, as well as impaired autophagy and proteasome activity, resulting in increased formation of aggregates and stress-induced death. Loss of PML disrupted mitochondrial integrity, leading to impaired respiration, membrane potential, morphology, and production of increased reactive oxygen species. These mitochondrial defects were caused by diminished PGC-1alpha expression and PPARgamma (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma) signaling and could be reversed using a PPAR agonist. Together, our results indicate that PML is a critical regulator of neuronal survival and protection from stress. We propose that enhancing PML expression may offer therapeutic benefits in neurological disorders.
PXD059908	40781081	Physical and chemical niche of human growth plate for polarized bone development. 	Physical and chemical niche of human growth plate for polarized bone development	Human growth plate, growth plate-epiphysis interface, growth plate-metaphysis interface	Growth plate (GP), a critical cartilaginous structure in amniotes, underpins longitudinal bone growth, yet the intricate mechanisms behind its polarized mineralization during evolution remain unclear. Herein, employing high-resolution analytical techniques, we reveal that the GP-epiphysis interface displays a sharp transition in tissue modulus, acting as a protective shell for the underlying GP, whereas the GP-metaphysis interface exhibits a gradual modulus increase, enabling efficient load redistribution to the metaphysis. This mechanical microenvironment contributes to unique microstructural and compositional transformations from GP to epiphysis and metaphysis. Notably, the GP-epiphysis interface acts as a mineralization inhibition zone while the GP-metaphysis serves as a mineralization promotion zone, orchestrated by a complex network of proteins. Proteins such as secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1) and alpha-2-HS-glycoprotein (AHSG) at the GP-epiphysis interface inhibit mineralization, forming a defense line; while ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) and alkaline phosphatase, biomineralization associated (ALPL), coexisting with SPP1 and AHSG, promote a sequential nucleation and assembly of calcium phosphate minerals at the GP-metaphysis. Such polarized mineralization patterns maintain the homeostasis of GPs and drive polarized bone elongation. Replicating this process in vitro, we synthesize stable amorphous calcium phosphate which shows highly controlled transformation into hydroxyapatite. This work provides a more comprehensive view of the structural integrity of human bone in development and offers strategies for controlled biomineralization.
PXD063082	40783120	Localisation of Organelle Proteins using Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA-LOP). 	Localisation of Organelle Proteins using Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA-LOP)	DDA, DIA, diaPASEF	Subcellular localisation within the proteome fundamentally influences cellular processes, however the development of high-throughput techniques to allow proteome-wide mapping of the cell has proven difficult. Here we present DIA-LOP, an approach capable of high-throughput spatial proteome mapping with in-depth subcellular resolution. This unified framework integrates differential-ultracentrifugation (DC) with ion-mobility-based data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry, alongside data processing using DIA-NN and spatial analysis within the pRoloc bioinformatics pipeline. We obtain the largest DIA-based subcellular proteomics map, with 8242 protein identifications across 13 organellar compartments in U-2 OS cells. Within the same experimental pipeline, we compare DC fractionation with an alternate detergent-based protocol using either DIA or data-dependent acquisition (DDA) mass spectrometry approaches, highlighting the increased subcellular resolution of the DC approach and the increased proteome coverage when DIA is applied. We demonstrate the ability of DIA-LOP to inform clinical studies by identifying and mapping disease related proteins within our osteosarcoma cell model. With impressive coverage and resolution, DIA-LOP provides a straightforward, high-throughput tool for biochemical discovery. This study thus informs potential users of subcellular proteomics strategies that employ biochemical fractionation of the optimal workflows to achieve high proteome coverage and subcellular resolution.
PXD048362	40783394	Wood decay under anoxia by the brown-rot fungus Fomitopsis pinicola. 	Fomitopsis pinicola protein profiles in normoxia and anoxia using fungal solid-state cultures on pine	degradation, enzymes, fungus, lignocellulose, wood decay	Basidiomycete fungi are the main decomposers of dead wood with an impact on the global carbon cycle. Their degradative mechanisms have been well-studied under aerobic conditions. Here, we study their activity in oxygen-depleted environments. We use metaproteomics in a field study to identify active wood-decomposing fungi and their enzymes at different depths from the wood surface, including in oxygen-depleted conditions. In vitro, we observe that the brown-rot fungus Fomitopsis pinicola can grow on wood in complete anoxia. Using (13)C solid-state NMR, we demonstrate the degradation of plant cell-wall polysaccharides and fungal growth in the absence of oxygen. Proteomic analyses reveal that F. pinicola switches from a Fenton chemistry-based process under aerobic conditions to the secretion of plant cell wall-active enzymes in anoxia. Our finding that wood decay fungi can thrive in complete anoxia provides a deeper understanding of lignocellulose degradation mechanisms in nature and raises opportunities for the development of bio-inspired anaerobic processes.
PXD065314	40784449	Dual-specificity mitogen-activated protein kinase kinases can use ADP to phosphorylate MAP kinases in vitro. 	MAP2Ks can activate MAP kinases using ADP in vitro	ADP, MAPK, kinase, phosphorylation	Kinases are a diverse group of enzymes that use ATP to phosphorylate a variety of substrates. Protein kinases evolved in eukaryotes as important mediators of cell signalling that target specific amino acid side chains to modulate downstream protein function. Among them, the MAPKs (mitogen-activated protein kinases) are a family of intracellular protein kinases that form signalling cascades responding to a number of stimuli, that control fundamental mechanisms such as proliferation, differentiation, inflammation and cell death. Signals propagate through consecutive kinases which eventually phosphorylate and activate a MAPK. Here, we show that the dual specificity threonine/tyrosine MAP kinase kinases (MAP2Ks or MEKs) are able to phosphorylate and activate their substrate MAPKs using ADP as well as ATP in vitro. As the pathways are involved in the stress response, we speculate that it would represent an advantage to be able to maintain signalling under conditions such as hypoxia, that occur under a number of cell stresses, including cancer and atherosclerosis, where the available pool of ATP could be depleted.
PXD057289	40784452	Inflammasome-independent IL-1beta activation via staphopain A protease of Staphylococcus aureus. 	Inflammasome-independent IL-1beta activation via staphopain A protease of Staphylococcus aureus	Interleukin-1beta, NLRP1, Staphylococcus aureus, inflammasome, keratinocytes, microbial proteases, staphopain A	Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is a pivotal mediator of innate immunity, essential for orchestrating the acute inflammatory response. While the canonical activation of IL-1beta involves cleavage of its inactive precursor (pro-IL-1beta) by the inflammatory cysteine protease caspase-1, certain bacterial proteases, such as those secreted by group A Streptococcus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, can also activate pro-IL-1beta. In this study, we demonstrate that infection of human N/TERT-1 immortalized keratinocytes by Staphylococcus aureus induces IL-1beta processing independently of the classical inflammasome pathways. Biochemical analysis reveals that a secreted factor from S. aureus cleaves pro-IL-1beta at a site proximal to the canonical caspase-1 cleavage site, rendering the cytokine bioactive. Specifically, we identify the secreted cysteine protease staphopain A as responsible for this cleavage. Our findings highlight a novel mechanism of inflammasome-independent IL-1beta activation through microbial proteases, expanding the understanding of pathogen-host interactions in immune responses, specifically in the skin.
PXD055467	40784490	Decreased LONP1 expression exacerbates MASH-induced liver fibrosis via elevated orotic acid levels. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of liver from LONP1 Knockout mice	LONP1, hepatic stellate cell, liver fibrosis, orotic acid	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Identifying the metabolic targets driving liver fibrosis in metabolic-dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is essential for developing effective preventive therapies. However, the metabolic pathways dysregulated in MASH and the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Lon peptidase 1 (LONP1), a mitochondrial protease, is known for its pivotal role in maintaining mitochondrial protein quality surveillance and performing highly regulated proteolytic reactions. This study aims to explore the precise mechanisms by which LONP1 links proteolytic surveillance to mitochondrial metabolic rewiring in liver fibrosis. METHODS: We used murine liver fibrosis models, a hepatocyte-specific LONP1 knockout mouse model, and liver biopsies from MASH patients. Transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics were used to identify the potential metabolites that promote MASH-induced liver fibrosis. RESULTS: LONP1 expression was reduced in patients and mice with MASH. Hepatocyte-specific LONP1 deficiency results in dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) accumulation, elevated orotic acid levels, and aggravated MASH-induced fibrosis. Conversely, the overexpression of LONP1 or the administration of a DHODH inhibitor reduced orotic acid levels and alleviated MASH-induced liver fibrosis in mice. Mechanistically, LONP1 was shown to degrade DHODH selectively in an ATP-dependent manner, thus lowering orotic acid levels and suppressing the activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3)-mediated activation of hepatic stellate cells. These findings were validated in MASH patients, as plasma orotic acid levels correlated negatively with hepatic LONP1 levels and positively with both the expression of fibrotic genes and fibrosis scores. CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate that the LONP1-DHODH interaction regulates orotic acid metabolism and alleviates MASH-induced liver fibrosis. IMPACT AND IMPLICATIONS: Liver fibrosis is one of the main histological determinants of MASH, a disease that parallels the worldwide surge in metabolic syndromes. This study reveals that LONP1 links proteolytic surveillance to mitochondrial metabolic rewiring and regulates orotic acid metabolism, contributing to the progression of MASH-induced liver fibrosis. These findings suggest that targeting orotic acid or hepatocyte LONP1 may represent a promising therapeutic strategy. Further investigation into mitochondrial orotic acid metabolism may yield novel insights into the pathogenesis of liver fibrosis.
PXD052755	40785592	YTHDF2 regulates ACSL4-dependent ferroptosis of keratinocytes in diabetic wound healing. 	HaCaT ACSL4mRNA probe pull-down MS	Diabetes (B/D-HPP), HaCaT ACSL4mRNA pull-down MS, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Delayed diabetic wound healing is a global health issue with unclear pathogenesis. Ferroptosis, a form of cell death involving iron and lipid peroxidation, may contribute to delayed diabetic wound. This study investigates the role of ferroptosis in diabetic wound keratinocytes. We measured lipid peroxidation products (MDA, 4-HNE), ACSL4, and GPX4 protein levels in diabetic keratinocytes and assessed mitochondrial morphology. Ferrostatin-1 (Fer-1) was used to inhibit ferroptosis in diabetic rat wounds, and its effects on healing and expression levels were evaluated. Pull-down assays, silver staining, and mass spectrometry were employed to study ACSL4 mRNA regulation. A YTHDF2 knockdown adenovirus was used to manipulate YTHDF2 expression in rat wounds. Ferroptosis was detected in diabetic keratinocytes, hindering wound healing, a process reversible with Fer-1. High glucose induced ACSL4 expression, driving keratinocyte ferroptosis and delayed healing. YTHDF2 interacts with N6-Methyladenosine-modified ACSL4 mRNA, affecting its stability and expression. YTHDF2 knockdown increased ACSL4, promoting ferroptosis and impairing healing. Our findings illustrate the significant involvement of ferroptosis in the dysfunction of diabetic keratinocytes, suggesting that targeting ferroptosis may offer a viable therapeutic approach for improving diabetic wound healing.
PXD037702	40787326	Exoproteome Profiling Reveals Increased Secretion of Adhesins and Proteases by to Facilitate Host Colonization and Immune Modulation. 	Differentially expressed extracellular proteins of Leptospira under the physiological conditions of infection	Extracellular proteins, LC-MS/MS analysis, Leptospirosis, Zoonotic disease	Leptospirosis, a re-emerging zoonotic disease, is challenging human and animal health due to the lack of early and rapid diagnostic tools and effective vaccines. The exoproteome of the pathogen expressed under pathogenic conditions possesses a rational diagnostic significance due to its consistent presence in body fluids. were challenged to conditions simulating infection using physiological temperatures and osmolarity. Using state-of-the-art extraction techniques, efficient enrichment of nonabundant proteins, and high-resolution LC-MS/MS, we identified 1575 exoproteins from both the pathogen surface and culture supernatant. The results indicate a significant upregulation of 155 exoproteins, of which 41 were predicted to have moonlighting properties, 35 were identified as adhesins, and several proteins were components of the type 2 secretion system (T2SS). Additionally, 10 proteins showed extracellular matrix (ECM) binding properties, out of which 4 orthologs were found using the T2SS. The overall characteristics of upregulated proteins show that they can help Leptospira establish infection, invasion, and protection from the host defense, thereby providing new insights into the pathogen to confront the host via an increased energy level, secretion system, and host ECM binding molecules. Furthermore, the study suggests potential candidates for efficient antileptospiral countermeasures.
PXD066497	40787760	Neuropeptides in the Extracellular Space of the Mouse Cortex Measured In Vivo by Nanodialysis Probe Coupled with LC-MS. 	Neuropeptides in the Extracellular Space of the Mouse Cortex Measured by In Vivo Nanodialysis Probe	DDAPASEF, PRM-PASEF, in vivo sampling, neuropeptides	Neuropeptides are key neuromodulators in the central nervous system that shape sensory processing, yet their extracellular dynamics in the somatosensory cortex (S1) remain poorly understood. This study applies an innovative membrane-free silicon nanodialysis (ND) probe coupled with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) to analyze the extracellular neuropeptidome in the mouse S1 with spatial resolution down to 100 microm. Localized in vivo sampling identified extracellular peptides from secretogranin-1, ProSAAS, pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), and others. Minimal tissue damage, enabled by probe dimensions of 75 x 15 microm(2), resulted in an absence of structural peptides in the dialysate indicating low intracellular contamination. Many detected secretory peptides correlated with strong local mRNA expression; however, the detection of POMC-derived peptides, despite negligible local expression, suggests long-distance peptide transport or extracellular processing. To expand peptide identification, a discovery-to-targeted peptidomic approach was developed, revealing 46 peptides from 24 proteins in dialysate samples, including 10 proteins with low local expression. Complementary S1 tissue analysis confirmed POMC peptides and showed that 17% of 304 prohormone-derived peptides had low local expression. These results uncover a complex extracellular peptide landscape shaped by both local and long-distance signaling. By overcoming the limitations of traditional microdialysis, this approach advances the understanding of neuropeptide signaling in cortical function.
PXD060919	40787835	Toward a Species Search Engine: KISSE Offers a Rigorous Statistical Framework for Bone Collagen Tandem Mass Spectrometry Data. 	Towards a species search engine: KISSE offers a rigorous statistical framework for bone collagen tandem mass spectrometry data	Collagen, Species Identification	DNA and bone collagen are two key sources of resilient molecular markers used to identify species from their remains. Collagen is more stable than DNA, and thus it is preferred for ancient and degraded samples. Current mass spectrometry-based collagen sequencing approaches are empirical and lack a rigorous statistical framework. Based on the well-developed approaches to protein identification in shotgun proteomics, a first approximation of the species search engine (SSE) is introduced. SSE named KISSE is based on a species-specific library of collagenous peptides that uses both peptide sequences and their relative abundances. The developed statistical model can identify the species and the probability of correct identification, as well as determine the likelihood of the analyzed species not being in the library. The advantages and limitations of the proposed approach, and the possibility of extending it to other tissues is discussed.
PXD059213	40789880	Mannose-B from Codonopsis pilosula modulates LAMB1 expression to enhance trophoblast function and alleviate subchorionic hematoma. 	Illumina NovaSeq 6000 Mannose-B from Codonopsis Pilosula Modulates LAMB1 Expression to Enhance Trophoblast Function and Alleviate Subchorionic Hematoma	Codonopsis Pilosula, Laminin Subunit Beta 1, Mannose-B, Network Pharmacology, Subchorionic Hematoma, Trophoblast Cells	This study investigates the active component Mannose-B from Codonopsis pilosula and its effect on human trophoblast cell function, particularly focusing on the regulation of Laminin Subunit Beta 1 (LAMB1) expression and its implications in subchorionic hematoma (SCH). Key genes involved in SCH pathology were identified through RNA sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. Network pharmacology was utilized to screen active components in Codonopsis pilosula and their critical targets. In vitro, HTR-8/Svneo cells were used to assess proliferation, migration, and invasion through CCK8, Transwell, and cell migration assays. A SCH rat model was established to evaluate changes in coagulation parameters, litter size, fetal viability, and fetal and placental weights. In vivo validation of Mannose-B's effects on LAMB1 expression and SCH pathology was performed using RT-qPCR and Western Blot. Network pharmacology and molecular docking identified Mannose-B as a potentially active compound in Codonopsis pilosula, with LAMB1 as a significant predicted target. In vitro experiments suggested that Mannose-B may promote HTR-8/Svneo cell proliferation, migration, and invasion by downregulating LAMB1 expression. In vivo experiments showed a reduction in placental LAMB1 expression and partial improvement in SCH-related pathological features. Mannose-B from Codonopsis pilosula may alleviate SCH progression by modulating LAMB1 expression and enhancing trophoblast cell function. However, these findings remain preliminary and require further investigation to confirm the underlying mechanisms and clinical relevance.
PXD059178	40790042	CRISPR screening reveals that RNA helicase DDX41 triggers ribosome biogenesis and cancer progression through R-loop-mediated RPL/RPS transcription. 	CRISPR screening reveals that RNA helicase DDX41 triggers ribosome biogenesis and cancer progression through R-loop-mediated RPL/RPS transcription	DDX41, R-loop structure, RPL/RPS, protein synthesis rate, ribosome biogenesis	The RNA helicase DDX41 is a DEAD-box helicase that is well known as a virus sensor in dendritic cells and a tumor suppressor that is frequently mutated in myeloid neoplasms. However, the functions and relevance of DDX41 in solid tumors remain largely unexplored. In this study, through in vivo CRISPR screening, we demonstrate that DDX41 is highly expressed in various solid tumor types and promotes tumorigenicity in liver cancer. Mechanistically, DDX41 facilitates R-loop processing and accelerates the transcription of RPL/RPS genes, thereby promoting ribosome biogenesis and protein synthesis. Additionally, we show that the acetyltransferase KAT8 is required for H3K9ac modification of the DDX41 promoter and that NR2C1/NR2C2 are responsible for DDX41 expression. Moreover, elevated DDX41 levels increase liver cancer cell sensitivity to protein synthesis inhibitors; treatment with homoharringtonine (HHT), an approved drug, significantly inhibits tumor growth in DDX41-overexpressing liver cancer models. Taken together, the results of this study highlight that DDX41 acts as an oncogene in liver cancer and suggest that protein synthesis inhibition may be a promising therapy for liver cancers with high DDX41 expression.
PXD064701	40790917	Toward the Development of a Novel Newborn Screening Modality: In-Depth Nontargeted Proteome Analysis of Dried Blood Spots with a Robotic Pipeline Using Low-Cost Iron Powders. 	Development of non-targeted proteome analysis of dried blood spots using an automated protein extraction system (	automated protein extraction, dried blood spots, non-targeted proteome analysis	We developed a simple protein extraction method for dried blood spots (DBS) that potentially meets the throughput required for newborn screening (NBS) and optimizes nontargeted proteomic analysis in combination with liquid chromatography coupled mass spectrometry in the data-independent-acquisition mode (DIA-LC-MS/MS). The developed pipeline, termed Non-targeted Analysis of Non-specifically DBS-Absorbed proteins (NANDA), successfully addressed the following three challenges: (1) processing of 96 3.2 mm DBS punches in parallel using low-cost iron powders with a robotic system, (2) identifying more than 5,000 proteins using DIA-LC-MS/MS, and (3) improving DIA-LC-MS/MS throughput to 45 samples/day with minimal compromise in protein coverage depth. The results imply that this pipeline can open new venues for conducting NBS using nontargeted quantitative proteome profiling, which has been a missing modality in NBS.
PXD065702	40795616	Two opposing redox signals mediated by 2-cys peroxiredoxin shape the redox proteome during photosynthetic induction. 	Two opposing redox signals mediated by 2-Cys peroxiredoxin shape the redox proteome during photosynthetic induction	2-Cys peroxiredoxins, LC-MS, Redox proteomics, SPEAR, photosynthesis induction, redox signaling	Photosynthetic induction, characterized by the lag in CO2 assimilation rates during transition from darkness to light, has traditionally been attributed to Rubisco activase activity and stomatal opening. Yet, the faster induction of photosynthesis in the 2-Cys peroxiredoxins (Prxs) mutant (2cpab) suggested a role for oxidative signals in regulating photosynthetic rates, although the underlying molecular mechanism remains unclear. SPEAR, a redox proteomics approach, was used to systematically map redox changes occurring during photosynthesis induction and to unravel the role of 2-Cys Prxs in shaping these redox alterations. No significant difference was observed in protein expression levels between WT and 2cpab plants, suggesting that protein abundance does not account for the 2cpab phenotype. During the transition from dark to low light, 82 and 54 cysteine-containing peptides were reduced or oxidized, respectively, in WT plants. Most redox-regulated cysteines in photosynthetic proteins were found oxidized in the dark and became reduced in response to light. A reverse pattern was observed among redox-regulated cysteines in proteins involved in starch degradation and chloroplast glycolysis, which shifted from a reduced to an oxidized state in response to light. These findings demonstrate the initiation of two opposing redox responses, affecting distinct sets of metabolic proteins during the induction phase. Remarkably, a significantly lower number of cysteines were reduced or oxidized in 2cpab plants, highlighting the crucial role 2-Cys Prxs play in shaping both signals. Taken together, rotational shifts between metabolic pathways during the photosynthesis induction phase are regulated by two opposing redox signals mediated by 2-Cys Prx activity.
PXD055905	40796245	Evidence for Functional Regulation of the KLHL3/WNK Pathway by O-GlcNAcylation. 	O-GlcNac Mapping of WNK4 KLHL3 using LC-MS-EThCD, Boyce Lab Duke Univ	glcnac, lumos	The 42-member Kelch-like (KLHL) protein family are adaptors for ubiquitin E3 ligase complexes, governing the stability of a wide range of substrates. KLHL proteins are critical for maintaining proteostasis in a variety of tissues and are mutated in human diseases, including cancer, neurodegeneration, and familial hyperkalemic hypertension. However, the regulation of KLHL proteins remains incompletely understood. Previously, we reported that two KLHL family members, KEAP1 and gigaxonin, are regulated by O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc), an intracellular form of glycosylation. Interestingly, some ubiquitination targets of KEAP1 and gigaxonin are themselves also O-GlcNAcylated, suggesting that multi-level control by this post-translational modification may influence many KLHL pathways. To test this hypothesis, we examined KLHL3, which ubiquitinates with-no-lysine (WNK) kinases to modulate downstream ion channel activity. Our biochemical and glycoproteomic data demonstrate that human KLHL3 and all four WNK kinases (WNK1-4) are O-GlcNAcylated. Moreover, our results suggest that O-GlcNAcylation affects WNK4 function in both osmolarity control and ferroptosis, with potential implications ranging from blood pressure regulation to neuronal health and survival. This work demonstrates the functional regulation of the KLHL3/WNK axis by O-GlcNAcylation and supports a broader model of O-GlcNAc serving as a general regulator of KLHL signaling and proteostasis.
PXD062851	40796368	Library-free data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry enables comprehensive coverage of the cyanobacterial proteome. 	DIA-MS workflows for cyanobacterial proteomics	Cyanobacteria, DIA-MS, Synechococcus	Cyanobacteria have played a leading role in elucidating the fundamental mechanisms behind oxygenic photosynthesis, carbon fixation, the circadian clock, and phototaxis. Such molecular processes rely on proteins at their core. Thus, proteomics has become an indispensable tool in building our understanding of these processes. Amongst the proteomic approaches used, "shotgun proteomics", where complex protein mixtures are enzymatically digested into peptides and analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, has become the go-to technique for whole-proteome analysis. In this study, we introduce shotgun workflows that excel in speed, throughput, and sensitivity, and allow an in-depth description of the cyanobacterial proteome. The main features of these workflows are the improvement of sample cleanup and digestion through single-pot solid phase-enhanced sample preparation (SP3), the adoption of a previously validated trifluoroacetic acid lysis strategy, and the application of library-free data-independent acquisition. Using the established model organism Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942, we show that these workflows exhibit high quantitative reproducibility and enable the detection of 83% to 85% of all open reading frames, the greatest single-shot coverage achieved so far for a cyanobacterium. These workflows require only a couple of hours of hands-on time and should be applicable to most, if not all, cyanobacterial species. Together with the rapid advancements in mass spectrometry technologies, this work has the potential to accelerate cyanobacterial proteomics.
PXD062047	40796740	The long non-coding RNA RSDR protects against acute kidney injury in mice by interacting with hnRNPK to regulate DHODH-mediated ferroptosis. 	RSDR, a Novel Potential Biomarker, Protects Against AKI by Interacting with hnRNPK to Regulate DHODH-Mediated Ferroptosis	Acute kidney injury, Biomarker, DHODH, Ferroptosis, hnRNPK, lncRNA	Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a serious clinical condition whose underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here we identify a long non-coding RNA, RSDR, as a critical regulator of renal protection in AKI. RSDR interacts with the RNA-binding protein hnRNPK, forming a positive feedback loop that enhances the transcription of DHODH, a key ferroptosis-suppressing gene. Mechanistically, RSDR promotes the nuclear retention of hnRNPK and facilitates epigenetic activation of DHODH, thereby limiting ferroptosis in renal tubular epithelial cells. In vivo overexpression of RSDR attenuates ferroptosis and preserves renal function in male mice during AKI. Clinically, urinary RSDR levels are significantly reduced in patients with AKI, and machine learning analysis suggests potential utility in disease detection. These findings highlight RSDR as a central regulator of ferroptosis and provide mechanistic insights into lncRNA-mediated tubular protection in AKI.
PXD063479	40797101	D-cysteine impairs tumour growth by inhibiting cysteine desulfurase NFS1. 	D-Cysteine impairs tumour growth by inhibiting cysteine desulfurase NFS1	Cancer, amino acid, iron homeostasis., iron-sulfur cluster, iron-sulfur protein biogenesis	Selective targeting of cancer cells is a major challenge for cancer therapy. Many cancer cells overexpress the cystine/glutamate antiporter xCT/CD98, an L-cystine transport system that strengthens antioxidant defences, thereby promoting tumour survival and progression. Here, we show that the D-enantiomer of cysteine (D-Cys) is selectively imported into xCT/CD98-overexpressing cancer cell lines and impairs their proliferation, particularly under high oxygen concentrations. Intracellular D-Cys specifically inhibits the mitochondrial cysteine desulfurase NFS1, a key enzyme of cellular iron-sulfur protein biogenesis, by blocking sulfur mobilization due to steric constraints. NFS1 inhibition by D-Cys affects all cellular iron-sulfur cluster-dependent functions, including mitochondrial respiration, nucleotide metabolism and maintenance of genome integrity, leading to decreased oxygen consumption, DNA damage and cell cycle arrest. D-Cys administration diminishes tumour growth of human triple-negative breast cancer cells implanted orthotopically into the mouse mammary gland. Hence, D-Cys could represent a simple therapy to selectively target those forms of cancer characterized by overexpression of xCT/CD98.
PXD048710	40799620	Silk-Ovarioids: establishment and characterization of a human ovarian primary cell 3D-model system. 	Establishment and characterization of a 3D model culture system of primary human ovarian cells: Silk-Ovarioids	3d model, ovaroids	STUDY QUESTION: What is the best protocol to establish a long-term stable three-dimensional (3D) model for human primary ovarian cells? SUMMARY ANSWER: We developed and characterized long-term cultured 3D models of primary ovarian somatic cells isolated from adult tissues, using Biosilk as a scaffold. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: In vitro models that mimic ovaries are crucial for elucidating the biological mechanisms underlying follicle activation and growth, hormonal activity, ovarian angiogenesis, damage in response to toxic exposures, and other biological mechanisms that enable the functionality of this complex organ. Three-dimensional systems are particularly relevant because they replicate heterogeneity and cell-cell communication among different ovarian cell types. However, complex models using human ovarian primary cells are yet to be developed. STUDY DESIGN SIZE DURATION: Ovarian tissue samples were collected from five patients (age 26 +/- 5 years) who underwent gender-affirming surgery. The cortex and medulla were separated and dissociated into single-cell suspensions using mechanical and enzymatic methods. Three approaches were tested to establish a 3D model culture system: matrix-free ovarian spheroids (MFOS), a Matrigel-based three-layer gradient system (3LGS), and Biosilk scaffolds (Silk-Ovarioid). In parallel, paired controls from each patient and ovarian area were cultured in a standard 2D system for the same duration. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS SETTING METHODS: The 3D culture systems were monitored every second day to detect signs of aggregation and growth. Freshly fixed tissue, as well as 2D- and 3D-cultured samples were further processed for transcriptomic profiling after 42 days of culture using RNA sequencing. The culture of the 3D system was further characterized, regarding its protein profile and steroid and cytokine production, through proteomics and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and the Luminex platform, respectively. The key findings from the high-throughput assays were finally validated through RNA fluorescent in situ hybridization (RNA-FISH) and immunofluorescence staining. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: The 3D model systems MFOS (n = 120) and 3LGS (n = 18) failed to form aggregates capable of long-term maintenance in culture (MFOS: maximum of 15 days for both cortex and medulla; 3LGS: maximum of 11 days for medulla only). In contrast, we successfully established ovarian cortex- and medulla-derived 3D systems using Biosilk, termed Silk-Ovarioids (n = 120). Silk-Ovarioids were maintained for up to 42 days as free-floating culture without any signs of cell death, as confirmed by the absence of TUNEL, gamma-H2A.X, and cleaved caspase 3 fluorescent signals. The presence of key ovarian somatic cell types, including granulosa, stromal, endothelial, and perivascular cells, was confirmed by transcriptomics and proteomics in the majority of Silk-Ovarioids. Validation through RNA-FISH and immunostaining was performed using the following markers: AMHR2 for granulosa cells, PDGFRalpha for stromal cells, CLDN5 and GPIHBP1 for endothelial cells, GJA4/Cx37 and MCAM for perivascular cells. Notably, Silk-Ovarioids exhibited the formation of a pro-angiogenic hypoxic core, as evidenced by the transcriptomic and proteomic data and visualized by the expression of hypoxia markers MMP2 and PDGFRbeta. This hypoxic environment led to development of vessel-like structures after 4-6 weeks of culture, which were positive for the angiogenic markers TGFBR2, BMP2, and PDGFalpha. The functionality of Silk-Ovarioids was further confirmed by the identification of de novo extracellular matrix secretion (Col1alpha1 and Lamalpha1), and by the detection of pro-angiogenic cytokines (e.g. IL-6, IL-8, and GM-CSF) and steroids (e.g. pregnenolone and epitestosterone) in the culture media. LARGE SCALE DATA: The RNA-sequencing count matrix is deposited in Gene Expression Omnibus with accession number GSE253571. Raw data are deposited in Swedish National Data Service with the DOI https://doi.org/10.48723/h8cm-bs19. Single-cell RNA-seq data have been downloaded from the ArrayExpress database at EMBL-EBI with the accession codes 'E-MTAb - 8381'. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD048710. The code used for the analysis can be found in https://github.com/tialiv/Silk-Ovarioid_project. LIMITATIONS REASONS FOR CAUTION: The ovarian samples were collected from patients undergoing androgen treatment, raising the concern that androgen exposure may alter the behavior of cells in Silk-Ovarioids compared to those derived from androgen-unstimulated patients. Furthermore, the cell culture media used in this study were supplemented with fetal bovine serum and did not contain any supplements or growth factors that could be essential for the resemblance of Silk-Ovarioids to the tissue of origin. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: The Silk-Ovarioids exhibited low intra-batch variability and long-term culture stability, underscoring their potential as a robust step toward developing a bioengineered, patient-specific artificial ovary. In addition, Silk-Ovarioids could be utilized as the first ovarian angiogenesis in vitro model, function as biological scaffold for in vitro folliculogenesis, and be used for toxicological and pharmacological studies targeting the ovaries. STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTERESTS: This study was funded by: a research grant from the Center for Innovative Medicine (CIMED) at Karolinska Insitutet; European Union's Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Programme (project ERIN no. 952516); a Horizon Europe grant (NESTOR, grant no. 101120075) of the European Commission; the Swedish Research Council for Sustainable Development FORMAS (2018-02280, 2020-01621); StratRegen Funding from Karolinska Institute, Swedish Research Council VR (grant no. 2020-02132); Swedish Childhood Cancer Fund (Reference PR2017-0044, PR2020-0096); Estonian Research Council (grant no. PRG1076); Swedish Research Council (grant no. 2024-02530); Novo Nordisk Foundation (grant no. NNF24OC0092384); European Union's H2020 project Sinfonia (no. 857253) (INL research); and SbDToolBox, with reference NORTE-01-0145-FEDER-000047, supported by Norte Portugal Regional Operational Programme (NORTE 2020), under the PORTUGAL 2020 Partnership Agreement, through the European Regional Development Fund (INL research). The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
PXD060321	40802754	Structures of MmpL complexes reveal the assembly and mechanism of this family of transporters. 	cryo-EM study of Mycolicibacterium smegmatis  membrane protein MmpL5S5	Mycolicibacterium smegmatis, membrane protein	We coexpressed the mycobacterial membrane protein large 5 (MmpL5) transporter and MmpS5 adaptor proteins in Mycobacterium smegmatis and defined their structures from detergent-solubilized crude membranes. We observed that MmpL5 presents as a monomer in complex with the cytosolic meromycolate extension acyl carrier protein M (AcpM), where these AcpM-MmpL5 complexes generate regular two-dimensional arrays. We also provide structural information to show that M. smegmatis MmpL5 assembles as a trimer that interacts with MmpS5 and AcpM to form the tripartite complex AcpM-MmpL5-MmpS5 that spans both the inner and outer membranes of the mycobacterium. In addition, we found that MmpL5 and AcpM are able to form the trimeric AcpM-MmpL5 complex. The structural data reveal that the full-length MmpL5 trimer is capable of spanning the entire mycobacterial cell envelope to transport substrates. However, this assembly requires the presence of MmpS5 to stabilize secondary structural features of the MmpL5 periplasmic subdomains.
PXD061173	40804100	In vivo crosslinking and effective 2D enrichment for proteome wide interactome studies. 	In vivo crosslinking and effective 2D enrichment for interactome studies of the nucleosome.	DDX39B, DSBSO, XL-MS, affinity enrichment	Cross-linking mass spectrometry has evolved as a powerful technique to study protein-protein interactions and to provide structural information. Low reaction efficiencies, and complex matrices lead to challenging system wide crosslink analysis. We improved and streamlined an Azide-A-DSBSO based in vivo crosslinking workflow employing two orthogonal effective enrichment steps: Affinity enrichment and size exclusion chromatography (SEC). Combined, they allow an effective enrichment of DSBSO containing peptides and remove the background of linear as well as mono-linked peptides. We found that the analysis of a single SEC fraction is effective to yield ~90% of all crosslinks, which is important whenever measurement time is limited, and sample throughput is crucial. Our workflow resulted in more than 5000 crosslinks from K562 cells and generated a comprehensive PPI network. From 393 PPI found within the nucleus, 56 are novel. We further show, that by applying DSBSO to nuclear extracts we yield more crosslinks on lower abundant proteins and showcase this on the DEAD-box RNA helicase DDX39B which is predominantly expressed in the nucleus. Our data indicates that DDX39B might be present in monomeric and dimeric forms together with DDX39A within the nuclear extracts analyzed.
PXD057536	40804162	Cell type-specific in vivo proteomes with a multicopy mutant methionyl tRNA synthetase mouse line. 	Cell type-specific in vivo proteomes with a multicopy mutant methionyl tRNA synthetase mouse line	ANL, BONCAT, cell-type specificity, click chemistry, cortex, dopaminergic neurons, excitatory neurons, in vivo, low input, metabolic label, nascent proteome, olfactory bulb, protein synthesis	The functional diversity of cells is driven by the different proteins they express. While improvements in protein labeling techniques have enabled the measurement of proteomes with increased sensitivity, measuring cell type-specific proteomes in vivo remains challenging. One of the most useful pipelines is bio-orthogonal noncanonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) with the MetRS* system, consisting of a transgenic mouse line expressing a mutant methionyl-tRNA synthetase (MetRS*) controlled by Cre recombinase expression. This system allows cell type-specific labeling of proteins with a noncanonical amino acid (azidonorleucine, ANL), which can be subsequently conjugated to affinity or fluorescent tags using click chemistry. Click-modified proteins can then be visualized, purified and identified. The reduction in sample complexity enables the detection of small changes in protein composition. Here, we describe a multicopy MetRS* mouse line (3xMetRS* mouse line) that exhibits markedly enhanced ANL protein labeling, boosting the sensitivity and temporal resolution of the system and eliminating the need for working under methionine depletion conditions. Cell type-specific in vivo labeling is possible even in heterozygous animals, thus offering an enormous advantage for crossing the line into mutation and disease-specific backgrounds. Using the 3xMetRS* line, we identified the in vivo proteome of a sparse cell population-the dopaminergic neurons of the olfactory bulb-and furthermore determined newly synthesized proteins after short labeling durations following a single intraperitoneal ANL injection.
PXD062119	40804719	Higher induction temperatures and the native secretion signal peptide promote rye prolamin 75k gamma-secalin production in Komagataella phaffii. 	Higher induction temperatures and the native secretion signal peptide promote rye prolamin 75k gamma-secalin production in Komagataella phaffii	ERAD, Komagataella phaffii, Secale cereale, UPR, gluten, prolamin, secretion signal peptides	BACKGROUND: Gluten proteins from wheat, rye, and barley play a substantial role in human nutrition. At the same time, they can trigger several different immune reactions. This, together with their influence on the quality of grain products and their emerging role as biomaterials, makes them an interesting target for further study. The proteins' propensity for aggregation challenges heterologous eukaryotic production systems. The yeast Komagataella phaffii has demonstrated excellent qualities as a production host for heterologous proteins and was therefore investigated as a platform strain. RESULTS: A gene coding for the rye (Secale cereale) prolamin 75k gamma-secalin was cloned and inserted into K. phaffii; protein expression was verified via mass spectrometry and immunoblotting and quantified via ELISA. Different parameters were investigated regarding their effect on target protein production and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis, including the induction temperature and co- and post-translational import into the ER. At 28degreesC, the cells produced 1.69-fold more 75k gamma-secalin than at 20degreesC. The introduction of the MATalpha-pro-region, in conjunction with either the MATalpha-pre- or OST1-pre-signal, led to significantly lower 75k gamma-secalin accumulation, 0.20- and 0.18-fold, respectively. No mutant showed significant changes in the unfolded protein response compared to a non-producing strain. CONCLUSIONS: K. phaffii is a suitable host for prolamin production. The absence of a significant unfolded protein response during 75k gamma-secalin expression indicates little challenge of ER-homeostasis by the aggregation-prone protein. It underscores K. phaffii's imminent role in protein production. The significantly decreased protein yield through the common protein secretion leader component MATalpha-pro demonstrates the need for further investigation into the role of secretion signals in optimizing K. phaffii as a production platform for repetitive, aggregation-prone proteins.
PXD065199	40806398	Temporal and Sex-Dependent N-Glycosylation Dynamics in Rat Serum. 	LC-MS/MS-based label-free protein quantification from protein G-bound and unbound fractions of papain-digested IgG 	Fab, Fc, IgG, rat	We conducted systematic glycomic and glycoproteomic profiling to characterize the dynamic N-glycosylation landscape of rat serum, with particular focus on sex- and time-dependent variations. MALDI-TOF-MS analysis revealed that rat serum N-glycans are predominantly biantennary, disialylated complex-type structures with extensive O-acetylation of Neu5Ac residues, especially in females. LC-MS/MS-based glycoproteomic analysis of albumin/IgG-depleted serum identified 87 glycoproteins enriched in protease inhibitors (e.g., serine protease inhibitor A3K) and immune-related proteins such as complement C3. Temporal analyses revealed stable sialylation in males but pronounced daily fluctuations in females, suggesting hormonal influence. Neu5Gc-containing glycans were rare and mainly derived from residual IgG, as confirmed by glycomic analysis. In contrast to liver-derived glycoproteins, purified IgG exhibited Neu5Gc-only sialylation without O-acetylation, underscoring distinct sialylation profiles characteristic of B cell-derived glycoproteins. Region-specific glycosylation patterns were observed in IgG, with the Fab region carrying more disialylated structures than Fc. These findings highlight cell-type and sex-specific differences in sialylation patterns between hepatic and immune tissues, with implications for hormonal regulation and biomarker research. This study provides a valuable dataset on rat serum glycoproteins and underscores the distinctive glycosylation features of rats, reinforcing their utility as model organisms in glycobiology and disease research.
PXD064338	40811546	Mitochondria protect against an intracellular pathogen by restricting access to folate. 	Mitochondria drive a folate-based immunity against an intracellular pathogen	TMT, mitochondria	As major consumers of cellular metabolites, mitochondria are poised to compete with invading microbes for the nutrients that they need to grow. Whether cells exploit mitochondrial metabolism to protect from infection is unclear. In this work, we found that the activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) activates a mitochondrial defense based on the essential B vitamin folate. During infection of cultured mammalian cells with the intracellular pathogen Toxoplasma gondii, ATF4 increased mitochondrial DNA levels by driving the one-carbon metabolism processes that use folate in mitochondria. Triggered by host detection of mitochondrial stress induced by parasite effectors, ATF4 limited Toxoplasma access to folates required for deoxythymidine monophosphate synthesis, thereby restricting parasite growth. Thus, ATF4 rewires mitochondrial metabolism to mount a folate-based metabolic defense against Toxoplasma.
PXD062039	40812684	Mechanisms of Activation and Serotonin release from Human Enterochromaffin Cells. 	Peptidomics of sorted TPH1 positive cells	Peptidomics, enterochromafin cells	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Gastrointestinal (GI) enterochromaffin (EC) cells are specialised sensors of luminal stimuli. They secrete most of the body's serotonin (5-HT), and are critical for modulating GI motility, secretion, and sensation, while also signalling satiety and intestinal discomfort. The aim of this study was to investigate mechanisms underlying the regulation of human EC cells, and the relative importance of direct nutrient stimulation compared with neuronal and paracrine regulation. METHODS: Intestinal organoids from human duodenal biopsies were modified using CRISPR-Cas9 to specifically label EC cells with either the fluorescent protein Venus or the cAMP sensor Epac1-S-H187. EC cells were purified by fluorescence-activated cell sorting for analysis by bulk RNA sequencing and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry peptidomics. The function of human EC cells was studied using single cell patch clamp, calcium and cAMP imaging and 5-HT ELISA assays. RESULTS: Human EC cells showed expression of receptors for nutrients (including GPR142, GPBAR1, GPR119, FFAR2, OR51E1, OR51E2), gut hormones (including SSTR1,2&5, NPY1R, GIPR) and neurotransmitters (ADRA2A, ADRB1). Functional assays revealed EC responses (calcium, cAMP and/or secretion) to a range of stimuli, including bacterial metabolites, aromatic amino acids and adrenergic agonists. Electrophysiological recordings showed that isovalerate increased action potential firing. CONCLUSIONS: 5-HT release from EC cells controls many physiological functions and is currently being targeted to treat disorders of the gut-brain axis. Studying ECs from human organoids enables improved understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying EC cell activation, which is fundamental for the development of new strategies to target 5-HT-related gut and metabolic disorders.
PXD064573	40812732	Increased EThcD efficiency on the hybrid Orbitrap Excedion Pro Mass Analyzer extends the depth in identification and sequence coverage of HLA class I immunopeptidomes. 	Increased EThcD efficiency on the hybrid Orbitrap Excedion Pro Mass Analyzer extends the depth in identification and sequence coverage of HLA class I immunopeptidomes	EThcD, immunopeptidomics	Gaining a complete and unbiased understanding of the non-tryptic peptide repertoire presented by HLA-I complexes by LC-MS/MS is indispensable for therapy design for cancer, autoimmunity and infectious diseases. A serious concern in HLA peptide analysis is that the routinely used, collision-based fragmentation methods (CID/HCD) do not always render sufficiently informative MS2 spectra, whereby gaps in the fragmentation sequence coverage prevent unambiguous assignments. EThcD can be utilized to generate complementary ion series, i.e. b/y ions and c/z ions, resulting in richer, more informative MS2 spectra, thereby filling in the gaps. Here, we present data generated on a novel hybrid Orbitrap mass spectrometer, facilitating fast and efficient hybrid fragmentation due to the implementation of EThcD in the ion routing multipole. We hypothesized that this would enable more comprehensive and less error-prone analysis of immunopeptidomes at minimal costs in duty-cycle. First, we optimized ETD/EThcD methods using an elastase-digested cell lysate, as this contains peptides of similar length and charge distributions to immunopeptides. Next, we compared HCD and EThcD on immunopeptidomes originating from three cell lines with distinct HLA-I complexes that present peptides with varying physicochemical properties. We demonstrate that the new instrument not only enables efficient and fast ETD reactions, but when combined with collision-based supplemental activation, i.e. EThcD, also consistently increases the sequence coverage and identification of peptide sequences, otherwise missed by using solely HCD. We reveal several of the biochemical properties that make HLA peptides preferably identifiable by EThcD, with internal Arg residues being one of the most dominant determinants. Finally, we demonstrate the power of EThcD for the identification and localization of HLA peptides harboring post-translational modifications, focusing here on HLA Arg mono-/di-methylation. We foresee that this new instrument with efficient EThcD capabilities enhances not only immunopeptidomics analysis, but also analysis of peptides harboring post-translational modifications and de novo sequencing.
PXD053174	40816420	A novel hybrid high speed mass spectrometer allows rapid translation from biomarker candidates to targeted clinical tests using 15N labeled proteins. 	A novel hybrid high speed mass spectrometer allows rapid translation from biomarker candidates to targeted clinical tests using 15N labeled proteins	15N labeling, plasma, targeted Proteomics	Recent developments in affinity binder or mass spectrometry (MS)-based plasma proteomics are now producing panels of potential biomarker candidates for diagnosis or prognosis. However, clinical validation and implementation of these biomarkers remain limited by the reliance on dated triple quadrupole MS technology. Here, we evaluate a novel hybrid high-speed mass spectrometer, Stellar MS, which integrates the robustness of triple quadrupoles with the enhanced capabilities of an advanced linear ion trap analyzer. This instrument allows for extremely rapid and sensitive parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) and MS3 targeting. The Stellar MS allowed targeting thousands of peptides originally measured on Orbitrap Astral MS, achieving high reproducibility and low coefficients of variation (CV) as well as sensitivity and specificity sufficient for many of the top 1000 plasma proteins. Furthermore, we developed targeted assays for alcohol-related liver disease (ALD) biomarkers, showcasing the potential of Stellar MS in clinical applications. Absolute quantification is typically a requirement for clinical assays and we explore the use of (15)N labeled protein standards in a rapid, streamlined and generic manner. Our results indicate that the Stellar MS can bridge the gap between proteomics discovery and routine clinical testing, enhancing the diagnostic and prognostic utility of protein biomarkers.
PXD058422	40818532	Detection and quantitation of small proteins using mass spectrometry. 	Detection and quantitation of small proteins using mass spectrometry	PRM, escherichia coli, orbitrap eclipse, top-down	Small proteins or microproteins, despite long being ignored, have important roles in the regulation of larger protein complexes, metabolic pathways and gene expression. However, these proteins remain underrepresented in proteomics studies due to low detection efficiency in traditional mass spectrometry workflows. Their inherent characteristics often lead to depletion during sample preparation and a low detection efficiency in liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). To improve detection and quantitation, we took advantage of the large set of documented small proteins in Escherichia coli and systematically compared and optimized different sample preparation and LC-MS approaches. We evaluated different top-down and bottom-up approaches, including data-dependent acquisition (DDA), data-independent acquisition (DIA) and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). Our data highlight the benefit of top-down proteomics for identifying new small proteins and bottom-up preparation coupled with PRM acquisition for quantitation of protein levels in different growth conditions. Our systematic comparison can serve as a guideline for MS detection of small proteins in all organisms.
PXD051852	40818533	Global proteomics reveals distinct muscle adaptations to menstrual cycle phase-based sprint interval training in endurance-trained females. 	Global proteomics reveals distinct muscle adaptations to menstrual cycle phase-based sprint interval training in endurance-trained females 	Menstrual Cycle, Muscle, Training	Advances in mass-spectrometry (MS)-based technologies have leveraged our understanding of protein-wide adaptations in human skeletal muscle in response to exercise. However, there is a lack of such data in females, particularly pertaining to already trained females and menstrual cycle phase-based sprint interval training (SIT) despite its efficacy and popularity. Here, we present a comprehensive global proteome analysis of skeletal muscle adaptations to high-frequency SIT during different menstrual cycle phases in endurance-trained females. We randomized 49 eumenorrheic females to either high-frequency SIT in the follicular (FB) or luteal phase (LB) over one menstrual cycle comprising eight sessions of 6x30-s all-out efforts. MS-proteomics, covering 4155 proteins after filtering, revealed notable differences in muscle adaptations to phase-based SIT. LB suppressed mitochondrial pathways of the tricarboxylic acid cycle and electron transport chain while enriching ribosomal complexes. Conversely, FB enriched filament organization and skeletal system development. Mitochondrial repression during LB was linked to reduced V.O2max, whereas exercise capacity improved in FB only. Our findings show that menstrual cycle phase-based high-frequency SIT induces distinct protein-wide muscle adaptations and affects phenotype in endurance-trained eumenorrheic females. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT04136457.
PXD057512	40819088	A functionally tunable magnetic nanochains platform for N-glycoproteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles from ultratrace biofluids. 	Tandem proteomic and N-glycoproteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles	N-glycopeptides, asthenospermia (AZS), biofluid, extracellular vesicles (EVs), seminal plasma	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) carry complex glycoproteins critical mediators of disease progression and hold great potential for liquid biopsy applications. However, their low abundance presents significant analytical challenges. This study develop a versatile platform for EV N-glycoproteomic analysis (EVGpro), which enables tandem EV capture, EV protein digestion, and enrichment of N-glycopeptides. Functionalized magnetic nanochains with cell-penetrating peptides (octa-arginine, R8) enable efficient EV isolation, followed by on-chain hydrolysis to expose PEG2000 for ultrasensitive glycopeptide enrichment. The streamlined EVGpro platform identified up to 17 times more EV glycoproteins than ultracentrifugation across seven biofluids, profiling 398 EV glycoproteins from just 1 muL tear. Applied to seminal plasma, EVGpro uncover disease-specific glycoprotein signatures and identified previously unreported subtypes of asthenozoospermia. This robust and scalable approach advances the sensitive detection of disease biomarkers and molecular subtypes from diverse biofluids to enable precision medicine.
PXD056753	40819122	The pathogenicity and multi-organ proteomic profiles of Mpox virus infection in SIVmac239-infected rhesus macaques. 	Multi-organ Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Profiles of Mpox Virus Infection in SIVmac239-infected Rhesus Macaques	Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), monkeypox virus (MPXV), multiple organs, phosphoproteome, rhesus macaques, skin lesion	Mpox poses a heightened risk of severe disease and mortality among individuals with HIV, yet the molecular mechanisms and immunopathology underlying multi-organ damage caused by the mpox virus (MPXV), particularly in the context of HIV co-infection, remain poorly understood. Here, we observe increased MPXV replication, more extensive skin lesions, and impaired humoral and cellular immune responses in SIV-MPXV co-infected rhesus macaques compared to those infected with MPXV alone. Multi-organ proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses reveals upregulation of proteins involved in immune and inflammatory pathways in skin lesions and across multiple organs, especially in immune-related tissues. Abnormal activation of DNA replication and cell cycle signaling pathways, which may contribute to enhanced viral replication, is evident in both MPXV and SIV-MPXV co-infected groups. CDK4/6 may present a potential therapeutic target to suppress MPXV replication. These comprehensive proteomic datasets offer valuable insights into the pathogenesis of MPXV in the context of SIV co-infection and support ongoing efforts to mitigate the impact of mpox.
PXD063392	40821666	Anion exchange chromatography-based purification of plant-derived nanovesicles from Brassica oleracea L.: molecular profiling and bioactivity in human cells. 	Anion Exchange Chromatography-Based Purification of Exosomes from Brassica oleracea L.	Brassica, Proteins, Vescicle	Plant-derived nanovesicles emerge as a promising alternative to mammalian-derived exosomes with distinct advantages, including lower immunogenicity, enhanced bioavailability, and the presence of bioactive plant metabolites. They have been shown to cross biological barriers, delivering therapeutic molecules that modulate gene expression, inflammation, oxidative stress, and cancer-related pathways. However, challenges remain that limit applicative use, including poor knowledge of their interactions with mammalian host cells and primarily the lack of a cost-effective and scalable method to obtain highly purified plant-derived nanovesicles. To address these limitations, we have developed an advanced purification platform that integrates ultrafiltration with anion exchange chromatography in a fast protein liquid chromatography system. This approach was validated using it in the isolation of plant-derived nanovesicles from Brassica oleracea L. seedlings, resulting in highly purified and concentrated preparations. Comprehensive molecular analyses, including proteomics, lipidomics, metabolomics, and miRNA profiling, characterized the nature of the purified plant-derived nanovesicles. Furthermore, their wound healing and anti-inflammatory properties were demonstrated in vitro and correlated to the potential biological activities of cargo miRNAs species by bioinformatics, highlighting the potential in nanomedicine of anion exchange-purified brassica nanovesicles. This study provides a scalable and efficient purification strategy, which might pave the way for broader applications of plant-derived nanovesicles in the clinical, nutraceutical and pharmaceutical fields.
PXD061246	40822901	Mitochondrial hyper-acetylation induced by an engineered acetyltransferase promotes cellular senescence. 	mitochondria SILAC-LC-MS/MS for eMAT substrates	SILAC, acetylated lysine, eMAT, mitochondria	Protein acetylation plays crucial roles in diverse biological functions, including mitochondrial metabolism. Although SIRT3 catalyzes the removal of acetyl groups in mitochondria, the addition of the acetyl groups is thought to be primarily controlled in an enzyme-independent manner due to the absence of potent acetyltransferases. In this study, we developed an engineered mitochondria-localized acetyltransferase, named engineered mitochondrial acetyltransferase (eMAT). eMAT localized in the mitochondrial matrix and introduced robust global protein lysine acetylation, including 413 proteins with 1,119 target lysine residues. Notably, 74% of the acetylated proteins overlapped with previously known acetylated proteins, indicating that the eMAT-mediated acetylation system is physiologically relevant. Functionally, eMAT negatively regulated mitochondrial energy metabolism, inhibited cell growth, and promoted cellular senescence, suggesting that mitochondrial hyper-acetylation drives metabolic inhibition and cellular senescence. SIRT3 counteracted eMAT-induced acetylation and metabolic inhibition, restored cell growth, and protected cells from senescence, highlighting the contribution of SIRT3 in maintaining energy metabolism and preventing cellular senescence.
PXD058022	40823811	RECQ5 mediates pre-rRNA processing in nucleolus. 	RECQ5 mediates pre-rRNA processing in nucleolus	Pre-ribosomal RNA, RNA helicase, nucleolus	RECQ5 is a member of the RECQ helicase family that maintains genomic stability. However, the molecular mechanism of RECQ5 in this biological process remains elusive. Here, we show that RECQ5 localizes in the dense fibrillar component of nucleolus and associates with several pre-rRNA processing factors. It recognizes pre-rRNA and is able to unwind double-stranded RNA in vitro. Loss of RECQ5 induces the accumulation of 47S, 30SL5', and 30S pre-rRNA, and the reduction of 21S pre-rRNA, suggesting that it regulates the processing of pre-rRNA. Cancer-associated mutations of RECQ5 abolish its nucleolar localization as well as its helicase activities. Moreover, lacking RECQ5 leads to the unprocessed pre-rRNA hybridizing with rDNA, triggering the R-loop formation and ATR activation. Since both RECQ5 and ATR protect genomic stability in nucleolus, suppression of RECQ5 sensitizes tumor cells to the ATR inhibitor treatment. Collectively, this study reveals that RECQ5 plays a crucial role in pre-rRNA processing and ribosomal DNA (rDNA) stability.
PXD028571	40823812	Internal ribosome entry sites enhance translation in trans in antisense non-coding SINEUP and circular RNAs. 	Internal Ribosome Entry Site RNAs act in trans through an antisense sequence	SINEUPs, binding domain, circ5533, pxk	Sequences in the 5'-untranslated regions of cellular and viral mRNAs can function as internal ribosome entry sites (IRESs), driving cis-acting translation of the downstream protein-coding open reading frame. Here we demonstrate that RNA sequences with either newly identified or well-characterized IRES activity can also induce trans-acting translation of an independent mRNA species through an antisense sequence. SINEUPs are antisense long non-coding RNAs that enhance the translation of overlapping sense mRNAs in trans by employing two critical domains: the invSINEB2 sequence, which up-regulates translation (effector domain), and an antisense region providing target specificity (binding domain). First, we show that the invSINEB2 from the natural SINEUP AS Uchl1 RNA acts as an IRES when functioning in cis. Next, we establish that known viral and cellular sequences with IRES activity can operate in trans as an effector domain in synthetic SINEUPs. To identify natural IRES-containing non-coding RNAs with transactivity, we found that the non-coding hsa_circ_0 085 533 (circMyc), transcribed from the c-myc locus, enhances protein expression of PX Domain Containing Serine/Threonine Kinase Like (PXK) by promoting mRNA association with polysomes through antisense sequences. These results suggest that SINEUPs and some circular RNAs are trans-acting IRESs, expanding the repertoire of molecular mechanisms to regulate translation.
PXD061302	40824304	Multiple golgins are required to support extracellular matrix secretion, modification, and assembly. 	Golgin knockouts alter extracellular matrix secretion	Extracellular matrix, Golgin, secretion	The secretion of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins is vital to the maintenance of tissue health. One major control point of this process is the Golgi apparatus, whose dysfunction causes numerous connective tissue disorders. We therefore sought to investigate the role of two Golgi organizing proteins, GMAP210 and Golgin-160, in ECM secretion. CRISPR knockout of either protein had distinct impacts on Golgi organization, with Golgin-160 knockout causing Golgi fragmentation and vesicle accumulation, and GMAP210 loss leading to cisternal fragmentation, dilation, and the accumulation of tubulovesicular structures. Both golgins were required for fibrillar collagen organization and glycosaminoglycan synthesis suggesting nonredundant functions in these processes. Furthermore, proteomics analysis revealed both shared and golgin-specific changes in the secretion of ECM proteins. We therefore propose that golgins are collectively required to create the correct physical-chemical space to support efficient ECM protein secretion, modification, and assembly. This is the first time that Golgin-160 has been shown to be required for ECM secretion.
PXD062854	40825508	REIIBP methylates nucleolar proteins and regulates pre-rRNA processing. 	Immunoprecipitation (IP)-mass spectrometry analysisin of REIIBP in Hela cells	Human cells, LC-MS, REIIBP	NSD2 (nuclear receptor binding SET domain protein 2) gene encodes a short isoform, REIIBP (interleukin-5 [IL-5] response element II binding protein), via alternative transcription initiation. It is particularly overexpressed in t(4;14)+ multiple myeloma (MM). However, the biological functions of REIIBP remain elusive. Here, we show that REIIBP localizes at the dense fibrillar component (DFC) of the nucleolus. The disordered regions of REIIBP recognize pre-ribosomal RNA (pre-rRNA), which mediates the nucleolar localization of REIIBP. Proteomic analyses reveal that REIIBP is associated with many pre-rRNA processing factors, and mediates lysine methylation on a set of pre-rRNA processing factors. Moreover, REIIBP dysregulates pre-rRNA processing, mediated by both disordered regions and the SET domain, and ultimately affects ribosome biogenesis. Collectively, these findings uncover the role of REIIBP in the regulation of ribosome biogenesis, which may drive the pathological process in MM.
PXD037062	40825573	X-Ray Irradiation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa Induces Biogenesis of Outer-Inner Membrane Vesicles With Potential as a Vaccine Against Acute Pneumonia. 	Proteomics analysis of the membrane vesicles in Pseudomonas aeruginosa under X-ray irradiation	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, X-ray irradiation, membrane vesicles, proteomics analysis	Many bacteria produce extracellular vesicles (EVs) that play critical roles in various biological processes and hold significant potential for biomedical applications. However, the mechanisms underlying EV biogenesis remain incompletely understood. Using transmission electron microscopy, we demonstrate that X-ray irradiation induces outward blebbing of the inner membrane in Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 (P. aeruginosa PAO1), leading to the formation of outer-inner membrane vesicles (OIMVs) through outer membrane pinching-off. The endolysin Lys, which is negatively regulated by PrtR and positively regulated by PrtN, is essential for OIMV production. Lys translocates into the periplasmic space, where it disrupts the peptidoglycan layer, causing morphological changes from rod-shaped to round cells and facilitating OIMV release. Furthermore, deletion of YciB, a protein crucial for inner membrane integrity, significantly increases OIMV production. In a murine model of acute pneumonia, OIMV immunisation significantly improves pulmonary bacterial clearance, reduces lung injury and enhances survival rates. Our findings reveal inner membrane blebbing as a novel mechanism of OIMV biogenesis in P. aeruginosa PAO1 under X-ray irradiation and highlight the potential of OIMVs as promising vaccine candidates against P. aeruginosa infections.
PXD048149	40825952	Deciphering the role of MFGE8 in lactation using CRISPR-CAS9 based gene editing in Buffalo mammary epithelial cells. 	Deciphering the role of MFGE8 in lactation biology using CRISPR-CAS9 based gene editing in Buffalo mammary epithelial cells	CRISPR-CAS9, MFGE8, lactation biology	Milk fat globule EGF factor 8 (MFGE8) is a glycoprotein which plays a crucial role in mammary gland remodeling. Our group previously identified MFGE8 as a marker associated with high milk yielding cows. Here, we generated MFGE8 knock-out buffalo mammary epithelial cells (BuMEC) via CRISPR-cas9 technology to decipher its role in lactation. gRNA3 reduced MFGE8 expression with good efficiency which was confirmed at transcriptomic and proteomic level and the stable knock-out cells obtained were named mfge8-/-/gRNA3. The amplicon sequencing of the edited region using next generation sequencing (NGS) showed that 54% of total reads showed indels, 3-4 bp upstream to PAM site in 2nd exon. A total 4282 proteins were identified when proteome level changes were examined and 178 were found to be differentially expressed above and below a threshold of >= 1.5 and <= 0.6. Major DEPs were found to be associated with regulation of hydrolase activity, endopeptidase activity and cytoskeletal organization and some DEPs including FABP3, FABP4, FABP5, KNG1, MT2A, CD82, SLC7A1 and SERPINH1 belonged to genes associated with milk synthesis. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study which provides a comprehensive proteome profile of MFGE8 knockout BuMEC and explores downstream effects of disruption of MFGE8 gene.
PXD066224	40826002	Proteogenomic characterization of invasive breast tumors in young women. 	Proteogenomic characterization of invasive breast tumors in young women	Breast cancer, laser microdissection, proteogenomics	Breast cancer in women <40, accounting for ~5% of all breast cancer cases diagnosed in the U.S., is more aggressive and associated with worse outcomes compared to breast cancer in older women. We performed a first-ever integrated proteogenomic study from a matched cohort of laser-microdissected tumors of 34 young (<40 years) and 34 older (>=60 years) women to identify molecular features that may underlie the worse outcomes in young women. Progression-free interval was shorter in young women, and their tumors were enriched for more aggressive molecular subtypes. Our multi-omic analysis identified distinct clusters between age groups in luminal but not basal-like cancers. Notably, GATA3 mutations were enriched in luminal tumors from young women while TP53 and PIK3CA mutations were more common in luminal tumors from older women. Young women's tumors exhibited lower estrogen receptor (ER) expression yet paradoxically enhanced ER response pathways and increased expression of tamoxifen-resistance-associated genes (IRS1, FERMT1). Immune pathway activity and immune scores were lower in tumors from young women, whereas proliferative and MYC pathways were notably elevated, identifying potential therapeutic targets. Transcriptomic data from TCGA and METABRIC confirmed our findings, with 10 of 11 observed pathways corroborated. Finally, differential expression of four immune-related surface proteins also suggested the potential of age-specific responses to immune-based therapies. Together, these findings may contribute to the understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying worse outcomes in young women and offer new insight to therapeutic strategies.
PXD051939	40826070	In depth characterisation of the proteome of MIS-C and post COVID-19 infection in children reveals inflammatory pathway activation and evidence of tissue damage. 	Plasma proteomics of Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children	Plasma	BACKGROUND: Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) is a rare but severe complication that arises between two and six weeks after initial SARS-CoV-2 infection. The mechanisms underlying why only a subset of children develop this hyperinflammatory response remain unclear. METHODS: We performed an in-depth proteomic analysis of plasma samples from children before and after SARS-CoV-2 infection, including those who developed MIS-C. Proteomic profiling was conducted using high-throughput technologies, and findings were validated using publicly available datasets. RESULTS: Healthy children showed minimal changes in the circulating proteome following SARS-CoV-2 infection, with no evidence of ongoing inflammation. In contrast, children with MIS-C exhibited significant activation of pro-inflammatory pathways and elevated circulating markers of myocardial and vascular injury. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that SARS-CoV-2 infection alone does not cause sustained proteomic alterations in most children. However, MIS-C is associated with a distinct inflammatory and vascular injury signature. Several candidate diagnostic biomarkers for MIS-C were identified and validated in silico, offering promising avenues for future diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.
PXD067060	40826370	TDP-43 pathology is associated with divergent protein profiles in ALS brain and spinal cord. 	TDP-43 pathology is associated with divergent protein profiles in ALS brain and spinal cord	TDP-43, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, brain, spinal cord, tissue	Neuronal and glial cytoplasmic inclusions positive for TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) are the defining pathological hallmark of 97% of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 50% of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). The ALS-FTD clinicopathological spectrum variably involves cortical and spinal anterior horn cell pathology. The broader protein composition of these inclusions is of major importance to understanding pathogenesis, clinical heterogeneity and biomarker development. This study examined the proteome associated with TDP-43 inclusions in ALS, using mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of spinal cord and cerebral cortex from donors with phosphoTDP-43 positive ALS (n = 16), alpha-synuclein positive Parkinson's disease (PD, n = 8), phosphotau and beta-amyloid positive Alzheimer's disease (AD, n = 8) and age matched non-neurological controls (n = 8), comparing ALS with non-ALS conditions, spinal cord with cerebral cortex samples, and detergent-soluble with -insoluble fractions. Increased abundance of TDP-43 in the detergent-insoluble fraction of ALS cortex and spinal cord tissue confirmed disease-specific protein enrichment by serial fractionation. The most striking alterations between ALS and other conditions were found in the detergent-insoluble fraction of spinal cord, with predominant enrichment of endosomal and extracellular vesicle pathways. In the cortex mitochondrial membrane/envelope and ion transmembrane transport pathways were enriched in the detergent-insoluble fraction. RNA/DNA metabolic processes (in spinal cord) versus mitochondrial and synaptic protein pathways (in cortex) were upregulated in the detergent-soluble fraction of ALS cases and downregulated in the insoluble protein fraction. Whilst motor cortex and spinal cord may not optimally reflect disease-specific pathways in AD, in PD a significant enrichment of alpha-synuclein in the detergent-insoluble fraction of spinal cord was found. Among proteins concordantly elevated in the detergent-insoluble fractions of spinal cord and cortex, there was greater representation of proteins encoded by ALS-associated genes, specifically Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1, valosin containing protein and TDP-43 (odds ratio 16.34, p = 0.002). No significant increase in TDP-43 interacting proteins was observed in either detergent-soluble or -insoluble fractions. Together, this study shows a divergence in the composition of proteins associated with TDP-43 positive detergent-insoluble inclusions between spinal cord and cerebral cortex. A common upregulation of proteins encoded by ALS-causing genes implicates their role in the pathogenesis of the ALS-FTD spectrum of diseases beyond TDP-43. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD067060.
PXD066223	40828036	TLR9-Driven S-Palmitoylation in Dendritic Cells Reveals Immune and Metabolic Protein Targets. 	TLR9-Driven S-Palmitoylation in Dendritic Cells Reveals Immune and Metabolic Protein Targets	Dendritic cells., S-palmitoylation, TLR9	Dendritic cells (DCs) rely on Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) to detect unmethylated CpG motifs in microbial DNA, triggering essential immune responses. While the downstream signaling pathways of TLR9 activation are well characterized, their impact on S-palmitoylation is unknown. S-palmitoylation, involving the reversible attachment of palmitic acid to cysteine residues, plays a crucial role in regulating protein function and is catalyzed by the ZDHHC family of palmitoyl-acyltransferases (PATs). In this study, we investigated the S-palmitoylated proteome of bone marrow-derived GM-CSF DCs (GM-DCs) at resting and following TLR9 activation with CpGB. Using the click-chemistry-compatible analog 17-octadecynoic acid (17-ODYA) and mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics, we characterized dynamic remodeling of S-palmitoylation in response to TLR9 activation. This included enrichment of targets involved in immune and metabolic pathways. Transcriptomic analysis of mice and human DCs revealed TLR9-driven modulation of PAT-encoding genes. Subsequently, we explored the contribution of Zdhhc9 expression to the regulation of S-palmitoylation in DCs. Using gene knockout approaches, we identified candidate protein targets potentially linked to ZDHHC9 activity. Interestingly, modulation of Zdhhc9 expression alone did not influence DC maturation, suggesting that other PATs might compensate for its activity. Together, our findings reveal a novel layer of regulation in TLR9 signaling mediated by S-palmitoylation.
PXD063673	40829696	Mining the plasma proteome: Evaluation of enrichment methods for depth and reproducibility. 	Comparison of deep plasma proteome enrichment methods	EVs, EnrichPlus, MagNet, Proteograph, enrichment, plasma, timsTOF	Plasma is a complex biological fluid containing extracellular vesicles (EVs), residual platelets, and soluble proteins. While conventional plasma proteomics typically identifies hundreds of proteins, recent enrichment strategies have expanded coverage to thousands. It is still unclear whether these methods enrich preferentially different classes of protein and whether they allow for reliable quantification. Here, we compared three common advanced proteomic workflows-Proteograph (Seer), Mag-Net (ReSynBio), and ENRICHplus (PreOmics) as well as EV enrichment obtained by centrifugation. We explore the content in soluble proteins, EV cargo, and platelet-derived proteins after the enrichments. Quantification was evaluated comparing each method to neat plasma using protein coefficient of variation and point-biserial correlation. We quantified an average of ~4500 proteins with EV centrifugation, ~4000 with Seer, ~2800 with ENRICHplus, ~2300 with Mag-Net, and ~ 900 with neat plasma. Each method enriched distinct sets of protein signatures: EV preparations were enriched with EV markers such as CD81; ENRICHplus predominantly captured lipoproteins; and Proteograph was enriched for cytokines and hormones. . Platelet protein intensity was directly correlated with total protein identifications but did not compromise quantification of low-abundance proteins. Across 50 healthy individuals, Proteograph consistently demonstrated reproducible enrichment and depletion patterns, with some reported exceptions. Our results highlight the strengths and biases of different plasma enrichment strategies. SIGNIFICANCE: This study benchmarks corona formation strategies for enriching low-abundance plasma proteins, including those from platelets and EVs. While enabling deeper proteome coverage compared to depletion methods, these approaches also reshape the intensity landscape and reveal method-specific patterns in protein class enrichment and in quantification repeatability.
PXD055509	40829852	Saliva Versus All-Site Microbiome and Proteome Mapping in Periodontitis. 	Comparative Proteomic Signatures in Periodontitis: Saliva, Gingival Crevicular Fluid (GCF), Plaque, vs. Serum	GCF, Periodontitis, Saliva, serum	AIM: Saliva is a diagnostic surrogate for microbial and host biomarkers in periodontitis, but whether it reflects subgingival plaque, gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) or serum remains debated. This study profiled GCF and subgingival plaque from all sites of periodontitis patients, comparing them to saliva and serum. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Saliva, serum, subgingival plaque and GCF were obtained from three patients with stage III, grade C periodontitis, having 23, 25 and 27 teeth, respectively, with six sites sampled per tooth. All plaque and GCF samples were pooled per patient. Shotgun sequencing and mass spectrometry proteomics were used for microbiome and proteome analysis, respectively. RESULTS: Totally 277 microbial taxa were collectively identified in saliva and plaque, 93 of which were differentially abundant between the two. Saliva exhibited higher overall species diversity, but lower periodontal pathogen abundance. A total of 1153 host proteins were identified (saliva: 803; GCF: 932; serum: 195) across the three biological fluids, with 685 shared among saliva and GCF and 109 among all three. Saliva contained slightly fewer proteins than GCF, but shared several common immune, metabolic and enzyme regulation pathways. CONCLUSION: Saliva is effective for broad microbiome and proteome screening; whereas plaque delivers greater precision in identifying specific periodontal pathogens directly associated with a periodontal pocket.
PXD063650	40830093	Integrative proteogenomic characterization of Wilms tumor. 	Proteomic and phospho-proteomic raw data of Wilms tumor tissue and normal adjacent kidney tissue.	Homo sapiens, Proteome and phospho-proteome, Wilms tumor	Wilms tumor (WT), the most common pediatric renal malignancy, exhibits a relatively low mutational burden compared to adult cancers, which hinders the development of targeted therapies. To elucidate the molecular landscape of WT, we perform integrative proteomic, phosphoproteomic, transcriptomic, and whole-exome sequencing analyses of WT and normal kidney tissue adjacent to tumor. Our multi-omics approach uncovers prognostic genetic alterations, distinct molecular subgroups, immune microenvironment features, and potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Proteome- and transcriptome-based stratification identifies three molecular subgroups with unique signatures, correlating with different histopathological subtypes and putative cellular origins at different stages of embryonic kidney development. Notably, we identify EHMT2 as a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target associated with epigenetic regulation and Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. In this work, we provide a comprehensive molecular characterization of WT, offering valuable insights into its pathogenesis and a foundational resource for future therapeutic development.
PXD063833	40830346	Serological proteomic characterization for monitoring liver fibrosis regression in chronic hepatitis B patients on treatment. 	Serological paroteomic biomarkers for monitoring liver fibrosis regression in on-treatment hepatities b patients	Human Proteome Project, Plasma (B/D-HPP), ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), hepatitis b plasma PRM-MS	Longitudinal serological proteomic dynamics during antiviral therapy (AVT) in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients with liver fibrosis remain poorly characterized. Here, using four-dimensional data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (4D-DIA-MS), paired liver biopsy (LBx)-proven serum samples from 130 CHB liver fibrosis patients undergoing short-term (78 weeks) or long-term (260 weeks) AVT are analyzed. Our findings show that prolonged AVT drives progressive serological proteomic remodeling in fibrosis regressors, characterized by a temporal inversion in the activation of the complement and coagulation cascades. Using machine learning algorithms trained on the 4D-DIA-MS discovery cohort, we develop a logistic regression model incorporating a seven-protein panel for short-term AVT and a three-protein panel for long-term AVT, respectively, both of which demonstrate moderate discriminatory capabilities for fibrosis regression. Subsequent external validation in an independent cohort (n = 54) with serial LBx assessments at baseline, 78 weeks, and 260 weeks, where serological proteins are quantified using parallel reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (PRM-MS), further confirms their generalizability. Furthermore, our longitudinal trajectory analysis highlights that the long-term proteomic signature exhibits greater stability compared to the short-term panel. This study proposes and validates duration-adapted serological proteomic panels as non-invasive tools for monitoring histological fibrosis regression in on-treatment CHB patients.
PXD062800	40830366	Insights into type IX secretion from PorKN cogwheel structure bound to PorG and attachment complexes. 	Near atomic structure of the PorKN rings, disulfie bonded to PorG and bound to the Attachment Complexes, provide mechanistic insights into the Type IX Secretion System	porphyromonas gingivalis, type 9 secretion system	The Type IX Secretion System exports proteins across the outer membrane (OM) of bacteria in the Bacteroidota phylum, however, the mechanistic details remain unknown. In Porphyromonas gingivalis the core components of the multi-protein complex are the Sov translocon, Attachment Complexes (PorQ, U, V, Z), PorLM molecular motors and PorKN rings. Here, we present a ~ 3.5 Aa cryo-EM structure of the periplasmic rings comprising 32-33 subunits each of PorK and PorN. Additionally, we show the presence of a critical disulfide bond between PorK and the OM protein PorG that is essential for protein secretion and demonstrate that the Attachment Complexes bind to, and are localized above, the PorKN rings. Overall, each ring resembles a cogwheel with PorN forming cog-like projections that we propose engage with the PorLM motor to drive the rotation of the PorKN cogwheel together with PorG and associated Attachment Complexes, thus providing the energy to complete protein secretion and the coordinated cell surface attachment of the secreted cargo.
PXD061932	40830489	Early intervention anti-Abeta immunotherapy attenuates microglial activation without inducing exhaustion at residual plaques. 	CSF proteomics of aducanumab treated APP-SAA triple knock-in mice	aducanumab, cerebrospinal fluid, diaPASEF	Anti-amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) immunotherapy was developed to reduce amyloid plaque pathology and slow cognitive decline during progression of Alzheimer's disease. Efficient amyloid clearance has been proven in clinical trials testing anti-Abeta antibodies, by their impact on cognitive endpoints correlating with the extent of amyloid removal. However, treatment is associated with adverse side effects, such as oedema and haemorrhages, which are potentially linked to the induced immune response. To improve the safety profile of these molecules, it is imperative to understand the consequences of anti-Abeta antibody treatment on immune cell function. Here, we investigated the effects of long-term chronic anti-Abeta treatment on amyloid plaque pathology and microglial response in the APP-SAA triple knock-in mouse model with an intervention paradigm early during amyloidogenesis. Long-term treatment with anti-Abeta results in a robust and dose-dependent lowering of amyloid plaque pathology, with a higher efficiency for reducing diffuse over dense-core plaque deposition. Analysis of the CSF proteome indicates a reduction of markers for neurodegeneration including Tau and alpha-Synuclein, as well as immune-cell-related proteins. Bulk RNA-seq revealed a dose-dependent attenuation of disease-associated microglial (DAM) and glycolytic gene expression, which is supported by a parallel decrease of glucose uptake and protein levels of Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid cells 2 (Trem2) protein, a major immune receptor involved in DAM activation of microglia. In contrast, DAM activation around residual plaques remains high, regardless of treatment dose. In addition, microglia surrounding residual plaques display a dose-dependent increase in microglial clustering and a selective increase in antigen-presenting and immune signalling proteins. These findings demonstrate that chronic early intervention by an anti-amyloid immunotherapy leads to a dose-dependent decrease in plaque formation, which is associated with lower brain-wide microglial DAM activation and neurodegeneration. Microglia at residual plaques still display a combined DAM and antigen-presenting phenotype that suggests a continued treatment response.
PXD007721	40831280	Syntenin Controls Extracellular Vesicle-Induced Tumour Migration by Regulating the Expression of Adhesion Proteins on Small Extracellular Vesicles. 	Characterization of syntenin knockout exosomes from 4T1 murine breast cancer cells	CRISPR/Cas9, Exosomes, breast cancer, syntenin	Despite extensive proof for the tumour-supporting function of cancer-derived small extracellular vesicles (sEVs), attributions of pathological effects to specific sEV subpopulations are poorly described. In this study, we aimed to characterise a distinct sEV species under the control of Syntenin, a key regulator of endosomal sEV biogenesis, regarding its proteomic cargo and pro-tumourigenic functions. Using mass spectrometry (MS), we detected 178 down- and 236 up-regulated proteins on sEVs from breast cancer cells upon Syntenin knockout (KO). Pathway enrichment analysis suggested that Syntenin depletion was particularly associated with adhesion-related processes. Accordingly, sEVs from Syntenin-deficient 4T1 and MCF-7 breast cancer cells showed a reduced expression of several focal adhesion and cell-cell junction proteins. Syntenin silencing reduced the Fibronectin-binding capacity of sEVs from both cell lines, which was mediated by sEV-associated Integrin alpha-V/beta-3 (alphaVbeta3). Compared to sEVs from wildtype cells, Syntenin KO sEVs showed decreased tropism towards the Fibronectin-rich liver microenvironment in vivo, provided less adhesive support for 4T1 cells and thereby failed to induce cancer cell migration, which appeared to be independent of EV uptake. In summary, this study revealed that Syntenin has a large-scale effect on the proteomic cargo of sEVs and regulates their adhesive, organotropic and pro-migratory properties in breast cancer.
PXD058162	40833324	Insights Into the FOXE3 Transcriptional Network and Disease Mechanisms From the Investigation of a Regulatory Variant Driving Complex Microphthalmia. 	Insights into the FOXE3 Transcriptional Network from Exploration of the Impact of a Regulatory Variant in Complex Microphthalmia	FOXE3, Microphthalmia	Purpose: FOXE3 encodes a highly conserved, lens-enriched transcription factor essential for eye development. Biallelic mutations in FOXE3 are associated with a spectrum of ocular anomalies, ranging from congenital cataracts to complex microphthalmia (CM), with severity and penetrance correlating with genotype. This study aimed to investigate the regulatory landscape of FOXE3 and its contribution to CM. Methods: In a patient with CM, a truncating FOXE3 variation (p.Cys240*) was identified alongside a second, trans-acting regulatory variant (rv: rs745674596G>A) located 3 kb upstream of FOXE3. To investigate its functional impact, mouse models were generated carrying either the rv or a frameshift (fs) mutation in homozygosity (Foxe3rv/rv, Foxe3fs/fs) or in compound heterozygosity (Foxe3rv/fs). Ocular phenotypes were characterized, and molecular analyses were conducted to assess FOXE3 expression and transcriptional regulation. Results: Phenotypic severity followed a progressive pattern from Foxe3rv/rv to Foxe3rv/fs, with Foxe3fs/fs consistently exhibiting CM, mirroring genotype-dependent effects observed in humans. Protein levels, but not mRNA levels, correlated with ocular phenotype, with the frameshift mutation leading to pronounced mRNA overexpression in embryos. In Foxe3fs/fs mice, CM resulted from early anterior lens epithelium disorganization, triggering progressive lens degeneration and ocular involution. Transcription factor binding studies identified USF2 as a key regulator of FOXE3 expression, positioning it as a novel candidate in ocular development and disease. Conclusions: This study highlights the critical role of regulatory variants in ocular pathology, proposes a potentially novel mechanism for microphthalmia through lens degeneration, and identifies USF2 as a potential contributor to the FOXE3-regulatory network that remains largely unknown.
PXD042550	40833988	Persistent type I interferon signaling within the brain of people with HIV on ART with cognitive impairment. 	Persistent Type I Interferon Signaling in the Brain of People with HIV under ART with Cognitive Impairment	HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND), IFN	To better understand the molecular mechanism that drives neuroinflammation, we analyzed the protein profiles of 27 brains from HIV with HIV (PWH) on antiretroviral therapy (ART), including various stages of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND), and compared them to 9 HAND-negative controls. We found that most of the proteins that were increased-about 66.7%-were involved in immune response pathways. Of these, 23.3% were specifically related to type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling, which remains active in the brain through both HIV-related and unrelated mechanisms. Using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on brain tissues collected during rapid autopsies from participants in the Last Gift cohort, we found that IFN-I signaling was especially strong in astrocytes, microglia (MG), and endothelial cells. In a mini-brain organoid model of acute HIV infection, IFN-I signaling was also highly active in astrocytes but less so in MG. Interestingly, IFN-I activation can happen without HIV being present-expression of human endogenous retrovirus-W1 (HERV-W1) Env can directly trigger this response in astrocytes, and it continues in glial cells even with effective ART. Together, our findings point to persistent IFN-I activation in glial and endothelial cells in the brain, which may contribute to neuroinflammation and cognitive disorders in PWH on ART.
PXD066055	40834958	SUMO-2 activity is inhibited by non-covalent interactions with the Abeta peptide: an exploration of potential pathogenic mechanisms in Alzheimer's disease. 	SUMO-2 activity is inhibited by non-covalent interactions with the Abeta peptide: an exploration of potential pathogenic mechanisms in Alzheimer's Disease	Alzheimer's Disease, Abeta, Cross-linking mass spectrometry, Crosslinking MS, SUMO-2, XL-MS, protein protein interactions	SUMOylation is a post-translational modification involving the addition of SUMO isoforms to target proteins and plays a role in various biological processes, including neurodegenerative diseases and ocular pathologies. This study investigates the interaction between SUMO-2 and amyloid (Abeta) peptides, key contributors to Alzheimer's disease, using techniques like cross-linking mass spectrometry, surface plasmon resonance and biolayer interferometry. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD066055. The results show that Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42 bind more strongly to SUMO-2 than to ubiquitin, with binding driven by specific hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. SUMO-2 was found to inhibit the conversion of Abeta into beta-sheet structures and impede Abeta aggregation. Notably, Abeta competes with SUMO-2 canonical substrates for binding, completely hindering SUMOylation reactions in vitro. Identifying SUMO-2/Abeta1-42 adducts in cellular extracts and live cells further highlights the biological significance of these interactions. Overall, the findings indicate that Abeta peptides impair SUMO-2 function, pointing to the necessity for more research on the implications of SUMOylation in Alzheimer's disease.
PXD065380	40834982	Potential kidney biomarkers in urinary extracellular vesicles from end stage renal disease and post-transplant patients. 	Protein Expression Profiling in Urinary Extracellular Vesicles Isolated from Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease and Renal Transplantation	Biomarkers, Chronic kidney disease, Fibrosis pathogenesis, Mass spectrometry proteomics, Renal transplantation, Urinary extracellular vesicles	Chronic kidney disease is a multifactorial entity characterized by decreased glomerular filtration rate (GFR). The last stage of the disease requires renal replacement therapy or kidney transplantation. As a disease with no treatment at earlier stages, and few biomarkers available, proteomics represent an excellent tool searching for new more efficient biomarkers. Urinary extracellular vesicles are an important source of information for kidney alterations, and their collection is not invasive. In this exploratory study, we worked on urine samples collected from patients at Centro Medico Nacional de Occidente in Guadalajara, Jalisco, and isolated urinary extracellular vesicles (uEVs) by ultracentrifugation. Our objective was to compare the Proteomic Profile of uEVs between Mexican patients with normal kidney function, end-stage renal disease, or kidney transplantation. High resolution mass spectrometry analysis reveals alterations in end-stage renal disease regarding the energy metabolism, cytoskeleton organization and cell motility. Proteomic alterations in transplant patients point towards the conservation of fibrotic process. Important proteins such as cystatins can be proposed as candidates for kidney transplant monitoring, while Gelsolin, a protein with an important role in assessing podocyte damage, stands out as a probable marker of chronic kidney disease. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD065380. SIGNIFICANCE: Chronic Kidney disease is a growing public health burden, increasing each year, and favored by major chronic diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. Although Mexico is one of the countries with the highest incidence of chronic kidney disease, proteomics studies involving Mexican patients had not yet been conducted. uEVs are features of particular interest to study the disease and discover biomarkers. We characterized the uEVs proteomic profile in Mexican patients, providing new insights into the pathogenesis of chronic kidney disease and kidney transplantation disorders. We identified promising biomarker candidates for transplant monitoring, and one as an early indicator of ESRD progression. uEVs may serve as a non-invasive platform for renal disease investigation, potentially offering non-invasive biomarkers for patient monitoring as well as mechanistic insights for future research into kidney pathophysiology.
PXD060638	40835006	Proteomic characterization of the Alzheimer's disease risk factor BIN1 interactome. 	Proteomic characterization of the Alzheimer's disease risk factor BIN1 interactome	Bridging Integrator 1 (BIN1), Late Onset Alzheimer's Disease (LOAD), interactome, phospho proteomics	The gene BIN1 is the second-largest genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD). It is expressed in neurons and glia in the brain as cell-type-specific and ubiquitous isoforms. BIN1 is an adaptor protein that regulates membrane dynamics in many cell types. Previously, we reported that BIN1 predominantly localizes to presynaptic terminals in neurons and regulates presynaptic vesicular release. However, the function of neuronal BIN1 in relation to LOAD is not yet fully understood. A significant gap in the field is the unbiased characterization of neuronal BIN1-interacting proteins and proximal neighbors. To address this gap and help define the functions of neuronal BIN1 in the brain, we employed TurboID-based proximity labeling to identify proteins biotinylated by the neuronal BIN1 isoform 1-TurboID fusion protein (BIN1iso1-TID) in cultured mouse neuroblastoma (N2a) cells in vitro and in adult mouse brain neurons in vivo. Label-free quantification-based proteomic analysis of the BIN1iso1-TID biotinylated proteins led to the discovery of 360 proteins in N2a cells and 897 proteins in mouse brain neurons, identified as BIN1iso1-associated (proximal) or interacting proteins. A total of 92 proteins were common in both datasets, indicating that these are high-confidence BIN1-interacting or proximity proteins. SynapticGO analysis of the mouse brain dataset revealed that BIN1iso1-TurboID labeled 159 synaptic proteins, with 60 corresponding to the synaptic vesicle cycle. Based on phosphorylation site analysis of the neuronal BIN1iso1-TID interactome and related kinase prediction, we selected and validated AAK1, CDK16, SYNJ1, PP2BA, and RANG through immunostaining and proximity ligation assays as members of the BIN1 interactome in the mouse brain. This study establishes a foundation for further investigations into the function of neuronal BIN1 by identifying several previously unknown proximal and potential interacting proteins of BIN1.
PXD060109	40835599	Ca(2+)-pumping by PMCA-neuroplastin complexes operates in the kiloHertz-range. 	Integral membrane proteome of adult mouse brain and other organs	Ca2+ homeostasis, integral membrane proteome, mouse brain, protein expression levels, tissue specificity	Ca(2+)-ATPases in the plasma membrane extrude Ca(2+) ions from the cytosol to the extracellular space thereby terminating Ca(2+)-signals and controlling Ca(2+)-homeostasis in any type of cell. Recently, these Ca(2+)-pumps have been identified as protein complexes of the transporting subunits PMCAs1-4 and the single-span membrane proteins Neuroplastin (NPTN) or Basigin that are obligatory for efficient trafficking of the pump complexes to the surface membrane. Quantitative investigation of the pumping velocity controlling the time course of Ca(2+)-signals, however, has remained unresolved. Here we show, using Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels as fast native reporters of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration(s) together with membrane-tethered fluorescent Ca(2+)-indicators, that under cellular conditions PMCA2-NPTN complexes can clear Ca(2+) in the low millisecond-range. Computational modeling exploiting EM-derived densities of Ca(2+)-source(s) and Ca(2+)-transporters in freeze-fracture replicas translated these fast kinetics into transport rates for individual PMCA2-NPTN pumps of more than 5000 cycles/s. Direct comparison with the Na(+)/Ca(2+)-exchanger NCX2, an alternate-access transporter with established cycling rates in the kHz range, indicated similar efficiencies in Ca(2+)-transport. Our results establish PMCA2-NPTN complexes, the most abundant Ca(2+)-clearing tool in the mammalian brain, as transporters with unanticipated high cycling rates and demonstrate that under cellular conditions ATPases may operate in the kHz-range.
PXD063842	40835608	Phospholipid scramblase 1 (PLSCR1) is a novel substrate of NEDD4-2 (NEDD4L) mediated ubiquitination. 	Identifying novel NEDD4-2 interacting proteins	NEDD4-2	NEDD4-2 (human NEDD4L), a ubiquitin ligase, plays an essential role in regulating a number of membrane proteins, including ion channels and transporters. In the kidney, NEDD4-2 deletion results in a progressive loss of tubular cells and salt-sensitive chronic kidney disease. While deregulation of sodium homeostasis due to increased levels and function of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) and sodium chloride transporter (NCC), both NEDD4-2 substrates, plays a critical role in kidney damage in this model, other ubiquitination targets may also be important. Here, we employed an affinity purification mass spectrometry approach to identify additional interactors of NEDD4-2 in kidney cells and discovered phospholipid scramblase 1 (PLSCR1) as a new NEDD4-2 substrate. We show that PLSCR1 is a direct interactor and substrate of NEDD4-2. As a result, NEDD4-2 deficiency both in cultured cells and in mouse kidney resulted in increased levels of PLSCR1 protein. We observed increased phosphatidyl serine exposure in NEDD4-2 knockout cells in response to both calcium and apoptotic stimuli and this phenotype was reversed when NEDD4-2 expression was restored. Consistently, apoptotic cells lacking NEDD4-2 showed a higher rate of macrophage clearance. Together, these results indicate that PLSCR1 is a novel substrate of NEDD4-2-mediated ubiquitination and that NEDD4-2 regulates PLSCR1 protein stability and function.
PXD049035	40836430	Multi-omics analysis reveals distinct responses to light stress in photosynthesis and primary metabolism between maize and rice. 	Multi-omic studies analysis reveals distinct photosynthetic responses to light stress in photosynthesis and primary metabolism to high light stress between the C4 crop maize and the C3 crop rice	PsbS, photoinhibition, ribosome profiling	High light (HL) stress is a significant environmental factor limiting crop productivity. Maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa), two key global crops, can both grow under high light intensities, but differ in photosynthetic metabolism, with maize being a C4 species and rice a C3 species. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying their responses to HL stress remain poorly understood. To systematically dissect how HL affects growth of maize and rice, we carried out time-resolved multi-omics analyses, examining the transcriptome, translatome, proteome and metabolome in response to HL treatment. Combining this multi-omics approach with physiological analyses, we found that rice exhibits a more rapid response to HL stress than maize, with significant alteration in photosynthetic electron transport, energy dissipation, reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, and primary metabolism. In contrast, the higher tolerance to HL stress of maize is primarily attributed to increased cyclic electron flow (CEF) and non-photochemical quenching (NPQ), elevated sugar and aromatic amino acid accumulation, and enhanced antioxidant activity during a 4-hour HL exposure. Transgenic experiments further validated key regulators of HL tolerance; for instance, knock-out of OsbZIP18 enhanced HL tolerance in rice, while overexpression of ZmPsbS in maize significantly boosted photosynthesis and energy-dependent quenching (qE) after 4 hours HL treatment, underscoring its role in protecting C4 crops from HL-induced photodamage. Together, these findings offer new insights into the molecular mechanisms of HL stress tolerance in C4 versus C3 species, and highlight a set of candidate genes for engineering improved HL tolerance in crops.
PXD046398	40840166	Ubiquitin-proteasome system dysregulation in FAM111B-related poikiloderma and phenotypic spectrum expansion: new case reports and long-term follow-up. 	Hereditary POIKTMP caused by FAM111B variants	POIKTMP, fibroblast	BACKGROUND: Poikiloderma, hereditary fibrosing, with tendon contractures, myopathy, and pulmonary fibrosis (POIKTMP) is a rare genetic multisystemic fibrosing disorder caused by FAM111B gene mutations. Given its rarity, the molecular underpinnings of POIKTMP remain elusive. FAM111B, a trypsin-like serine protease, initially studied in cancer, exhibits germline variants not consistently linked to tumours, suggesting broader functions beyond cell proliferation. METHODS: In this study, we compiled and compared the clinical features of 41 POIKTMP patients, which included the description of 4 newly identified cases. Functional studies involved the exploration of patient-derived cells carrying FAM111B missense variants using omics technologies. FINDINGS: Our results show that the phenotypic spectrum of POIKTMP encompassed renal failure, dental anomalies, hypoparathyroidism, and potentially neuropathy. Notably, variants clustering within the D-box domain of FAM111B protein tend to present a more severe phenotype. Most importantly, loss of FAM111B expression perturbed ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) function, leading to increased content of ubiquitin-protein conjugates and a sterile type I interferon signature. INTERPRETATION: These findings highlight a dysfunctional UPS as a potential central driver of POIKTMP's molecular pathogenesis, presenting promising therapeutic avenues. FUNDING: Association Francaise contre les Myopathies (AFM - 20760), Fondation Genavie (657298), Fondation Thellie, I-SITE NExT Junior Talent, Biogenouest, Infrastructures en Biologie Sante et Agronomie (IBiSA) and Conseil Regional de Bretagne.
PXD059220	40840647	Analysis of mouse lens morphological and proteomic abnormalities following deletion of the betaB3-crystallin promoter. 	Analysis of mouse lens morphological and proteomic abnormalities following depletion of the betaB3-crystallin	betaB3-crystallin, cataract, cytoplasm, isobaric labeling, lens, proteomes, quantitative proteomics	Crystallin proteins serve as both essential structural and as well as protective components of the ocular lens and are required for the transparency and light refraction properties of the organ. The mouse lens crystallin proteome is represented by alphaA-, alphaB-, betaA1-, betaA2-, betaA3-, betaA4-, betaB1-, betaB2-, betaB3-, gammaA-, gammaB-, gammaC-, gammaD-, gammaE, gammaF-, gammaN-, and gammaS-crystallin proteins encoded by 16 genes. Their mutations are responsible for lens opacification and early onset cataract formation. While many cataract-causing missense and nonsense mutations are known for these genes, including the human CRYBB3 gene, the mammalian loss-of function model of Crybb3 remains to be established. Herein, we generated the first mouse model via deletion of the Crybb3 promoter that nearly abolished expression of the betaB3-crystallin. Histological analysis of lens morphology using newborn betaB3-crystallin-deficient lenses revealed disrupted lens morphology with early-onset phenotypic variability. In-depth lens proteomics at four time points (newborn, 3-weeks, 6-weeks, and 3-months) showed both down- and up-regulation of various proteins, with the highest divergence from control mice observed in 3-months lenses. Apart from the betaB3-crystallin, Smarcc1/Baf155 was down-regulated in all four stages. In addition, downregulation of Hspe1, Pdlim1, Ast/Got, Lsm7, Ddx23, and Acad11 was found in three time points. Finally, we show that the betaB3-crystallin promoter region, which contains multiple binding sites for the transcription factors AP-2alpha, c-Jun, c-Maf, Etv5, and Pax6 is activated by FGF2 in primary lens cell culture experiments. Together, these studies establish the mouse Crybb3 loss-of-function model and its disrupted crystallin and non-crystallin proteomes.
PXD059495	40840759	AlphaCross-XL: a seamless tool for automated and proteome-scale mapping of crosslinked peptides onto three-dimensional protein structures. 	Structural surfaceomics of myeloma models to identify tumor-specific protein conformations	XL-MS, cell surface proteomics, crosslinking mass spectrometry, protein structure, structural biology	Crosslinking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) is an exciting proteomics technology to capture native protein conformations in real time within biological systems. Historically, however, implementation of this technology has typically been limited to single purified recombinant proteins or in vitro assembled protein complexes. These limitations are associated with inherent challenges in XL-MS analysis, including extremely low abundance of crosslinked (XL) peptides and complex deconvolution of XL peptide-derived spectral data. However, impressive recent developments in computation and instrumentation have now made it feasible to address biological questions using proteome-wide XL-MS analysis. Although some XL mapping software tools exist, these require manual input of specific Protein Data Bank (PDB) structures at the single protein level, and do not function at the high throughput scale required to analyze datasets derived from thousands of proteins. To address this need, we therefore sought to develop a strategy enabling automated mapping of XL peptides onto the three-dimensional (3D) structures of proteins, at a proteome-wide scale. Herein we describe AlphaCross-XL, a first-in-class seamless computational tool for automated mapping of XL peptides onto the protein structures for intra-protein crosslinks and loop-links. The AlphaCross-XL software first retrieves protein structures from the AlphaFold Protein Structure Database and maps all the identified crosslinks onto the 3D structure. It also calculates the Euclidian distance between the crosslinked residues and reports the violated and satisfied crosslink distances based on a user-defined distance threshold, which is visually discriminated by color in PyMOL. Lastly, the tool also supports further validation of user-submitted protein structures, that can include any computer-predicted protein structure and experimentally derived protein structures (i.e., from PDB). AlphaCross-XL is available at https://github.com/sanjyotshenoy/alphacross-xl.
PXD057920	40840760	Proteomic Insight into the Ontogeny of Blood-Meal Digestion in the tick Ixodes ricinus. 	Proteomic insight into the ontogeny of blood-meal digestion in the tick Ixodes ricinus	Ixodes ricinus, adult, midgut, tick	Ticks are important ectoparasites and vectors of variety of pathogens in both animals and humans, and their increasing global distribution poses a growing health risk. Unlike other blood-feeding vectors, ticks feed for an extended period of time at each life stage and rely exclusively on blood for development and reproduction. Blood digestion in ticks is mediated by a complex multienzyme network within the endo-lysosomal system of the midgut epithelial cells. Previous studies have focused largely on protein digestion during the slow feeding phase. However, the processing of the blood meal after the mating-induced rapid engorgement ("big sip") remains unclear, although the rapid turnover of proteins from host blood proteins into yolk proteins in fully fed females is a crucial step for tick reproduction. In this study, we performed a label-free quantitative proteomic analysis of midgut tissue extracts and midgut contents of the hard tick Ixodes ricinus to characterize proteases and protease inhibitors expressed during selected timepoints of female feeding and off-host digestion. In addition, we analyzed the distribution of digestive enzymes by activity profiling in midgut extracts and contents with specific diagnostic substrates. Our results show that the multienzyme network, mainly based on aspartic acid and cysteine cathepsins and complemented by specific types of serine proteases and metalloproteases, is involved in the intracellular and probably also in the luminal digestion of blood meal proteins in fully engorged female ticks. We also detected different types of protease inhibitors and proposed their regulatory role in controlling both endogenous (tick-derived) and host protease activities in the midgut tissue and luminal contents storing ingested blood. These results provide comprehensive insights into the physiology of the tick midgut and offer new opportunities for the development of future control strategies against ticks and tick-borne diseases.
PXD063570	40841354	FBXW7 regulates MYRF levels to control myelin capacity and homeostasis in the adult central nervous system. 	FBXW7 regulates MYRF levels to control myelin capacity and homeostasis in the adult CNS	FBXW7, Myelin, oligodendrocytes, primary cell culture, quantitative proteomics, rat	Myelin, along with the oligodendrocytes (OLs) that produce it, is essential for proper central nervous system (CNS) function in vertebrates. Although the accurate targeting of myelin to axons and its maintenance are critical for CNS performance, the molecular pathways that regulate these processes remain poorly understood. Through a combination of zebrafish genetics, mouse models, and primary OL cultures, we find that FBXW7, a recognition subunit of an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, is a regulator of adult myelination in the CNS. Loss of Fbxw7 in myelinating OLs results in increased myelin sheath lengths with no change in myelin thickness. As the animals age, they develop progressive abnormalities including myelin outfolds, disrupted paranodal organization, and ectopic ensheathment of neuronal cell bodies with myelin. Through biochemical studies we find that FBXW7 directly binds and degrades the N-terminus of Myelin Regulatory Factor (N-MYRF), to control the balance between OL myelin growth and homeostasis.
PXD065168	40841494	Highly specific intracellular ubiquitination of a small molecule. 	Ubiquitination of a small molecule	Degradation, Ubiquitin	Ubiquitin is a small, highly conserved protein that acts as a posttranslational modification in eukaryotes. Ubiquitination of proteins frequently serves as a degradation signal, marking them for disposal by the proteasome. Here we report a novel small molecule from a diversity-oriented synthesis library, BRD1732, that is directly ubiquitinated in cells, resulting in dramatic accumulation of inactive ubiquitin monomers and polyubiquitin chains, which causes broad inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Ubiquitination of BRD1732 and its associated cytotoxicity are stereospecific and dependent on two homologous E3 ubiquitin ligases, RNF19A and RNF19B, and their shared E2 conjugating enzyme, UBE2L3. Our finding opens the possibility for indirect ubiquitination of a target through a ubiquitinated bifunctional small molecule and more broadly raises the potential for posttranslational modification in trans.
PXD061666	40841705	Glucosylsphingosine affects mitochondrial function in a neuronal cell model. 	Deep phenotyping of SH-Sy5y cells exposed to glucosylsphingosine by LC-MS	Gaucher disease, LC-MS, SH-Sy5y, glucosylsphingosine	Gaucher disease arises from mutations in glucocerebrosidase resulting in accumulation of glucosylceramide, which is deacylated to glucosylsphingosine. Mutations in glucocerebrosidase are the greatest known genetic risk factor for Parkinson's disease. Glucosylsphingosine is a biomarker for Gaucher disease and studies demonstrate its relevance to disease pathology, yet the mechanisms of its toxicity remain little understood. Using proteomics, we show that incubation of SH-Sy5y cells with glucosylsphingosine at physiological plasma concentrations observed in moderate/ severe Gaucher disease negatively effects the TCA cycle, mitochondrial function, glycolysis and protein ubiquitination. Functional analyses confirmed that glucosylsphingosine reduces ATP production, elicits oxidative stress and an increase of glycolysis. Analyses of ubiquitinated proteins and lipid-binding studies demonstrated that glucosylsphingosine has binding affinity for tubulin alpha and induced a specific increase of ubiquitination of alpha and beta tubulins. In conclusion, supranormal levels of glucosylsphingosine affect cellular energy metabolism which may contribute to the pathology in Gaucher disease.
PXD058062	40842239	DHX8 regulates degradation of RNA by RNautophagy. 	Biotin-poly-dG or dA pull-down assay	brain, poly-dG, pull-down	RNautophagy is an intracellular degradation pathway in which RNA is directly taken up by lysosomes. The cytoplasmic regions of the lysosomal membrane proteins, LAMP2C and SIDT2, can interact with consecutive guanine sequences in RNA, mediating the uptake of RNA during RNautophagy. RNautophagy has also been implicated in the clearance of expanded CAG-repeat mRNA and RNA foci associated with polyQ disease. However, the mechanisms of RNA uptake during RNautophagy remain unclear. Here, we screened for proteins that bind consecutive guanine sequences and identified RNA helicase DHX8 as a binding partner. DHX8 interacts with SIDT2 and is partially localized to the cytoplasmic side of the lysosomal membrane. We found that DHX8 regulates intracellular RNA degradation via SIDT2-dependent RNautophagy but not via macroautophagy. RNA binding, but not ATPase activity, of DHX8 is likely to be important for regulating RNA degradation. DHX8 also contributes to the clearance of pathogenic CAG repeat mRNA and RNA foci, and the levels of both soluble protein and insoluble high-molecular-weight aggregates of expanded polyQ tracts. Our findings provide insights into the mechanisms underlying the regulation of intracellular RNA degradation, autophagic pathways, and possibly the pathogenesis of repeat RNA-related disorders.
PXD061418	40842288	Multi-omics analysis revealed biomarkers for coronary atherosclerosis: Occurrence and development. 	Multi-omics analysis revealed biomarkers for coronary atherosclerosis	coronary atherosclerosis, diagnostic, plasma metabolites	BACKGROUND: Coronary atherosclerosis (CA) is a leading cause of cardiovascular diseases with the high morbidity and mortality; however, the current diagnostic methods, primarily based on symptoms, signs, lab examination and imaging, are often inadequate for detecting subclinical or early-stage CA, costly, and inaccessible in many cases. The objective of this study was to discover sensitive and specific biomarkers for the diagnosis of CA severity. METHODS: We enrolled 443 participants, including CA patients and healthy controls, from three independent cohorts: discovery, testing, and blinded validation. Multi-omics data integration during the discovery phase identified key features of atherosclerotic progression and potential biomarkers. Biomarker panels were refined using random forest models in the testing cohort, and their performance was evaluated in a blinded validation cohort to assess their ability to monitor the occurrence and development of CA. RESULTS: Multi-omics analysis revealed that plasma metabolites exhibited the strongest correlation with CA severity, effectively distinguished different CA stages from healthy controls. Post hoc analysis confirmed the diagnostic model's robustness, with an AUC value higher than .933 (95% CI: .828-.984, sensitivity 93.75%, and specificity 80%). In the blinded validation cohort, the biomarker panel achieved AUC values of .821-.898 for CA occurrence and .649-.849 for CA severity. Notably, 90% of these biomarkers remained significant after adjusting for comorbidities (p < .05). CONCLUSIONS: This study identified significant metabolic changes during CA progression and established biomarker panels with potential diagnostic value for assessing CA severity. Key metabolites including cholesteryl sulphate, azelaic acid, tryptophan, arabinofuranosyluracil, TMAO, ADMA, LPC18:2, tartaric acid, L-citrulline, and L-proline, purine, sorbitol, and 2-aminoadipic acid. These findings highlight the potential of these biomarkers to improve early diagnosis and personalised management of CA.
PXD065994	40843676	Determination of the Epitopes of Alpha-Glucosidase Anti-Drug Antibodies in Pompe Disease Patient Plasma Samples. 	rhGAA ADA epitopes determination	Myozyme, anti-drug antibodies, epitopes	Pompe disease is a rare autosomal-recessive neuromuscular disorder caused by a deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA), leading to the pathological accumulation of glycogen and impaired autophagy. Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) with recombinant human alpha-glucosidase (rhGAA) has been available since 2006, but may lead to the formation of anti-drug antibodies (ADAs) against the recombinant human enzyme, which, in turn, may adversely affect the response to ERT. Knowledge of the antigenic determinants of rhGAA involved in interaction with ADAs may facilitate the development of strategies to attenuate the anti-drug immune response in patients. Here, we determined the rhGAA ADA epitopes in the plasma of Pompe disease patients using a series of affinity purifications combined with epitope extraction and label free quantitation LC-MS.
PXD058672	40843711	Identification of Cancer-Associated Proteins in Colorectal Cancer Using Mass Spectrometry. 	Mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach to colorectal cancer identified the cancer-associated proteins whose expression changes with the disease progression	Colorectal cancer, disease progression, non-tumor tissues, surgical specimens, tumor tissues	BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, with a multifactorial etiology involving genetic and environmental factors. Advanced proteomics offers valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms of cancer, identifying proteins that function as mediators in tumor biology. METHODS: In this study, we used mass spectrometry-based data-independent acquisition (DIA) to analyze the proteomic landscape of CRC. We compared protein abundance in normal and tumor tissues from 16 patients with CRC to identify cancer-associated proteins and examine their roles in disease progression. RESULTS: The analysis identified 10,329 proteins, including 531 cancer-associated proteins from the Catalogue Of Somatic Mutations In Cancer (COSMIC) database, and 48 proteins specifically linked to CRC. Notably, clusters of proteins showed consistent increases or decreases in abundance across disease stages, suggesting their roles in tumorigenesis and progression. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that proteome abundance trends may contribute to the identification of biomarker candidates and therapeutic targets in colorectal cancer. However, given the limited sample size and lack of subtype stratification, further studies using larger, statistically powered cohorts are warranted to establish clinical relevance. These proteins may provide insights into drug resistance and tumor heterogeneity. Limitations of the study include the inability to detect low-abundance proteins and reliance on protein abundance rather than functional activity. Future complementary approaches, such as affinity proteomics, are suggested to address these limitations.
PXD059930	40845013	An unclean slate, discrepancies between food input and recovered protein signal from experimental foodcrusts. 	Proteomic analysis of experimental foodcrusts reveals discrepancies between food input and recovered protein signal	Organic residue, complex mixtures, experimental archaeology, foodcrust, metaproteomics	Organic residues are a rich source of biomolecular information on ancient diets. In particular, foodcrusts, charred residues on ceramics, are commonly analysed for their lipid content and to a lesser extent protein in order to identify foods, culinary practices and material culture use in past populations. However, the composition of foodcrusts and the factors behind their formation are not well understood. Here we analyse proteomic data (available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD059930) from foodcrusts made using a series of mixtures of protein- (salmon flesh), lipid- (beef fat) and carbohydrate-rich (beetroot) foods to investigate the relationship between the biomolecular composition of the input and the recovered signal using conventional methods applied to archaeological material. Additionally, using 3D modelling we quantify the volume of foodcrust generated by different ingredient combinations The results highlight biases in the data obtained in the analyses of organic residues both in terms of identified resources reflecting the cooked foodstuffs, e.g., an overrepresentation of fish proteins, as well as with regards to the abundance of foodcrust, for example mixtures of only salmon and beef fat resulted in relatively small amounts of foodcrust, and suggest caution in interpreting the composition of residues formed from complex mixtures of foodstuffs.
PXD051918	40845103	An alternative cytoplasmic SFPQ isoform with reduced phase separation potential is up-regulated in ALS. 	An alternative cytoplasmic SFPQ isoform with divergent phase separation potential is upregulated in ALS	ALS, Cytoplasmic SFPQ isoform	Splicing factor proline- and glutamine-rich (SFPQ) is an RNA binding protein that broadly regulates RNA metabolism. Although its nuclear roles are well studied, evidence of SFPQ's cytoplasmic functionality is emerging. Altered expression and nuclear-to-cytoplasmic redistribution of SFPQ have been recognized in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) pathology, yet the mechanistic bases for these phenomena remain undetermined. We identified altered SFPQ splicing in ALS, increasing the expression of an alternative mRNA isoform lacking a nuclear localization sequence, which we termed "altSFPQ." We find that altSFPQ mRNA contributes to SFPQ autoregulation and is highly unstable yet exhibits context-specific translation with cytoplasm-predominant localization. Notably, reduced canonical SFPQ coincides with increased altSFPQ transcript expression in familial and sporadic ALS models, providing a mechanistic basis for SFPQ nuclear-to-cytoplasmic redistribution in patients with ALS. Last, we observe that the altSFPQ protein has reduced phase separation potential and differential protein binding compared to its canonical counterpart, providing insight into its mechanistic relevance to physiology and ALS pathogenesis.
PXD058680	40845116	AKR1B10 dictates c-Myc stability to suppress colorectal cancer metastasis via PP2A nitration. 	AKR1B10 inhibition enhances c-Myc stability by disrupting PP2A assembly	AKR1B10, PP2A, c-Myc, colorectal cancer, metastasis	Metabolic enzymes, critical for cellular homeostasis, are frequently co-opted in a disease-specific manner to drive cancer progression. Here, we identify aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B10 (AKR1B10), down-regulated in gastrointestinal cancers, as a pivotal metastasis suppressor correlating with improved colorectal cancer (CRC) prognosis. Mechanistically, AKR1B10 activates protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) by preventing redox-regulated nitration of its B56alpha subunit, preserving holoenzyme assembly and enabling c-Myc dephosphorylation at serine-62. Loss of AKR1B10 disrupts this pathway, stabilizing c-Myc, which drives integrin signaling and metastatic dissemination in CRC. We further demonstrate that lysine-125 of AKR1B10 is essential for its interaction with PP2A-Calpha and B56alpha nitration, thereby attenuating CRC metastatic aggressiveness. Pharmacological restoration of PP2A activity effectively mitigates metastasis associated with AKR1B10 loss. In addition, c-Myc transcriptionally represses AKR1B10, establishing a feedback loop that sustains its down-regulation and enhances metastatic progression. This study uncovers an antimetastatic mechanism involving AKR1B10-mediated PP2A activation and highlights its potential as a biomarker and therapeutic target.
PXD058466	40846845	Targeting spermine metabolism to overcome immunotherapy resistance in pancreatic cancer. 	BMDM mouse ctrl SPM (label free proteomics)	BMDM mouse	While dysregulation of polyamine metabolism is frequently observed in cancer, it is unknown how polyamines alter the tumor microenvironment (TME) and contribute to therapeutic resistance. Analysis of polyamines in the plasma of pancreatic cancer patients reveals that spermine levels are significantly elevated and correlate with poor prognosis. Using a multi-omics approach, we identify Serpinb9 as a vulnerability in spermine metabolism in pancreatic cancer. Serpinb9, a serine protease inhibitor, directly interacts with spermine synthase (SMS), impeding its lysosome-mediated degradation and thereby augmenting spermine production and secretion. Mechanistically, the accumulation of spermine in the TME alters the metabolic landscape of immune cells, promoting CD8(+) T cell dysfunction and pro-tumor polarization of macrophages, thus creating an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Small peptides that disrupt the Serpinb9-SMS interaction significantly enhance the efficacy of immune checkpoint blockade therapy. Together, our findings suggest that targeting spermine metabolism is a promising strategy to improve pancreatic cancer immunotherapy.
PXD057847	40846899	Maspin/SerpinB5 is a cytoskeleton-binding protein that regulates epithelial cell shape. 	Pulldown of Maspin-GST in Human Cells Treated or Untreated with Nocodazole	human cells, maspin, nocodazole, pulldown	Maspin/SerpinB5 is an abundant and pleiotropic protein mostly expressed by epithelia. Initially described as a tumor suppressor, it has been reported as a regulator of cell adhesion, migration, and invasion. How intracellular Maspin orchestrates these processes is poorly understood. In this study, we utilized Affinity purification-Mass spectrometry (AP/MS) alongside in vitro reconstitution assays to establish that Maspin directly interacts with microtubules and microfilaments. Additionally, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated GFP tagging of endogenous Maspin, combined with immunostaining, revealed its localization at the cortical cytoskeleton and the mitotic spindle. Depletion of Maspin by RNAi and CRISPR/Cas9 in non-transformed epithelial cell lines modifies cell-cell contact and promotes cytoskeletal rearrangements. Concomitantly, we observed a modest upregulation of mesenchymal markers during interphase and abnormal cell rounding during mitosis. An evaluation of Maspin's effect on microtubules revealed that it suppresses their growth in vitro and in cells. Collectively, these results demonstrate that Maspin acts dynamically at the interface of the cytoskeleton and adhesion sites, modulating cell shape.
PXD066727	40846907	Diurnal rhythm of the human plasma proteome. 	Diurnal Rhythm of the Human Plasma Proteome	LC-MS, Plasma	BACKGROUND: Plasma is the most used clinical specimen, yet diurnal variation in plasma proteins remains largely unexplored. We aimed to identify diurnally-regulated proteins in healthy individuals and assess their potential diagnostic implications, and highlight how diurnal awareness can advance future biomarker research. METHODS: Twenty-four healthy young individuals were studied under highly controlled conditions. Venous blood was drawn every three hours over a 24-h period, yielding 216 samples, of which 208 high-quality plasma samples were analyzed via high-throughput mass spectrometry. The missing data were filtered and imputed, and rhythmicity was assessed using Cosinor-based modeling with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Tissue and pathway enrichment analyses were performed using the DAVID functional annotation tool. FINDINGS: Of 523 proteins that passed quality thresholds, 138 (~ 26%) exhibited significant diurnal oscillations. Tissue enrichment analysis revealed that most rhythmic proteins originated from the liver and platelets, with additional enrichment in a variety of tissue types. Pathway enrichment showed diurnal regulation of hemostasis, immune signaling, integrin-mediated processes, glucose metabolism, and protein synthesis. Notably, 36 clinically utilized biomarkers, including albumin, amylase, and cystatin C exhibited diurnal variation, suggesting that failing to account for temporal fluctuations may reduce diagnostic precision. INTERPRETATION: These findings demonstrate that over one-quarter of the human plasma proteome is under diurnal control. Such oscillations might have direct clinical implications, as the time-of-day may alter biomarker accuracy. Incorporating diurnal timing into diagnostic and research protocols, through standardized sampling or time-sensitive reference intervals, could improve patient care and inform future biomarker discoveries. Further research in larger, more diverse populations is needed to generalize these results and streamline practices in a way that takes diurnal variation into account.
PXD047255	40846950	Increasing lipid accumulation in Chlamydomonas by serial knocking out of DYRKP1 kinase and ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase. 	Global proteomic analysis for pellet of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii for parental strain and DYRKP KO mutant	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, DYRKP, Pellet	Microalgae are promising sustainable feedstocks for biodiesel production. Among the primary carbon reservoirs in microalgae, starch and lipids are the main targets for metabolic engineering aimed at enhancing productivity. Redirecting carbon flux from starch toward lipid biosynthesis has been considered an effective strategy to improve lipid yield, and manipulating upstream regulators may allow broader control over metabolic networks. DYRKP1, a plant-specific dual-specificity tyrosine-phosphorylation-regulated kinase conserved in photosynthetic eukaryotes, has been implicated in regulating intracellular carbon partitioning. In this study, we investigated the physiological and metabolic effects of DYRKP1 deficiency in a cell-wall-less strain of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. To further enhance lipid accumulation, we additionally knocked out ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGP), a key enzyme involved in starch biosynthesis. The total fatty acid content of DYRKP1-AGP double knockout (dKO) mutants was higher than that of their parental strain (CC4349) under both nitrogen-replete and deplete conditions, and was even 1.2-fold higher than that of the AGP single knockout (agp) mutant under nitrogen-deplete conditions. The DYRKP1 single knockout mutants exhibited fatty acid composition similar to the parental strain, regardless of nitrogen depletion. The fatty acid composition of the dKO mutants resembled that of the agp mutant under nitrogen-replete conditions, but diverged upon nitrogen starvation, suggesting a conditional interaction between upstream regulation and metabolic flux. This finding implies that disrupting upstream regulators like DYRKP1 may offer limited additional benefit when key downstream bottlenecks, such as starch biosynthesis, are already removed. Overall, our study underscores the layered complexity of carbon partitioning in C. reinhardtii and the importance of context-dependent metabolic regulation in optimizing lipid production.
PXD059511	40847805	Activation of the Alpha 7 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor (CHRNA7) Limits Hypoxia-induced Inflammatory Responses and Regulates Collagens in Cultured Human Granulosa Cells. 	Consequences of PNU 282987 treatment in GCs exposed to 1% O2 for 24 h	Acetylcholine, human ovary, inflammation	The alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor (CHRNA7) is targeted by ACh, choline and exogenous chemicals, including nicotine and insecticides. According to database searches, it is expressed by several cell types of the human ovary, including granulosa cells (GCs). This expression site was confirmed by immunohistochemistry in human and nonhuman primate ovaries. Cultured human GCs, derived from in vitro-fertilization, express functional CHRNA7, indicated by acutely elevated intracellular Ca2+ levels upon addition of the selective CHRNA7 agonist PNU 282987. Heterogeneity in this acute response may be due, in part, to the varying expression of the human-specific channel variant CHRFAM7A, which acts as a negative regulator. CHRNA7 activation is reported to dampen inflammatory reactions in non-neuronal cells, and in cultured human GCs, as recently reported, inflammatory responses are induced by 1% O2. Studies in GCs exposed to 1% O2 may mirror the physiological situation in the periovulatory human follicle, and we found that PNU 282987 significantly decreased the low O2-induced elevations of IL6, CXCL8 and IL1B. Proteomic studies identified further consequences in human GCs exposed to 1% O2. Thus, PNU 282987 increased abundances of 31 proteins and decreased abundances of 6 proteins. Of note, several collagens were among the decreased proteins, which might be novel ovarian biomarkers for GC luteinization and oocyte quality. Our results imply roles of endogenous CHRNA7 activators and possibly exogenous chemicals in limiting inflammatory responses and in the regulation of other human GC functions. This influence may depend on the relative abundance of CHRNA7 and translation of CHRFAM7A.
PXD065017	40849295	DCTPP1 regulates oxidative stress homeostasis via AUF1 in human villous trophoblasts. 	Identification of DCTPP1 interacting proteins by LC-MS/MS	DCTPP1, HTR-8, IP	Placental trophoblast dysfunction is one of the main causes of missed abortion (MA). The expression and regulation of specific molecules play crucial roles in this complex process. Among these, human deoxycytidine triphosphate pyrophosphatase 1 (DCTPP1), a key enzyme, not only participates in nucleotide metabolism but also plays an indispensable role in maintaining genomic stability. To delve deeper into the mechanism of DCTPP1 in placental trophoblast cell function, we used an immortalized human first-trimester extravillous trophoblast cell line (HTR8/SVneo) as an experimental model for functional studies. A decrease in DCTPP1 expression leads to an increase in oxidative stress and decreased cell viability ultimately leading to apoptosis. Further analysis revealed an interaction between DCTPP1 and the AU-rich element RNA-binding protein 1 (AUF1). A decrease of AUF1 induced oxidative stress imbalance, leading to apoptosis in HTR8/SVneo cells. These findings highlight DCTPP1 as a potential biomarker and an effective drug target for the treatment or prevention of MA.
PXD060989	40849303	The TEX44-CPT1B axis regulates mitochondrial sheath assembly and fatty acid oxidation in sperm. 	Mouse Testis IP-MS Analysis of TEX44 Interacting Proteins	IP-MS, Testis	Mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation (FAO) is essential for energy production and cellular homeostasis, yet its role in sperm function has remained unclear. Through whole-exome sequencing (WES) of 800 patients with asthenozoospermia, we identified biallelic Testis-Expressed Protein 44 (TEX44) variants in six individuals, all of whom exhibited defective mitochondrial sheath assembly and impaired sperm motility. Using Tex44 knockout mice, we show that TEX44 interacts with carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1B (CPT1B) to form a mitochondrial glue, anchoring adjacent mitochondria and facilitating the assembly of the sperm-specific mitochondrial sheath. In vitro, we show that purified TEX44 protein can modulate CPT1B enzymatic activity, limiting the conversion of long-chain fatty acids such as palmitic acid and myristic acid into acyl-carnitines, thereby reducing reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Loss of TEX44 disrupts this regulatory mechanism, leading to unregulated FAO, excessive ROS generation, and severe oxidative damage to sperm DNA and flagellar structure. Additionally, germ cell-specific Cpt1b knockout mice exhibit phenotypes similar to TEX44 deficiency, including mitochondrial sheath defects and reduced sperm motility. These findings reveal a sperm-specific mechanism by which TEX44 regulates CPT1B activity to balance FAO and ROS generation, providing critical insights into energy metabolism, mitochondrial integrity, and male infertility.
PXD066562	40849432	The cAMP-PKA signaling initiates mitosis by phosphorylating Bora. 	human Bora-interacting proteins	Bora, interaction	Timely entry into mitosis requires activation of Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1) by Aurora kinase A (Aurora A), but the upstream signaling trigger remains unclear. Here, we show that cyclic AMP (cAMP) signaling serves as a critical initiator of mitosis in mammalian cells. Specifically, the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) phosphorylates Bora, enabling it to bind Aurora A and recruit it to the Bora-Plk1 complex during G2 phase, thereby facilitating Aurora A-dependent activation of Plk1. Disruption of PKA-mediated Bora phosphorylation or the Bora-Aurora A interaction impairs Plk1 activation and delays the G2-to-mitosis (G2/M) transition. Conversely, a phospho-mimetic Bora mutant bypasses the requirement for PKA in promoting Bora-Aurora A interaction, Plk1 activation, and mitotic entry. Furthermore, PKA-mediated Bora phosphorylation and the resulting Bora-Aurora A interaction are essential for mitotic entry during DNA damage checkpoint recovery. Together, these findings identify the cAMP-PKA-Bora-Aurora A-Plk1 signaling cascade as a previously unrecognized and critical trigger for mitotic commitment.
PXD060185	40849487	H4K79 and H4K91 histone lactylation, newly identified lactylation sites enriched in breast cancer. 	4D label-free quantitative lactylproteomics analysis of breast cancer cells	breast cancer, lactylproteomics	Metabolic reprogramming and epigenetic modification are two hallmarks of cancer. Protein lysine lactylation (Kla) is a novel type of glycolysis lactate-triggered posttranslational modification. However, the role of Kla in breast cancer (BC) remains largely unknown. Here, western blot, and immunohistochemical (IHC) staining of BC tissues revealed that global Kla levels were upregulated in BC tissues, and high levels of Kla were correlated with poor prognosis of patients with BC. A series of in vitro and in vivo assays demonstrated that interruption of glycolysis by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) inhibitor or silencing LDHA and LDHB repressed the malignant behaviors of BC cells. Moreover, 4D label-free quantitative lactylproteomics analysis of BC tissues and cells revealed that lactylated proteins widely existed in several subcellular compartments and were closely associated with various cancer-related biological processes. Notably, two previously unresearched sites of histone lactylation, H4K79 lactylation (H4K79la) and H4K91 lactylation (H4K91la), were identified to be hyperlactylated in cancer tissues and cells. Glycolytic genes, such as lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1), and hexokinase 1 (HK1) were identified to be the potential candidate genes epigenetically regulated by H4K79la and H4K91la by intersecting through chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq), RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and TCGA-BRCA database. Pharmacological inhibition of glycolysis downregulated H4K79 and H4K91 lactylation and suppressed the expression of glycolytic genes, whereas treatment with sodium lactate exhibited the opposite effects. Additionally, E1A-binding protein p300 (P300) acted as lysine lactyltransferase to regulate H4K79la and H4K91la, and control the transcription and expression of downstream glycolytic genes in BC cells. The results revealed an intriguing positive feedback loop formed by glycolysis/H4K79la/H4K91la/glycolytic genes in BC, highlighting the relationship between metabolic reprogramming and epigenetic regulation. These findings provide new therapeutic targets for patients with BC.
PXD056179	40850381	Diagnosing plague in 17th century camelids from Romania along historical Silk Routes. 	Paleoproteomic analysis of dental pulp proteins from camel teeth	Yersinia pestis, bacteria, camel, dental pulp, paleoproteomics, pathogen, tooth	Six camels exhumed from a 17th-century Silk Route site in Romania, along with negative controls, were blindly investigated via dental pulp paleometagenomics and paleoproteomics for traces of Yersinia pseudotuberculosis complex including the plague agent Yersinia pestis. Specific reads were detected in sample R04 (one read) and R05 (two reads) which also yielded a 16S rRNA guanine transferase specific for Y. pestis and one other Y. pseudotuberculosis complex peptide. Taken together, these validated data diagnosed plague in these ancient camels which likely participated in plague dissemination along ancient Silk Routes during the large Medieval and Modern Times pandemic in Europe.
PXD052723	40850934	Human iPSC-Derived Mononuclear Phagocytes Improve Cognition and Neural Health across Multiple Mouse Models of Aging and Alzheimer's Disease. 	Human iPSC-derived mononuclear phagocytes restore cognition, neural health, and a  subpopulation of hippocampal mossy cells in aging mice	Aging, cognitive decline, hippocampus, induced pluripotent stem cells, mononuclear phagocytes, neural health	Young blood or plasma improves cognitive function in aged animals but has limited availability. The current study generates a subtype of young blood cells from easily expandable induced pluripotent stem cells and evaluates their effects on age- and Alzheimer's disease (AD)-associated cognitive and neural decline. In aging mice, intravenous delivery of induced mononuclear phagocytes (iMPs) improves performance in hippocampus-dependent cognitive tasks, increases neural health, and reduces neuroinflammation. Hippocampal single nucleus RNA-sequencing shows that iMPs improve the health of a subpopulation of mossy cells that are critically involved in the type of cognitive task in which iMPs improve performance, and shows that iMPs decrease the transcriptional age of several hippocampal cell types. Plasma proteomic analyses reveal that iMPs can also reverse age-associated increases in serum amyloid levels. This is verified in vitro, where iMP-conditioned media isshown to protect human microglia against cell death induced by serum amyloids. Finally, iMPs improve cognition in both young and aging 5xFAD mice, highlighting their potential as a prevention as well as an intervention strategy. Together, these findings suggest that iMPs provide a novel therapeutic strategy to target both age- and AD-related cognitive decline.
PXD064705	40854914	Multi-omics analysis reveals RNA polymerase II degradation as a novel mechanism of PF-3758309's anti-tumor activity. 	Multi-Omics Analysis Reveals RNA Polymerase II Degradation as a Novel Mechanism of PF-3758309's Anti-Tumor Activity	Anti-tumor activity, DDB2, MLN4924, PF-3758309, POLR2A/B/E, Ubiquitin-proteasome system	PF-3758309, a pyrrolopyrimidine-based inhibitor of p21-activated kinase 4 (PAK4), has demonstrated preclinical anti-tumor activity. However, due to poor pharmacokinetics and off-target effects, it has not advanced to clinical use. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive multi-omics analysis, including proteomics, transcriptomics, and ubiquitinomics, to investigate the mechanism of PF-3758309 in HCT116 cells. Our results revealed that PF-3758309 promotes the degradation of RNA polymerase II subunit proteins (POLR2A/B/E) via the cullin-RING ligase pathway. This process is mediated by the E3 ubiquitin ligase DNA damage-binding protein 2 (DDB2), and is independent of PAK4. Furthermore, the small-molecule inhibitor MLN4924, which blocks NEDD8-activating enzyme, reversed the degradation of POLR2A/B/E, supporting the role of ubiquitin-proteasome pathways in this process. Functional assays confirmed that PF-3758309 inhibits tumor cell growth and migration by promoting ubiquitination-dependent degradation of POLR2A/B/E. These findings uncover a previously unrecognized mechanism of PF-3758309's anti-tumor activity and provide a basis for further investigation into its therapeutic potential.
PXD057056	40856172	Bone adhered sediments as a source of target and environmental DNA and proteins. 	Bone adhered sediments as a source of target and environmental DNA and proteins	Metagenomics, Metaproteomics, Non-destructive sampling, Paleoproteomics, Sedimentry aDNA, environment reconstruction, rat	In recent years, sediments from cave environments have provided invaluable insights into ancient hominids, as well as past fauna and flora. Unfortunately, locations with favourable conditions for ancient DNA (aDNA) preservation in sediments are scarce. In this study we analysed a set of samples obtained from sediments adhered to different human skeletal elements, originating from Neolithic to Medieval sites in England, and performed metagenomics and metaproteomics analysis. From them, we were able to reconstruct a partial human genome. The genetic profile of those human sequences matches the one recovered from the original skeletal element. Additionally, aDNA sequences matching the genomes of endogenous gut microbiome bacteria were identified. We also found the presence of genetic sequences corresponding to animals and plants. In particular we managed to retrieve the partial genome and proteome of a Black Rat (Rattus rattus), sharing close genetic affinities to other medieval Rattus rattus. Our results demonstrate that material usually discarded, as it is sediments adhering to human remains, can be used to get a glimpse of the environmental conditions at the time of the death of an individual.
PXD051377	40857221	A deep-sea hydrothermal vent worm detoxifies arsenic and sulfur by intracellular biomineralization of orpiment (As2S3). 	Proteomic Analysis of Intracellular Biomineralised Granules in the Deep-Sea Hydrothermal Vent Alvinellid Worm Paralvinella herssleri	Intracellular granule, Paralvinella hessleri, deep-sea, hydrothermal vent, orpiment biominerlization	The alvinellid worm Paralvinella hessleri is the only animal that colonizes the hottest part of deep-sea hydrothermal vents in the west pacific. We found P. hessleri accumulates exceptionally high level of toxic element arsenic (>1% of wet weight) and tolerated elevated concentrations hydrogen sulphide. Using advanced microscopy, elementary analysis, and genomics and proteomics approaches, we identified a previously unrecognized arsenic-sulfide biomineralization process in P. hessleri. Our data suggest that arsenic accumulates within epithelial cell granules, where it likely reacts with sulphide diffused inward from the hydrothermal vent fluid, resulting in the intracellular formation of orpiment (As2S3) minerals. In this "fighting poison with poison" manner, the highly toxic arsenic and sulphide were simultaneously detoxified in the form of orpiment minerals within the intracellular granules of the single layer of epithelial cells. This process represents a remarkable adaptation to extreme chemical environments. Our study provides new insights into understanding animals' environment adaptation mechanisms and the diversity and plasticity of biomineralization.
PXD062785	40857585	Impact of Sample Preparation Strategies on the Quantitative Accuracy of Low-Abundance Serum Proteins in Shotgun Proteomics. 	Impact of Sample Preparation Strategies on The Quantitative Accuracy of Low-Abundance Serum Proteins in Shotgun Proteomics	depth of coverage, quantitative accuracy, reproducibility, serum proteomics	Serum proteomics plays a crucial role in biomarker discovery and disease research, yet the selection of an optimal sample preparation method remains challenging. Evaluating the accuracy of protein quantitation is of major importance and a vital part of a benchmarking study in proteomics, since clinical studies are based on the differential expression of certain proteins that can be used as biomarkers or be indicative of a pathological state. In this study, we performed a direct comparison of 6 widely used serum proteomic sample preparation workflows: In-gel digestion (IGD), Single-Pot Solid-Phase-enhanced Sample Preparation (SP3), Top 14 Abundant Protein Depletion (Top 14), Isopropanol/Trichloroacetic Acid (IPA/TCA) precipitation, PreOmics ENRICH-iST (PreOmics), and Seer Proteograph XT (Seer). Seer and PreOmics demonstrated superior quantitative accuracy, especially for proteins with low abundance in serum, while the Seer enrichment approach provided the highest number of protein identifications (>2000) as measured by an Orbitrap Exploris 480. All methods had median CVs close to or below 20%. This comparative analysis provides a comprehensive resource for selecting the most appropriate serum sample preparation strategy based on specific experimental needs, facilitating human serum proteomic profiling for biomedical research.
PXD048844	40858112	VEL-dependent polymerization maintains the chromatin association of Polycomb proteins for the switch to epigenetic silencing. 	Identification of interactors of Arabidopsis VIN3 and VRN5 proteins in vernalized seedlings	PRC2, Polycomb, VEL domain, epigenetics, gene silencing, vernalization	Multivalent protein-chromatin interactions facilitated by higher-order protein assemblies are emerging as a crucial theme in eukaryotic gene regulation. However, understanding the underlying mechanisms in their functional context remains challenging. Arabidopsis VEL proteins assemble biomolecular condensates by head-to-tail polymerization. Here, we dissect the role of VEL polymerization domains in conferring the epigenetic switch to Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) silencing at Arabidopsis FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC). We show that VIN3 VEL polymerization produces higher-order nuclear VIN3 assemblies in vivo, which promote multivalent chromatin association and efficient H3K27me3 nucleation. VRN5 VEL polymerization, however, is not required unless a third homolog VEL1 is absent. The VRN5 VEL domain has different polymerization properties and is functionally unable to replace VIN3 VEL, but it is required to physically connect VIN3 with PRC2. This work reveals the combinatorial roles of VEL polymerization domains in maintaining the chromatin association of Polycomb proteins for the switch to epigenetic silencing.
PXD047556	40858113	SKP1A bound to Polycomb-silenced genes mediates degradation of PRC2 and preconditions their activation. 	SKP1A-mediated degradation of PRC2 triggers activation of Polycomb-silenced genes	Polycomb group proteins, ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation system	Polycomb group (PcG) proteins are repressors of developmental genes. Paradoxically, the same PcG proteins also function in gene activation via mechanisms that are not yet fully understood. Here, we found that SKP1A, an essential factor of SKP1A/CUL1/F-box (SCF) ubiquitin ligases and Polycomb-repressive complex 1 (PRC1) containing PCGF1 (PCGF1-PRC1), mediates the link between PcG-dependent gene regulation and ubiquitin proteasomal degradation. By using differentiating mouse embryonic stem cells and the midbrain of developing mouse embryos, we found that SKP1A removes EED, a core component of PRC2 that is bound to PcG-target-gene promoters, via proteasomal degradation, and it thereby sensitizes these genes for subsequent activation. In summary, we reveal here a previously unknown role of SKP1A in preconditioning activation of PcG-target genes via the proteasomal degradation of PRC2. This indicates that SKP1A-containing PCGF1-PRC1 may contribute to confer reversibility on PcG-mediated gene silencing for spatiotemporal regulation of target genes.
PXD066230	40858114	A CDK11-dependent RNA polymerase II pause-checkpoint precedes CDK9-mediated transition to transcriptional elongation. 	A CDK11-dependent RNA polymerase II pause-checkpoint precedes CDK9-mediated transition to transcriptional elongation	CDK11, leukaemia, pause-release, transcription	Controlled gene expression is achieved through the intricate regulation of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) progression through transcription-cycle checkpoints. While the contribution of CDK9 for Pol II pause-release is well established, the requirement for other cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) has not been fully elucidated. In this study, we propose a critical role for CDK11 in the Pol II pausing-to-elongation transition at a checkpoint that precedes and is independent from CDK9. Selective CDK11 inhibition or degradation results in acute ablation of RNA synthesis near the beginning of transcriptional units and genome-wide stalling of Pol II at transcription start site (TSS)-proximal regions. High-resolution chromatin immunoprecipitation and precision nuclear run-on assays reveal spatial differences between CDK11- and CDK9-dependent Pol II pause sites, with CDK11 regulating Pol II upstream of the CDK9 checkpoint within the pausing zone. Cancer cells exhibit profound reliance on CDK11, with CDK11 inhibition reducing tumor burden in in vivo models of blood cancer, demonstrating the importance of CDK11-dependent Pol II regulation for aggressive hematological malignancies.
PXD054879	40858553	An integrated transcriptomic and proteomic map of the mouse hippocampus at synaptic resolution. 	An integrated transcriptomic and proteomic map of the mouse hippocampus at synaptic resolution	CA1, DIA, brain, hippocampus, synaptosome, transcriptomics	Understanding the brain's molecular diversity requires spatially resolved maps of transcripts and proteins across regions and compartments. Here, we performed deep spatial molecular profiling of the mouse hippocampus, combining microdissection of 3 subregions and 4 strata with fluorescence-activated synaptosome sorting, transcriptomics, and proteomics. This approach revealed thousands of locally enriched molecules spanning diverse receptor, channel, metabolic, and adhesion families. Integration of transcriptome and proteome data highlighted proteins tightly linked to or decoupled from mRNA availability, in part due to protein half-life differences. Incorporation of translatome data identified roles for protein trafficking versus local translation in establishing compartmental organization of pyramidal neurons, with distal dendrites showing increased reliance on local protein synthesis. Classification of CA1 synapses revealed contributions from kinases, cytoskeletal elements, and adhesion molecules in defining synaptic specificity. Together, this study provides a molecular atlas of the hippocampus and its synapses (syndive.org), and offers insights into spatial transcript-protein relationships.
PXD051725	40858584	Nascent liver proteome reveals enzymes and transcription regulators under physiological and alcohol exposure conditions. 	Nascent proteome reveals key regulators in the development of alcoholic liver disease	ALD, SORT-AC, non-canonical amino acid	The liver proteome undergoes dynamic changes while performing hundreds of essential biological functions. Dysregulation of the liver proteome under alcoholic conditions leads to alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD), a major health challenge worldwide. There is an urgent need for quantitative and liver-specific proteome information in living animals to understand the pathophysiological dynamics of this largest solid organ. Here, we develop a comprehensive approach that specifically identifies the nascent proteome and preferentially enriches membrane proteins in living mouse hepatocytes and is broadly applicable to studies of the liver under various physiological and pathological conditions. In the ethanol-induced liver injury mouse model, the nascent proteome successfully identifies and validates a number of transcription regulators, enzymes, and protective chaperones involved in the molecular regulation of hepatic steatosis, in addition to almost all known regulatory proteins and pathways related to alcohol metabolism. We discover that Phb1/2 is an important transcription coregulator in the process of ethanol metabolism, and one identified fatty acid metabolism enzyme Acsl1/5, whose inhibition protects cells and mice from lipid accumulation, a key symptom of hepatic steatosis.
PXD062676	40858606	Helicobacter hepaticus promotes hepatic steatosis through CdtB-induced mitochondrial stress and lipid metabolism reprogramming. 	IP-MS of H.hepaticus CdtB in Hep3B cell	CdtB, H.hepaticus, liver cells	Host-pathogen interaction influences many non-infectious diseases, including metabolic diseases. Helicobacter hepaticus (H. hepaticus) has been found in some metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) patients, however, the causal link and underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here we report that H. hepaticus infection or overexpression of CdtB of H. hepaticus induces lipid deposition in hepatocytes, both in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, we identify that CdtB translocates to mitochondria with the help of Hsp90, interacts with ATP5A1, reduces mitochondrial respiratory complex V activity, damages mitochondria, and disrupts lipid metabolism. Mechanistically, CdtB-induced lipogenesis depends on the CdtB-mitochondrial ROS-mTORC1-SREBP1 axis and CdtB-mediated NONO expression to enhance nuclear localization of SREBP1 that promote the de novo fatty acid synthesis in the hepatocytes. Neutralization of CdtB significantly alleviates hepatic lipidosis in mice upon H. hepaticus infection. Furthermore, the nucleic acid of H. hepaticus has been detected in the liver tissues of some patients with MASLD, which suggests a certain correlation between liver infection with H. hepaticus and the occurrence and progression of MASLD. Our findings highlight the critical role of CdtB in the pathogenesis of H. hepaticus infection-induced hepatic lipidosis and its potential as a therapeutic target.
PXD047827	40858717	Deciphering molecular determinants of GPBAR1-Gs protein interactions by HDX-MS and cryo-EM. 	Investigation of GPCR-G protein coupling by Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry (HDX-MS) : the GPBAR1 case.	G protein, GPBAR1, GPCR, GPCR-G protein, HDX-MS, TGR5, cryo-EM	Many physiological processes are dependent on G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), the biggest family of human membrane proteins and a significant class of therapeutic targets. Once activated by external stimuli, GPCRs use G proteins and arrestins as transducers to generate second messengers and trigger downstream signaling, leading to diverse signaling profiles. The G protein-coupled bile acid receptor 1 (GPBAR1, also known as Takeda G protein-coupled receptor 5, TGR5) is a class A bile acid membrane receptor that regulates energy homeostasis and glucose and lipid metabolism. GPBAR1/Gs protein interactions are implicated in the prevention of diabetes and the reduction of inflammatory responses, making GPBAR1 a potential therapeutic target for metabolic disorders. Here, we present combined hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) and cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) to identify the molecular determinants of GPBAR1 conformational dynamics upon G protein binding. Thanks to extensive optimization, we achieved over 75% sequence coverage by HDX-MS of a complete GPCR complex and a 2.5 Aa resolution structure by cryo-EM, both of which are state-of-the-art. Altogether, our results provide information on the under-investigated GPBAR1 binding mode to its cognate G protein, pinpointing the synergic and powerful combination of higher cryo-EM and lower HDX-MS resolution techniques to dissect GPCR/G protein binding characteristics.
PXD045654	40859011	The CGG triplet repeat binding protein 1 counteracts R-loop induced transcription-replication stress. 	The CGG triplet repeat binding protein 1 counteracts DNA secondary structure formation to prevent transcription-replication stress	CGG-trinucleotide repeats, CGGBP1, DNA damag, G-quadruplex structure, Genomic Instability, R-loop structure, Replication Stress, Transcription Regulation, Transcription-Replication Conflicts	The CGG triplet repeat binding protein 1 (CGGBP1) binds to CGG repeats and has several important cellular functions, but how this DNA sequence-specific binding factor affects transcription and replication processes is an open question. Here, we show that CGGBP1 binds human gene promoters containing short (< 5) CGG-repeat tracts prone to R-loop formation. Loss of CGGBP1 leads to deregulated transcription, transcription-replication-conflicts (TRCs) and accumulation of Serine-5 phosphorylated RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), indicative of promoter-proximal stalling and a defect in transcription elongation. Consistently, an episomal CGG-repeat-containing model locus as well as endogenous genes show deregulated transcription, R-loop accumulation and increased RNAPII chromatin occupancy in CGGBP1-depleted cells. We identify the DEAD-box RNA:DNA helicases DDX41 and DHX15 as interaction partners specifically recruited by CGGBP1. Co-depletion experiments show that DDX41 and CGGBP1 work in the same pathway to unwind R-loops and avoid TRCs. Together, our work shows that short trinucleotide repeats are a source of genome-destabilizing secondary structures, and cells rely on specific DNA-binding factors to maintain proper transcription and replication coordination at short CGG repeats.
PXD066116	40859014	Distinct amyloid fibril structures formed by ALS-causing SOD1 mutants G93A and D101N. 	Distinct amyloid fibril structures formed by ALS-causing SOD1 mutants G93A and D101N	Amyloid Fibrils, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), Cryo-EM Structure, SOD1 Mutants, Toxicity.	Two hundred eight genetic mutations in SOD1 have been linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Of these, the G93A and D101N variants maintain much of their physiological function, closely resembling that of wild-type SOD1, and the SOD1-G93A transgenic mouse is the most extensively used mouse line in the study of ALS. In this study, we report two cryo-EM structures of amyloid fibrils formed by G93A and D101N mutants of SOD1 protein. These mutations give rise to amyloid fibrils with distinct structures compared to native SOD1 fibrils. The fibril core displays a serpentine configuration featuring four beta-strands, held together by two hydrophobic cavities and a salt bridge between Arg143 and Asp96 in the G93A fibril, and by a hydrophobic cavity and a salt bridge between Arg143 and Asp132 in the D101N fibril, demonstrating unique structural features for each mutant. Moreover, our results show that G93A fibrils are significantly more toxic than those formed by D101N, which do not show a marked increase in toxicity compared to wild-type SOD1 fibrils. This study sheds light on the structural mechanisms through which SOD1 mutants aggregate and induce cytotoxicity in ALS.
PXD059468	40859022	DeepMVP: deep learning models trained on high-quality data accurately predict PTM sites and variant-induced alterations. 	Decoding Post-Translational Modification Patterns to Gain Functional Insights into Pathogenic Missense Variants	PTM, machine learning	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) are critical regulators of protein function, and their disruption is a key mechanism by which missense variants contribute to disease. Accurate PTM site prediction using deep learning can help identify PTM-altering variants, but progress has been limited by the lack of large, high-quality training datasets. Here, we introduce PTMAtlas, a curated compendium of 397,524 PTM sites generated through systematic reprocessing of 241 public mass-spectrometry datasets, and DeepMVP, a deep learning framework trained on PTMAtlas to predict PTM sites for phosphorylation, acetylation, methylation, sumoylation, ubiquitination and N-glycosylation. DeepMVP substantially outperforms existing tools across all six PTM types. Its application to predicting PTM-altering missense variants shows strong concordance with experimental results, validated using literature-curated variants and cancer proteogenomic datasets. Together, PTMAtlas and DeepMVP provide a robust platform for PTM research and a scalable framework for assessing the functional consequences of coding variants through the lens of PTMs.
PXD062210	40859175	Phosphate availability modulates the weathering effectiveness and molecular response of Caballeronia mineralivorans PML1(12). 	Shotgun proteomic analysis of Caballeronia mineralivorans PML1(12) to analyze its effectiveness at weathering apatite.	apatite, bacteria, mineral weathering, nutrients, phosphate	BACKGROUNDS: Minerals and rocks are important reservoirs of nutrients for the soil biota because of their nutritive contents of P, K or Mg. In nutrient-poor environments such as forest soils, microorganisms capable of mobilizing these nutrients gain an ecological advantage. Acidification-based mineral weathering is one of the mechanisms used by these bacteria, but the molecular players involved and their regulation remain poorly characterized. METHODS: To fill these gaps, we considered the effective mineral weathering bacterial strain Caballeronia mineralivorans PML1(12). On the basis of the hypothesis that nutrient availability conditions the effectiveness of bacterial mineral weathering, we considered the impact of different nutrients (i.e., Mg, K and P) typically contained in minerals to determine the regulation occurring during the interaction and weathering of biotite using a dual transcriptomic and proteomic approach combined with geochemical analyses. RESULTS: By varying the concentration of each nutrient in solution, only P, depending on its concentration, conditioned the effectiveness at weathering of strain PML1(12) through acidification. The combination of omic approaches combined with (geo)chemical analyses revealed how the effectiveness at weathering apatite of strain PML1(12) is influenced by the P concentration and highlighted which mineral weathering (MWe) mechanisms are employed and how they are regulated. CONCLUSION: Our analyses provided new information on mineral weathering bacteria and highlighted the differential regulation of the glucose-methanol-choline oxidoreductase depending on the presence of minerals and the phosphorus concentration.
PXD064537	40860138	Intermittent fasting reprograms the brain proteome to prevent synaptic degeneration and cognitive impairment in vascular dementia. 	Intermittent Fasting Reprograms the Brain Proteome to Prevent Synaptic Degeneration and Cognitive Impairment in Vascular Dementia	Intermittent fasting, Synapse, Vascular dementia, mouse hippocampus	Rationale: Vascular dementia (VaD), driven by chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH), leads to synaptic degeneration and cognitive decline, yet mechanisms linking vascular dysfunction to synaptic loss remain unclear. Intermittent fasting (IF) has emerged as a potential intervention, but its effects on synaptic integrity in VaD are unknown. This study aims to investigate the effects of IF against synaptic degeneration and cognitive impairment induced by CCH. Methods: Bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS) was employed to induce chronic CCH by placing 0.18 mm micro-coils around each common carotid artery in mice. To assess temporal differences, the coils remained in place for 1, 7, 14, or 30 days. IF was implemented for 16 hours daily over three months prior to BCAS induction. Cognitive impairment was evaluated using the Barnes maze test. White matter lesions (WMLs) and neuronal loss were assessed using Luxol fast blue and cresyl violet staining, respectively. Immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry were performed to quantify synaptic protein levels. Synaptic integrity was examined using transmission electron microscopy. Proteomic analysis of the hippocampus was conducted to investigate molecular adaptations to IF following CCH. Results: We demonstrate that a 16-hour IF regimen preserves cognitive function and synaptic density despite persistent hypoperfusion. Behavioral assays revealed that IF prevented spatial memory deficits in BCAS mice, while electron microscopy confirmed synaptic preservation without altering baseline architecture. Surprisingly, key synaptic protein levels remained unchanged, suggesting IF protects synaptic function rather than abundance. Proteomic profiling revealed dynamic hippocampal adaptations under IF, including upregulation of synaptic stabilizers, enhanced GABAergic signaling, and suppression of neuroinflammatory mediators. CCH induced microglial engulfment of synapses, suggesting a role in complement-mediated synaptic pruning. Temporal pathway analysis revealed IF's multi-phase neuroprotection: early synaptic reinforcement, mid-phase metabolic optimization, and late-phase suppression of chronic neuroinflammation. Conclusion: These findings establish IF as a potent modulator of synaptic resilience in VaD, acting through coordinated preservation of synaptic structure, inhibition of inflammatory synapse loss, and metabolic reprogramming. Our results highlight IF's potential as a non-pharmacological strategy to combat vascular cognitive impairment by targeting the synaptic vulnerability underlying dementia progression.
PXD053874	40860567	Pseudosulfitobacter pseudonitzschiae hitchhikes on gliding colonies of Cellulophaga lytica. 	Proteomic profiling of Pseudosulfitobacter pseudonitzschiae and Cellulophaga lytica in mono- and coculture.	Microbial hitchhiking, gliding motility, living materials, structural colour	Interspecies interactions shape microbial communities; this is central for microbial ecology. Cellulophaga lytica PlyA2 is a marine flavobacterium, which glides over surfaces and forms ordered, structurally coloured colonies, which display angle-dependent reflection of light. Pseudosulfitobacter pseudonitzschiae SW is an apparently nonmotile, nonstructurally coloured marine bacterium. Here, we aim to understand the interaction of both strains at cellular, genomic, optical, and proteomic levels. Cocultivation on agar showed that P. pseudonitzschiae uses gliding C. lytica to spread by microbial hitchhiking in which Pseudosulfitobacter appears to "surf" on basal layers of motile Cellulophaga. This dispersal mechanism was found to be often beneficial for P. pseudonitzschiae, which could maximally expand its population up to 350-fold relative to monoculture. Coculture was often of limited benefit for C. lytica, only in extended cultivation on rich medium was the presence of P. pseudonitzschiae detrimental to its viability. The proteome of P. pseudonitzschiae was strongly impacted by the association with C. lytica. Quorum-sensing signalling, potential exchange of amino acids, vitamins, and other metabolites are likely mediating this hitchhiking interaction. In contrast, C. lytica made minimal adjustments to its proteome composition in coculture. Supported by optical analysis, P. pseudonitzschiae patterned C. lytica by changing how groups of the latter organised to reflect light. Our results underscore the unusual, dynamic interplay between two bacterial species and provide insights on the mechanisms underlying this relationship.
PXD058012	40860715	Inhibition of Cardiac p38 Highlights the Role of the Phosphoproteome in Heart Failure Progression. 	Inhibition of Cardiac p38 Highlights the Role of the Phosphoproteome in Heart Failure Progression	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Guinea Pig, Heart, Heart Failure, Human Proteome Project, P38 Inhibition, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP), TMT	Heart failure (HF) is a complex condition. Among altered signal transduction pathways associated with HF pathogenesis, the stress-activated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (Mapk) pathway has attracted attention for its role in HF progression and cardiac hypertrophy. However, the mechanisms by which p38-Mapk influences HF remain unclear. Addressing knowledge gaps may provide insight into why p38 inhibition has yielded inconsistent outcomes in clinical trials. Here, we investigate the effects of p38-Mapk inhibition via SB203580 on cardiac remodeling in a guinea pig model of HF and sudden cardiac death. Using an HF model with ascending aortic constriction and daily isoproterenol (ACi) administration, we assessed three groups: sham-operated controls, untreated ACi, and ACi treated with SB203580 (ACiSB). Cardiac function was evaluated by M-mode echocardiography. Proteome and phosphoproteome profiles were analyzed using multiplexed Tandem Mass Tag labeling and LC-MS/MS. Our findings demonstrate that SB203580 treatment protects against cardiac dysfunction in HF. Proteomic data indicate that SB203580 exerts broad protection of the cardiac phosphoproteome, inhibiting maladaptive p38-dependent phosphorylation, extending to Pka and Ampk networks, ultimately protecting the phosphorylation status of critical myofibrillar and Ca(2+)-handling proteins. Though SB203580 had a limited impact on widespread protein changes in HF, its biosignature revealed preserved mitochondrial energetics and reduced oxidative and inflammatory stress.
PXD066711	40860890	The identification of adenylyl cyclase modulators as potential receptors for 6-nitrodopamine in human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived cardiomyocytes and their relevance in heart inotropism. 	The identification of adenylyl cyclase modulators as potential receptors for 6-nitrodopamine in human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived cardiomyocytes and their relevance in heart inotropism	adrenaline, cyclase- Q10 associated proteins, dopamine, nitro-catecholamine, stromal interaction molecule 1	6-Nitrodopamine (6-ND) has potent positive chronotropic and inotropic effects. At a very low dose, i.e., 10 fM, it causes potentiation of the positive chronotropic effects induced by catecholamines in the rat atria, indicating a distinct mechanism of action. Cyclase-associated proteins (CAP-1 and CAP-2) are potential receptors for 6-ND in human cardiomyocytes. Since cyclic 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) plays a fundamental role in the positive inotropic effects of classical catecholamines, it was further investigated whether 6-ND potentiates the positive inotropic effects induced by classical catecholamines in the rat isolated perfused heart. Human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived cardiomyocytes were harvested and lysed, and following appropriate separation procedures, membrane proteins were incubated with 6-ND-derivatized agarose, centrifuged, and the proteins retained in the agarose eluted with 6-ND (1 mM). The proteins isolated from the chemical pulldown assay were fractionated by SDS-PAGE, the bands were cut and hydrolyzed in situ with trypsin, and then separated and sequenced. A total of 817 proteins were generated, and following screening using UniProt "Retrieve/ID Mapping" function and Gene Ontology cellular component category, 124 proteins were identified as membrane proteins. These experiments identified three proteins that modulate adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity (CAP-1, CAP-2, and STIM1), which are compatible with the pharmacological findings reported for 6-ND in the rat heart. As expected, 6-ND strongly potentiates the inotropic effect induced by noradrenaline in Langendorff's preparation. In conclusion, 6-ND-induced potentiation of catecholamine-induced chronotropic and inotropic effects is due to the modulation of adenylyl cyclase activity, probably via direct interactions with CAP-1 and CAP-2.
PXD065964	40864087	Pioneering Comparative Proteomic and Enzymatic Profiling of Amazonian Scorpion Venoms Enables the Isolation of Their First alpha-Ktx, Metalloprotease, and Phospholipase A2. 	Brotheas amazonicus_MELD_Q-Exactive Plus	Brotheas amazonicus, MELD, Q-Exactive Plus	Scorpionism is a growing public health concern in Brazil, with the Amazon region presenting the highest mortality rates but remaining understudied, especially regarding local scorpion venoms composition. This study presents the first comprehensive biochemical characterization of venoms from three Amazonian species-Tityus metuendus (TmetuV), Tityus silvestris (TsilvV), and Brotheas amazonicus (BamazV)-using an integrated approach combining Multi-Enzymatic Limited Digestion (MELD)-based bottom-up proteomics, high-resolution LC-MS/MS, chromatography, zymography, and enzymatic assays. Tityus serrulatus venom was included as a reference. Significant biochemical differences were observed: TsilvV was rich in 20-30 kDa proteins and showed strong metalloprotease activity; BamazV exhibited high molecular weight proteins and potent phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activity but lacked proteolytic and fibrinogenolytic activities; TmetuV showed the highest hyaluronidase activity and abundance of alpha-KTx neurotoxins. Zymography revealed a conserved ~45 kDa hyaluronidase in all species. Three novel components were partially characterized: BamazPLA2 (Group III PLA2), Tmetu1 (37-residue alpha-KTx), and TsilvMP_A (a metalloprotease homologous to antarease). This is the first application of MELD-based proteomics to Amazonian scorpion venoms, revealing molecular diversity and functional divergence within Tityus and Brotheas, emphasizing the need for region-specific antivenoms. These findings provide a foundation for future pharmacological studies and the discovery of bioactive peptides with therapeutic potential.
PXD063447	40864707	Elucidating tissue and subcellular specificity of the entire SUMO network reveals how stress responses are fine-tuned in a eukaryote. 	Stress specific SCE1-interactome characterised by IP-MS analysis	Arabidopsis thaliana root cultures, At-SCE1-interactome, IP-MS, SUMOylation	SUMOylation is essential in plant and animal cells, but it remains unknown how small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) components act in concert to modify specific targets in response to environmental stresses. In this study, we characterize every SUMO component in the Arabidopsis root to create a complete SUMO Cell Atlas in eukaryotes. This unique resource reveals wide spatial variation, where SUMO proteins and proteases have subfunctionalized in both their expression and subcellular localization. During stress, SUMO conjugation is mainly driven by tissue-specific regulation of the SUMO E2-conjugating enzyme. Stress-specific modulation of the SUMO pathway reveals unique combinations of proteases being targeted for regulation in distinct root tissues by salt, osmotic, and biotic signals. Our SUMO Cell Atlas resources reveal how this posttranslational modification (PTM) influences cellular- and tissue-scale adaptations during root development and stress responses. To our knowledge, we provide the first comprehensive study elucidating how multiple stress inputs can regulate an entire PTM system.
PXD066652	40865000	Proteomic Landscapes of 3D and 2D Models of High-Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma: Implications for Carboplatin Response. 	Proteomic landscapes of 3D and 2D models of High-Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma: Implications for Carboplatin Response	Cancer, DIA, MSMS, Ovarian Carcinoma, TMT	High-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) is the most common form of ovarian cancer, and finding new treatments remains an unmet need. While drug discovery is typically performed in two-dimensional (2D) monolayers, three-dimensional (3D) culture systems better mimic the in vivo conditions. However, a comprehensive comparison of 3D versus 2D ovarian cancer models is lacking. Here, we quantitatively compared the whole cell proteomic signatures of four ovarian cell lines-PEO1, PEO4, UWB1.289, and UWB1.289+BRCA1-with different status of BRCA genes grown in 2D and 3D. Using isobaric labeling proteomics, we quantified 6404 proteins and identified 371 significantly and commonly altered proteins between 2D and 3D. Proteins upregulated in 3D were enriched for transmembrane transport and NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex I, while energy metabolism and cell growth pathways also showed dimensionality-dependent changes. Notably, membrane-associated proteins were downregulated in spheroids, particularly EGFR in PEO1. Furthermore, the 3D culture modulated the response to carboplatin, with an increased expression of drug resistance-associated proteins, including NDUF family members in all spheroid models. These findings underscore how culture dimensionality influences both the molecular landscape and the chemotherapeutic response of HGSOC cells and highlights candidate targets for overcoming carboplatin resistance.
PXD059855	40865637	KAT6A acetylation regulates AMPK function and hypertrophic remodeling in the heart. 	Identification of acetylated proteins in the hearts of mice fed a ketogenic diet	Heart, acetylation, hypertension, ketogenic diet	Diets influence metabolism and disease susceptibility, with lysine acetyltransferases (KATs) serving as key regulators through acetyl-CoA. We have previously demonstrated that a ketogenic diet alleviates cardiac pathology, though the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here we show that KAT6A acetylation is crucial for mitochondrial function and cell growth. Proteomic analysis revealed that KAT6A is acetylated at lysine (K)816 in the hearts of mice fed a ketogenic diet under hypertension, which enhances its interaction with AMPK regulatory subunits. RNA-sequencing analysis demonstrated that the KAT6A acetylation-mimetic mutant stimulates AMPK signaling in cardiomyocytes. Moreover, the acetylation-mimetic mutant mitigated phenylephrine-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and cardiomyocyte hypertrophy via AMPK activation. However, KAT6A-K816R acetylation-resistant knock-in mice unexpectedly exhibited smaller hearts with enhanced AMPK activity, conferring protection against neurohumoral stress-induced cardiac hypertrophy and remodeling. These findings indicate that KAT6A regulates metabolism and cellular growth by interacting with and modulating AMPK activity through K816-acetylation in a cell type-specific manner.
PXD022892	40865802	Restrained Wnt signaling pathway by enha nced EsGSK3beta activity facilitates the infection of Spiroplasma and leads to neuropathic diseases in crustaceans. 	Spiroplasma eriocheiris restricts Eriocheir sinensis Wnt signaling pathway to promote pothogen infection and cause host tremor	Eriocheir sinensis, Spiroplasma eriocheiris, Tremor disease, Wnt signaling pathway, thoracic ganglion	Spiroplasma eriocheiris, has been identified as a lethal pathogen of Eriocheir sinensis tremor disease (TD), one neurological disease with typically paroxysmal tremors of the pereiopod. But the pathogenic mechanism of TD was still few known. Firstly, in the current study, the phosphoproteomic changes of E. sinensis thoracic ganglion after S. eriocheiris infected were obtained using TMT labeling and affinity enrichment followed by high-resolution LC-MS/MS analysis. A total of 349 phosphorylation proteins are up-regulated and 331 phosphorylation proteins are down-regulated when compared to the control sample with quantitative ratios above 1.5 or below 1/1.5 are deemed significant. Bioinformatics analysis (GO, KEGG pathway, Domain analysis, etc.) show Wnt signaling pathways was restrained, corresponding many nervous system development and signal transmission pathway also disrupted. Neurotransmitter metabolite analysis showed revealed metabolic dysregulation of four key neurotransmitters (5-Hydroxy-L-tryptophan, Serotonin, Acetylcholine and gamma-Amino-butyric acid) in thoracic ganglion of E. sinensis following S. eriocheiris infection. Secondly, similar to its effects on the thoracic ganglion cells, S. eriocheiris infection of hemocytes (the primary target cells and most crucial immune cells in crabs) also suppressed the host Wnt pathway through enhanced EsGSK3beta activity, both in vivo and in vitro. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) analysis shown that EsGSK3beta could directly interact with Esbeta-catenin. Inhibited or enhanced EsGSK3beta activity of hemocytes could reduce or facilitate S. eriocheiris infection by regulated the stability and nuclear translocation of Esbeta-catenin. Finally, further analysis showed that Wnt-beta-catenin pathway could functionally crosstalk with Toll pathway to positive regulate hemocytes antibacterial peptides (AMP) transcription. Altogether, our results suggest that S. eriocheiris could restrain the crab Wnt pathway, reduce AMP transcription to help its infection and disorder neurotransmitters to cause neuropathic TD at last.
PXD061658	40867056	Composition and RNA binding specificity of metazoan RNase MRP. 	Composition and RNA binding specificity of metazoan RNase MRP	C18ORF21, IP-MS, NEPRO, Ribonuclease (RNase) MRP	Ribonuclease (RNase) MRP is a conserved RNA-based enzyme best known for its essential role in the maturation of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) in eukaryotes. However, the composition and RNA substrate specificity of this multisubunit ribonucleoprotein complex in higher eukaryotes remain a mystery. Here, we identify NEPRO and C18ORF21 (which we renamed RMP64 and RMP24, respectively) as constitutive subunits of metazoan RNase MRP. These proteins are unique to RNase MRP and absent from the closely related RNase P, which processes transfer RNA (tRNA) precursors and tRNA-like substrates. We find that RMP64 and RMP24 are integral subunits of RNase MRP, stabilize its catalytic RNA, and are required for rRNA maturation and cell proliferation. Leveraging these discoveries, we identify a broad suite of in vivo RNA-binding targets of each enzyme, including potential cleavage sites at nucleotide resolution. Our findings identify the first metazoan RNase MRP-specific protein subunits and define the RNA-targeting repertoire of this essential enzyme in mammalian cells.
PXD063378	40870583	Maturation of Eupyrene Sperm upon Ejaculation Is Influenced by a Male Accessory Gland-Derived Serine Protease in Grapholita molesta. 	Proteome analysis of male accessory gland secretions in Grapholita molesta	Grapholita molesta, accessory gland proteins, mating	Grapholita molesta is a globally significant fruit pest. Females achieve maximal reproductive output through efficient sperm utilization following a single copulation. Post-mating maturation of eupyrene sperm is a critical step in reproductive success. Here, we report that a male accessory gland-derived serine protease (named GmAGSP1) is essential for this process. GmAGSP1 was only distantly related to other identified sperm-activating SPs, and its transcript was highly expressed in the AG at 48 h after emergence. RNAi-mediated knockdown of GmAGSP1 in males did not affect courtship rate, copulation duration, or mating frequency, whereas male fertility decreased significantly. Mating with GmAGSP1-knockdown males markedly impaired eupyrene sperm maturation in the spermatophores, with phenotypes including failure of eupyrene sperm bundles to dissociate normally and marked reduction in viability of the dissociated eupyrene sperm. Finally, untargeted metabolomic analysis preliminarily demonstrated marked alterations in multiple metabolic pathways within the spermatophore following mating with GmAGSP1-knockdown males. This study advances our understanding of the regulatory mechanism of "sperm activation in the spermatophore's metabolic microenvironment mediated by male AG-derived SP" while providing critical insights for the development of novel genetic control strategies targeting G. molesta.
PXD060337	40873297	Metaproteomic Analysis to Assess the Impact of Storage Media on Human Gut Microbiome in Fecal Samples. 	Metaproteomic analysis to assess the impact of storage media on human gut microbiome in fecal samples	Metaproteomics, bioinformatics, bottom-up proteomics, fecal sample, human gut microbiome, storage media	The human gut microbiome is a diverse community of microorganisms residing in the gastrointestinal tract. The storage condition of fecal samples may impact the taxonomic and protein compositions of microbiomes in these samples. Here, we performed a mass spectrometry-based metaproteomic study to assess the impact of storage media on human gut microbiome in fecal samples. We evaluated FDA-authorized OMNIgene.GUT (OG), phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), and RNALater (RNAL) buffers and identified 38,185 microbial peptides corresponding to 7348 microbial proteins, which matched 16 phyla, 20 classes, 50 orders, 104 families, 332 genera, and 453 species. We found a high similarity among the fecal microbiomes preserved in OG, PBS, and RNAL in terms of the identification of proteins, taxa, and functional annotations. Both alpha and beta diversity suggested the high similarity among samples stored in the three media. Nonetheless, we also found some notable differences among buffers regarding the abundances of a few taxon groups. A partial human proteome (over 400 proteins) was identified in the fecal samples, with most of these proteins associated with the membrane and extracellular regions. The findings indicate the similarity among microbiomes in the fecal samples stored in OG, PBS, and RNAL regarding proteome profile, taxa, and functional capacity. SUMMARY: This study thoroughly analyzed and compared the metaproteomes of fecal samples preserved at -80degreesC in PBS, RNALater, and OMNIgene.GUT Dx buffers, offering novel insights into the effectiveness of these buffers in maintaining the stability and composition of the human gut microbiome. We found a high similarity in the identification and quantification of proteins, taxa, and functional annotations across the three buffers, with notable quantitative differences highlighting subtle yet important variations in preservation efficacy. The unique datasets and findings could offer valuable revelations into the impact of fecal sample preservation on translational and clinical analyses of the human gut microbiome.
PXD058617	40874590	A DNA nicking Class 1 OLD family nuclease mediates phage defense in Vibrio cholerae and is countered by a phage-encoded inhibitor. 	A Class 1 OLD family nuclease encoded by Vibrio cholerae is countered by a vibriophage-encoded direct inhibitor	Nuclease, Vibrio cholerae, phage	Bacteria are constantly threatened by their viral predators (phages), which has resulted in the development of defense systems for bacterial survival. One family of defense systems found widely across bacteria are OLD (for overcoming lysogenization defect) family nucleases. Despite recent discoveries regarding Class 2 and 4 OLD family nucleases and how phages overcome them, Class 1 OLD family nucleases remain underexplored, with only one antiphage Class 1 OLD family nuclease described to date. Here, we identify the first bacterially encoded Class 1 OLD family nuclease with antiphage activity: the Vibrio cholerae-encoded Vc OLD. We describe its disruption of genome replication of the lytic vibriophage ICP1. Furthermore, we examine its in vitro activity, identifying Vc OLD as a DNA nickase. Finally, we identify the first direct inhibitor of a Class 1 OLD family nuclease, the ICP1-encoded Oad1. Our research sheds new light on the role of Class 1 OLD family nucleases in phage defense and highlights the dynamic arms race between V. cholerae and its predatory phage ICP1.
PXD062104	40874857	Harnessing distinct tissue-resident immune niches via S100A9/TLR4 improves ketone, lipid, and glucose metabolism. 	Mouse Liver Kupffer Cells LC-MS MS	Kupffer cells, Liver, diabetes	The importance of immunometabolism in the development of metabolic diseases is clear. Yet, how certain metabolic disorders, such as insulin deficiency (ID), influence immune cell function, and vice versa, is poorly understood. Also, therapeutic strategies to harness the interplay between immune cells and metabolism are lacking. Here, we observe that ID rearranges the immune landscape of the liver, causing a decrease of T cells and an increase of the Kupffer cells, accompanied by a shift in the transcriptional signature and polarization of the latter. Treating ID mice with the protein S100A9 rescues the polarization and lipid-related changes caused by ID in the Kupffer cells, and, through them, rescues hypertriglyceridemia and hyperketonemia in a TLR4-dependent manner. Additionally, S100A9 acts on other immune niches to increase glucose uptake in skeletal muscle, improving hyperglycemia. In summary, our findings pinpoint the S100A9-TLR4 axis as a new tool to harness immune cells for improving ID-related metabolic dysfunction.
PXD046652	40874905	Mapping the FOXA1 Interactome in ER+ Breast Cancer Cells using Proximity Labeling Reveals Novel Interactions with the Orphan Nuclear Receptor NR2C2. 	FOXA1 proximity labeling reveals novel interactions with NR2C2 in ER+ breast cancer	FOXA1, NR2C2, biotin ligase, breast cancer, proximity labeling	FOXA1 is a pioneer transcription factor essential for chromatin accessibility and transcriptional regulation in hormone-driven cancers. In breast cancer, FOXA1 plays a central role in facilitating nuclear receptor binding, reprogramming enhancer landscapes, and promoting transcriptional changes associated with therapy resistance. While FOXA1's function has been primarily studied in the context of estrogen receptor-alpha (ER), its broader protein interaction network remains incompletely defined. Here, we systematically map FOXA1-interacting proteins in ER-positive breast cancer cells using proximity-dependent biotin labeling (miniTurbo) combined with quantitative LC-MS/MS proteomics. We engineered MCF-7 cell lines stably expressing miniTurbo-tagged FOXA1 at either the N-terminus or C-terminus to ensure comprehensive coverage of interaction interfaces. This approach recovered known FOXA1 partners, including AR, MLL3, YAP1, and GATA3, and identified 157 previously unreported FOXA1 interactors. Notably, 42 of these novel partners, including NR2C2, were significantly associated with poor relapse-free survival in ER+ breast cancer patients. To demonstrate the utility of this resource, we characterized the FOXA1-NR2C2 interaction in depth. Integrating ChIP-seq and RNA-seq, we show that FOXA1 and NR2C2 co-occupy a subset of genomic regions and drive co-regulated transcriptional programs involved in tumor progression. Our study reveals an expanded FOXA1 interactome and new insights into its functional network in breast cancer, providing candidate proteins for further exploration as biomarkers or therapeutic targets. Implications: These findings expand the FOXA1 interactome in breast cancer and uncover new candidate proteins with potential as biomarkers and therapeutic targets in hormone-driven tumors.
PXD064110	40875006	Structural characterization of intra- and intermolecular disulfide bonds in voltage-dependent anion channel 3 (VDAC3) protein from Rattus norvegicus by high-resolution mass spectrometry. 	Structural characterization of intra- and intermolecular disulfide bonds in Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel 3 (VDAC3) protein from Rattus norvegicus by high-resolution mass spectrometry	Cysteine Redox State, High-resolution Mass Spectrometry, Intra- and intermolecular Disulfide Bonds, Rattus Voltage-dependent Anion Selective Channel Isoform 3 (rVDAC3), Structural Characterization	Voltage-dependent anion channels, the most abundant proteins of the mitochondrial outer membrane, are responsible for the exchange of ions and metabolites between cytosol and mitochondria. They participate in the control of glycolytic metabolism through interaction with numerous enzymes and play a key role in the regulation of mitochondria-mediated apoptosis, cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases. The enzymatic digestion procedure in solution, originally developed in our laboratory, followed by high-resolution mass spectrometry coupled with UHPLC, has proven to be a powerful tool for the structural characterization of these "difficult" proteins. In this work, we used this procedure for the localization of intramolecular disulfide bonds in rVDAC3 and also for the characterization of intermolecular disulfide bonds formed by this protein with other VDAC isoforms. As a result, three intramolecular and seven intermolecular disulfide bonds between rVDAC3 with rVDAC1 and rVDAC2 were uniquely characterized. Furthermore, evidence was obtained for the existence of two additional intramolecular disulfide bonds between Cys2/Cys8 with Cys36 and Cys122, although these identifications were not supported by MS/MS spectra. The formation of intermolecular disulfide bonds helps to explain the previously observed VDAC oligomerization and demonstrates that disulfide bridges are directly involved in their homo- or hetero-oligomerization. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD064110.
PXD062861	40875264	Early proteomic response in thyroid gland after 131I administration in female Balb/c mice. 	Early proteomic response in thyroid gland after I-131 administration in female Balb/c mice	biomarker, radiation biology, radionuclide therapy, thyroid gland	131I (iodide) accumulates in the thyroid and may affect thyroid tissue. Mechanisms behind such effects are not known. The aim was to investigate early changes in protein expression in thyroid and plasma from mice injected with 131I as iodide. Female Balb/c nude mice were i.v. injected with 0 or 490 kBq 131I and killed after 24 h. Thyroid and blood samples were collected from each animal. Protein levels were determined by mass spectrometry. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD062861. Altogether, 17 and 20 proteins showed statistically significant altered levels in thyroid gland and plasma, respectively, after 131I exposure. Most of these proteins had decreased and increased levels in thyroid and plasma, respectively. Few of them were previously proposed radiation responsive proteins. Functional annotation suggests impact on haematopoiesis, reduced oxygen levels, and hypothyroidism. The role of CHIA and PGAM2 in radiation-induced response should be further examined, together with identification and validation of biomarkers of 131I exposure.
PXD056709	40877242	DCAF7 recruits USP2 to facilitate hepatocellular carcinoma progression by suppressing clockophagy-induced ferroptosis. 	Identification of the indisulam-regulated proteins in AGS cells using label-free quantitative proteomics	AGS, E7070, Label-free quantification, Orbitrap Elite Mass Spectrometer	DDB1- and CUL4-associated factor 7 (DCAF7) has recently been identified as a critical regulator of tumorigenesis and a potential modulator of ferroptosis. However, the precise function of DCAF7 in regulating the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) ferroptosis remains elusive. In this study, we demonstrate that DCAF7 and the deubiquitinase USP2 are highly expressed in HCC. Genetic ablation of DCAF7 or pharmacological inhibition of USP2 sensitizes HCC to ferroptosis and inhibits HCC progression both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, DCAF7 recruits USP2 to inhibit clockophagy (the selective autophagic degradation of core clock protein BMAL1 mediated through p62/SQSTM1) by reducing BMAL1 K63-linked polyubiquitination. Targeting either DCAF7 or USP2 triggers clockophagy-induced ferroptosis through the HIF1alpha-SLC7A11 axis in HCC cells. Collectively, our study establishes DCAF7 and USP2 as novel suppressors of clockophagy-induced ferroptosis and reveals the potential therapeutic targets for HCC treatment.
PXD067673	40878671	A Chromatography-Guided Co-Fractionation Mass Spectrometry Strategy for Rapid Profiling of Drug-Perturbed Protein Complexes. 	In Situ Cross-linking Based Co-Fractionation Mass Spectrometry (XL-CoFrac-MS)	ABT-199, Apoptosis, BCL-2, ChromaQuant, Chromatographic profiling, Co-fractionation, Cross-linking mass spectrometry, Leukemia, Protein complexes, RPLC	Protein complexes are central to cellular function and respond rapidly to pharmacological perturbations. Co-fractionation mass spectrometry (CoFrac-MS) is widely employed to analyze protein complexes by analyzing individual chromatographic fractions, but it is labor-intensive and slow. To address these challenges, we introduce a chromatography-guided strategy enabling rapid identification of drug-perturbed protein complexes. It combines cross-linking enhanced reversed phase liquid chromatography cofractionation (XL-CoFrac) for high-resolution separation with ChromaQuant, a custom tool for precise peak quantification and differential analysis (https://hplcfdu.shinyapps.io/ChromaQuant/). Subsequent targeted MS analyses, guided by ChromaQuant, collectively establish the XL-CoFrac-Q-MS workflow. In proof-of-concept studies, we first adopted XL-CoFrac to MCF7 cells and profiled representative protein complexes. ChromaQuant demonstrated exceptional precision, achieving coefficients of variation below 1% and replicate correlations exceeding 0.98. Furthermore, we analyzed RS4;11 leukemia cells treated with increasing concentrations of the BCL-2 inhibitor ABT-199 using the XL-CoFrac-Q-MS workflow. Seven chromatographic peaks that changed consistently with the drug concentration were selected to be identified by this approach. MS analysis of these peaks revealed cross-linked peptides from the BCL-2 associated protein complex. Specially, cross-linking peptides between BCL-2 and FKBP38 may shed light on the mechanisms underlying resistance to ABT-199. Further pathway enrichment analysis provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms driving ABT-199 induced apoptosis. Collectively, the XL-CoFrac-Q-MS strategy holds significant potential for broad applications, including rapid screening of drug targets and elucidation of protein complex dynamics across various pharmacological and pathological conditions.
PXD061821	40882144	Comparative Tear Fluid Proteomics to Explore Treatment Responsiveness in Diabetic Macular Edema: A Pilot Study. 	Human tear (Diabetic macular edema), LC-MSMS	Diabetic macular edema, Human tear	Diabetic macular edema (DME) is a leading cause of vision loss in patients with diabetes, with variable responses to intravitreal antivascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) therapy. This study aimed to identify tear fluid proteins linked to treatment responsiveness. Tear fluid samples were collected from 13 patients with diabetes (21 eyes with DME), among which 9 samples were analyzed using tandem mass tag-labeled liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, and all 21 samples were validated with ELISA. Protein identification and quantification were performed using MaxQuant. Gene set enrichment analysis identified differentially expressed proteins, and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to validate specific protein targets. Among the 3121 quantified proteins, DME-related proteins were enriched in cellular localization, oxidative stress response, and VEGFA-VEGFR2 signaling. Responders' tear fluid proteomes were linked to modulation of the extracellular matrix and inflammation, whereas nonresponders showed enrichment in inflammation and NOTCH/WNT pathways. Targeted protein analysis demonstrated that the interplay between TIMP1, MMP9, and insulin growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP3) correlated with treatment response. These results suggest that tear fluid proteomic analysis is a promising alternative to intraocular sampling for evaluating DME responsiveness, offering insights consistent with aqueous and vitreous proteomes while aligning with clinical prognosis and disease pathophysiology.
PXD063876	40882533	Integrated proteomic and lipidomic analysis revealed potential plasma biomarkers for cervical cancer. 	Proteomics and lipidomics analysis of plasma biomarkers for cervical cancer	Cervical cancer, Plasma	Cervical cancer (CC) remains the most prevalent malignant tumor in the female reproductive system. However, the absence of specific biomarkers and typical clinical manifestations in the early stages significantly impedes early diagnosis, prevention, and treatment efforts. Sensitive, non-invasive biomarkers are urgently necessary for the early detection of CC. This study leveraged proteomic and lipidomic analyses on plasma samples from 115 high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (HSIL) patients, 133 CC patients, and 88 healthy controls (CT) and develops robust models for effectively predicting CC. Proteomic profiles revealed 48 differentially abundant proteins in HSIL and CC patients, respectively, most of which were duplicated in two patient groups. HSIL displayed specific lipid accumulation in both discovery and validation cohorts. The elevated lipids were enriched in triglycerides (TG) and phosphatidylcholines (PC), while the lower lipids were enriched in fatty acids (FA). Random Forest classifier results suggest that 4 CC-specific plasma proteins [fibrinogen, complement C3 (C3), hemoglobin subunit alpha, alpha-1-antitrypsin (SERPINA1)], 2 of which were core lipid-interacted proteins (C3, SERPINA1), show predictive ability for CC in both discovery and validation cohorts (AUC 0.97 and 0.64). Our results suggest that lipid and protein perturbations exhibit differential sensitivity towards HSIL and CC and may be used as non-invasive diagnostic markers.
PXD062774	40883018	Context-dependent phosphorylation of CSDE1 drives interactions with ribosomes. 	Context-dependent phosphorylation of CSDE1 drives interactions with ribosomes	CSDE1, melanoma, phosphorylation	The RNA-binding protein CSDE1 is a key regulator of mRNA stability and translation in a broad spectrum of biological processes. We have previously shown that CSDE1 functions as an oncoprotein promoting invasion and metastasis in melanoma, whereas it behaves as a tumour suppressor promoting cellular senescence in squamous cell carcinoma. The reasons underlying these context-specific behaviours are unknown. To identify melanoma-specific vulnerabilities, we have compared CSDE1 protein isoforms and post-translational modifications in melanoma cells, keratinocytes, and melanocytic cells of different tumorigenic potential. By combining long-read Nanopore sequencing with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and transcriptome analysis, we identify one major isoform expressed in melanoma cells and patient samples. This isoform is phosphorylated early during cellular transformation, correlating with changes in its subcellular localization. We provide extensive interactome analysis of mammalian CSDE1, showing increased interactions with ribosomes in melanoma cells compared to healthy melanocytes. Importantly, interactions of CSDE1 with the ribosome are promoted by CSDE1 phosphorylation. Our data uncover a specific feature of melanoma cells that could be harnessed for therapeutic intervention.
PXD066844	40885387	Mannose trimming is the dominant signal for the release of misfolded glycoproteins from ER quality control. 	Mannosidic glycans on misfolded Arabidopsis SUBEX glycopeptides	Cell biology, N-linked glycosylation, endoplasmic reticulum (ER), endoplasmic reticulumassociated protein degradation (ERAD), glycoprotein, plant, protein degradation	N-glycosylation is essential for protein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Glycan attachment facilitates the binding of newly synthesised polypeptides to calnexin and calreticulin, two ER-resident lectins that act as chaperones and promote folding. The regulatory mechanism underlying this process is dictated by the glycan composition, and this study has elucidated the function of mannose trimming in the release of misfolded glycoprotein from ER quality control and subsequent transfer to ER-associated degradation (ERAD) in plants. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments were performed to investigate the interaction between the ERAD substrate SUBEX-C57Y and ER-resident lectins, providing evidence for a specific interaction with calnexin. Furthermore, the results show that the expression of calnexin and calreticulin can specifically inhibit the degradation of glycosylated ERAD substrates. However, overexpression of the alpha-mannosidase MNS4 was shown to overcome lectin-dependent accumulation and promote degradation via ERAD. MS-based analysis of released N-glycans and jack bean alpha-mannosidase-digested glycopeptides revealed the presence of monoglucosylated N-glycans even after mannose trimming. This finding is consistent with the observation that calnexin remained associated with SUBEX-C57Y after mannose removal from the C-branch of the N-glycan. In contrast, specific removal of the first alpha1,2-linked mannose from the A-branch or a block of glucose trimming of Glc3Man9GlcNAc2 prevented the interaction with calnexin. In conclusion, the study provides fundamental insights into the specific role of glycan residues for the interdependence between lectin-based ER quality control and glycan-dependent ERAD in plants.
PXD063983	40885391	The cytoplasmic domain of the pseudoprotease iRhom2 mediates distinct signaling mechanisms to control activation of the cell surface protease ADAM17. 	The human iRHOM2 interactome upon KRAS expression	protease, rhomboid, signalling	ADAM17 is a cell surface protease that controls the release of the ectodomains of signaling proteins including EGFR ligands and the primary inflammatory cytokine TNF. Reflecting this important role in signaling, dysregulated ADAM17 activity is linked to many human diseases including immunodeficiency, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), rheumatic arthritis, cancer, and Alzheimer's disease. iRhom2, a pseudoprotease of the rhomboid-like superfamily, has evolved to be a multifunctional regulatory co-factor of ADAM17. Recent structural and functional work has begun to reveal how the iRhom2 transmembrane and extracellular domains act to control ADAM17 activity. The cytoplasmic domain, however, remains less explored. Here, using a combination of proteomic, genetic and biochemical approaches, we report three distinct mechanisms by which the cytoplasmic domain of iRhom2 contributes to ADAM17 regulation. First, upon oncogenic KRAS signaling, the serine/threonine kinase RSK2 is recruited to the iRhom2 cytoplasmic N-terminus, and coordinates with phosphorylated ERK to activate the iRhom2/ADAM17 sheddase complex. Second, we show that iRhom2 may have an inhibitory function on ADAM17 at the cell surface: stabilising iRhom2 at cell surface by overexpressing iRhom2's cytoplasmic binding partner, FRMD8, inhibits PMA-stimulated ADAM17 activity. Third, we have identified a previously undefined motif (RKR) in the iRhom2 cytoplasmic domain that represses unstimulated ADAM17 activity. Overall, these findings reveal the complex regulatory system by which the iRhom2 cytoplasmic tail transduces cellular signals to regulate ADAM17 activation, potentially paving the way towards understanding and possibly manipulating the iRhom2/ADAM17 complex in health and disease.
PXD063995	40885482	Comprehensive evaluation of cleavable bioorthogonal probes for site-specific O-GlcNAc proteomics. 	Comprehensive evaluation of cleavable bioorthogonal probes for site-specific O-GlcNAc proteomics	O-GlcNAc, click chemistry, mouse brain	O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) modification (i.e., O-GlcNAcylation) on proteins is an essential modification in physiology and pathology. Although O-GlcNAcylation is functionally critical, its analysis has been challenging. Despite the existence of a number of methods developed in the past years, which one(s) might have the best performance is largely unclear. To that end, we conducted a rigorous comparison of several cleavable bioorthogonal biotin-alkyne probes which showed promise for sensitive O-GlcNAc proteomics. In brief, we developed chemoenzymatic labeling/click chemistry-based analytical workflows for O-GlcNAc proteomics, by utilizing four cleavable bioorthogonal probes including photocleavabe-biotin-alkyne (PC-biotin-alkyne), dialkoxydiphenylsilane-biotin-alkyne (DADPS-biotin-alkyne); 1-(4,4-dimethyl-2,6-dioxocyclohex-1-ylidene)ethyl-biotin-alkyne (Dde-biotin-alkyne), and diazobenzene-biotin-alkyne (Diazo-biotin-alkyne). The analytical performance of these probes was evaluated with synthetic O-GlcNAc peptides and then benchmarked by using mouse brain lysates for O-GlcNAc proteomics. Besides providing valuable technical insights into O-GlcNAc proteomics methods, our work yielded an unprecedented O-GlcNAc proteome depth in mouse brain. In total, 2,906 O-GlcNAc sites were unambiguously assigned on 878 proteins. Among them, 1,611 sites were newly identified, including 138 O-GlcNAcylated tyrosine residues. Our work will help guide selection/development of O-GlcNAc proteomics methods for future studies, provide an invaluable resource for functional elucidation of protein O-GlcNAcylation in brain biology, and yield critical insights into tyrosine O-GlcNAcylation.
PXD059021	40885706	Cardiomyocyte mitochondrial mono-ADP-ribosylation dictates cardiac tolerance to sepsis by configuring bioenergetic reserve in male mice. 	Proteomic analysis of proteins interacting with MacroD1 in the mouse heart	Mouse heart MacroD1 LC-MSMS	The metabolic flexibility of tissues determines the degree and reversibility of organ damage during inflammatory challenges. However, effective treatments for myocardial metabolic dysfunction in septic cardiomyopathy (SCM) are unavailable. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent signaling is fundamental to cellular metabolic homeostasis and inflammatory responses. Here, using male mice models, we reveal that both genetic and pharmacological inhibition of mono-ADP-ribosyl hydrolase MacroD1 which is predominantly enriched in cardiomyocytes alleviates myocardial metabolic impairment, inflammation, dysfunction, and the risk of mortality caused by lipopolysaccharide and cecal ligation and puncture. Mechanistically, MacroD1 selectively modulates the activity of mitochondrial complex I (MCI), which is particularly vulnerable at the early stages of sepsis. Inhibition of MacroD1 preserves MCI activity and bioenergetic reserves of cardiomyocytes by enhancing mono-ADP-ribosylation of Ndufb9 protein, thereby mitigating sepsis-induced myocardial pyroptosis and dysfunction. These preclinical results indicate that MacroD1 dictates cardiac tolerance to sepsis by configuring MCI-coupled bioenergetic reserve and cardiomyocyte pyroptosis.
PXD067147	40885760	In-cell proximity target validation methods for heterobifunctional molecules with CRBN- or VHL-binder using AirID. 	ThBD-AGIA-AirID expressing LNCaP cells treated with Pomalidomide or ARM-110	ARV-110, AirID, LNCaP cells, Pomalidomide, ThBD	Heterobifunctional molecules, such as proteolysis-targeting and autophagy-targeting chimera, represent new drug concepts. They are composed of two protein binders that can induce proximity interactions between two proteins and protein catalysis. Currently, cereblon (CRBN)- and von Hippel-Lindau (VHL)-binders with thalidomide- and VH032-backbones are widely used as E3 ligase binders. Here, we developed a method to validate proteins that interact with heterobifunctional molecules in cells using AirID, a proximity biotinylation enzyme. Interactome of target proteins was validated for six heterobifunctional molecules. ThBD-AirID, a fusion of the thalidomide-binding domain (ThBD) of CRBN and AirID, effectively biotinylated the target proteins. AirID fused to full-length VHL also exhibited highly effective biotinylation. Heterobifunctional molecules with the same target binder but different E3 binders showed different proximity interactome profiles in cells. Analysis using ThBD-AirID revealed a nuclear interaction between androgen receptor and ARV-110. AirID-fused ThBD and VHL could be useful for validating the heterobifunctional molecular interactome in cells.
PXD067243	40885777	Silicon-rhodamine-enabled identification for near-infrared light controlled proximity labeling in vitro and in vivo. 	Silicon-rhodamine-enabled Identification (SeeID) for Near-Infrared Light Controlled Proximity Labeling In Vitro and In Vivo	Silicon-rhodamine, proximity labeling	Advancement in fluorescence imaging techniques enables the study of protein dynamics and localization with unprecedented spatiotemporal resolution. However, current imaging tools are unable to elucidate dynamic protein interactomes underlying imaging observations. Conversely, proteomics tools such as proximity labeling enable the analysis of protein interactomes at a single time point but lack information about protein dynamics. We herein develop Silicon-rhodamine-enabled Identification (SeeID) for near-infrared light controlled proximity labeling that could bridge the gap between imaging and proximity labeling. SeeID is benchmarked through characterization of various organelle-specific proteomes and the KRAS protein interactome. The fluorogenic nature of SiR allows for intracellular proximity labeling with high subcellular specificity. Leveraging SiR as both a fluorophore and a photocatalyst, we develop a protocol that allows the study of dynamic protein interactomes of Parkin during mitophagy. We discover the association of the proteasome complex with Parkin at early time points, indicating the involvement of the ubiquitin-proteasome system for protein degradation in the early phase of mitophagy. Additionally, by virtue of the deep tissue penetration of near-infrared light, we achieve spatiotemporally controlled proximity labeling in vivo across the mouse brain cortex with a labeling depth of ~2 mm using an off-the-shelf 660 nm LED light set-up.
PXD054157	40885854	LZTR1 is a melanoma oncogene that promotes invasion and suppresses apoptosis. 	LZTR1 is a Melanoma Oncogene that Promotes Cell Growth and Inhibits Apoptosis Under Stress	LZTR1, acral melanoma, autophagy, stress response	Leucine zipper like transcription regulator 1 (LZTR1) is amplified in acral melanomas, is required for melanocytes and melanoma cell proliferation, and it induces anchorage-independent growth, by yet unknown mechanisms. We therefore performed comprehensive studies to identify its activity in melanomas employing proximity biotinylation and co-immunoprecipitation combined with LC-MS/MS proteomics and molecular characterization. The results show that LZTR1 regulates the ubiquitin proteasome system in melanoma cells and also associates with actin-related proteins and actin cytoskeleton organization. Its downregulation suppresses the protective effect of the autophagy-initiating ULK1 and AMBRA1, regulators of normal cell survival and proliferation, and upregulates the sequestosome 1 (SQSTM1/p62), an autophagic cargo adapter which mediates selective degradation of ubiquitinated proteins. In contrast, overexpression of LZTR1 provides growth advantage under environmental stress, enhancing cell invasion, by activating ERBB3 receptor and its downstream targets PYK2 and SRC tyrosine kinases that regulate the cytoskeleton, actin organization, cell spreading, cell migration and adhesion. LZTR1 is a "safeguard" for melanoma cells under stress and its downregulation can be exploited for melanoma therapy.
PXD056732	40886534	Proteomics reveals the key molecular players in Escherichia coli exposed to the antimicrobial cationic polymer 6-6 polyionene. 	Proteomic response of Escherichia coli to polyionene 6,6	6, Escherichia coli, O107 strain, PI 6, bacteria, polyionene, shotgun proteomics	Polyionenes are polymers with antibacterial properties that hold great promise for the development of applications aiming to preserve against microbial surface contamination. In this study, the effect of 6-6 polyionene (PI 6-6) on a model Gram-negative bacterium, Escherichia coli, was deciphered using next-generation, label-free shotgun proteomics. Cells were exposed to two sub-minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of the polymer before performing comprehensive proteomic analysis. Under these conditions, the abundance of up to 30 % of the proteins detected was significantly modulated compared to untreated controls. The most strongly impacted biological processes were central metabolism and cellular information processing. Exposure to PI 6-6 induced the production of reactive oxygen species depending on the PI 6-6 concentration. At 0.5x MIC, enzymes involved in hydrogen peroxide detoxification, polyamine and hydrogen sulfide biosynthesis, and sulfur metabolism, were up-modulated. At 0.75x MIC, a higher level of oxidized methionine was detected than in controls. Up-modulation of CspA RNA chaperone alongside other proteins linked to RNA metabolism and ribosome biogenesis was also observed. A large fraction of proteins was also down-modulated under both concentration conditions, with the majority of the top ten down-modulated proteins overlapping between the two treatments. These proteins primarily participate in the glyoxylate/dicarboxylate metabolism and propanoate metabolic pathways, which are both key routes for energy production and carbohydrate metabolism.
PXD061662	40886673	Human myocardial-derived highly proliferative cells improve cardiac remodeling after myocardial infarction in mice. 	Human Cardiac Progenitor Cells LCMS	Heart, Stem Cells	Human highly proliferative cells (hHiPCs) isolated from the adult heart have progenitor and angiogenic properties. However, the mechanisms underlying hHiPCs in myocardial repair in vivo have yet to be investigated. We characterized the hHiPC proteome and secretome and found that hHiPCs express and secrete proangiogenic and proreparative proteins, including CXCL6, CTHRC1, and CD73, and are ontologically enriched in pathways related to cytokine signaling and glucose metabolism. Using publicly available single-cell data (GSE149699), we found that CXCL6, CTHRC1, and CD73 are also expressed in adult and neonatal cardiospheres, resembling a therapeutic cell population currently being tested in clinical trials. With the prominent role of these enriched secreted factors in cardiac repair and highly proliferative phenotype, we hypothesized that hHiPC injection would improve heart function following ischemic injury. Following experimental myocardial infarction (MI) in immunocompromised male and female mice, we found that intramyocardial injection of hHiPCs (2.5 x 10(5) cells) resulted in ~3.5% (~8.7 x 10(3) cells) survival in the host myocardium; however, hHiPC survival persisted throughout the acute phase of MI. To assess cardiac function after treatment, we found that hHiPCs improved fractional shortening by 21 and 28 days post-MI and prevented progressive ventricular remodeling compared with vehicle control treatment. Together, these data establish a role for hHiPCs in cardiac repair and lay the foundation for their investigation as a potential treatment for myocardial ischemic injury. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study determined the unique novel properties of cardiac-derived human highly proliferative cells (hHiPCs) to survive over the acute inflammatory phase in the ischemic myocardium. hHIPCs were identified as potential candidates for cell-based therapy to create a long-term prohealing microenvironment by secreting proreparative proteins CXCL6, CTHRC1, and CD73.
PXD065533	40888172	O-fucosylation affects abundance but not localization of select nucleocytoplasmic proteins in Toxoplasma gondii. 	TgGPN1 interactome from Toxoplasma gondii tachyzoites	Toxoplasma gondii, co-immunoprecipitation, interactome	Toxoplasma gondii is a highly successful intracellular mammalian and avian pathogen that must adapt to a wide range of intracellular and extracellular environments. A mechanism that may support this is the modification of hydroxyamino acid rich sequences of nucleocytoplasmic proteins with O-fucose. O-fucosylation of possibly hundreds of proteins is mediated by a single highly conserved nucleocytoplasmic enzyme. Deletion of the SPY O-fucosyltransferase gene is tolerated but inhibits parasite proliferation in fibroblasts and their accumulation in mouse brains. A prior ectopic expression study suggested that O-fucose is required to detect proteins considered essential. To distinguish whether the SPY requirement was specific to the method or for protein expression per se, GPN1, an RNA polymerase chaperone, was epitope-tagged at its endogenous locus in both normal and SPYDelta strains. GPN1 was shown to be substantially and quantitatively O-fucosylated and exhibited a modest 24% reduction in level in SPYDelta cells. Proteomic analysis of its interactome indicated that fucosylation did not affect its association with RNA polymerase subunits. GPN1 was mostly cytoplasmic based on super-resolution immunofluorescence microscopy, and this localization was not affected by O-Fuc. A fusion of its O-fucosylated serine-rich domain to yellow fluorescent protein behaved similarly. In comparison, the abundance of a Zn-finger containing protein also depended on SPY, whereas the abundance and localization of ERK7 were not affected nor were levels of two other proteins. Thus O-fucose directly but modestly promotes the accumulation of select targets, but it does not enforce their localization in nuclear assemblies that are highlighted by immunofluorescence studies.
PXD063935	40889207	Time-Resolved Analysis of Protein-Protein Ensembles Using a Destabilizing Domain to Map Dynamic Interactions of SARS-CoV-2 nsp15. 	Time-Resolved Analysis of Protein-Protein Ensembles using a Destabilizing Domain (TRAPPED) to resolve dynamic interactions of SARS-CoV-2 nsp15	Virus-host protein interactions, affinity purification-mass spectrometry, destabilizing domain, dihydrofolate reductase, interactomics	Dynamic protein-protein interactions are key drivers of many cellular processes. Determining the relative sequence and precise timing of these interactions is crucial for elucidating the functional dynamics of biological processes. Here, we developed a time-resolved analysis of protein-protein ensembles using a destabilizing domain (TRAPPED) to study protein-protein interactions in a temporal manner. We have taken advantage of a dihydrofolate reductase-destabilizing domain (DHFR(DD)) that can be fused to a protein of interest and is constitutively degraded by the proteosome. Addition of the ligand trimethoprim (TMP) can stabilize DHFR(DD), preventing proteasomal degradation of the fusion protein and thereby inducing accumulation in cells. We synthesized and optimized TRimethoprim Analog Probes that maintain stabilization activity and contain a terminal alkyne for Click functionalization and a thiol reactive group to covalently tag DHFR(DD). Click reaction with a biotin tag and subsequent streptavidin enrichment enable time-resolved mass spectrometric identification of interacting partners. We evaluated the timing of protein interactions of SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV nonstructural protein 15 (nsp15) over a 2 h period. We found interactors GEMIN5 and YBX3, known regulators of SARS-CoV-2 infection that bind viral RNA, as well as CACYBP and FHL1 that implicate nsp15 in the disruption of host ERK1/2 signaling. We further revealed that these interactions remain relatively steady from 0 to 2 h post translation of nsp15. TRAPPED methodology can be applied to determine the sequence and timing of protein-protein interactions of temporally regulated biological processes such as viral infection or signal transduction.
PXD066952	40889425	Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis reduces hepatic H2S-producing enzymes altering persulfidome composition. 	Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis reduces hepatic H2S- producing enzymes altering persulfidome composition	MASH, Obesity, Persulfidome	Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is a progressive disease driven by obesity-related hepatic inflammation and oxidative stress. Recently, cysteine persulfidation (PSSH), a protective post-translational modification by hydrogen sulfide (H2S), was established to play a role in redox regulation. Despite the role of the liver in H2S metabolism, the function of PSSH in MASH remains underexplored. We demonstrated that H2S-producing enzymes are downregulated in both human and mouse livers with steatosis and fibrosis, resulting in a decline in global PSSH levels. Dimedone-switch mass spectrometry in dietary mouse models of distinct obesity-associated liver disease stages revealed dysregulated PSSH on specific proteins. Surprisingly, increased hepatic PSSH levels of protein tyrosine phosphatases and redox regulators were found in advanced disease stages, suggesting a targeted adaptive response to oxidative stress. Overall, our findings demonstrated that impaired H2S production disrupts protective PSSH networks in MASH. However, selective PSSH preservation on redox-sensitive proteins may represent a compensatory mechanism, underscoring the therapeutic potential of persulfidation in restoring redox homeostasis during obesity-associated chronic liver disease.
PXD059011	40889681	Pyrimethamine and a potent analogue inhibit NRF2 by suppressing one-carbon metabolism. 	Pyrimethamine and a potent analogue WCDD115 inhibit NRF2 by suppressing DHFR and one-carbon metabolism	Cancer, DHFR, NRF2	Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NFE2L2/NRF2) is a critical mediator of the cellular oxidative stress response. Aberrant activation of NRF2 is common in lung and upper aerodigestive cancers, where it promotes tumor initiation and progression and confers resistance to chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and immune checkpoint inhibitors. As such, NRF2 therapeutic inhibitors are actively being sought. We previously reported that the antiparasitic drug Pyrimethamine (PYR) inhibits NRF2 in cell lines and in a NRF2-inducible genetically engineered mouse model. Here we design, synthesize, and define structure-activity relationships across a series of 25 PYR-based derivatives to reveal WCDD115 as a 22-fold more potent inhibitor of NRF2 (57nM versus 1.2muM). PYR is known to inhibit plasmodial and human dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR). We found that WCDD115 inhibits hDHFR with 31-fold greater potency than PYR (144nM versus 4.49muM). Metabolomics showed strong similarities between PYR, WCDD115 and methotrexate. Genetic, pharmacological and metabolic epistasis studies reveal that DHFR inactivation is required for NRF2 suppression by WCDD115 and PYR. Global and targeted proteomics revealed overlapping profiles for WCDD115, PYR and methotrexate, including suppression of NRF2 oxidative stress response and activation of TP53 and the DNA damage response. Therefore, PYR and a novel potent derivative WCDD115 are effective, indirect inhibitors of NRF2 and its antioxidant functions. These data underscore the importance of one-carbon metabolism for the NRF2 signaling pathway and support a new therapeutic strategy to suppress NRF2-driven cancer biology.
PXD056740	40890295	Autism-related proteins form a complex to maintain the striatal asymmetry in mice. 	Proteomics and phosphoproteomics of mouse bilateral striatum	bilateral striatum, phosphoproteomics	The brain's hemispheres exhibit profound lateralization, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Using proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of the bilateral striatum - a hub for important brain functions and a common node of autism pathophysiology - we identified significant phosphorylation asymmetries. Particularly, the phosphorylation processes in the left striatum appear more prone to disturbance. Notably, SH3RF2, whose single-copy knockout leads to autism spectrum disorder (ASD)-like behaviors in mice, is uniquely expressed in the striatum, forming a complex with CaMKII (an ASD-associated protein) and PPP1CC. Loss of SH3RF2 disturbs the CaMKII/PP1 "switch", resulting in hyperactivity of CaMKII and increased phosphorylation of its substrate GluR1. In Sh3rf2-deficient mice, heightened GluR1-Ser831 phosphorylation and its aberrant postsynaptic membrane localization in the left striatum may impair the functional lateralization of striatal neurons and contribute to autism-like behaviors. This study unveils the first molecular mechanism governing brain lateralization in mammals, linking its impairment to autism development and treatment strategies.
PXD061637	40892544	SLC6A8-mediated creatine uptake suppresses ERK2-FSP1 signaling and induces ferroptosis in colorectal cancer. 	SLC6A8-mediated creatine uptake suppresses ERK2-FSP1 signaling and induces ferroptosis in colorectal cancer	Creatine, Ferroptosis, Immunotherapy, Tumor metabolic reprogramming	Tumor metabolic reprogramming is critical for providing energy to support proliferation and resistance to stress-induced cell death. However, the regulatory mechanisms linking these processes remain incompletely understood. Here, using untargeted metabolomics, we demonstrate that creatine potently induces ferroptosis in colorectal cancer (CRC). Mechanistically, creatine binds extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2), impairing its activation by mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MEK1). Inhibiting the creatine transporter SLC6A8 reduces creatine uptake and activates ERK2. Activated ERK2 then binds, phosphorylates ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 (FSP1) at Thr109, and stabilizes it to inhibit ferroptosis. Creatine supplementation suppresses tumor growth, enhances CD8(+) T cell infiltration, and sensitizes tumors to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) immunotherapy. Our study identifies ERK2 as a creatine sensor regulating FSP1 stability and ferroptosis resistance, highlighting the therapeutic potential of creatine supplementation in combination cancer immunotherapy.
PXD060892	40893217	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Effects of Biogenic Silver Nanoparticles on Fusarium keratoplasticum and Their Therapeutic Potential in Galleria mellonella Larvae. 	Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals the effects of biogenic silver nanoparticles on Fusarium keratoplasticum and their therapeutic potential in Galleria mellonella larvae	Fusarium keratoplasticum, Galleria mellonella, antifungal therapy, biogenic synthesis., metabolic disruption, oxidative stress, silver nanoparticles	Antifungal drug resistance is a growing concern, necessitating new therapeutic alternatives. This study evaluated the antifungal activity and molecular effects of biogenic silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) synthesized using the culture filtrate of Epicoccum nigrum against Fusarium keratoplasticum, a highly resistant fungal species. AgNPs exhibited strong antifungal activity, with a MIC50 of 1.79 mug/mL and 92.85% growth inhibition at 5.92 mug/mL. Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis (LFQ-MS) revealed 52 proteins with significantly altered abundance after AgNP treatment, affecting the oxidative stress response, mitochondrial function, and riboflavin biosynthesis. Decreased levels of proteins involved in riboflavin biosynthesis and electron transport suggest metabolic and energy disruption, while increased levels of oxidative stress response and heat shock proteins indicate fungal stress. To assess toxicity and antifungal efficacy in vivo, Galleria mellonella larvae were exposed to AgNPs at 2.58 mg/kg, showing a 90% survival rate after 7 days. Hemocyte density increased temporarily with no long-term immune disruption. Proteomic analysis of hemolymph revealed minor protein abundance changes, mostly related to the immune response and metabolism. In fungal infection assays, larvae infected with F. keratoplasticum (10(5) conidia/mL) had a 90% mortality rate, but AgNP treatment increased survival 5-fold (50% by day seven). These findings confirm that biogenic AgNPs act through the induction of oxidative stress, metabolic disruption, and mitochondrial damage in F. keratoplasticum. The combination of proteomic and in vivo data supports their efficacy and safety. Further studies should explore long-term toxicity and potential applications in medicine and agriculture to combat antifungal resistance.
PXD056307	40893681	Macrophage DGKzeta-mediated phosphatidic acid remodeling aggravates acute liver failure. 	Anti-inflammatory target of an xanthohumol derivative	CAM12203, direct molecular target	Acute liver failure (ALF) is a life-threatening condition associated with macrophage-mediated inflammatory responses. Effective therapies and drugs are still lacking to date. Here, we reveal that a derivative of xanthohumol, CAM12203, alleviates lipopolysaccharide (LPS) + d-galactosamine (D-GalN)-induced ALF through limiting macrophage-mediated inflammation, with the most significant impact on interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) transcription. Through biotin labeling-mediated pull-down and LC-MS/MS analysis, diacylglycerol kinase zeta (DGKzeta), a lipid-metabolizing kinase, is identified as the direct target of CAM12203. Mechanistically, DGKzeta is induced in macrophages upon inflammatory stimuli and is upregulated observed on clinical liver failure samples. Its product phosphatidic acid (PA) boosts phospholipase C (PLC)-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3)-Ca(2+) signaling and subsequent janus kinase 2 (JAK2)-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) cascade, ultimately promoting IL-1beta production and liver failure. DGKzeta knockdown/ablation or inhibition significantly impairs the DGKzeta-STAT3-IL-1beta pathway along with ALF progression. Finally, CAM12203 is confirmed to be a new DGKzeta inhibitor and acts against inflammation in a DGKzeta-reliant manner. Taken together, CAM12203 inhibits IL-1beta transcription in macrophages by binding to DGKzeta and blocking the DGKzeta-STAT3 axis, thereby exerting an ameliorative effect on ALF. These results not only highlight CAM12203 as a promising lead compound for ALF treatment, but also define DGKzeta as a novel therapeutic target.
PXD049693	40893970	Targeted Protein Modification with an Antibody-Based System. 	Targeted protein editing with an antibody-based system	GFP, PEABS, TPTM, antibody, b2m, beta-2 microglobulin, nanobody, post-translational modification, targeted	The chemical modification of proteins is one of the major mechanisms used to regulate the properties and functions of these macromolecules in the cell. It is therefore of great interest to develop tools to exploit this type of modification for applications in molecular biology, medicine, and biotechnology. Here we present a method of using antibodies to perform post-translational covalent modifications of endogenous proteins in complex environments by exploiting proximity-driven chemistry. The method is based on the ability of antibodies to hold a weakly reactive group close to its intended site of reaction by binding the target protein on a nearby epitope. We characterize this approach by modifying the green fluorescent protein in increasingly complex environments and illustrate its applicability by targeting the disease-associated protein beta-2 microglobulin.
PXD057383	40894916	Gene expression dynamics before and after zygotic gene activation in Drosophila early embryogenesis. 	Gene expression dynamics before and after zygotic gene activation in Drosophila early embryogenesis	Drosophila MZT development	Post-transcriptional gene regulatory mechanisms are fundamental to the determination of gene expression dynamics and especially crucial for the earliest stages of animal development in which transcription is nearly silent. Here, we performed high-resolution total RNA sequencing and quantitative mass spectrometry analysis simultaneously on Drosophila maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT). Further, this study is the first to report the proteome-wide quantitative changes in protein ubiquitination in Drosophila MZT. Our results indicate that timely ubiquitination of the distinct target proteins during MZT is essential for the downregulation of protein expression levels. Profiling of the RNA-associated proteome changes in Drosophila MZT suggested that RNA binding can be regulated without the respective change in net protein expression levels for over 200 proteins, including Pcid2, Sym, and Cpsf73. We report that highly dynamic and post transcriptionally regulated protein expression level changes can occur at the earliest stages of the Drosophila MZT.
PXD056578	40895305	Proteomics and phosphoproteomics of freshwater mollusk carcasses reveal novel insights as potential food source. 	Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics of Radix auricularia	Radix auricularia, freshwater species	Cipangopaludina chinensis, Radix auricularia, and Nodularia douglasiae are common freshwater mollusks widely distributed in lakes and rivers across China. In this study, (DIA) Data - independent acquisition method was used to analyze the proteomics and phosphoproteomics among three species. The results showed that a total of 1,382 proteins were identified from mollusk carcasses, with 492 proteins were quantitively analyzed. These proteins are mainly involved in amino acid nutrition and metabolism, including glutamate dehydrogenase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and tyrosinase copper-binding domain-containing protein. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the identified proteins are primarily involved in carbon metabolism, microbial metabolism, ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis, and RAS signaling pathways. Notably, this study offers valuable insights into the differential protein expression of proteins across species. Furthermore, proteomics analysis revealed several novel proteins, which helps to improve our understanding of amino acid metabolism, protein diversity, and signaling pathways in these freshwater mollusks.
PXD066563	40897715	Selective ubiquitination of drug-like small molecules by the ubiquitin ligase HUWE1. 	Selective ubiquitination of  drug-like small molecules by the ubiquitin ligase HUWE1	HECT E3, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), click chemistry, enzymology, non-protein ubiquitination, small-molecule inhibitor	The ubiquitin system regulates eukaryotic physiology by modifying myriad substrate proteins. Substrate specificity and the assembly of ubiquitin signals are determined by ubiquitin ligases, some of which also modify non-protein biomolecules. Here we expand this substrate realm, revealing that the human ligase HUWE1 can target drug-like small molecules. We demonstrate that compounds previously reported as HUWE1 inhibitors present substrates of their target ligase. Compound ubiquitination is driven by the canonical catalytic cascade, linking ubiquitin to the compound's primary amino group. In vitro, the modification is selectively catalyzed by HUWE1, allowing the compounds to compete with protein substrates. We establish cellular detection methods, confirming HUWE1 promotes - but does not exclusively drive - compound ubiquitination in cells. Converting the existing compounds into specific HUWE1 substrates or inhibitors thus requires enhanced specificity. More broadly, our findings open avenues for harnessing the ubiquitin system to transform exogenous small molecules into novel chemical modalities within cells.
PXD067139	40897790	A-to-I edited SNHG3 promotes non-small cell lung cancer metastasis by promoting fatty acid oxidation and resisting ferroptosis. 	Human lung cancer cells-MS for SNHG3 c.1746A>I editing	SNHG3, lung	Adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) RNA editing is a critical post-transcriptional modification that enhances tumor genome diversity and contributes to cancer progression. In non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), while specific A-to-I editing events have been identified, their functional mechanisms and clinical relevance remain poorly understood. Here, through whole-transcriptome analysis of NSCLC specimens, we discovered a hyper-editing event at position c.1746 in the long non-coding RNA SNHG3 (c.1746 A > I), which correlates with advanced metastatic stages and reduced patient survival. Functional studies demonstrated that edited SNHG3 (SNHG3(ED)) exhibits significantly greater pro-metastatic activity compared to its wild-type counterpart (SNHG3(WT)). Mechanistically, SNHG3(ED) shows enhanced binding affinity for the chromatin remodeler SSRP1, triggering SSRP1-mediated replication origin assembly and subsequent upregulation of fatty acid metabolism and ferroptosis-related genes. This molecular rewiring promotes fatty acid oxidation, confers resistance to ferroptosis, and importantly, drives docetaxel (DTX) chemoresistance. In DTX-resistant NSCLC cell lines, patient-derived organoids, and Nude mouse xenograft tumor model, antisense oligonucleotide-based targeting of SNHG3(ED) effectively restored DTX sensitivity and suppressed tumor growth. Our findings demonstrate that SNHG3 c.1746 A > I editing serves both as a novel prognostic biomarker for NSCLC and as a mechanistically defined therapeutic target to overcome DTX resistance, which offers a potential therapeutic target to improve DTX efficacy.
PXD059593	40898188	Integrating proteomics and bioinformatics for the identification of breast cancer biomarkers interacting with telomeric G-quadruplex. 	Integrating Proteomics and Bioinformatics Methods for the Identification of Breast Cancer Biomarkers Interacting with Telomeric G-Quadruplex	Bioinformatics, Breast Cancer Biomarkers, DNA-protein interactions., Telomeric G-Quadruplex	The identification of reliable biomarkers is essential for improving breast cancer (BC) detection, prognosis, and treatment. This study explores a human telomeric G-quadruplex (G4) model, tel46, functionalized on Controlled Pore Glass (CPG) support, as a novel biomarker discovery tool. The oligonucleotide tel46 mimics multimeric G4 structures in telomeric overhangs. Using affinity purification-mass spectrometry, 93 proteins interacting with tel46 were identified starting from nuclear extract of MCF7 cells, linking them to pathways in DNA replication, repair, and genome stability, which are frequently altered in cancer. Integrating AP-MS data with quantitative proteomics comparing MCF7 to non-tumorigenic MCF10A cells, 27 tel46 interactors were identified among upregulated proteins. Functional analyses revealed enrichment in genome maintenance and repair pathways, while downregulated proteins were associated with fundamental cellular functions. Further bioinformatics analysis using public cancer proteomics database 19 were validated. Bioinformatic analysis based on transcriptomics and clinical data revealed MSH6, MSH2, ESRP1, and WDHD1 as the most promising potential biomarkers for breast cancer. Indeed, these proteins are highly expressed in BC and generally correlated to poor prognosis: in addition to their role as potential biomarkers for early diagnosis, these proteins might be used as targets for specific treatment, enhancing radiation sensitivity or decreasing tumour cell proliferation. As a proof-of-concept, this study proposes tel46-functionalized CPG as a potential tool for isolating cancer-related proteins and underscores the potential of G4-interacting proteins as biomarkers for BC diagnosis and therapy. Moreover, these findings establish a basis for further research into G4-mediated cancer mechanisms.
PXD064125	40898225	Plasma proteomics identifies molecular subtypes in sepsis. 	Plasma proteomics identifies molecular subtypes in sepsis	Clinical Routine Data, Hierarchical Clustering, Machine Learning, Plasma, Precision Medicine, Sepsis, Subclasses	BACKGROUND: The heterogeneity of sepsis represents a significant challenge to the development of personalized sepsis therapies. Sepsis subtyping has therefore emerged as an important approach to this problem, but its impact on clinical practice was limited due to insufficient molecular insights. Modern proteomics techniques allow the identification of subtypes and provide molecular and mechanistical insights. In this study, we analyzed a prospective multi-center sepsis cohort using plasma proteomics to describe and characterize sepsis plasma proteome subtypes. METHODS: Plasma samples were collected from 333 patients at days 1 and 4 of sepsis and analyzed using liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry. Plasma proteome subtypes were identified using K-means clustering and characterized based on clinical routine data, cytokine measurements, and proteomics data. A random forest machine learning classifier was generated to showcase future assignment of patients to subtypes. RESULTS: Four subtypes with different sepsis severity were identified. Cluster 0 represented the most severe form of sepsis, with 100% mortality. Cluster 1, 2 and 3 showed a gradual decrease of the median SOFA score, as reflected by clinical data and cytokine measurements. At the proteome level, the subtypes were characterized by distinct molecular features. We observed an alternating immune response, with cluster 1 showing prominent activation of the adaptive immune system, as indicated by elevated levels immunoglobulin (Ig) levels, which were verified using orthogonal measurements. Cluster 2 was characterized by acute inflammation and the lowest Ig levels. Cluster 3 represented the sepsis proteome baseline of the investigated cohort. We generated an ML classifier and optimized it for the minimum number of proteins that could realistically be implemented into routine diagnostics. The model, which was based on 10 proteins and Ig quantities, allowed the assignment of patients to clusters 1, 2 and 3 with high confidence. CONCLUSION: The identified plasma proteome subtypes provide insights into the immune response and disease mechanisms and allow conclusions on appropriate therapeutic measures, enabling predictive enrichment in clinical trials. Thus, they represent a step forward in the development of targeted therapies and personalized medicine for sepsis.
PXD035443	40898325	ATE1 promotes breast cancer progression via arginylation-dependent regulation of MAPK-MYC signaling. 	N-terminal proteome analysis on breast cell line	Breast, Cancer, N-terminome	BACKGROUND: Arginyl-tRNA-protein transferase (ATE1) catalyzes N-terminal arginylation, a regulatory protein modification implicated in various cellular processes, including proliferation, apoptosis, and migration. Although ATE1 has context-dependent roles in cancer, its specific function in breast cancer remains unclear. This study investigates the oncogenic role of ATE1 across multiple breast cancer subtypes and its underlying molecular mechanisms. METHODS: ATE1 expression in breast cancer was evaluated using TCGA data and immunoblotting across breast cancer cell lines and normal mammary epithelial cells (HMEC). Functional studies using siRNA- and shRNA-mediated knockdown assessed ATE1's role in cell viability, clonogenic growth, migration, and tumorigenesis in vitro and xenograft models. Quantitative proteomics, R-catcher-based N-terminomics, and pathway analyses were employed to identify ATE1-dependent signaling networks, with a focus on MAPK-MYC axis regulation. Flow cytometry and immunoblotting were used to assess cell cycle progression, apoptosis, and MYC stability. RESULTS: ATE1 was significantly upregulated in breast cancer cells and associated with poor prognosis in early-stage patients. ATE1 depletion selectively impaired viability, proliferation, and migration in breast cancer cells, but not in HMECs. In vivo, ATE1 silencing suppressed tumor growth in xenograft models. Proteomic profiling revealed that ATE1 regulates the cell cycle and survival pathways in a subtype-specific manner, particularly through modulation of the MAPK-MYC-CDK6 axis in luminal T-47D cells. ATE1 stabilized MYC protein via ERK-mediated phosphorylation at Ser62, promoting cell cycle progression and suppressing apoptosis. Rescue experiments confirmed that ATE1's tumor-promoting activity depends on its arginyltransferase function. CONCLUSIONS: ATE1 promotes breast cancer progression by enhancing cell proliferation, survival, and migration through MAPK-dependent stabilization of MYC in a lineage-specific context. These findings identify ATE1 as a potential therapeutic target and highlight the relevance of protein arginylation in the molecular heterogeneity of breast cancer.
PXD062971	40898360	Identification and validation of a tear fluid-derived protein biomarker signature in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 	Identification and validation of a tear fluid-derived protein biomarker signature in patients with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, biomarker, diagnosis, tear fluid	The diagnosis of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) remains challenging, particularly in early stages, where characteristic symptoms may be subtle and nonspecific. The development of disease-specific and clinically validated biomarkers is crucial to optimize diagnosis. Here, we explored tear fluid (TF) as a promising ALS biomarker source, given its accessibility, anatomical proximity to the brainstem as an important site of neurodegeneration, and proven discriminative power in other neurodegenerative diseases. Using a discovery approach, we profiled protein abundance in TF of ALS patients (n = 49) and controls (n = 54) via data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. Biostatistical analysis and machine learning identified differential protein abundance and pathways in ALS, leading to a protein signature. These proteins were validated by Western blot in an independent cohort (ALS n = 51; controls n = 52), and their discriminatory performance was assessed in-silico employing machine learning. 876 proteins were consistently detected in TF, with 106 differentially abundant in ALS. A six-protein signature, including CRYM, PFKL, CAPZA2, ALDH16A1, SERPINC1, and HP, exhibited discriminatory potential. We replicated significant differences of SERPINC1 and HP levels between ALS and controls across the cohorts, and their combination yielded the best in-silico performance. Overall, this investigation of TF proteomics in ALS and controls revealed dysregulated proteins and pathways, highlighting inflammation as a key disease feature, strengthening the potential of TF as a source for biomarker discovery.
PXD049259	40903537	Goreisan attenuates cardiac hypertrophy and diastolic dysfunction in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction induced by HFD/L-NAME via regulation of ICAT-beta-catenin/ERK axis. 	HFpEF model heart failure mouse treated with traditional herbal medicine Goreisan	GRS, Goreisan, HFpEF, heart, heart failure	Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), characterized by cardiac hypertrophy and diastolic dysfunction, is increasing worldwide. Goreisan (GRS) is a traditional herbal formulation; its component attenuates cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. This study aimed to investigate the effect of GRS on the pathophysiology of HFpEF. Administration of a high fat diet (HFD, 60% fat) and N-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME, 0.5 g/L in drinking water) increased heart and lung weights in C57BL/6 mice and GRS (5.9 mg/kcal) reduced them without changes in blood pressure. GRS attenuated HFD/L-NAME-induced increases in left ventricular wall thickness and E/A and E/E', indices of diastolic dysfunction. GRS decreased cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area in HFD/L-NAME-treated mice. Mechanistically, it suppressed the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), such as extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), in HFD/L-NAME-treated hearts. In addition, liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry demonstrated that HFD/L-NAME decreased and GRS increased 73 proteins in the heart. Among them, GRS prevented HFD/L-NAME-induced decrease in inhibitor of beta-catenin and T-cell factor (ICAT), a negative regulator of cardiac hypertrophy. Consistently, beta-catenin, an ICAT target, exhibited the opposite change. In in vitro experiments, GRS directly decreased beta-catenin in isoproterenol (ISO)-treated cardiomyocytes, accompanied by a decrease in cardiomyocyte surface area. Overexpression of ICAT also suppressed ISO-induced increases in beta-catenin, phosphorylated ERK, and cardiomyocyte surface area. Among GRS ingredients, cinnamaldehyde and alisol B 23-acetate attenuated ISO-induced increases in beta-catenin and cardiomyocyte surface area. In conclusion, GRS attenuates cardiac hypertrophy and diastolic dysfunction via ICAT-beta-catenin/ERK axis. GRS is a potential herbal formulation for the treatment of HFpEF.
PXD061410	40903800	Effects of Whole-Body Cryotherapy Combined With Conventional Obesity Management Versus Obesity Management Alone: A Clinical Trial. 	Human skeletal muscle proteome responses to weight loss induced by bariatric surgery or low-calorie diet	bariatric surgery, caloric restriction, low-calorie diet, skeletal muscle, weight loss	OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether whole-body cryotherapy (WBC) enhances weight loss, brown adipose tissue (BAT) activation, and metabolic outcomes during obesity management. METHODS: Nineteen adults with obesity were assigned to a 12-month lifestyle-based obesity management intervention with 28 WBC sessions (-110degreesC, 3-4 min, ~2 x week) over the first 5 months (CRYO, n = 10) or the intervention without WBC (CON, n = 9). The primary outcome was weight loss (5 and 12 months). Secondary outcomes included BAT glucose uptake and whole-body energy expenditure during cold stimulation (5 months), clinical parameters, subcutaneous adipose tissue transcriptomics, and skeletal muscle proteomics (5 and 12 months). RESULTS: Weight loss in the CRYO group was 11.9% at 5 months and 9.9% at 12 months, compared to 11.5% and 8.0% in the CON group (p >= 0.54 for between-group differences). No significant between-group differences appeared in BAT glucose uptake, energy expenditure, adipose tissue transcriptomics, or skeletal muscle proteomics changes. However, at 5 months, the CRYO group showed greater reductions in fasting glucose (0.41 mmol/L, p = 0.026) and LDL cholesterol (0.44 mmol/L, p = 0.034). CONCLUSIONS: WBC did not significantly enhance weight loss, activate BAT, or alter most metabolic responses during conventional obesity management. Further research is needed to confirm whether WBC benefits glucose and cholesterol metabolism. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01312090.
PXD058098	40903814	A Compendium of Bona Fide Reference Markers for Genuine Plant Extracellular Vesicles and Their Degree of Phylogenetic Conservation. 	A compendium of bona fide reference markers of plant-derived extracellular vesicles and their degree of phylogenetic conservation	Brassica oleracea, Plant-derived extracellular vesicles, apoplastic washing fluid., markers	Although the field of plant EVs (PEVs) is experiencing exponential growth, rigorous characterisation complying with MISEV guidelines has not been yet implemented due to the lack of bona fide reference markers. In this work, we have paved the way for the standardisation of PEV markers, providing the most profound proteomic data so far from apoplastic washing fluid-EVs, a sample enriched in genuine extracellular vesicles from plant tissue of two reference plant species: Arabidopsis thaliana (Arath-EVs) and Brassica oleracea (Braol-EVs). Besides, we analysed the protein content of the soluble fraction of the apoplast and calculated the enrichment of the potential markers studied in EVs. Additionally, we have conducted an exhaustive analysis of the proteomic data available so far from genuine EVs from any plant species, evaluating current potential markers, together with those found in our proteomic analyses. Our results provide evidence supporting the potential use of the following families as PEV markers: aquaporins, vacuolar-type ATPase complex subunits, some fasciclin-like arabinogalactan proteins (FLAs), tetraspanins, syntaxins, germin-like proteins and calreticulins. Next, we analysed the presence of orthologues and their degree of conservation throughout plant taxa, as well as in 2 reference species from the animal kingdom: human and mouse. Their degree of conservation was compared with that of current animal EVs: CD63, CD81 and CD9. Among the protein families with potential to be used as PEV markers, 2 were found to be plant-specific: FLAs and germin-like proteins. On the other hand, aquaporins and vacuolar-type ATPase complex subunits showed the greatest degree of conservation across plant and animal kingdoms. Our results provide key insights on several aspects of classical and novel protein identity markers for PEVs to assist in the selection of the best candidates for standardisation: (1) species-specific abundance, (2) specificity for PEVs and (3) conservation and plant specificity.
PXD060045	40903842	Pharmacological Targeting of DHHC9-Mediated STRN4 Palmitoylation to Suppress YAP-Driven Cancer Metastasis. 	Pharmacological Targeting of DHHC9-Mediated STRN4 Palmitoylation to Suppress YAP-Driven Cancer Metastasis	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, protein S-palmitoylation	Protein S-palmitoylation, a dynamic and reversible post-translational modification involving the attachment of palmitate to cysteine residues, is a key regulator of protein functionality and cellular signalling. Dysregulation of this modification has emerged as a critical driver of cancer progression. Among the 23 DHHC palmitoyl transferases responsible for catalysing S-palmitoylation, aberrant expression of specific members is linked to tumorigenesis and development, underscoring their potential as promising therapeutic targets. However, the cancer-specific roles and substrates of individual DHHC enzymes remain poorly characterised. In this study, we identified DHHC9 as a crucial regulator of adenocarcinoma progression, including colorectal and lung cancers. Functional studies demonstrated that DHHC9 knockdown profoundly inhibited cell migration in vitro and tumour metastasis in vivo. Proteomic and functional analyses revealed that STRN4, a core component of the STRIPAK complex, was palmitoylated by DHHC9 at cysteine 701. The STRN4 palmitoylation reduced YAP phosphorylation, promoted nuclear translocation of YAP and activated downstream Hippo pathway transcriptional targets-including CCN1, CCN2 and ANKRD1-thereby driving cancer cell migration. Notably, we discovered two small molecules, Treprostinil and 10-HCPT, as potent DHHC9 inhibitors that effectively suppressed adenocarcinoma cell migration. Our findings define the DHHC9-STRN4-YAP axis as a novel mechanism linking palmitoylation to phosphatase regulation and Hippo pathway dysregulation, unveiling DHHC9 as a highly promising therapeutic target in cancer treatment.
PXD055915	40904101	SLB-msSIM: A Spectral Library-Based Multiplex Segmented SIM Platform for Single-Cell Proteomic Analysis. 	msSIM for single-cell proteomic analysis	cancer cell heterogeneity, selected ion monitoring, single-cell proteomics	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based single-cell proteomics, while highly challenging, offers unique potential for a wide range of applications to interrogate cellular heterogeneity, trajectories, and phenotypes at a functional level. We report here the development of the spectral library-based multiplex segmented selected ion monitoring (SLB-msSIM) method, a conceptually unique approach with significantly enhanced sensitivity and robustness for single-cell analysis. The single-cell MS data is acquired by a multiplex segmented selected ion monitoring (msSIM) technique, which sequentially applies multiple isolation cycles with the quadrupole using a wide isolation window in each cycle to accumulate and store precursor ions in the C-trap for a single scan in the Orbitrap. Proteomic identification is achieved through spectral matching using a well-defined spectral library. We applied the SLB-msSIM method to interrogate cellular heterogeneity in various pancreatic cancer cell lines, revealing common and distinct functional traits among PANC-1, MIA-PaCa2, AsPc-1, HPAF, and normal HPDE cells. Furthermore, for the first time, our novel data revealed the diverse cell trajectories of individual PANC-1 cells during the induction and reversal of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Collectively, our results demonstrate that SLB-msSIM is a highly sensitive and robust platform, applicable to a wide range of instruments for single-cell proteomic studies. SUMMARY: We present the SLB-msSIM method, a conceptually unique approach in mass spectrometry-based single-cell proteomics that significantly enhances sensitivity and robustness. This innovative platform enables detailed analysis of the proteome landscape, capturing cellular heterogeneity, trajectories, and phenotypes at a single-cell resolution. Utilizing the SLB-msSIM technique, we identified both common and distinct functional traits among various pancreatic cancer cell lines and normal cells. Moreover, our study unveiled new insights into the diverse cell trajectories of individual cancer cells during the induction and reversal of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). In summary, the SLB-msSIM method offers a highly sensitive and robust platform for single-cell proteomic studies, with broad applicability across different instruments.
PXD062961	40904458	HNF4alpha contributes to hepatic CAR dysfunction in polymicrobial sepsis. 	HNF4alpha contributes to hepatic CAR dysfunction in polymicrobial sepsis	CLP-induced peritoneal sepsis, Liver	The constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), encoded by the Nr1i3 gene, is a nuclear receptor mainly expressed in the liver, where it regulates (xenobiotic) drug and bile acid metabolism, bilirubin clearance and energy homeostasis. CAR has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for diabetes, fatty liver disease and alcoholic liver disease, but it has barely been investigated in the context of sepsis. Since alterations in drug metabolism have been observed in sepsis patients, who may also exhibit increased serum bilirubin and bile acid levels, we hypothesize that CAR function may be impaired during sepsis. Here, we demonstrate that CAR loses its function in the liver during sepsis, as evidenced by a diminished response to its agonist TCPOBOP. We show that Nr1i3 mRNA transcription is reduced, mediated by decreased HNF4alpha binding to the Nr1i3 promoter and by downregulation of Ppara expression. Additionally, we show that CAR DNA binding is impaired, and we propose that HNF4alpha may regulate chromatin accessibility of CAR binding sites in sepsis. CAR loss-of-function further causes the downregulation of genes involved in monocarboxylic acid, fatty acid, and xenobiotic metabolism, but induces a hepatic acute phase response, which is beneficial for liver regeneration. However, CAR inhibition with CINPA1 increases sepsis lethality, associated with the further downregulation of these metabolic genes, increased upregulation of the acute phase response, but persistent downregulation of proliferation markers in the liver. Altogether, our study highlights the importance of CAR in sepsis with respect to hepatic metabolism, liver regeneration and survival. Nevertheless, CAR is unlikely to serve as a viable therapeutic target in sepsis, given its rapid downregulation and the lack of a survival benefit from TCPOBOP treatment. Instead, targeting upstream regulators such as HNF4alpha may represent a more effective approach.
PXD064558	40906076	Gut Microbiota Dysbiosis Remodels the Lysine Acetylome of the Mouse Cecum in Early Life. 	Analysis of the Impact of Exposure to Gut Microbiota Dysbiosis on Early Life Cecal Acetylome	acetylome, early life, gut microbiota dysbiosis	The interaction between epigenetic mechanisms and the gut microbiome is potentially crucial for the development and maintenance of intestinal health. Lysine acetylation, an important post-translational modification, plays a complex and critical role in the epigenetic regulation of the host by the gut microbiota. However, there are currently no reports on how gut microbiota dysbiosis affects host physiology in early life through global lysine acetylation. In this study, we constructed a mouse model of gut microbiota dysbiosis using antibiotic cocktail therapy (ABX). Using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in the cecum, we analyzed the cecal lysine acetylome and proteome. As a result, we profiled the lysine acetylation landscape of the cecum and identified a total of 16,579 acetylation sites from 5218 proteins. Differentially acetylated proteins (DAPs) are involved in various metabolic pathways, including the citrate cycle (TCA cycle), butanoate metabolism, pyruvate metabolism, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, and fatty acid biosynthesis. Moreover, both glycolysis and gluconeogenesis are significantly enriched in acetylation and protein modifications. This study aimed to provide valuable insights into the epigenetic molecular mechanisms associated with host protein acetylation as influenced by early-life gut microbiota disturbances. It reveals potential therapeutic targets for metabolic disorders linked to gut microbiota dysbiosis, thereby establishing a theoretical foundation for the clinical prevention and treatment of diseases arising from such dysbiosis.
PXD061020	40906361	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Non-Bleached and Bleached Fragments of the Hydrocoral Millepora complanata Reveals Stress Response Signatures Following the 2015-2016 ENSO Event in the Mexican Caribbean. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of fragments from non-bleached and bleached colonies of the hydrocoral Mille-pora complanata after the 2015-2016 ENSO event in the Mexican Caribbean	Millepora complanata, hydrocorals, proteomic analysis, reef building cnidarians	The hydrocoral Millepora complanata (fire coral) plays a critical role in reef structure and relies on a symbiotic relationship with Symbiodiniaceae algae. Environmental stressors derived from climate change, such as UV radiation and elevated temperatures, disrupt this symbiosis, leading to bleaching and threatening reef survival. To gain insight into the thermal stress response of this reef-building hydrocoral, this study investigates the proteomic response of M. complanata to bleaching during the 2015-2016 El Nino event. Fragments from non-bleached and bleached colonies of the hydrocoral M. complanata were collected from a coral reef in the Mexican Caribbean, and proteomic extracts were analyzed using nano-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (nano-LC-MS/MS). Uni- and multivariate analyses were applied to identify significant differences in protein abundance. A total of 52 proteins showed differential abundance, including 24 that showed increased expression and 28 whose expression decreased in bleached fragments. Differentially abundant proteins were associated with amino acid biosynthesis, carbohydrate metabolism, cytoskeleton organization, DNA repair, extracellular matrix composition, redox homeostasis, and protein modification. These molecular alterations reflect critical physiological adaptations that may influence stress sensitivity or tolerance in hydrocorals. The findings indicate that heat stress induces molecular responses involving protein refolding, enhanced vesicular transport, cytoskeletal reorganization, and modulation of redox activity. This contributes to a deeper understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying bleaching in reef-building hydrozoans and broadens current knowledge beyond the more extensively studied anthozoan corals.
PXD053803	40907581	Altered development in rodent brain cells after 900MHz radiofrequency exposure. 	Neurodevelopmental cellular changes in rodents after 900 MHz radiofrequency exposureNeurodevelopmental cellular changes in rodents after 900 MHz radiofrequency exposure	Neurodevelopment, Neuroproteomics, Neurotoxicology, Oxidative stress, Proliferation, Radiofrequency fields, Synaptogenesis	Health risks related to 900MHz 2G frequency exposure remain inconclusive under current regulatory standards. Research into potential long-term effects is ongoing, particularly as the use of mobile networks and wireless devices increases. This study investigates the effects of non-thermal exposure levels of mobile phone 900MHz radiofrequency electromagnetic field (RF-EMF) on rodent neurodevelopment. In vivo, the effects of pre- and post-natal 0.08 and 0.4W/kg specific absorption rate (SAR) exposure were assessed for their impact on the proteomic profile at postnatal day 0 (PND 0). Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), BrdU+ proliferative cells, synaptogenesis, and oxidative stress in the hippocampus and cortex of rat pups were studied at PND 8 and PND 17. Effects of the lowest SAR (0.08W/kg) were assessed in vitro to afford mechanistic data regarding neural stem cells (NSCs) differentiation. In vivo results showed a decrease in BDNF level and BrdU+ proliferative cells with a decrease in synapse balance (excitatory synapses/inhibitory synapses). In vitro, at 0.08W/kg there was an increase in Ki-67+ proliferative cells, apoptosis, and double-strand DNA breaks in NSCs. A lower ratio of B1 cells (primary progenitors of NSCs) among total cerebral cells and a higher ratio of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells and astrocytes were observed in the exposed NSCs. Our findings suggest that key cellular events for brain ontogenesis are likely to undergo changes with RF-EMF 900MHz exposure during early development. These support the hypothesis that the developing central nervous system is vulnerable to RF-EMF exposures in rodents at regulatory thresholds.
PXD064777	40911868	Evaluation of Protein Ion Relative Ratio Quantification in Top-down Electrospray Ionization-Mass Spectrometry Using Site-Specific Acetylated Recombinant Histone H3 Proteoforms. 	Evaluation of Protein Ion Relative Ratio Quantification in Top-down Electrospray Ionization-Mass Spectrometry Using Site-Specific Acetylated Recombinant Histone H3 Proteoforms	Top-down proteomics, histone H3, protein ion relative ratio, proteoforms, quantitative proteomics	Electrospray ionization (ESI)-mass spectrometry (MS) is a key platform for analyzing post-translationally modified proteins. With continuous advances in MS instruments and data analysis methods, top-down analysis of intact proteoforms has become highly feasible. To accurately quantify proteoforms with varying post-translational modifications (PTMs), the influence of PTMs on the ESI-MS detection efficiency must be considered. Two decades ago, Kelleher and co-workers proposed using protein ion relative ratios (PIRRs) and fragment ion relative ratios (FIRRs) in ESI-MS for proteoform quantification. While FIRR quantification has been extensively studied, the reliability of PIRR quantification-particularly for proteoforms with varying PTM degrees-remains under-evaluated. In this study, we further validated the fidelity of PIRR quantification in top-down ESI-MS using various site-specifically acetylated recombinant histone H3 proteoforms. These proteoforms, carrying varied degrees of acetylation, were produced using an orthogonal translation system that incorporates acetyllysine at the amber stop codons. After absolute quantification by UV spectrophotometry, samples were mixed in isometric ratios and analyzed by either direct infusion-ESI-MS or weak cation exchange/hydrophilic interaction-ESI-MS. Our results show that PIRRs match theoretical ratios regardless of the acetylation degree or site. These findings reinforce the validity of top-down proteoform quantification, especially for histone proteins.
PXD050610	40915658	The Human Cardiac "Age-OME": Age-Specific Changes in Myocardial Molecular Expression. 	The Human Cardiac "Age-OME": Age-specific changes in myocardial molecular	Excitation-Contraction Coupling, aging, heart, metabolism	Ageing is one of the most significant risk factors for heart disease; however, it is still not clear how the human heart changes with age. Taking advantage of a unique set of pre-mortem, cryopreserved, non-diseased human hearts, we performed omics analyses (transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and lipidomics), coupled with biologically informed computational modelling in younger (<= 25 years old) and older hearts (>= 50 years old) to describe the molecular landscape of human cardiac ageing. In older hearts, we observed a downregulation of proteins involved in calcium signalling and the contractile apparatus. Furthermore, we found a potential dysregulation of central carbon generation of fuel, glycolysis, and fatty acids oxidation, along with an increase in long-chain fatty acids. This study presents and analyses the first molecular data set of normal human cardiac ageing, which has relevant implications for understanding the human cardiac ageing process and the development of age-related heart disease.
PXD068446	40916277	Immunopeptidomics analysis of human atherosclerosis plaques identifies antigenic drivers of atherosclerosis. 	Immunopeptidomics analysis of human atherosclerosis plaques identifies antigenic drivers of atherosclerosis	ApoB100, Immunopeptidomics, PBMCs, antigen-specific T cells	BACKGROUND AND AIM: Atherosclerosis has an auto-immune component driven by self-reactive T and B cells. Identifying their antigenic drivers may lead to new diagnosis and treatment approaches. Here, we aim to identify immunogenic T cell epitopes derived from atherosclerosis-relevant proteins such as ApoB100 by studying the repertoire of peptides presented by HLA in human plaques. METHODS: We used immunopeptidomics to identify peptides presented by HLA-DR molecules from plaques of patients that underwent endarterectomy surgery. We selected a set of 20 peptides derived from ApoB100 and studied the presence and cytokine profile of ApoB100-specific CD4(+) T cells in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from atherosclerosis patients. RESULTS: revealed significant CD4(+) T cell activation in response to these ApoB100 peptides in 22-39 % of the patients, and this T cell response correlated positively with plaque vulnerability. These cells were characterized by production of both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines. CONCLUSION: We show that immunopeptidomics can be a valid approach to new discover antigens in atherosclerosis.
PXD044023	40916477	Extracellular Vesicles From Schistosoma mansoni Adult Worms Stimulate IL-10 Release by B Cells. 	S. mansoni adult worm ES fraction LC-MS/MS	excretory secretory products, schistosoma mansoni	Schistosome parasites are known to modulate host immune responses, which is achieved in part through the release of excretory/secretory (ES) products, including extracellular vesicles (EVs). During chronic schistosomiasis, increased regulatory responses are found, which include enhanced IL-10 production by B (Breg) cells. ES products from schistosome eggs are able to induce IL-10 production by B cells. However, since infection with male worms only (without egg production) also promotes IL-10 producing B cells, we here studied the stimulatory effects of adult worm ES and EVs on murine and human B cells. Worm ES increased IL-10 release by mouse splenic B cells; this activity was concentrated in defined size-separated fractions of adult worm ES. Interestingly, mass spectrometry of the fractions that induced the highest IL-10 response revealed an enrichment of EV-associated proteins. Indeed, highly purified adult worm EVs could interact with mouse splenic B cells, visualised by binding of a schistosome-specific tetraspanin (TSP2) targeting antibody. Furthermore, purified adult worm EVs induced IL-10 release in both mouse splenic and human peripheral blood B cells, suggesting that adult worm EVs can play a role in immune regulatory processes within their host.
PXD060444	40918347	Effect of Ipomoeassin F on the Synthesis of Membrane and Secretory Proteins in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Cells. 	Effect of Ipomoeassin F on the Proteome Profile in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Cells	Ipomoeassin F, breast cancer	Ipomoeassin F (Ipom-F) is a natural compound that exhibits a potent cytotoxic effect on triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells. The mechanism underlying this selective potency remains unclear. To elucidate this mechanism, we analyzed the proteome profiles of the TNBC MDA-MB-231 cells after exposure to Ipom-F at different time points and increasing doses using a quantitative proteomic method. Our proteomic data demonstrate that the major effect of Ipom-F on MDA-MB-231 cells is the inhibition of membrane and secreted protein expression. These findings align with the recently uncovered molecular mechanism of action of Ipom-F, which binds to Sec61-alpha and inhibits the cotranslational import of proteins into the endoplasmic reticulum. We have defined a subset of membrane and secreted proteins particularly sensitive to Ipom-F. Analysis of the expression of these Ipom-F-sensitive proteins in cancer cell lines and breast cancer tissues reveals that some of these proteins are upregulated in TNBC cells. This suggests that TNBC cells may have adapted to the elevated levels of these proteins, making them more dependent on their expression. Consequently, inhibiting these proteins leads to a crisis in proliferation and/or survival. Additionally, our data suggests that Ipom-F may act as an immunosuppressive agent.
PXD059093	40918646	Loss of ribosomal protein uL14 enables tumor escape from T cell immunosurveillance. 	Loss of ribosomal protein uL14 enables tumor escape from T cell immunosurveillance	Antigen presentation, Ribosome, uL14	The presentation of peptides on HLA molecules is essential to CD8(+) T cell responses. Here, we show that loss of uL14 significantly downregulates the expression of antigen processing and presentation (APP) components in melanoma cell lines. Peptides generated following knockdown show different characteristics, with altered peptide charge, and differences in anchor residue positions. These peptides also have lower predicted binding to the HLA alleles and a shorter predicted HLA-peptide complex half-life. These result in a functional difference in APP, and knockdown of uL14 causes a reduction in the ability of CD8(+) T cells to recognize and kill melanoma cells in a co-culture assay. Together, our data suggest that loss of uL14 alters the peptide pool available for presentation and thus may act as an escape mechanism from tumor immune surveillance.
PXD059800	40919894	The Atlas of the Shell Proteome in Oysters Reveals the Potential Roles of the Cytoskeleton and Extracellular Matrix in Biomineralization. 	Pacific oyster shellome_three distinct strategies (LC-MS/MS, PF-LC-MS/MS, and Astral mass spectrometer)	Pacific oyster, shell matrix protein	Shell matrix proteins (SMPs) are fundamental biological macromolecules for mollusk shell formation, yet fewer than 400 SMPs in mollusks have been previously identified, hindering our understanding of how mollusks construct and maintain their shells. Here, we identified 1689 SMPs in the Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas using three different mass spectrometry techniques, representing a significant methodological advancement in shell proteomics, enabling a 6.52-fold increase in SMP identification compared to previous studies. Gene ontology and domain annotation revealed cytoskeletal proteins (with cofilin ADF, tubulin, and myosin head domains) and extracellular matrix (ECM)-related proteins (with carbonic anhydrase, chitin-binding, von Willebrand type A, and EGF domains) as the key functional SMPs involved in biomineralization. Furthermore, developmental transcriptomics highlighted that microtubule- and microfilament-related SMPs were enriched in larvae and adults, respectively, potentially reflecting differences in cytoskeletal regulation associated with larval aragonitic and adult calcitic shells. Transcriptomic analyses revealed that acidifying stress significantly downregulated the expression of genes encoding collagen and stress-fiber-related proteins, while activating the BMP signaling pathway in oysters. These transcriptional changes suggest a potential impairment in ECM and cytoskeletal maintenance. Our findings indicate the potential roles of the cytoskeleton and ECM proteins in biomineralization and emphasize the complexity of biological controls on shell formation in oysters. Furthermore, the proteomic strategy combining three distinct technologies can be applied to other mollusks and provide deeper insights into their evolutionary trajectories under future environmental changes.
PXD062250	40920828	Activation of PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint by Zika virus. 	Identify the host factors interacting with ZIKV NS4B	NS4B, ZIKV, binding proteins	Zika virus (ZIKV) has emerged as a rising concern in global health in recent years. The role of PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint in acute ZIKV infection remains to be understood. In this study we demonstrated the activation of PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint by ZIKV. mRNA and protein expression of PD-L1 was boosted by ZIKV not only in SF268 and JEG3 cell lines but also in human dendritic cells. PD-1 expression was more abundant on CD8+ T cells in ZIKV-infected mice. Elevated PD-L1 expression was also observed in the brain, testis and spleen of ZIKV-infected A129 mice. Blocking PD-L1 effectively inhibited ZIKV infection, reducing viral loads in all tissues. In addition, anti-PD-L1 antibody treatment further increased virus-specific CD8+ T cells, KLRG+ CD8+ T cells, and effector memory CD8+ T cells. PD-L1 blockade also induced interferon gamma, granzyme B, and interleukin 2 expression in antigen-specific CD8+ T cells, consistent with activation of these cells. Mechanistically, the induction of PD-L1 expression might be ascribed to viral NS4B protein and its interaction with GRP78. Our findings suggest that targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway could have antiviral effect against ZIKV.
PXD069209	40921340	Introducing the Sinclair Nanopig(TM) model: Preliminary genomic, proteomic, and hepatic CYP450 characterization for (bio)pharmaceutical safety assessment. 	Introducing the Sinclair Nanopig model: Preliminary genomic, proteomic, and hepatic CYP450 characterization for (bio)pharmaceutical safety assessment	nanopig, plasma, tissue	The Nanopig(TM) model is an emerging non-rodent platform for (bio)pharmaceutical safety assessment, with potential advantages for translational research. Here, we report initial characterization results using whole genome sequencing (WGS) and tissue-based proteomics, focusing on drug metabolism and immune system relevance. WGS produced a high-quality Nanopig(TM) genome assembly (2.8-2.9 Gb), with >98 % alignment to the Duroc pig reference genome, and identified key metabolic and immune-related genes, including 47 cytochrome P450 (CYP450) genes with high homology to human CYP450 families. Proteomic profiling of 15 pharmaceutically relevant tissues revealed human orthologous drug metabolism enzymes and transporters (DMETs), as well as immune-related proteins, indicating similarities to human CYP450 enzyme abundance and tissue distribution. Functional evaluation of hepatic CYP450 activity yielded kinetic parameters (Km, Vmax) in the range observed in humans and beagle dogs. These early findings represent a foundational multi-omics dataset for the Nanopig(TM), suggesting its future use as a translational model in preclinical safety assessment. This work provides an early framework for species selection strategies and model optimization, with the long-term goal of reducing reliance on traditional non-rodent species in drug development.
PXD048801	40923756	Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in yeasts: characterization and involvement in telomere maintenance. 	Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in yeasts: characterization and involvement in telomere maintenance	PARP, Yarrowia lipolytica	Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARPs) are enzymes catalyzing the post-translational addition of chains of ADP-ribose moieties to proteins. In most eukaryotic cells, their primary protein targets are involved in DNA recombination, repair, and chromosome maintenance. Even though this group of enzymes is quite common in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes, no PARP homologs have been described so far in ascomycetous yeasts, leaving their potential roles in this group of organisms unexplored. Here, we characterize Pyl1 protein of Yarrowia lipolytica as the first candidate of PARP in yeasts. We show that the expression of PYL1 gene is increased in mutants lacking either subunit of telomerase and identified several of its candidate protein targets in vivo. We demonstrate that Pyl1p is a functional PARP that undergoes auto-PARylation and PARylates YlKu70/80 complex. We also show that overexpression of PYL1 in Y. lipolytica cells results in dissociation of YlKu80 from telomeres in vivo, supporting the role of Pyl1p in telomere protection and maintenance. Based on our observations, we propose Pyl1p and its homologs identified in other yeast species represent a distinct class of PARPs, thus substantiating a more detailed investigation of their roles in these organisms.
PXD064065	40924950	Uncovering Urinary Proteome Differences in Very Preterm Infants with and without Preterm Brain Injury. 	Urinary proteome differences in very low gestational age infants with and without preterm brain injury	brain injury, newborn, preterm, urine	Premature infants are at high risk for brain injuries such as intraventricular hemorrhage and periventricular white matter injury. This study applies omics technology to analyze urinary protein expression, aiming to clarify preterm brain injury mechanisms and identify therapeutic targets. Urine samples were collected from 29 very preterm infants (VPI) without brain injury and 11 with moderate/severe injury at eight time points: Days 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 28, and term-equivalent age (TEA). Brain damage was assessed using the Kidokoro scale and MRI at TEA. SWATH-MS and bioinformatics were used to identify differentially expressed urinary proteins and affected pathways. Fifty-six proteins showed significant expression differences. Notably, extracellular proteoglycans (NCAN, ACAN, BCAN), associated with neuroprotection, were markedly reduced in infants with brain injury. Conversely, fatty acid-binding proteins (FABP1, FABP3, FABP4, FABP7) decreased over time in uninjured infants but increased in those with brain injury, suggesting a role in exacerbating damage. In summary, the urinary proteome of VPI with moderate/severe brain injury differs significantly from those without injury. Reduced neuroprotective proteoglycans and elevated FABPs highlight potential molecular markers and targets for intervention in preterm brain injury.
PXD063145	40925366	Sensitive and specific affinity purification-mass spectrometry assisted by PafA-mediated proximity labeling. 	APPLE-MS: A modular affinity purification-mass spectrometry method assisted by PafA- mediated proximity labeling	AP-MS, interactome, protein-protein interaction, proximity labeling	While affinity purification-mass spectrometry (AP-MS) has significantly advanced protein-protein interaction (PPI) studies, its limitations in detecting weak, transient, and membrane-associated interactions remain. To address these challenges, we introduced a proteomic method termed affinity purification coupled proximity labeling-mass spectrometry (APPLE-MS), which combines the high specificity of Twin-Strep tag enrichment with PafA-mediated proximity labeling. This method achieves improved sensitivity while maintaining high specificity (4.07-fold over AP-MS). APPLE-MS also revealed the dynamic mitochondrial interactome of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) ORF9B during antiviral responses, while endogenous PIN1 profiling uncovered novel roles in DNA replication. Notably, APPLE-MS enabled in situ mapping of GLP-1 receptor complexes, demonstrating its unique capabilities for membrane PPI studies. This versatile method advances interactome research by providing comprehensive, physiologically relevant PPI networks, opening new opportunities for mechanistic discovery and therapeutic targeting.
PXD046570	40925957	Streptococcus pyogenes EVs induce the alternative inflammasome via caspase-4/-5 in human monocytes. 	Caspase-4 and Caspase-5 Coordinate the Sensing of Streptococcus pyogenes Extracellular vesicles	NLRP3, S. pyogenes, caspases	The sensing of Gram-negative Extracellular Vesicles (EVs) by the innate immune system has been extensively studied in the past decade. In contrast, recognition of Gram-positive EVs by innate immune cells remains poorly understood. Comparative genome-wide transcriptional analysis in human monocytes uncovered that S. pyogenes EVs induce proinflammatory signatures that are markedly distinct from those of their parental cells. Among the 209 genes exclusively upregulated by EVs, caspase-5 prompted us to study inflammasome signaling pathways in depth. We show that lipoteichoic acid (LTA), a structural component of Gram-positive bacterial membranes present on EVs from S. pyogenes and other Gram-positive species, is sensed by TLR2 which triggers the alternative inflammasome composed of NLRP3 and the inflammatory caspases-4/-5 to mount an IL-1beta response without inducing cell death. For S. pyogenes, we identify TLR8 as a sensor to mediate caspase-4/-5-dependent IL-1beta secretion. Notably, inflammasome activation by intact bacteria is independent of the global virulence regulator CovS in monocytes. Overall, our study highlights a new role for TLR2 and caspase-4/-5 in the recognition of Gram-positive EVs in human monocytes.
PXD057946	40926231	Extreme MetaboHealth scores in three cohort studies associate with plasma protein markers for inflammation and cholesterol transport. 	Extreme MetaboHealth scores in three cohort studies associate with plasma protein markers for inflammation and cholesterol transport	Aging, Cytokines, Immunoassay, MetaboHealth scores, Plasma proteomics, masss spectrometry, metabolomics	The MetaboHealth score is an indicator of physiological frailty in middle aged and older individuals. The aim of the current study was to explore which molecular pathways co-vary with the MetaboHealth score. Using a Luminex cytokine assay and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry-based proteomics we explored the plasma proteins associating with the difference in 100 extreme scoring individuals selected from two large population cohorts, the Leiden Longevity Study (LLS) and the Rotterdam Study (RS), and discordant monozygotic twin pairs from the Netherlands Twin Register (NTR). In addition, we estimated the heritability of the score using 726 monozygotic (MZ) and 450 dizygotic (DZ) twin pairs. In the contrasting extreme scoring individuals from LLS and RS, we uncovered significant differences in 3 (out of 15) cytokines (GDF15, IL6, and MIG), and 106 (out of 289) plasma proteins. The high, poor health related, score associated with 42 increased inflammatory and immune related protein levels (CRP, LBP, HPT) and lowered levels of 71 HDL remodeling and cholesterol transport related proteins (e.g. APOA1, APOA2, APOA4, and TETN). Using the NTR twins, we subsequently showed that the MetaboHealth score is moderately heritable (h(2) = 0.4). In MZ twins selected for maximal discordance within a pair we found 68 serum proteins associated with the MetaboHealth score indicating that only a minor part of the associations observed in LLS and RS is likely explained by genetic influences. Taken together, our study sheds light on the intricate interplay between the MetaboHealth score, plasma proteins, cytokines, and genetic influences, paving the way for future investigations aimed at optimizing this mortality risk indicator.
PXD063455	40927425	Discovery of an exquisitely selective WDR5 chemical probe accelerated by a high-quality DEL-ML Hit. 	Discovery of an Exquisitely Selective WDR5 Chemical Probe Accelerated by a High-Quality DEL-ML Hit	WDR5, chemoproteomics	Herein we present the rapid development of LH168, a potent and highly selective chemical probe for WDR5, streamlined by utilizing a DEL-ML (DNA encoded library-machine learning) hit as the chemical starting point. LH168 was comprehensively characterized in bioassays and demonstrated potent in cellulo target engagement at the WIN-site pocket of WDR5, with an EC50 of approximately 10 nM, a long residence time, and exceptional proteome-wide selectivity for WDR5. In addition, we present the X-ray co-crystal structure and provide insights into the structure-activity relationships (SAR). In parallel, we developed a matched negative control compound as well as an alkyne analog (compound 16) to facilitate the development of bifunctional molecules. Taken together, we provide the scientific community with a well-characterized chemical probe to enable studies and functional manipulation of WDR5 in a cellular context, as this protein represents a therapeutically relevant target with scaffolding functions that influence multiple cellular processes.
PXD064297	40928027	Familial Alzheimer's disease mutation identifies novel role of SORLA in release of neurotrophic exosomes. 	Labelfree proteomics in Extracellular vesicles from human microglia cells	Extracellular vesicles, SORLA	INTRODUCTION: Mutations in SORL1, encoding the sorting receptor Sortilin-related receptor with A-type repeats (SORLA), are found in individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We studied SORLA(N1358S), carrying a mutation in its ligand binding domain, to learn more about receptor functions relevant for human brain health. METHODS: We investigated consequences of SORLA(N1358S) expression in induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived human neurons and microglia, using unbiased proteome screens and functional cell assays. RESULTS: We identified alterations in the SORLA(N1358S) interactome linked to biogenesis of exosomes. Consequently, the mutant receptor failed to promote release and neurotrophic qualities of exosomes, a defect attributed to altered exosomal content of microRNAs controlling neuronal maturation. DISCUSSION: We identified a role for SORLA in controlling quantity and neurotrophic quality of exosomes secreted by cells, suggesting impaired cellular cross talk through exosomes as a pathological trait contributing to AD pathology in carriers of SORL1 variants. HIGHLIGHTS: Familial Alzheimer's disease mutation in SORL1 changes interactome of mutant Sortilin-related receptor with A-type repeats (SORLA). Mutant SORLA impairs release of exosomes from neurons and microglia. Mutant exosomes lack neurotrophic qualities. Defect linked to alterations in microRNA content.
PXD061072	40928833	Development and Validation of a Novel LC-MS/MS-Based Proteomics Method for Quantitation of Retinol Binding Protein 4 (RBP4) and Transthyretin (TTR). 	Development and Validation of a Novel LC-MS/MS Based Proteomics Method for Quantitation of Retinol Binding Protein 4 (RBP4) and Transthyretin (TTR)	Retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4), biomarkers, method development, transthyretin (TTR), vitamin A	Retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4), the circulating carrier of retinol, complexes with transthyretin (TTR) and is a potential biomarker of cardiometabolic disease. However, RBP4 quantitation relies on immunoassays and Western blots without retinol and TTR measurement. A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method for the simultaneous absolute quantitation of circulating RBP4 and TTR is critical to establishing their biomarker potential. Surrogate peptides with reproducible, linear LC-MS/MS response were selected. Purified proteins were used as quantitation standards and heavy-labeled peptides as internal standards. Matrix effects were evaluated. The validated method was applied to measure inter- and intraindividual variability in RBP4 and TTR concentrations in healthy individuals and patients with diabetic kidney disease. Quantitation was linear for the clinically relevant concentration ranges of RBP4 (0.5-6 muM) and TTR (5.8-69 muM). Assay interday variability was <12% and precision within 5%. The interindividual variability for RBP4 and TTR concentrations was 18-26%, while intraindividual variability was similar to assay variability. RBP4 and TTR quantitation correlated with commercially available enzyme-linked immunoassays (ELISA) assays. The developed LC-MS/MS method enables simultaneous absolute quantitation of RBP4 and TTR in serum and plasma. It can be applied to clinical biomarker studies and stoichiometric measurements of circulating RBP4, TTR, and retinol.
PXD059945	40930238	Proline-adjacent phosphosites on S. cerevisiae histone demethylase Rph1p are salt stress responsive and important for cell growth under salt stress. 	Proline-adjacent phosphosites on S. cerevisiae histone demethylase Rph1p are salt stress responsive and important for cell growth in the salt stress response	demethylase, methylation, phosphorylation	Phosphorylation of histone lysine demethylases is an important mechanism by which the cell modulates chromatin dynamics to regulate its response to stress. There is evidence that the Saccharomyces cerevisiae H3K36me2/3 demethylase, Rph1p, is an integrator of many signalling events. However, the regulatory function of most Rph1p phosphosites in stress response pathways remains unknown. Here, we investigated the role of Rph1p phosphorylation in the salt stress response. We showed that Rph1p is phosphorylated at seven sites in response to acute high salt stress, most of which are proline-adjacent. Genomic phosphonull mutations identified four salt-stress responsive phosphosites - S410, T411, S412 and S689 - to be important for yeast cell growth in this condition. Phosphonull mutations at S412 or S689 were not associated with changes in the proteome in the chronic salt stress response. However, the Rph1p-S689A mutant downregulated a subset of 18 snoRNA genes in chronic salt stress compared to the wildtype, an effect absent in the Rph1p-S412A mutant. The downregulation of several snoRNA may cause changes to ribosomal RNA modifications and affect ribosome function. Consistent with these targeted transcriptional changes, neither mutant was associated with gross changes in H3K36 methylation in chronic salt stress. These findings suggest that S689 phosphorylation directs Rph1p to specific regions of the chromatin in the chronic salt stress response. Overall, our findings identify S689 as a key phosphorylation site linking Rph1p to salt-stress responsive gene regulation, offering new insights into stress-responsive mechanisms in eukaryotes.
PXD062853	40931448	Potent Inducers of Paraptosis through Electronic Tuning of Hemicyanine Electrophiles. 	Order 37630 - Juan Francisco Tamez Fernandez 2025-01-31	probe	Paraptosis is a distinct form of programmed cell death characterized by cytoplasmic vacuolization, mitochondrial swelling, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) dilation, offering an alternative to apoptosis for therapeutic applications. In this study, we identified a hemicyanine derivative that is a potent paraptosis inducer in two cancer cell lines. This compound triggers hallmark paraptotic features, including ER swelling, mitochondrial morphological changes, increased superoxide production, and caspase-independent cell death. This activity is dependent on the ability of the probe to modify thiols covalently. Proteomic analysis using a biotinylated, activity-based probe revealed Sec23 homologue A and GDP-dissociation inhibitor alpha as potential targets implicated in paraptosis activation. This lead compound already displayed some degree of selectivity, exemplified by its minimal interaction with well-known nucleophilic protein targets such as protein disulfide isomerases. These findings establish the hemicyanine chemical family as a promising scaffold for paraptosis research and suggest potential as a therapeutic lead for diseases where traditional apoptosis pathways are dysregulated.
PXD057110	40932775	ApoD mediates age-associated increase in vulnerability to influenza virus infection. 	Finding the LC3-interactors in senescent human A549 cells during influenza A virus infection	Ifection, Influenza A virus, Lc3, Senescent human cells	Influenza A virus (IAV) infection causes significantly greater morbidity and mortality in the elderly population, but the molecular mechanisms in the aging process responsible for severe infection remain unclear. In this study, we found that increased severity in IAV infection and reduced innate immune response correlated with extensive mitophagy in senescent human cells and in the lung of aged mice. Apolipoprotein D (ApoD) was identified as strongly elevated in the lungs and sera of aged human (>65 y old) and mouse (>21 mo old). ApoD was able to localize to mitochondria and interact, through its WXXI motif in the LC3B-Interacting Region domain, with LC3B to trigger mitophagy during IAV infection, in a PINK1 pathway independent manner, which attenuated type I interferon response and promoted virus replication. ApoD deficiency, on the other hand, protected older mice from severe influenza and improved survival. Likewise, depletion of senescent cells by ABT-263, a senolytic compound, in aged mice lowered ApoD level and restored innate immune antiviral response, limiting virus propagation and associated pulmonary damage. Thus, age-induced ApoD drives IAV-mediated mitophagy, and promotes virus replication and infection severity, and is therefore a promising target for inhibition to improve disease outcome in older patients.
PXD066035	40937194	Enhanced Angiogenic Potential of Electrically Stimulated Human Adipose-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSCs) for Ischemic Tissue Regeneration. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of MSC and electrically stimulated MSC (epMSC) secretomes	stem cell	Effective treatment of ischemic disease requires the reconstruction of blood vessels through the delivery of angiogenic factors, such as chemicals, proteins, and cells. In particular, substantial efforts have focused on enhancing the therapeutic potential of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) for treating ischemic diseases. In this study, we investigated the use of electrical stimulation (ES) to potentiate the proangiogenic properties of human adipose-derived MSCs. Electrically potentiated MSCs (epMSCs) were generated by applying optimized ES parameters (0.3 V, 100 Hz). EpMSCs exhibited significantly enhanced angiogenic potential, including upregulated expression of proangiogenic factors (e.g., vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF]-A and hepatocyte growth factor) and improved endothelial cell migration and tube formation in vitro. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed activation of key angiogenic pathways, particularly VEGFA-VEGFR2 signaling, which plays a critical role in enhancing the functionality of epMSCs. In vivo studies using a murine hindlimb ischemia model demonstrated that epMSCs enhanced blood flow recovery, induced angiogenesis, and reduced muscle atrophy more effectively than unstimulated MSCs. Overall, these findings suggest that electrical potentiation of MSCs is a promising strategy for effectively enhancing their angiogenic capabilities for treating ischemic diseases.
PXD056517	40937471	Higher-order microbial interactions revealed by comparative metabolic modeling of synthetic communities with varying species composition. 	Anaerobic synthetic microbial communities	Cellulose degrader, methanogen, sulfate-reducing bacteria	Understanding how microbial interactions scale with community complexity is key to microbiome engineering and ecological theory. This study investigates emergent metabolic behaviors in controlled in vitro synthetic anaerobic communities of two, three, or four species: cellulolytic bacterium (Ruminiclostridium cellulolyticum), a hydrogenotrophic methanogen (Methanospirillum hungatei), an acetoclastic methanogen (Methanosaeta concilii), and a sulfate-reducing bacterium (Desulfovibrio vulgaris), representing core metabolic guilds in cellulose degradation and carbon conversion. We applied a systems biology framework combining proteogenomics, stoichiometric flux modeling, and SMETANA (Species Metabolic Coupling Analysis) to quantify syntrophic cooperation and competition across configurations. Cooperation peaked in tri-cultures and declined nonlinearly in more complex assemblies. Species roles shifted contextually. Ruminiclostridium cellulolyticum was the dominant donor, adjusting cellulase and hydrogenase expression by partner. Methanosaeta concilii became fully metabolite-dependent while enhancing methanogenesis. Desulfovibrio vulgaris improved syntrophic efficiency via redox and hydrogen turnover. In contrast, Methanospirillum hungatei's metabolic centrality declined despite higher CH4 output, suggesting interaction strength depends more on compatibility than richness. Reduced interactions in the four-species community stemmed from a single configuration and need further validation. This study moves beyond descriptive work by quantitatively resolving how metabolic networks rewire across defined communities. By characterizing context-dependent flux shifts at multiple layers, we provide a framework for interpreting and engineering stable, functionally interdependent microbial ecosystems.
PXD062952	40938073	Proteomic Characterization of the Rhesus Macaque Lens Nucleus: Similarity to Human Lens, Age Effects on Protein Solubility, and Trends in Post-Translational Modifications. 	Proteomic Characterization of the Rhesus Macaque Lens Nucleus: Similarity to Human Lens, Age Effects on Protein Solubility, and Trends in Posttranslational Modification	Rhesus macaque, aging, eye lens, non-human primates, post-translational modifications, quantitative proteomics	Purpose: Proteomes of lens nuclei from young (4 years old) and old (15-16 years old) rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) were analyzed to determine similarity of the proteomic profile to that of human lenses, age-related differences in protein solubility, and association of various post-translational modifications with age and protein solubility. Methods: Lens core proteins were separated into water-soluble and water-insoluble fractions using aqueous buffer and centrifugation. The water-insoluble fraction was solubilized using sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). Proteins were processed using S-trap columns, and peptide digests were analyzed using high-resolution, label-free data-dependent acquisition (DDA) proteomics. Open modification searches were performed using MSFragger to identify possible post-translational modifications (PTMs). The number of modified peptide tandem mass spectra confidently assigned to samples by age or solubility were compared to find PTMs with statistically significant count differences. Results: The overall proteomic profile of rhesus macaque lenses was very similar to human lenses, consisting of 80.2% crystallins, 1.1% beaded filament proteins, and 18.7% other proteins. The crystallin fraction consisted of 27% alpha crystallins, 67.6% beta/gamma crystallins, and 5.4% taxon-specific psi crystallin. Glycolytic enzymes, beta/gamma crystallins, and a few glutathione-related enzymes were found to have age-related shifts to the water-insoluble fraction. There were significant differences in deamidation, dioxidation, carbamylation, carboxymethylation, and trioxidation based on age and/or solubility of proteins. Conclusions: These data indicate a high level of conformity between rhesus macaque and human lens proteomes, and a few key differences. We identified several age-related differences in protein solubility and PTM that may contribute to lens pathology.
PXD067152	40939262	Comparative proteomic analysis of skin wound healing responses to biomaterial treatments identifies key pathways which govern differential regenerative outcomes. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of skin wound healing responses to biomaterial treatments identifies key pathways which govern differential regenerative outcomes Comparative proteomic analysis of skin wound healing responses to biomaterial treatments ident	Gene ontology, MAP scaffold, chirality, regeneration, wound healing	The wound healing cascade is characterized by the steady progression of distinct stages. Though biomaterials are used clinically to enhance wound closure rate and quality of healed tissue, their mechanisms of action are less understood. Here we use proteomic analysis to characterize changes in the wound healing response across three biomaterial treatments: a clinically used collagen hydrogel, and two synthetic biomaterials that are characterized by an increased regenerative response either through decreased fibrosis or through an activation of adaptive immunity. We identified close to 5000 proteins shared across the biomaterial treatment groups, sampled at timepoints representing the inflammation, proliferation, and resolution phases of wound healing. The collagen hydrogel maintains an enrichment of immune-related pathways throughout the healing process. The fibrosis-suppressing material enriches gene ontology (GO) terms related to increased epidermis development pathways, collagen synthesis, and collagen fibril organization. In contrast, the adaptive immunity-activating biomaterial shows an early enrichment of GO terms related to broad immunity and inflammation. Later, this same material promotes keratinization, muscle and lipid oxidation GO pathways. Taken together, this work determines the key temporal pathways (immunity, keratinization, muscle system process, and ECM organization) mediated by three biomaterials, which result in varying healed tissue structure.
PXD066651	40943172	Comparative Analysis of the Fecal Proteome in Two Canine Breeds: Dalmatians and Weimaraners. 	Comparative Analysis of the Fecal Proteome in Two Canine Breeds: Dalmatians and Weimaraners	biomarker, breed influence, dog, fecal proteome, pathogenesis.	The analysis of proteins in stool samples can significantly enhance the study of mammalian physiology and disease. In this study, we investigated the fecal proteome of clinically healthy dogs (n = 26) by a label-free proteomics approach to evaluate the impact of breed differences. The dogs were divided into two groups (n = 13 each) based on their breed, specifically Weimaraner and Dalmatian, the former known for their possible susceptibility to gastrointestinal disease. Quantitative and qualitative differences between the two experimental groups were identified based on analyses performed on pooled biological samples. The overall fecal proteome profile comprised 58 proteins, of which 37 were common, while comparative proteomics analysis detected 15 proteins with different abundances. Notably, the fecal proteome of Weimaraners showed an over-representation of proteins such as pantetheinase, which promotes inflammatory reactions; ferritin heavy chain and hemoglobin, possibly associated with gut ulceration and/or rectal bleeding typical of IBD; and anionic trypsin, implicated in inflammatory bowel disease. Notably, in Dalmatians, despite the absence of specific predispositions, some proteins associated with chronic enteropathy (e.g., carboxypeptidase B and serine protease 1) were also over-represented. Additionally, some proteins linked to breed variation included enzymes associated with "protein digestion and absorption" and "glycolysis and gluconeogenesis". These findings suggest, for the first time, that the variable breed is a factor that may potentially influence the fecal proteome in dogs.
PXD063763	40943244	Cholesterol Regulates Airway Epithelial Cell Differentiation by Inhibiting p53 Nuclear Translocation. 	Cholesterol Regulates Airway Epithelial Cell Differentiation by Inhibiting p53 Nuclear Translocation	Cholesterol, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, p53, primary human bronchial epithelial cells	Cholesterol is an essential plasma membrane component, and altered cholesterol metabolism has been linked to cholesterol accumulation in the airways of COPD and cystic fibrosis patients. However, its role in airway epithelial differentiation is not well understood. Tandem mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of differentiating primary human bronchial epithelial cells (phBECs) revealed an overall inhibition of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. We hypothesized that excess cholesterol impairs the differentiation of phBECs into a fully functional bronchial epithelium. PhBECs were differentiated in the presence of 80 microM cholesterol for 21 days, the main airway cell type populations monitored using qRT-PCR and immunofluorescent stainings, and epithelial barrier integrity was analyzed via transepithelial electrical resistance measurements. Chronic cholesterol exposure led to a significant increase in CC10(+) secretory cells at the expense of ciliated cells. Pathway enrichment analysis suggested the tumor protein p53 as a master regulator of genes during normal differentiation of phBECs. Chronic cholesterol exposure drastically impaired the nuclear translocation of p53. Our findings suggest that this inhibition underlies the cholesterol-induced expansion of CC10(+) secretory cell populations at the expense of ciliated cells. In conclusion, we identify cholesterol as an important regulator of normal bronchial epithelial cell differentiation through inhibition of p53 nuclear translocation.
PXD063038	40944822	Non-standardized protein background in IVF media linked to serum-derived albumin supplementation. 	Serum-derived human serum albumin as a source of undeclared proteins and compositional variability in commercially available IVF media	IVF media composition, embryo culture, human serum albumin, spent culture medium	PURPOSE: To explore the protein compositional variability of IVF media and identify sources of undeclared contaminants that interfere with the detection of embryo-derived signals. METHODS: Untargeted and targeted mass spectrometry techniques were used to analyze protein composition in 85 samples of used and unused monophasic IVF media across 13 production lots from two manufacturers. Samples included spent culture media (SCM) from individual embryo cultures, matched controls, and unused (blank) media. Protein-free base media was supplemented with either serum-derived or recombinant human serum albumin (HSA) to evaluate their impact on protein contamination. RESULTS: Proteomic analysis revealed that not only SCM but also unconditioned media contained over 700 undeclared human proteins, many of which are known to be implicated in key cellular pathways. No significant differences were observed between the protein profiles of embryos that reached the blastocyst stage (n = 29) and those arrested at cleavage (n = 24). Instead, protein level variation strongly correlated with media production lot, as shown by targeted analysis of 14 candidate proteins and principal component clustering of 53 SCM samples. Analysis of blank media confirmed substantial lot-to-lot heterogeneity. Supplementation experiments demonstrated that serum-derived HSA introduces undeclared, batch-variable proteins into IVF media, contributing to a non-standardized culture environment and confounding the detection of embryo-derived signals. CONCLUSION: Serum-derived HSA was identified as the primary source of protein contamination in IVF media. This overlooked protein background contributes to variability in clinical culture conditions, undermines the reproducibility of secretome analyses, and complicates the discovery of reliable biomarkers in SCM.
PXD063154	40945542	Induced long-term potentiation improves synaptic stability and restores network function in ALS motor neurons. 	Motor neuron synaptosomes LC-MSMS	iPSCs, motor neurons	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease causing progressive dysfunction and degeneration of upper and lower motor neurons. An increasing body of evidence has identified synaptic alterations in patients and experimental models of ALS. Importantly, these have been associated with functional impairments in motor neuron networks, suggesting that synaptic impairments are early events in the disease cascade resulting in functional compensatory reconfigurations. The synapse may therefore represent a disease-modifying target to delay disease progression. In this study, we aimed to stabilize synapses and modify structural connectivity to restore network balance in ALS patient-derived motor neuron networks. To this end, we blocked the potassium channels using tetraethylammonium (TEA) which has been shown to induce chemical long-term potentiation (cLTP). The unperturbed ALS patient-derived motor neuron networks developed clear signs of subtle network dysfunction, including increased firing rate and bursting, and accompanying structural abnormalities. These features were partially restored by temporarily blocking the potassium channels. Specifically, the TEA-treated ALS networks were characterized by a reduction in aberrant branching and stabilization of dendritic spines, alongside a temporary reduction in firing rate and bursting. Furthermore, protein expression assays revealed restoration of dysregulated molecular pathways, including protein synthesis and metabolic pathways, and upregulation of pathways involved in synapse organization in the TEA-treated ALS networks. This is one of the first studies to integrate synaptic potentiation, proteomics, and functional network analysis of human ALS motor neurons. Collectively, these findings improve our understanding of the association between synaptic impairments and functional alterations in ALS, and demonstrate the therapeutic potential of targeting neuronal excitability and plasticity to promote network balance.
PXD056848	40946111	Integrative proteo-genomic profiling uncovers key biomarkers of lapatinib resistance in HER2-positive breast cancer. 	Integrative proteo-genomic profiling uncovers key biomarkers of lapatinib resistance in HER2-positive breast cancer	3D, Chromatin, HER2, epigenetics, resistance	INTRODUCTION: Drug resistance is a major obstacle to the long-term effectiveness of cancer therapies. Approximately 70% of breast cancer patients relapse after 5 years of treatment, and the lack of biomarkers associated with drug resistance translates to poor prognosis in the clinic. Previous research has utilised omics approaches to uncover biomarkers driving drug resistance, with a strong emphasis on genetic mutations. METHODS: Here, we identified a nine-marker signature associated with resistance to lapatinib in a HER2-positive breast cancer model using a target discovery approach by employing an integrative multi-omics strategy, combining ATAC-seq, RNA-seq and proteomics. RESULTS: We found that seven markers in the drug resistance-signature had not been previously found to be implicated in HER2-positive breast cancer, some of which we further validated using an additional lung cancer model. We counterintuitively found that drug-resistant cells have restrictive chromatin accessibility with reduced gene expression associated with limited total proteome changes. However, upon closer look, we identified that the drug resistance-signature had increased chromatin accessibility near the transcriptional start sites of those seven markers and was highly differentially expressed across the three datasets. Our data show that despite the overall transcriptional and proteomic landscape showing limited changes, there are several markers that are highly expressed, which correlate with increased anchorage-independent and invasive phenotype in vitro in lapatinib-resistant cells compared to cancer cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that disease aggressiveness can be related to reduced chromatin and gene expression dynamics. We anticipate that the resistant signature identified here using an integrative target discovery approach can be applied to complex, more representative models and validated before they can be targeted by suitable therapeutic agents.
PXD061570	40949097	Multi-omics analysis of thermogenic lipolysis in brown adipocytes. 	Multi-omics analysis of thermogenic lipolysis in brown adipocytes	GC-MS, LC-MS, Multi-omics, brown adipocytes, lipolysis, metabolomics, thermogenesis, transcriptomics, transomics	The integration of omics technologies into molecular biological research has transformed it into a field where a system can be investigated as a whole by combining information from multiple biochemical layers. This extension of traditional molecular biology, where various data sources are considered independently, offers novel insights into complex molecular interactions. Here, we present a multi-omics analysis of murine brown adipocytes undergoing thermogenic lipolysis, which is part of the non-shivering response to cold. Through combining information from multiple types of biomolecules, we describe what is important for each biochemical layer, and the coordinated molecular responses across different layers at the system level, at different time points. Furthermore, a classification of data integration approaches for multi-omics data analysis is presented, and their applications in our study are compared, providing insights into the focus and effectiveness of these methods.
PXD062783	40952127	Extracellular Vesicles Released From Cortical Neurons Influence Spontaneous Activity of Recipient Neurons. 	Extracellular vesicles released from cortical neurons influence spontaneous activity of recipient neurons.	Extracellular vesicles, NMDA receptor, cortex, hippocampus, synaptic activity	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membranous structures that cells release into the extracellular space. EVs carry various molecules such as proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids, and serve as specialized transporters to influence other cells. In the central nervous system, EVs have been linked to many important processes, including intercellular communication, but molecular details of their physiological functions are not fully understood. Our study aimed to investigate how EVs are released by neuronal cells, and how they affect the neuronal activity of other recipient neurons. We show that mature primary cortical neurons release EVs from both their soma and dendrites. EVs released from neurons closely resemble non-neuronal EVs regarding size and marker proteins, and proteomic analyses showed that neuronally released EVs contain proteins typically acting in pre- and post-synaptic compartments. Interestingly, our analysis revealed that EVs alter spontaneous activity in target neurons by increasing the amplitude of postsynaptic potentials. In summary, our findings elaborate on the role of EVs in synaptic activity modulation in neurons mediated by glutamate receptors.
PXD063396	40953633	Comparative proteome analysis of dried blood spots for high-risk group screening in children with autism spectrum disorder. 	Comparative proteome analysis of the dried blood spot from children with autism spectrum disorder	Comparative proteome, autism spectrum disorder, dried blood spot	OBJECTIVE: Reliable biomarkers that assist in the diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are limited. This study aimed to identify proteins that can differentiate children with ASD from controls. METHODS: A total of 30 children with ASD and 30 control children participated in the study. Psychological tests and questionnaires to assess cognitive function, adaptive function, autism symptoms, and behavioral problems were administered. Dried blood spots collected from the participants were analyzed using the SWATH LC-MS platform. Core proteins were identified to build a classifying model to predict ASD and control group status. RESULTS: Among the 849 proteins quantified, 33 candidate proteins were identified by combining two different algorithms. Candidate proteins were involved in biological pathways related to the skin, muscle functioning, immune system, and cytoskeleton organization. Of the candidate proteins, we selected 7 core proteins that overlapped between different algorithms. The core proteins, PSME1, four isoforms of TPM3, S100A6, and TBCA, were negatively correlated with the Childhood Autism Rating Scale, Aberrant Behavior Checklist, and Social Responsiveness Scale, and positively correlated with the Full-scale Intellectual Quotient. Furthermore, a logistic regression model with the core proteins predicted the ASD group with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.956, sensitivity of 0.967, and specificity of 0.867. CONCLUSION: We performed a proteomic analysis of dried blood spot (DBS) from ASD and control group children to explore candidate biomarkers. Our data supports the possibility of using proteins as potential biomarkers for ASD, although further verification is warranted in an independent cohort.
PXD062592	40955630	Response to Nutrient Stress in the Industrial Model Bacterium Cupriavidus necator: A Thermal Proteome Profiling (TPP) Investigation. 	Thermal Proteome Analysis of nutrient stress in Cupriavidus necator expression dataset	Expression Proteomics, Thermal Proteomics	The facultative chemolithoautotroph Cupriavidus necator is capable of heterotrophic growth on diverse carbon sources, or of autotrophic growth using CO2 fixation with H2 as an energy source. Under stress conditions, it produces biodegradable polyesters (polyhydroxyalkanoates, PHAs) as a storage material occupying a high proportion of the total biomass. This metabolic versatility means that C. necator is under intense study for sustainable biotechnology processes; however, a relative lack of understanding of the overall regulatory architecture has limited its application. The major mechanisms by which proteins can respond to shifting cellular demands are protein expression change and/or allosteric regulation. Here, we use two powerful proteomics methods to investigate these responses in C. necator cells grown on balanced or low nitrogen (PHA-inducing) media. Using quantitative proteomics and protein stability analysis (which can report on conformation change), we find that proteins across different pathways respond through one or both of these regulatory modes, including coordinated adaptation to nutrient stress by the PHA pathway, the Calvin cycle and ribosomal proteins. Overall, the study offers a valuable overview of global protein changes evoked by nutritional stress, and shows how the combined use of both proteomics approaches can identify key responsive proteins that would otherwise be undetected. SUMMARY: We report a comprehensive proteomics analysis of the important industrial bacterium Cupriavidus necator, using two state-of-the-art approaches: expression proteomics and thermal proteome profiling. With intense interest worldwide in finding substitutes for petrochemical based plastics, organisms such as C. necator are under active investigation, since they produce a storage bioplastic material (PHA) and have a versatile metabolism including growth on carbon dioxide. To our knowledge, this is the first thermal proteome analysis of a lithoautotrophic organism. We compared global protein expression the under conditions that induce PHA production, and we analysed the thermal proteome under the same conditions. Each experiment yielded novel, interesting results pertinent to individual proteins or pathways; moreover, by combining both approaches, proteins regulated by expression change and/or conformation change were highlighted.
PXD061388	40957891	Proteomic and metabolomic responses of priority bacterial pathogens to subinhibitory concentration of antibiotics. 	Global proteomic responses of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterococcus faecium and Staphylococcus aureus to sub-inhibitory concentrations of antibiotics using LC-MS/MS analysis	Enterococcus faecium, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, antibiotic	This study employed a comprehensive proteomic and metabolomic analysis to characterize adaptive cellular mechanisms of priority pathogens-Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterococcus faecium, and Staphylococcus aureus-under sub-inhibitory concentrations of antibiotics. Despite significant metabolomic perturbations, some pathogens had minimal or no significant changes in their proteome. Notably, trimethylamine metabolism was consistently altered across all species, suggesting its role in survival under antibiotic stress. Shared adaptive responses to chloramphenicol in S. aureus and E. faecium are related to translation, oxidative stress management, protein folding and stability, biofilm formation capacity, glycine metabolism and osmoprotection. Alterations in quaternary amines and trimethylamine metabolism suggest alternative nitrogen and carbon utilization pathways in response to antibiotic stress. In S. aureus, vancomycin suppressed metabolism, including D-alanine metabolism, and global regulators LytR, CodY and CcpA. These findings offer insights into early antimicrobial resistance mechanisms and highlight critical proteins and metabolites linked to antibiotic tolerance.
PXD064371	40958687	Differentiating Gastric Cancers from Acid Peptic Diseases through Integrative Targeted Proteomics and Machine Learning Approaches. 	Multiple reaction monitoring assay for differentiating gastric cancer from acid peptic diseases	Gastric Cancer, Laboratory Developed Test, Multiple reaction monitoring, QTRAP 6500	Gastric cancers (GCs) are often diagnosed in advanced stages owing to nonspecific early symptoms resembling Acid Peptic Diseases (APDs). Despite recent efforts, a simple, liquid biopsy-based multiprotein panel prediagnostic assay capable of differentiating GCs from APDs is lacking. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based targeted proteomics methods, including Multiple Reaction Monitoring (MRM), are utilized as the method of choice to develop Laboratory Developed Tests (LDTs) that revolutionize GC early diagnosis and screening. In this study, a 22-min MS-MRM LDT was developed and tested to quantify a serum protein panel in 135 serum samples from treatment-naive cases of GCs, APDs, and healthy individuals. Notably, a novel Deep Neural Network (DNN)-based pattern recognition scoring architecture, integrated with a model explainability tool (SHAP), was developed to score and categorize GCs. The MRM-MS assay produced minimal carryover and matrix effects, with adequate limits of detection/quantification. Quantities of SAA1 and IGFBP2, as determined through ELISA, demonstrated similar sensitivity compared to the LDT. Importantly, the DNN-based scoring architecture efficiently differentiated GCs from the rest of the samples (AUROC = 0.95), with average precision marking >0.90 and minimal bias in protein expression affecting model performance. This LDT can serve as a prediagnostic screening method to distinguish GCs from APDs, guiding clinicians and patients in proceeding with a confirmatory diagnosis.
PXD064490	40959207	Butyrophilin 3A1 Contributes to Inflammation and Induces a Lupus-Like Disease by Inhibiting the IL-38-Ferroptosis Axis. 	Butyrophilin 3A1 contributes to inflammation and induces a lupus-like disease by inhibiting the IL-38-ferroptosis axis	Butyrophilin 3A1, IL-38, Inflammation, Lupus	Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease of unknown origin. Recent evidence has linked butyrophilin 3A1 (BTN3A1) to immune dysregulation. This study was to elucidate the relationship of BTN3A1 in SLE. Expression of BTN3A1 in plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from SLE patients and healthy controls explored the association between BTN3A1 and SLE. We found that BTN3A1 mRNA, plasma levels, and expression in CD4(+) T cells were significantly elevated in SLE patients. In BTN3A1 gene knock-in (BTN3A1(KI)) mice, inflammation and lupus-like manifestations occurred, including increased proportions of Th1, Th2, and Th17 cells, decreased Treg cells, elevated levels of inflammatory cytokines and anti-dsDNA antibodies, renal injury, and suppressed IL-38 serum levels. Intraperitoneal injection of IL-38 in pristane-treated BTN3A1(KI) mice notably alleviated these pathological changes. Mechanistic investigations revealed that CD4(+) T cells and the ferroptosis pathway were closely associated with the effects mediated by the BTN3A1-IL-38 axis. In vitro experiments showed that IL-38 stimulation reduced proliferation, apoptosis, and decreased the expression of ferroptosis-related proteins, Fe(2)+, glutathione, and malondialdehyde in CD4(+)BTN3A1(+/+) T and BTN3A1(+/+) Jurkat T cells. Overall, BTN3A1 plays a crucial role in SLE pathogenesis by regulating CD4(+) T cell function.
PXD063493	40962802	Naiavirus: an enveloped giant virus with a pleomorphic, flexible tail. 	Proteomic Characterization of Naiavirus	Naiavirus, giant virus	Numerous studies have shown that viruses are present in a variety of environments on Earth, acting as drivers of biogeochemical cycles and powerful selective forces. Among them, giant viruses of amoebae have garnered attention from the scientific community due to their large particles and extensive genomes. Here, we describe the discovery of one of the largest tailed viruses in the known virosphere (averaging 1350 nm), named Naiavirus. This virus, isolated from a swamp biome in Brazil, has particles with a never-before-seen morphology and composition, and represents the first giant amoeba virus with an external envelope covering the capsid and extending over a flexible tail region. The Naiavirus genome, with nearly 1 million base pairs, reveals a unique set of genes, and does not resemble any other virus previously isolated so far.
PXD065422	40962941	Glycans on non-structural protein 1 prevent premature T-cell mediated dengue virus clearance. 	Glycans on Non-Structural Protein 1 Prevent Premature T-cell Mediated Dengue Virus Clearance	dengue/glycosylation/PD-1/NS1/T-cell apoptosis.	Non-structural protein 1 (NS1) of dengue virus (DENV) harbours two conserved N-glycosylation sites at positions 130 and 207, whose biological roles have remained elusive. Using a clinically relevant mouse model of severe dengue, we showed that DENV that lacked N207 glycans on NS1 was significantly attenuated, and this phenotype was dominant over wild-type virulent DENV. Mice infected with this mutant exhibited accelerated viral clearance, milder lymphopenia and more functional DENV-specific CD8(+) T cells. Bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing, cytokine measurements and immune-phenotyping revealed blunted innate inflammatory responses early post-infection, which correlated with reduced PD-L1 expression on innate immune cells and reduced PD-1(+) T-cells in mice infected with de-glycosylated DENV. PD-1 blockade demonstrated the involvement of premature T-cell apoptosis through the PD-L1/PD-1 axis in DENV pathogenesis. Collectively, our findings support that N207-de-glycosylated NS1 inhibits early inflammatory responses, which restricts PD-L1 upregulation on innate immune cells, which in turn limits PD-L1/PD-1 mediated T-cell apoptosis. Our study uncovers a novel immune evasion strategy and identifies PD-L1/PD-1 as a novel mechanism of dengue immunopathogenesis.
PXD066867	40964345	A chemical-genetic interaction between PAF1 and ENL/AF9 YEATS inhibition. 	3x-HA Tagged PAF1 IP-Ms in MOLM-13 CAS9 cells	Acute meyloid leukemia, Transcriptional regulation	Transcriptional regulatory proteins are frequent drivers of oncogenesis and common targets for drug discovery. The transcriptional co-activator, ENL, which is localized to chromatin through its acetyllysine-binding YEATS domain, is preferentially required for the survival and pathogenesis of acute leukemia. Small molecules that inhibit the ENL YEATS domain show anti-leukemia effects in preclinical models, which is thought to be caused by the downregulation of pro-leukemic ENL target genes. However, the transcriptional effects of ENL YEATS domain inhibitors have not been studied in models of intrinsic or acquired resistance and, therefore, the connection between proximal transcriptional effects and downstream anti-proliferative response is poorly understood. To address this, we identified models of intrinsic and acquired resistance and used them to study the effects of ENL YEATS domain inhibitors. We first discovered that ENL YEATS domain inhibition produces similar transcriptional responses in naive models of sensitive and resistant leukemia. We then performed a CRISPR/Cas9-based genetic modifier screen and identified in-frame deletions of the essential transcriptional regulator, PAF1, that confer resistance to ENL YEATS domain inhibitors. Using these drug-resistance alleles of PAF1 to construct isogenic models, we again found that the downregulation of ENL target genes is shared in both sensitive and resistant leukemia. Altogether, these data support the conclusion that the suppression of ENL target genes is not sufficient to explain the anti-leukemia effects of ENL antagonists.
PXD059168	40966521	Lactylation of CREB is required for FSH-induced proliferation and differentiation of ovarian granulosa cells. 	The lactylome of mice granulosa cells	The lactylome of mice granulosa cells	Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) promotes follicular development by inducing the proliferation and differentiation of granulosa cells (GCs). This process is primarily attributed to the activation of the canonical G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR)/adenylyl cyclase/cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling pathway. Here, we revealed a novel mechanism wherein FSH promotes GCs proliferation and differentiation by stimulating cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) lactylation. Specifically, FSH induced CREB lactylation at lysine 136 (K136la), leading to CREB phosphorylation at serine 133, which facilitated CREB/CBP/P300 complex formation for transcription activation. Moreover, K136la alone directly recruited CBP/P300, triggering transcriptional surges of proliferation and differentiation genes by binding with the cAMP response element (CRE), thereby stimulating GCs proliferation and differentiation. By contrast, a CREB mutation at K136 eliminated these effects. Blocking CREB lactylation using oxamate or C646 in vivo suppressed GCs proliferation, differentiation, and follicular development in mouse ovaries. These findings highlight the important role of lactylation between metabolic regulation and folliculogenesis, and its importance in mediating GPCR signaling, providing a theoretical basis for treating female infertility associated with defective follicular development.
PXD057700	40966993	Proteomic analysis uncovers biological diversity in molecularly defined endometrial carcinomas. 	Uncovering biological heterogeneity in endometrial carcinoma molecular subtypes by proteomic analysis	endometrial carcinoma, ffpe, tmt	While endometrial cancer has an overall favorable prognosis, some patients have poor outcomes and may benefit from further refinements of the current classification systems. Molecular classification stratifies endometrial cancer patients into four prognostic subtypes: POLEmut, MMRd (mismatch repair deficient), p53abn, and NSMP (no specific molecular profile), where patients with POLEmut have the best prognosis and p53abn has the worst prognosis. We used proteomic profiling to assess if additional prognostic or predictive information could be identified across or within molecular subtypes. Global proteome profiling of formalin fixed, paraffin embedded samples, that had clinicopathologic and outcome data, was performed on 184 endometrial cancers encompassing all four molecular subtypes, including replicate samples of the same tumor, and both biopsy and final hysterectomy specimens. To ensure representation of each subtype, we profiled an approximately equal distribution in the 148 unique tumors; 34 (23%) POLEmut, 40 (27%) MMRd, 35 (24%) p53abn and 39 (26%) NSMP, rather than the population-based distributions. There was high reproducibility in the proteomic profiles of intra-tumor replicate samples, and between matched biopsy and hysterectomy tumor samples. Consensus clustering identified four clusters with different prognosis, named 'Adhesion', 'Immune', 'Proliferation', and 'Metabolic' based on the functional characteristics of the enriched proteins. We associated protein expression features with common mutations, molecular subtype, and outcomes. These results demonstrate the biologic diversity within endometrial cancers, both between and within molecular subtypes, and provide candidate features for functional and clinical investigation.
PXD065914	40967439	Loss of TRIM44 promotes renal cell carcinoma progression by regulating K48-linked ubiquitination of vimentin. 	Co-immunoprecipitation binding proteins of TRIM44	TRIM44,IP-MS	Tripartite motif-containing 44 (TRIM44), a member of the TRIM protein family, has emerged as a regulator in multiple cancer types, yet its functional role and molecular mechanisms in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) remain poorly characterized. Here, we identified TRIM44 as a tumor suppressor in ccRCC through integrated clinical and functional analyses. Clinically, TRIM44 expression was significantly downregulated in ccRCC tissues compared with adjacent normal tissues, and its reduced expression correlated with advanced tumor stage and poor patient prognosis. Functionally, gain- and loss-of-function experiments demonstrated that TRIM44 potently inhibited ccRCC cell migration, invasion, and proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, TRIM44 directly interacts with vimentin. Importantly, we found that TRIM44 promotes K48-linked polyubiquitination of vimentin through its B-box domain, thereby targeting vimentin for proteasomal degradation. Collectively, our study establishes TRIM44 as a critical regulator of ccRCC progression through vimentin destabilization, highlighting its potential as both a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for ccRCC.
PXD065382	40967472	Anisomelic acid promotes proteasomal degradation of HPV16 E6 via E3 ligase recruitment: A mass spectrometry-based interactome study. 	Proteomic Analysis of the E6 Interactome in Response to Anisomelic Acid Treatment	Anisomelic acid, HPV16 E6, Normal oral keratinocytes	Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a major driver of cervical and other epithelial cancers, with the viral oncoprotein E6 playing a central role in tumorigenesis by promoting degradation of the tumor suppressor p53. While prophylactic vaccines prevent infection, there remains a critical need for therapeutic strategies that eliminate established HPV-positive cells. Here, we identify anisomelic acid (AA), a natural diterpenoid, as a novel pharmacological principle that selectively induces the degradation of HPV16 E6. Using cellular thermal shift assay, we demonstrate that AA directly interacts with E6, likely triggering a conformational change that promotes its ubiquitination. Proteomic analysis of the E6 interactome in AA-treated cells revealed consistent enrichment of E3 ubiquitin ligases, including E6AP, UBR4, CDC20, and TRIP12, as well as proteasomal subunits. To our knowledge, this represents the first comprehensive proteomics framework of the HPV16 E6 interactome under small-molecule treatment conditions. These findings support a model in which AA facilitates proteasome-mediated elimination of E6, and the dataset itself provides a timely and valuable resource for HPV biology and therapeutic development.
PXD062367	40969138	Specimen Inactivation Methods for Proteomics-Comparisons of Irradiation, Chemical, and Heat Treatments on Downstream Serum Analyses. 	Specimen Inactivation Methods for Proteomics - Comparisons of irradiation, chemical, and heat treatments on downstream serum analyses	DIA, gamma irradiation, inactivation, primate, rhesus, serum, trizol	Multiomic techniques, including proteomics, can provide novel insights for both pathogen detection and assessment of host responses to infection. Numerous studies have described the efficacy of heat inactivation, gamma irradiation, or treatment with guanidinium-based chaotropic salts (e.g., TRIzol) for pathogen inactivation of biological samples to ensure biosafety and biosecurity. However, the effect of these methods on the greater serum proteome is less studied. Here, we sought to comprehensively measure the effects of four routinely used pathogen inactivation methods on the serum proteome of Rhesus macaques by characterizing the serum proteome pre-and-post inactivation treatment. Using the R-package MS-DAP for statistical benchmarking, our analysis revealed distinct changes in total peptide/protein detection and individual protein abundances (e.g., ALB, APOA1, and CRP) across inactivation methods and compared to their untreated controls. Specifically, we observed improved quantitative reproducibility in gamma-irradiated samples across biological, technical, and experimental replicates compared to chemical inactivation and different heat combinations. These findings represent the first direct, experimental comparisons of effective pathogen inactivation methods on the serologic profiles of nonhuman primates and provide useful criteria for evaluating methods for biological specimen inactivation prior to proteomic analysis.
PXD060854	40970443	Employing complementary fractionation-based N-terminomics approaches enhances the identification of legumain cleavage events in naive and inflamed colon tissue. 	Murine colon HUNTER N-terminomics	HUNTER, colitis, colon, legumain	The mammalian lysosomal protease legumain is often dysregulated in pathophysiological conditions including inflammation, neurodegeneration, and cancer, yet its proteolytic targets are poorly defined. To profile protease substrates, degradomics techniques typically employ enrichment strategies to select for sub-stoichiometric and low-abundance peptides generated by proteolytic cleavage. However, recent advancements in degradomics techniques have revealed N-termini enrichment can be circumvented if peptide-based fractionation is employed, enabling simultaneous proteome and N-terminome analysis. Herein, we compare the previously published enrichment-free N-terminomics approach using high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) to offline basic reverse-phase (bRP) fractionation to assess the complementarity of these fractionation methods for simultaneous proteomic and degradomic analyses. While at the protein level FAIMS and bRP provide access to overlapping proteomic coverage, at the N-terminus level each fractionation technique reveals unique cleavage information. Combining data from the two fractionation approaches revealed 6499 N-terminal peptides with N-terminal TMTpro labeling, allowing the identification of cleavage events modulated in the context of legumain deficiency in naive murine colons and during dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis. Among these N-termini, we identify 35 putative legumain substrates in naive and 41 in the DSS-treated colons, supporting a role for legumain in both pro-inflammatory and physiological conditions. Use of an additional negative selection method, High-efficiency Undecanal-based N-Termini EnRichment (HUNTER), further supplements this list of identified legumain substrates. Combined, this study identifies multiple putative substrates of legumain in healthy and inflamed murine colons as well as demonstrates the utility of using complementary fractionation approaches for degradomics studies.
PXD056286	40971018	Complement profiling of sural nerves in chronic-inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. 	Complement profiling on sural nerves of patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy	chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, complement profiles, gene expression, sural nerve	Chronic-inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is a rare immune-mediated polyneuropathy causing substantial disability. While both cell-mediated and humoral mechanisms contribute to CIDP, the role of complement remains poorly understood. Considering the rise of complement-targeted treatment, it is crucial to examine the role of complement in CIDP. In this cross-sectional, study, sural nerve biopsies from 55 CIDP patients were analyzed using histopathology, gene- and protein-based techniques, comparing them to two non-diseased controls (NDCs), as well as 8 patients with hereditary neuropathy (HN) and idiopathic axonal neuropathy (IPN). Overall, 94% (n = 52) revealed abnormal and prominent deposition of terminal complement complex C5b-9 on endoneurial capillaries. Patients with significant complement deposition presented with a progressive disease course (n = 52) and the number and distribution of infiltrating CD8 + T cells and CD68 + macrophages, since a basic immunological paradigm holds that those two may form an immunological synapse, correlated with clinical disease severity as measured by inflammatory neuropathy cause and treatment sensory sum (INCAT) score (p < 0.001). Furthermore, changes in abundances of complement proteins as unveiled by untargeted proteomics accord with changes on transcript level as identified by targeted gene expression studies. In contrast, there was no complement deposition in NDC nor DC. This study provides an extensive evaluation of sural nerve specimens of CIDP patients finding a marked involvement of complement supporting the postulated concept of complement mediated demyelination in CIDP. Our results support the approach of targeting the complement system as a new and promising therapeutic strategy-at least in a subgroup of CIDP. Further research is warranted to unravel the functional implications and role of complement in CIDP progression and optimize patient care. Clinical Trial Registration: The study is registered under the German clinical trial registry ( https://www.drks.de ), DRKS0003245.
PXD065941	40971429	ERAD machinery controls the conditional turnover of PIN-LIKES in plants. 	Identification of interacting partners of Hrd1 in Arabidopsis	DIA, Hrd1, Interaction	Auxin is a crucial phytohormone that regulates plant development and facilitates dynamic responses to environmental changes through subcellular control mechanisms. PIN-LIKES (PILS) are auxin transport facilitators at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) that mediate nuclear auxin abundance and signaling. Although the posttranslational regulation of PILS is important for acclimating growth responses, the molecular mechanisms involved remain largely unknown. This study demonstrates that components of the ER-associated degradation (ERAD) machinery regulate the proteasome-dependent degradation of functional PILS proteins under nonstressed conditions. We further reveal that both internal and external signals use the ERAD complex to differentially modulate the turnover rates of PILS proteins. Our findings uncover an additional physiological role of the ERAD complex in regulating PILS protein turnover. This finding uncovers the interplay between protein homeostasis at the ER and growth regulation, opening unexplored molecular avenues into how plants acclimate to internal and external cues.
PXD062941	40972649	Proteomic discoveries in hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome reveal insights into disease pathophysiology. 	Proteomic Discoveries in hypermobile Ehlers Danlos Syndrome (hEDS) Reveals Insights into Disease Pathophysiology	DIA, ELISA, Ehlers Danlos Syndrome (hEDS), Serum	Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (hEDS) is a poorly understood connective tissue disorder that lacks molecular diagnostic markers. This study aimed to identify proteomic signatures associated with hEDS to define underlying pathophysiology and to inform objective diagnostic strategies with therapeutic potential. An unbiased mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of serum from female hEDS patients (n = 29) and matched controls (n = 29) was conducted. Differentially abundant proteins were analyzed through pathway enrichment and gene ontology pipelines. Prioritized candidate biomarker proteins were verified in expanded patient and control cohorts via ELISA. Cytokine array profiling was conducted to assess immune signaling patterns. Proteomic analysis revealed 35 differentially expressed proteins in hEDS, with 43% involved in the complement cascade and 80% linked to immune, coagulation, or inflammatory pathways. Pathway analyses confirmed enrichment in complement activation, coagulation, and stress responses. ELISA validation showed significant reductions in C1QA, C3, C8A, C8B, and C9 in hEDS patients, consistent across age and sex. Cytokine profiling revealed alterations in nodal immune cell mediators in hEDS patients, supporting a model of dysregulated inflammatory response. Our findings indicate a systemic immune dysregulation, particularly involving the complement system and profibrotic cytokines, as a common feature in hEDS pathophysiology. These findings challenge the traditional view of hEDS as solely a connective tissue disorder and support a revised paradigm that includes innate immune dysfunction. This immune involvement may contribute to disease pathophysiology and inform the development of biologically based diagnostic tools, enabling earlier diagnosis and guiding future therapeutic strategies.
PXD061683	40972878	Humin oxidation drives microbial dehalogenation in oligotrophic environments. 	Humin oxidation is a Survival Strategy of Organohalide-respiring Bacteria in Oligotrophic Environments	Energy acquisition, Humin oxidation, respiratory dehalogenation	Energy acquisition presents a fundamental constraint for microbial survival in oligotrophic environments. Although heterotrophic organohalide-respiring bacteria (OHRB) are known to perform reductive dehalogenation in organohalide-contaminated oligotrophic ecosystems, their energy metabolism remains poorly understood. Here, we report that Pseudomonas sp. CP-1, an OHRB, can directly oxidize humin from diverse oligotrophic aquifers to drive organohalide respiration. Spectroscopy, electrochemistry and metabolic profiling demonstrated that electrons stored in phenolic hydroxyl and amino groups of humin were utilized by strain CP-1 for organohalide respiration. Mutational and chemical inhibition studies identified an extracellular electron uptake pathway involving a multiheme cytochrome EeuP, which transfers extracellular electrons into the organohalide-respiratory chain, thereby coupling humin oxidation with reductive dehalogenation. Phylogenetic analyses revealed the widespread distribution of EeuP homologs across environmental bacterial taxa, implying a broader ecological relevance. This discovery sheds light on the hidden world of subsurface microbiology, with implications for understanding microbial energy metabolism in the energy-scarce environments.
PXD048536	40975050	The kinesin motor Kif9 regulates centriolar satellite positioning during interphase. 	The kinesin motor Kif9 regulates centriolar satellite positioning during interphase	GFP, Kif9, centrosome, chromosome segregation, microtubule-organizing center, mitosis	Centrosomes are the principal microtubule-organizing centers of the cell, are cellular hubs for protein degradation, and play an essential role in mitotic spindle function that ultimately regulates chromosome segregation during mitosis. Centrosome maturation is achieved by strict control of protein acquisition and phosphorylation prior to mitosis. Defects in this process during interphase promote fragmentation of pericentriolar material once cells enter mitosis due to the increased forces exerted over the centrosome by the mitotic spindle, finally culminating in multipolar spindles and chromosome missegregation. Centriolar satellites, membrane-less assemblies of proteins involved in the trafficking of proteins toward and away from the centrosome, are thought to contribute to centrosome biogenesis. Moreover, centriolar satellites also regulate the quantity of proteolytic factors reaching the centrosome. Here, we show that the microtubule plus-end-directed kinesin motor Kif9 localizes to centriolar satellites and regulates their pericentrosomal localization during interphase. Lack of Kif9 leads to aggregation of satellites closer to the centrosome and increased centrosomal protein degradation that disrupts centrosome maturation and results in chromosome congression and segregation defects during mitosis. Our data show that the kinesin Kif9 controls the position of centriolar satellites relative to the centrosome and reveal roles for Kif9 and centriolar satellites in the regulation of cellular proteostasis and mitosis.
PXD067756	40976566	Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Characteristics of the Retina, Choroid, and Sclera in Guinea Pigs with Form-Deprivation Myopia. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic study in the retina, choroid, and sclera of guinea pigs with form-deprivation myopia	Choroid, Form-deprivation myopia, Proteomics and phosphoproteomics, Retina, Sclera	Myopia is a growing global public health concern. Recent studies have revealed that the regulation of eye growth occurs via a complex signaling cascade, which originates in the retina and across the choroid to the sclera. Identifying key proteins and specific biological processes in the retina, choroid, and sclera is crucial for understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying myopia development. We conducted comprehensive proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of the retina, choroid, and sclera from form-deprivation myopia (FDM) guinea pigs using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Differentially expressed proteins and phosphosites were identified, followed by functional annotation and signaling pathway enrichment analyses. The expression of key proteins was assessed using Western blotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Distinct proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiles were observed across the three tissues, with 6,470, 6,708, and 3,236 proteins and 9,613, 9,416, and 3,685 phosphosites in the retina, choroid, and sclera, respectively. Proteomic analysis showed that neural signal transduction was enriched in the retina, with down-regulation of NTRK2, suggesting impaired neurotrophic signaling. The up-regulation of SYK and BTK, along with increased NF-kappaB, p65, and IL-1beta levels in the choroid, indicated enhanced inflammatory responses. TNNT3, TPM2, and ACTN3 were up-regulated in the sclera, reflecting cytoskeletal remodeling associated with scleral expansion. Phosphoproteomic analysis indicated key roles of phosphoproteins in biological processes, particularly the spliceosome signaling pathway, which was broadly involved across all three tissues. Kinase network analysis revealed PRPF4B as a key kinase for SF3B1, suggesting the potential regulation roles of RNA splicing in myopia progression. The present study systematically elucidates the proteomic and phosphoproteomic characteristics of the retina, choroid, and sclera of FDM in guinea pigs, highlighting significant tissue-specific biological processes to myopia. The findings provide a theoretical foundation for understanding that different tissues exhibit distinct biological reactions to myopia, each through specific signaling pathways and regulatory mechanisms.
PXD060506	40977476	The ethylene response factor ERF1A regulates UV-C-induced delayed ripening in peach fruit. 	thylene response factor ERF1A positively regulates the UV-C delayed ripening in peach fruit	Ethylene response factor, RNA interference, UV-C irradiation, peel tissue, ripening delay	Ultraviolet-C (UV-C) irradiation delays fruit ripening, yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We investigated tissue-specific responses of peach fruit (Prunus persica L. Batsch) to UV-C by analyzing the peel and flesh separately. UV-C treatment altered central metabolism, promoted anthocyanin accumulation and coloration, and delayed ripening, as evidenced by reduced fruit softening and water loss. However, UV-C enhanced ethylene production and upregulated ethylene-related genes, indicating a reconfiguration of the ethylene response. Among UV-C-responsive genes, the APETALA2/Ethylene Responsive Factor (AP2/ERF) transcription factor family was most affected, with Ethylene Response Factor 1A (ERF1A) showing the strongest induction in the treated peel, suggesting its role as a key integrator of the UV-C-induced ripening delay. UV-C increased the levels of DNA 5-methylcytosine (5mC) and RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) in the peel, without altering cytosine methylation or causing mutations in ERF1A. Silencing ERF1A via RNA interference confirmed that it regulates ethylene production, softening, and ripening-associated metabolites. Immunolocalization revealed changes in the cell wall components of ERF1A-silenced fruit, including arabinogalactan, pectin, and xyloglucan. ERF1A-silenced peels exhibited elevated auxin and salicylic acid levels and reduced abscisic acid content. Additionally, ERF1A suppression altered the biosynthesis of sugars, phenolic compounds, and volatiles. We found extensive proteome reprogramming in ERF1A-silenced peels and identified putative ERF1A target genes that either contain ERF1A-binding sites or are associated with firmness, ethylene signaling, phytohormone metabolism, and color. Notably, Carboxylesterase 11 (PpCXE11), Carboxylesterase 13 (PpCXE13), and Salicylic acid-binding protein 2 (PpSABP2) emerged as potential ERF1A targets. These findings identify ERF1A as a central regulator mediating UV-C-induced ripening delay through modulation of ethylene signaling and downstream ripening pathways.
PXD059655	40980150	Proteomics reveals the regulation of ALG1 expression by lentivirus-mediated THBS1 overexpression and its mechanism in meibomian gland carcinoma. 	Proteomics reveals the regulation of lentivirus-mediated THBS1 overexpression in ALG1 and its mechanism in meibomian gland carcinoma	4D-label-free proteomics Meibomian gland carcinoma Thrombospondin-1 Chitobiosyldiphosphodolichol beta-mannosyltransferase	Meibomian gland carcinoma (MGC) is a highly aggressive eyelid malignancy with a poor prognosis. MicroRNA-3907 (miR-3907) is upregulated in MGC, where it promotes tumor progression by suppressing thrombospondin 1 (THBS1). The present study aimed to assess the downstream regulatory mechanisms of THBS1 in MGC. Utilizing 4D label-free quantitative proteomics, chitobiosyldiphosphodolichol beta-mannosyltransferase 1 (ALG1) was identified as the most significantly differentially expressed downstream protein following lentivirus-mediated overexpression of THBS1, with results corroborated by consistent sequencing data. Protein-protein docking models predicted a stable interaction between THBS1 and ALG1, mediated by hydrogen bonds involving key amino acid residues such as ASN-991 and MET-58. Co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence assays confirmed the physical interaction and co-localization of THBS1 and ALG1 in MGC cells. Notably, ALG1 mRNA levels were significantly elevated in MGC cells compared with in normal meibomian gland cells. Functional assays revealed that ALG1 knockdown markedly suppressed malignant cellular behaviors and modulated the expression of genes associated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition, a key process in tumor metastasis. Conversely, ALG1 overexpression enhanced these malignant traits. Together, these findings highlight ALG1 as a critical downstream effector in the miR-3907/THBS1/ALG1 regulatory axis and suggest its potential as a biomarker for targeted diagnosis and therapy in MGC. The present study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying MGC and offers a basis for developing personalized therapeutic strategies.
PXD062880	40980549	Core fucose identification in glycoproteomics: an ML approach addressing fucose migration in mass spectrometry. 	Improving the Accuracy and Efficiency of Core Fucose Identification Using Machine Learning	Core fucose, FUT8 knockout, Intact glycopeptides, Mouse brain	Motivation: Core fucosylation is a common type of glycosylation that plays a significant role in biological functions. Accurate identification of core fucosylated glycopeptides is challenging due to fucose migration phenomenon during mass spectrometry. By using glycopeptides from mouse brain with FUT8 knocked out as cases and core-fucosylated high-mannose glycans in normal mouse brain as controls, the phenomena are widely observed from mass spectrometry data. The relative intensities of 10 core-related characteristic ions are used jointly as a feature vector, and a semisupervised model and a self-supervised model are developed in the feature space with robustness of the models studied. Results: Experimental results show that both models perform well, with the former superior to the latter, reaching 99.95% identification accuracy on an independent mouse brain data with FUT8 knocked out. By applying the models to wild-type mouse brain, human IgG and human serum, their dominant abundance of core fucose and/or noncore fucose are found, which is trustworthy since the effect of fucose migration is dealt with. The study highlights the great significance of trustworthy data labeling, well-defined features, and machine learning/deep learning techniques in highly reliable, accurate, and robust identification of core fucose from high-throughput mass spectrometry data. Availability and implementation: The code for core fucose identification is freely available in https://github.com/yzy-010203/core_focuse_identification.
PXD067859	40981182	Proteome Differences in Smooth Muscle Cells from Diabetic and Non-Diabetic Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Patients Reveal Metformin-Induced Mechanisms. 	abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) proteomics	DIA-MS, abdominal aortic aneurysm, human tissue	Aims: Surgery remains the only definitive treatment option for abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA), as no conclusive evidence supports drug effectiveness in preventing AAA growth. Although type 2 diabetes (T2D) is an important cardiovascular risk factor, patients with T2D show reduced AAA presence and growth, associated with metformin use. We aimed to investigate the potential benefits of metformin on AAA using proteomics and in vitro experiments. Methods: Proteomics analysis using tandem mass spectrometry was performed on aortic smooth muscle cells (SMCs) from non-pathological controls (C-SMC, n = 8), non-diabetic (ND, n = 19) and diabetic (D, n = 5) AAA patients. Key findings were subsequently validated in aortic tissue using mass spectrometry-based proteomics. SMCs were cultured with/without metformin and analyzed. Results: Comparison of the proteome of SMCs from ND-AAA patients with controls revealed a reduction in proteins associated with metabolic processes and mitochondrial function. Cytoskeletal and extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins were elevated in ND-AAA-SMCs versus C-SMCs, with a similar cluster of mechanosensitive proteins being increased in ND-AAA-SMCs versus D-AAA-SMCs. D-AAA-SMCs showed an improved metabolic and antioxidant profile, enriched in pentose phosphate pathway proteins responsible for NAD(P)H generation (G6PD, PGD) and NAD(P)H-dependent antioxidants (NQO1, CBR1, AKR1C1, AKR1B1, GSTM1), all regulated by NRF2, an antioxidant transcription factor. Over half of the proteins identified in the protein-protein interaction network, constructed from proteins with higher expression in D-AAA SMCs versus ND-AAA SMCs, were verified in D-AAA aortic tissue. In vitro, metformin causes a shift from aerobic to anaerobic metabolism, increased AMPK activation and elevated mitochondrial biogenesis, indicated by increased PGC-1alpha expression. Metformin increased the gene expression of PGD, CBR1 and the protein expression of NQO1, with enhanced translocation of pNRF2 to the nucleus, due to reduced KEAP1 as negative regulator of NRF2. Consequently, metformin enhanced the gene expression of well-known antioxidant regulators SOD2 and CAT. Conclusions: This study identified significant differences in the proteome of SMCs derived from controls, ND-AAA and D-AAA patients. It highlights distinct pathways in relation to mechanosensing, metabolism and redox balance as therapeutic targets of metformin that may underlie its inhibition of AAA progression.
PXD067551	40981201	Bidirectional Interaction Between PGE2-Preconditioned Mesenchymal Stem Cells and Myofibroblasts Mediates Anti-Fibrotic Effects: A Proteomic Investigation into Equine Endometrial Fibrosis Reversal. 	Bidirectional interaction between PGE-preconditioned mesenchymal stem cells and myofibroblasts mediates antifibrotic effects: A proteomic investigation into equine endometrial fibrosis reversal	Endometrosis, Equine mesenshymal stem cells, Mare endometrial, SILAC, myofibloblasts - Equine mesenshymal stem cells interaction, precondition with PGE2	BACKGROUND: Endometrosis is a prevalent fibrotic condition in mares that impairs reproductive efficiency by inducing transdifferentiation of endometrial stromal cells into myofibroblasts, leading to excessive ECM deposition. METHODS: To elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying fibrosis resolution, this study employed comprehensive proteomic techniques, including LC-MS/MS and SILAC, to analyze the interaction between myofibroblasts and mesenchymal stem cells derived from the endometrium (ET-eMSCs) preconditioned with PGE2. An in vitro co-culture system was used, with samples collected at baseline and after 48 h. RESULTS: Proteomic analysis identified significant alterations in proteins associated with ECM remodeling, immune regulation, and cellular stress response. Notably, proteins involved in collagen degradation, antioxidant defense, and growth factor signaling pathways were differentially abundant. Network analyses demonstrated robust interactions among these proteins, suggesting coordinated modulatory effects. The data indicate that PGE2-primed ET-eMSCs induce a shift in myofibroblast secretory profiles, promoting a reduction in ECM stiffness, tissue reorganization, and activation of resolution pathways. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD067551. CONCLUSIONS: These findings reinforce the therapeutic potential of mesenchymal stem cell-based interventions for fibrotic diseases of the endometrium, opening avenues for regenerative strategies to restore reproductive function in mares.
PXD028076	40981204	Proteomic Analysis of Mechanical Injury Effects in Papaya Fruit at Two Maturity Stages. 	Carica papaya fruit exocarp subjected to bruise	fruit, papaya, stress	BACKGROUND: Mechanical damage to fruit during harvesting is nearly inevitable, with certain species, such as papaya, being particularly prone to spoilage. Postharvest handling can induce mechanical injuries that impair ripening and reduce shelf life, leading to significant economic losses. Although several studies have shed light on the molecular bases of mechanical damage, other aspects remain to be described (plant hormone inter-talk, physiological changes, and regulatory networks). METHODS: In this study, we investigated proteomic changes in papaya fruit at two distinct ripening stages following mechanical damage. A total of 3230 proteins were identified, representing the most comprehensive proteomic analysis of papaya to date and the first assessment of proteins regulated by mechanical stress. RESULTS: Proteins involved in ethylene biosynthesis were up-regulated on Day 2 but down-regulated on Day 12, with a similar trend observed for proteins in the abscisic acid synthesis pathway. Enzymes associated with photosynthesis, carbon fixation, primary metabolism, and carotenoid synthesis were down-regulated at both stages. In contrast, those related to plasmodesmata, calcium signaling, kinases, pathogenesis, cell wall remodeling, and proteases were up-regulated. CONCLUSIONS: These findings are thoroughly discussed, and a general model of the events triggered by mechanical impact in papaya is proposed. Our results provide a comprehensive framework for understanding papaya's response to mechanical damage.
PXD058436	40983925	MHCquant2 refines immunopeptidomics tumor antigen discovery. 	MHCquant2 refines immunopeptidomics tumor antigen discovery	DDA, Immunopeptidomics, MHCquant, Nf-core, Pipeline	Confident identification of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-presented peptides is crucial for advancing cancer immunotherapy. We present MHCquant2, a scalable and modular Nextflow pipeline integrated into nf-core as a reproducible, portable, and standardized workflow for immunopeptidomics. This integration allows a community-driven, robust solution for high-throughput analyses across operating systems and cloud infrastructures. MHCquant2 integrates open-source tools including OpenMS, DeepLC, and MS(2)PIP, improving peptide identifications by up to 27% across diverse MS platforms, particularly enriching low-abundant peptides. MHCquant2 demonstrates state-of-the-art performance on our novel benignMHCquant2 dataset (n = 92) and expands the benign human immunopeptidome by over 160,000 unique naturally presented HLA peptides.
PXD062134	40985768	DNA polymerase kappa is the primary translesion synthesis polymerase for aldehyde ICLs. 	DNA polymerase kappa is the primary translesion synthesis polymerase for aldehyde ICLs	Acetaldehyde-ICL, Acrolein-ICL, FA pathway, Translesion Synthesis, polymerase kappa	DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs) are highly cytotoxic lesions that block essential cellular processes like replication and transcription. Endogenous ICLs can be induced by reactive aldehydes produced during normal cellular metabolism. Defective repair of these aldehyde-induced ICLs is associated with Fanconi anaemia (FA), a cancer predisposition syndrome. We previously showed that acetaldehyde-induced ICLs are repaired by the FA pathway and a novel excision-independent pathway. Here, we demonstrate that ICLs induced by acrolein, another cellular aldehyde, are also repaired by both pathways, establishing the generality of aldehyde ICL repair. Focusing on the FA pathway, we identify DNA polymerase kappa (Polkappa) as the primary translesion synthesis (TLS) polymerase responsible for the insertion step during lesion bypass of unhooked aldehyde ICLs. This function requires Polkappa's catalytic activity and PCNA interaction domains but is independent of Rev1 interaction. In contrast, Polkappa has a non-catalytic role in the extension step of cisplatin ICL repair that is dependent on Rev1 interaction. Our work reveals a key role for Polkappa in aldehyde ICL repair and provides mechanistic insights into how different ICL structures determine the choice of TLS polymerases during repair.
PXD066155	40985775	Mammalian H4K16ac regulates the spatiotemporal order of genome replication rather than gene expression. 	Mammalian H4K16ac regulates the spatiotemporal order of genome replication rather than gene expression	H4K16ac, Histone post translationa modification	Histone acetylation is widely assumed to directly instruct gene activation. Among acetylated residues, H4K16ac is one of the most abundant modifications, conserved across all eukaryotes. Despite its established role in X-chromosome hyperactivation in Drosophila, its function in mammalian cells has remained elusive. Here, we show that in human somatic cells, H4K16ac does not substantially affect gene expression, but instead controls the spatiotemporal program of genome replication. By combining a meta-analysis of public datasets and perturbation experiments designed to minimize confounding effects, we found that H4K16ac is neither associated with nor required for transcriptional activity. Rather, H4K16ac depletion resulted in premature replication of heterochromatic regions and widespread alterations in replication timing across the genome. These defects were driven by the aberrant activation of cryptic replication origins at long terminal repeats-repetitive elements typically marked by H4K16ac and whose sequence context resembles that of canonical origins in euchromatic regions. Our findings reveal an unexpected role for one of the most prevalent chromatin modifications and uncover a new regulatory mechanism that safeguards genome replication fidelity.
PXD061404	40985884	Selective EV Protein Sorting and Pathway Perturbation in AML Upon Synergistic FLT3 and Hedgehog Pathway Inhibition. 	In-Depth Proteomics Reveals Selective EV Protein Sorting and Pathway Perturbation in AML upon Synergistic FLT3 and Hedgehog Pathway Inhibition	AML, Crenolanib, EVs, ErbB signaling, HPI-1, ribosomal proteins	Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is a haematologic malignancy with high relapse incidence and mortality. Approximately one-third of AML patients carry an fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) mutation, often associated with GLI expression and Hedgehog signalling. AML cells shape their microenvironment into a leukaemia-permissive space by releasing extracellular vesicles (EVs). EVs can transfer chemoresistance and thereby play an important role in refractory and relapsing diseases. Here, we discovered a synergistic effect of combined treatment with the FLT3 inhibitor Crenolanib and the Hedgehog pathway inhibitor HPI-1 in the AML cell lines MOLM-14 and MV4-11. In-depth comparative proteomics revealed alterations in the cellular and the EV proteome upon single or combined inhibition of FLT3 and GLI, highlighting affected pathways. By comparing cellular and EV proteomes, we found that transport of ribosomal proteins, such as RPS26 and RPL27A, and ErbB pathway members such as GAB1, GRB2 and SHC1 to EVs, is selectively avoided upon treatment with Crenolanib. These findings were corroborated by comparative proteomics of EVs derived from AML patients and healthy donors. Ribosomal and ErbB signalling pathway proteins may play an important role in microenvironmental modulation by EVs, and Crenolanib treatment potentially acts by interfering with leukaemia niche formation.
PXD057908	40989907	FISH-FACS proteomics: enhanced label-free quantitative proteome analysis from low cell numbers of uncultured environmental microorganisms. 	FISH-FACS Proteomics: Enhanced label-free quantitative proteome analysis from ultra-low cell numbers of environmental microorganisms	Aurantivirga sp., Polaribacter spp., marine microorganisms, microbial ecology	Metaproteomics is an essential approach to analyze the in situ metabolic activity of microbes across various environments. In such highly diverse environmental samples, the functionality of specific microorganisms of importance often remains underexplored due to the protein inference problem arising from sequence similarities between organisms. One approach to overcome this challenge is the enrichment of uncultured target organisms. However, this often results in samples with low protein content. In this study, we have developed a workflow that combines fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) with mass spectrometry-based proteomics to analyze proteins from uncultured bacteria directly from environmental samples. We demonstrate that 1 x 10(5) bacterial cells are sufficient for reliable qualitative protein identifications, while 5 x 10(5) to 1 x 10(6) cells allow for both reproducible protein identification and quantification after FISH and FACS. In addition, the use of a clade-specific database enhances data analysis by improving peptide mapping, especially when compared to metaproteomics results.
PXD064891	40991407	PERK protein kinase facilitates keratinocyte collective cell migration by engagement with cell adhesion molecules independent of its kinase activity. 	PERK protein kinase facilitates keratinocyte collective cell migration by engagement with cell adhesion molecules independent of its kinase activity 	BioID, DatasetType:Proteomics, MS, NTERT	Successful cutaneous wound healing requires re-epithelialization by keratinocytes using a coordinated migratory process called keratinocyte collective cell migration (KCCM). Environmental stresses such as wounding induce the Integrated Stress Response (ISR) initiated by protein kinases that phosphorylate the alpha subunit of eIF2 and mitigate translational control to alleviate stress damage. We previously reported that the ISR protein kinase GCN2 (EIF2AK4) facilitates KCCM via sustained phosphorylation of eIF2alpha and coordinated production of reactive oxygen species and amino acid transport. In this study, we show that a second ISR protein kinase PERK (EIF2AK3) also contributes to KCCM. PERK promotes KCCM by protein-protein interactions requiring the cytoplasmic portion of PERK but independent of its catalytic functions. To discern these PERK interactions, we used BioID proximity labeling, immunoprecipitation analyses, and immunofluorescence microscopy to show that PERK interacts with multiple cell adhesion and cytoskeletal complexes important for KCCM. PERK engages with the hemidesmosome proteins ITGA6, ITGB4, COLXVII, and the desmosome proteins JUP, DSG2, and DSG3. Loss of PERK disrupts expression and localization of these cell adhesion proteins, which alters keratinocyte morphology and increases cell-substrate and intercellular adhesions. Our results define an underappreciated scaffolding function for PERK involving cell adhesions that are critical for KCCM.
PXD064674	40991692	Steric repulsion counteracts ER-to-lipid droplet protein movement. 	Steric Repulsion Counteracts ER-to-Lipid Droplet Protein Movement		Lipid droplets (LDs) are organelles with a neutral lipid core surrounded by a phospholipid monolayer, which is continuous with the cytoplasmic leaflet of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). LD function depends on a highly dynamic LD surface proteome. Key proteins continuously exchange between the ER and LDs; however, the mechanisms governing the interorganelle movement and accumulation on the LD surface remain poorly understood. Here, we developed an ex cellulo tool introducing a classification of ER-derived proteins based on their different affinity for LDs. We find that proteins with higher LD affinity can effectively displace those with lower affinity from the LD surface, identifying steric hindrance as a key mechanism in regulating ER-to-LD protein transfer. Consistent with this model, we show that, during adipocyte differentiation Plin1-an adipocyte-specific high-affinity LD protein-reduces the recruitment of ER proteins with lower affinity by displacing them from the LD surface. These findings highlight lateral protein-protein exclusion as a fundamental mechanism in shaping the LD proteome.
PXD066430	40991728	Retinal polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation reverses aging-related vision decline in mice. 	Polyunsaturated Fatty Acid - mediated Cellular Rejuvenation for Restoration of Vision in Aging	AMD, ELOVL2, PUFA, VLC-PUFA, aging, lipid supplementation	The retina is uniquely enriched in polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), primarily localized in cell membranes, where they govern membrane biophysical properties. During aging, alterations in lipid metabolism lead to reduced content of very long-chain PUFAs (VLC-PUFAs) in the retina, which is associated with normal age-related reductions in contrast sensitivity, diminished photoreceptor function and delayed rod-mediated dark adaptation recovery, and pathological age-related macular degeneration (AMD). ELOVL2 (elongation of very long chain fatty acids-like 2) encodes a transmembrane protein that produces precursors to docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and VLC-PUFAs. The methylation status of the ELOVL2 promoter is currently one of the best predictors of chronological age. Here, we show that lower VLC-PUFA abundance in the aged mouse retina is accompanied by a reduction in visual function. Similarly, mice lacking ELOVL2-specific enzymatic activity (Elovl2(C234W)) demonstrate reduced contrast sensitivity and slower rod-mediated dark adaptation. Intravitreal supplementation with the direct product of ELOVL2, 24:5n-3, in aged animals improved visual function for up to 4 weeks and reduced accumulation of APOE- and C3d-positive sub-RPE deposits. The gene expression pattern observed in supplemented retinas exhibited a partial rejuvenation profile, including decreased expression of aging-related genes and a transcriptomic signature resembling younger retinas. Last, human genetic data from the IAMDGC and UK Biobank linked two variants in the ELOVL2 locus with the onset of intermediate AMD, underlining the translational importance of our findings. Our work highlights VLC-PUFA supplementation as a potential therapeutic opportunity and defines ELOVL2 as a promising target for interventions to prevent age-related vision loss.
PXD062823	40992657	Spinal cord phosphoproteome of SCA2 mouse model reveals alteration of ATXN2-N-term PRM-SH3-actin interactome and of autophagy. 	Spinal cord phosphoproteome of SCA2/ALS13 mouse model	Fe-NTA binding, IMAC, aggrephagy, cerebellar Purkinje neurons, cortico-spinal motoneurons, intrinsically disordered domains, liquid-liquid phase separation, microtubule-organizing center., proteasome, tyrosine receptor endocytosis	Toxic polyglutamine (polyQ) expansions in ATXN2 trigger neurodegenerative processes, causing Spinocerebellar Ataxia type 2 (SCA2), and enhancing TDP-43-dependent pathology in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) / Fronto-Temporal Dementia (FTD). Primary disease events can be compensated transiently, delaying disease manifestation. To define potential therapy targets, here we studied how cells modify phosphoprotein signals, using preferentially affected nervous tissue from end-stage Atxn2-CAG100-KnockIn mice. The spinal cord phosphoproteome revealed massive hyperphosphorylations flanking the polyQ expansion in ATXN2 and for SQSTM1, and moderate hyperphosphorylations also for ALS proteins OPTN, UBQLN2, TNIP1 and TBK1-targeted TAX1BP1. Conversely, strong hypophosphorylations of WNK1, SPARCL1 and PSMD9 were found. Significant enrichments of SH3-containing proteins, autophagy / endocytosis factors, and actin modulators could be explained by N-terminal, polyQ-adjacent, proline-rich motifs (PRM) in ATXN2, suggesting that SCA2 pathogenesis is highly similar to Huntington's disease where neurotoxicity is mediated by abnormal polyQ-PRM-SH3 interactions. Validation of protein and mRNA levels were done in mouse spinal cord, and embryonic fibroblasts or patient fibroblasts after bafilomycin or arsenite treatment, observing polyQ-dependent OPTN deficiency and SQSTM1 induction impairment. Overall, this phosphoproteome profile identified and quantified the main cellular efforts in adapting autophagy pathways to the aggregation propensity of the ATXN2-N-term.
PXD060456	40992730	Increased mitochondrial fusion via systemic OPA1 overexpression promotes dyslipidemia and atherosclerosis in LDLR deficient mice. 	Optic Atrophy 1 (OPA1) overexpression promotes dyslipidemia and atherosclerosis coupled to altered aortic VSMC function in LDL-R deficient mice.	Atherosclerosis, Dyslipidemia, Mithocondria, OPA1	AIMS: Mitochondria are involved in cellular metabolism, energy production, calcium homeostasis, and the synthesis of sterols and bile acids (BAs). Emerging evidence suggests that mitochondrial dynamics including biogenesis, fusion, fission, and mitophagy critically influence cardiometabolic diseases, yet their role in atherogenesis remain poorly understood. Mitochondrial fusion ensures metabolic flexibility and stress adaptation, processes highly relevant to lipid handling and vascular cell plasticity. OPA1, a key regulator of inner mitochondrial membrane fusion, has been implicated in metabolic remodeling and cellular stress responses. We therefore investigated whether modulation of OPA1 expression affects lipid homeostasis and plaque formation in LDL receptor-deficient (LDLR KO) mice and in human carotid atherosclerosis. METHODS: OPA1(TG)/LDLR KO and OPA1(DeltaHep) /LDLR KO were fed with a Western-type diet (WTD) for 12 weeks. The development of atherosclerosis was compared to that of LDLR KO mice. In humans, the impact of OPA1 was investigated in asymptomatic and symptomatic subjects from the Carotid Plaque Imaging Project (CPIP) biobank. RESULTS: OPA1(TG)/LDLR KO mice showed a significant increase in plasma cholesterol levels mainly in VLDL and LDL fractions. OPA1(TG)/LDLR KO display a reduction of unconjugated bile acids and higher percentage of conjugated bile acids leading to an increased lipid adsorption. This phenotype was associated with increased atherosclerosis in the aortic root. OPA1 overexpression also resulted in an altered vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) cellular metabolism and differentiation, promoting a shift from a contractile/synthetic phenotype toward a more proliferative and metabolically active state. Concordantly, the deletion of OPA1 in hepatocytes improved systemic lipoprotein metabolism protecting from atherosclerosis. Concordantly in humans, plaque OPA1 mRNA levels are associated with metabolic and smooth muscle cell related pathways. CONCLUSION: Mitochondrial fusion mediated by OPA1 plays a key role in atherosclerosis by affecting lipoprotein metabolism and vascular smooth muscle cell biology.
PXD054645	40993517	Consumption of traditional Sardinian fermented milk promotes changes in the rat gut microbiota composition and functions. 	Consumption of traditional Sardinian fermented milk promotes changes in the rat gut microbiota composition and functions	Prevotella, fermented milk, metagenomics, metaproteomics, propanoate metabolism	BACKGROUND: Fermented milk products are part of the staple diet for many Mediterranean populations. Most of these traditional foods are enriched with lactobacilli and other lactic acid bacteria, as well as with metabolites resulting from lactose fermentation. Currently, there is very little scientific knowledge on how dietary supplementation with fermented milk affects the composition of the gut microbiota and its metabolic activities. RESULTS: We integrated 16 S rRNA gene-based taxonomic profiling with metaproteomics-based functional analysis to investigate gut microbiota changes in rats exposed to an 8-week dietary supplementation with casu axedu, a traditional fermented milk produced within rural communities in Sardinia (Italy). Several microbial taxa showed a significantly increased abundance at the end of the dietary treatment, including Phascolarctobacterium, Prevotella, Blautia glucerasea, and Lactococcus lactis, while Bacteroides dorei and Helicobacter rodentium were decreased compared to the control rats. Metaproteomic analysis highlighted a striking reshaping of the Prevotella proteome in agreement with its blooming in casu axedu-fed animals, suggesting an increase of the glycolytic activity through the Embden-Meyerhof-Parnas pathway over the Entner-Doudoroff pathway. Moreover, an increased production of enzymes involved in succinate biosynthesis was observed, which in turn significantly boosted the abundance of Phascolarctobacterium and its production of propionate. Fermented milk consumption also promoted microbial synthesis of branched chain essential amino acids L-valine and L-leucine. Finally, metaproteomic data indicated a reduction of bacterial virulence factors and host inflammatory markers, suggesting that the consumption of casu axedu can have beneficial effects on the gut mucosa health. CONCLUSIONS: Our integrated multi-omics approach reveals that dietary supplementation with the traditional Sardinian fermented milk, casu axedu, induces significant shifts in the rat gut microbiota composition and function, characterized by the enrichment of beneficial taxa and metabolic pathways associated with improved gut health and reduced inflammation.
PXD064869	40993657	Proteomic profiling identifies miR-423-5p as a modulator of oncogenic metabolism in HCC. 	miR-423-5p target identification with proteomics in HCC	HCC, Hepatocellular carcinoma, miR-423-5p, tripletof 6600	BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a significant clinical challenge due to limited diagnostic and therapeutic options. Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs), such as microRNAs (miRNAs), play key roles in cancer biology. Our previous findings showed that miR-423-5p enhances anti-cancer effects on HCC patients treated with sorafenib by promoting autophagy. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying miR-423-5p function through a comprehensive proteomic approach. METHODS: We generated an HCC cell line stably overexpressing miR-423-5p via lentiviral transduction. Total proteins were extracted from SNU-387 cells, enzymatically digested into peptides, and subsequently analysed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/M). Raw spectral data were processed and quantified using MaxQuant. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were defined based on fold-change (|log2FC| >= 1) and false discovery rate (FDR < 0.05). The full proteomic dataset is available via the ProteomeXchange repository (identifier: PXD064869). Functional enrichment analysis of DEPs were performed using DAVID and Reactome. To assess clinical relevance, predicted and validated miR-423-5p targets were integrated with The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Liver Hepatocellular Carcinoma (LIHC) dataset using GEPIA platform. Survival analyses were performed using the Kaplan-Meier method. RESULTS: Proteomic profiling identified 698 DEPs in miR-423-5p-overexpressing cells compared to controls with significant enrichment in metabolic pathways, related to purine/pyrimidine metabolism and gluconeogenesis. Integration with bioinformatic predictions and miRTarBase validation identified 43 DEPs as potential direct targets of miR-423-5p. Among these, seven proteins (ACACA, ANKRD52, DVL3, MCM5, MCM7, RRM2, SPNS1, and SRM) were significantly associated with patient prognosis in the TCGA-LIHC cohort. These targets were downregulated in miR-423-5p-overexpressing cells but upregulated in advanced-stage HCC tissues, suggesting a potential role for miR-423-5p in the regulation of HCC pathogenesis. Stage-specific expression analysis showed increased levels from stage I to III, followed by a decline at stage IV. Notably, we experimentally confirmed miR-423-5p-mediated suppression of MCM7, DVL3, IMPDH1, and SRM (SPEE), supporting their functional involvement in HCC progression. CONCLUSION: Overall, our findings support a tumour-suppressive role for miR-423-5p in HCC, mediated by modulation of metabolic pathways and suppression of oncogenic proteins. These results suggest that miR-423-5p and its downstream effectors may serve as promising biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets in HCC. HIGHLIGHTS: miR-423-5p acts as a tumor suppressor in HCC by targeting key nodes of pro-tumorigenic signalling. miR-423-5p significantly altered metabolic pathways, including purine/pyrimidine metabolism and gluconeogenesis. Seven miR-423-5p targets correlate with poor prognosis in TCGA-LIHC patients and are downregulated in miR-423-5p overexpressing HCC cells. miR-423-5p over-expression induces a significant downregulation of MCM7, DVL3, IMPDH1, SPEE in HCC cell models. miR-423-5p limits tumor metabolic plasticity, suggesting therapeutic potential.
PXD067974	40994366	Iron regulatory proteins secure iron availability in skeletal muscle to preserve exercise tolerance in heart failure. 	Exploring the Plasma Proteome Linked to Corpus Luteum Presence and Conception Mode Across Pregnancy Stages and Postpartum	corpus luteum, frozen embryo transfer, in vitro fertilization, mode of conception, unassisted conception	AIMS: Iron deficiency (ID) is a frequent comorbidity in heart failure (HF) and contributes to exercise intolerance. Tissue iron levels are maintained by cellular iron uptake, sequestration, and release, processes that are tightly controlled by iron regulatory proteins (IRP). Our aim was to explore the role of IRP activity in skeletal muscle function and exercise capacity during HF. METHODS AND RESULTS: We observed that skeletal muscle ID is associated with IRP1 and 2 inactivation 12 weeks after transverse aortic constriction (TAC) in mice with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and cachexia. To understand the functional implications of IRP inactivation in skeletal muscle, we generated skeletal muscle-specific Irp1/2 knock-out mice (SkM-Irp1/2-KO). These mice developed muscle ID, along with lower transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1) levels and decreased non-haem iron content, within 5 weeks after birth. SkM-Irp1/2-KO mice exhibited shorter running distances and slower velocities during treadmill exercise. Transcriptomic analysis revealed upregulation of gene clusters associated with endoplasmic reticulum stress, atrophy, mitochondrial dysfunction, and inflammation. Moreover, enhanced glycolysis, increased 18F-deoxyglucose uptake in quadriceps, and faster plasma glucose clearance were detected in SkM-Irp1/2-KO versus control mice. In contrast, SkM-Irp1/2-KO mice had markedly reduced complex I and II expression, a change that confirmed defects in oxidative phosphorylation. CONCLUSIONS: HF leads to IRP1/2 inactivation, ID, and metabolic dysfunction in skeletal muscle in mice. IRP1/2 inactivation in skeletal muscle causes ID, impairs oxidative energy production, and promotes exercise intolerance by reducing the capacity for effective energy utilisation.
PXD060307	40994720	Sex-Specific Differences in the Secretome of Oligodendrocyte Progenitor Cells Post Hyperoxic Stress. 	Sex-specific extracellular protein composition derived from oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPC) under normoxic and hyperoxic conditions	OPC, hyperoxia, normoxia, secretome LC-MS/MS	Cerebral oxygenation differences in the neonatal period of human preterm infants, along with sex-specific differences in combating oxidative stress, can lead to disruption of normal oligodendrocyte maturation and function, which in turn can differentially affect neuronal development and activity in the male and female brains. Secretory proteins and extracellular vesicles (EVs) are increasingly recognized as important mediators of intercellular communication and stress response in the brain. Our analysis of the secretome from cell culture supernatants obtained after treating male and female derived primary mouse OPCs with hyperoxia (80% O2) for a 24 h period showed prominent sex-specific protein signatures with only 6% intersection between sexes upon hyperoxia. A higher proportion of mitochondrial proteins was observed to be secreted by male cells upon hyperoxic stress. Among specific factors that could be identified exclusively in the hyperoxia-treated groups, FGF-2 was present in significantly higher amounts in the female supernatant. Functional assays on neuronal cells (male) revealed that treatment with supernatant from female hyperoxic OPCs resulted in increased neuronal viability, potentially due to elevated levels of FGF-2. This suggests that female-specific extracellular proteins may play a key role in sex specific stress response and are potential candidates for further investigation.
PXD055880	40995127	Trefoil factor 2 interacts with A4GNT to regulate inflammation to protect against pneumonia during influenza virus infection. 	Human A4GNT+THP-1 cell membrane proteins bingding with TFF2 by LC-MS	A4GNT, LC-MS, MS, TFF2, THP-1	Trefoil factor 2 (TFF2) has been shown to reduce inflammation and promote mucosal repair in models of gastric and colonic injury. However, the role of TFF2 in acute respiratory tract infection remains elusive. Here, we demonstrate that TFF2 protects mice against pneumonia in influenza virus infections. In vitro studies have revealed that TFF2 does not directly bind to the previously reported potential receptors but recognizes the terminal GlcNAc-alpha-1,4-Gal disaccharide of cell surface proteins mediated by the glycosyltransferase activity of alpha1,4-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (A4GNT). Functionally, TFF2 organized membranous TFF2-A4GNT-glycan protein complex serves to restrain cellular inflammation pathways by augmenting inhibitory Tyr527 phosphorylation at the C-terminus of Src-family kinases (SFKs), thereby effectively preventing the phosphorylation of stimulatory SFKs Tyr416. Finally, we have conclusively verified that the protective effect of TFF2 relies on the TFF2-A4GNT-glycan axis during influenza virus infection. In the future, TFF2 may offer a potential intervention strategy for acute respiratory inflammatory diseases.
PXD057460	40995365	Large extracellular vesicles derived from LPS-preconditioned cardiomyocytes alleviate myocarditis via mediating macrophage polarization and modulating p38 MAPK pathway. 	Large Extracellular Vesicles Derived from LPS-preconditioned Cardiomyocytes Alleviate Myocarditis via Mediating Macrophage Polarization and Modulating p38 MAPK Pathway	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), cardiomyocytes, large extracellular vesicles, macrophages, myocarditis	Introduction: Myocarditis is an inflammatory injury to the myocardium characterized by disrupted intercellular communication, involving macrophages and cardiomyocytes as key players. However, the interactions between macrophages and cardiomyocytes during myocarditis remain inadequately explored. Emerging evidence indicated that extracellular vesicles (EVs) play a crucial role in intercellular communication. Methods: In our study, LPS- or PBS-preconditioned cardiomyocytes derived large EVs (C-lEVLPS/C-lEVPBS) were isolated. qPCR, ROS and flow cytometry assays were employed to evaluate their impact on macrophages and in the in vivo experiments, C-lEVLPS was administered to mice with viral myocarditis. Cardiac function was assessed through echocardiography and cTnT levels, while inflammatory responses were analyzed via histopathological examination and cytokine profiling. Then mechanistic investigations were performed using integrated transcriptomic and proteomic profiling to characterize EV-mediated regulatory networks. Statistical analyses were performed using Student's t-test or ANOVA, with significance set at p < 0.05. Results: We demonstrated C-lEVLPS exhibited anti-inflammatory effects on macrophages and alleviated cardiac inflammation and dysfunction in a mouse model of CVB3-induced myocarditis. Additionally, C-lEVLPS facilitated macrophage polarization toward the M2-like phenotype and inhibits M1 polarization, both in vitro and in vivo. Notably, compared to C-lEVPBS, C-lEVLPS was enriched in the phosphatase 2 scaffold subunit alpha protein (PP2AA), which can recruit other subunits to form the PP2A complex, ultimately leading to the dephosphorylates of p38. Discussion: This study highlights the effect of C-lEVLPS in myocarditis and uncovers the potential mechanism that modulates macrophage polarization by delivering PP2AA from cardiomyocytes to macrophages and regulating the p38 MAPK pathway. These findings provide a promising therapeutic strategy for myocarditis.
PXD068313	40997810	A Leishmania virulence factor harnesses an allosteric kinase switch to regulate its ubiquitin ligase activity. 	Mechanism of cooperative strigolactone perception by the MAX2 ubiquitin ligase-receptor-substrate complex	E3 ligase, HDX-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), cryo-EM, plant hormone	Stringent control of ubiquitylation is a central requirement of signaling specificity in eukaryotes. Here, we discover a domain module integrating protein kinase and ubiquitin ligase domains within a single protein. This module is widespread across unicellular eukaryotic lineages and particularly conserved in Leishmania, the causative agents of major neglected tropical diseases with a strong therapeutic need. We reveal that a gene encoding the module, tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR)-kinase-ubiquitin ligase (TKUL), is essential for L. mexicana to sustain macrophage infections and that TKUL can cooperate with parasite heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) to modify unfolded proteins with degradative ubiquitin chains. Intriguingly, the homologous to E6AP C-terminus (HECT)-type ubiquitin ligase activity of TKUL requires its atypical kinase domain, with kinase autophosphorylation triggering activating conformational changes across the catalytic module. Consistent with the ligase domain harnessing the kinase domain for regulation, TKUL-driven ubiquitylation can allosterically be suppressed by small-molecule kinase inhibitors. Together, this work establishes an unprecedented allosteric coupling mechanism in the realms of phosphorylation and ubiquitylation.
PXD052222	40997940	Proteomics and Metabolomics Profiles of Unvaccinated Nonagenarian Patients with Severe SARS-CoV-2 Infection. 	Proteomics and metabolomics profiles of unvaccinated nonagenarian patients with severe SARS-CoV-2 infection	COVID-19, Human Proteome Project, Plasma (B/D-HPP), ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), metabolomics, nonagenarians, plasma	The mortality rate of COVID-19 increases significantly in patients over the age of 90, although some elderly people in this category have experienced mild disease or have been asymptomatic. In this context, we aim to analyze the plasma proteomic and metabolomic profiles of unvaccinated nonagenarian patients who had severe manifestations of COVID-19 and either recovered or died and compare them with noninfected control subjects. Compared with healthy individuals, nonsurviving patients showed a reduced abundance of specific lipid-related proteins and metabolites, including APOH, APOC1, LCAT, 7-alpha-25-dihydroxycholesterol, 7-dehydrocholesterol, and phosphatidylethanolamine, which may serve as indicative markers of severity. Acute phase response, complement activation, and sphingolipids and phospholipids remain altered in recovered patients, indicating possible persistent effects of COVID-19. This study employs a multiomics approach to unveil key immune alterations in unvaccinated nonagenarians, shedding light on molecular signatures that may serve as predictive markers for disease severity and recovery in the elderly population.
PXD053392	40997942	Immunoproteomic Identification of Scedosporium boydii Antigens with Potential Diagnostic Interest in Cystic Fibrosis Patients. 	Identification of Scedosporium boydii specific antigens with potential diagnostic interest in patients with cystic fibrosis	Antigens, Cystic Fibrosis, Fungi, Scedosporium/Lomentospora, Serodiagnosis	Fungal infections caused by Scedosporium/Lomentospora species are a significant threat to patients with cystic fibrosis (pwCF), ranking as the second most common filamentous fungi in their airways after Aspergillus. Current serodiagnostic methods, such as counterimmunoelectrophoresis and ELISA using crude extracts, lack standardization and commercial availability and often show cross-reactivity with other fungi. This study aimed to identify specific Scedosporium boydii antigens with potential for serodiagnosis in pwCF. An immunoproteomic approach combining two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, Western blot, and mass spectrometry was used to analyze the antigenic profile of S. boydii against sera from pwCF with positive cultures for Scedosporium/Lomentospora (Scedo+) and mice intravenously infected with these fungi. We identified 22 proteins specifically recognized by sera from pwCF Scedo+ and mice infected with S. boydii, but not by sera from pwCF or mice infected with Aspergillus spp. or uninfected controls. These proteins are primarily involved in metabolism and exhibit catalytic activity. The most prevalent antigens were the heat shock protein 70, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase, and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, recognized by 67-81% of pwCF Scedo + sera with minimal cross-reactivity to negative samples. This work identifies promising candidates for the specific serodiagnosis of Scedosporium/Lomentospora infections in pwCF. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD053392).
PXD063735	40998818	Molecular basis of ParA ATPase activation by the CTPase ParB during bacterial chromosome segregation. 	Molecular basis of ParA ATPase activation by the CTPase ParB during bacterial chromosome segregation	ATP hydrolysis, Bacteria, DNA relay, ParA/MinD family, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), Soj, SopA, Walker ATPase, enzyme regulation, molecular switch, nucleotide, protein-protein interaction	DNA segregation by bacterial ParABS systems is mediated by transient tethering interactions between nucleoid-bound dimers of the ATPase ParA and centromere (parS)-associated complexes of the clamp-forming CTPase ParB. The lifetime of these interactions is limited by the ParB-dependent activation of ParA ATPase activity. Here, we elucidate the functional interplay between ParA and ParB in the model bacterium Myxococcus xanthus. We demonstrate that the N-terminal ParA-binding motif of ParB associates with a conserved bipartite binding pocket at the ParA dimer interface, in a manner dependent on ParB clamp closure. Moreover, we show that ParB and non-specific DNA interact cooperatively with ParA and synergistically induce structural changes in its Walker A and Walker B motifs that correlate with the activation of ParA ATPase activity. These results advance our understanding of the mechanism underlying DNA transport by the ParABS system and may help to unravel the mode of action of related cargo-positioning systems.
PXD067061	40999057	Current landscape of plasma proteomics from technical innovations to biological insights and biomarker discovery. 	Human Plasma Discovery Proteomics	affinity, mass spec, plasma, targeted mass spec	Plasma is a rich source of biomolecules, including proteins, that reflect both health and disease. Due to their key roles in biological processes, proteins hold significant potential as biomarkers, fueling the rise of plasma proteome profiling in recent years. However, comprehensive comparisons of the performance of different plasma proteomics platforms are limited. Our study addresses this gap by conducting a direct comparison of eight platforms, representing both affinity-based and diverse mass spectrometry approaches, and covering over 13,000 proteins. By applying these platforms to the same cohort, we systematically assess their performance, identifying key differences and complementary strengths. Our findings offer valuable insights for researchers, highlighting trade-offs in coverage and their implications for biomarker discovery and clinical applications. This study serves as an essential resource, offering both technical evaluation and biological insights to support the development of novel diagnostics and therapeutics through plasma proteomics.
PXD060980	40999799	Chemoproteomic Profiling of Reactive Cysteines in Response to Oxidative Stress Induced by 6-Hydroxydopamine. 	Chemoproteomic Profiling of Reactive Cysteines in Response to Oxidative Stress Induced by 6-Hydroxydopamine	6-hydroxydopamine, Quantitative proteomics, SH-SY5Y, cell stress response, cysteine proteomics, neurodegeneration, neurodegenerative signaling, oxidative stress	Although oxidative stress is a well-established driver of neurodegeneration, it remains poorly understood as to how the global cysteine (Cys) proteome is remodeled under oxidative stress conditions. Proteins with aberrantly modified cysteines in response to oxidative stress can induce and exacerbate neurodegeneration, contributing to disorders like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, frontotemporal dementia, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In this study, we induced oxidative stress in SH-SY5Y neuronal cells by subjecting them to the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). To identify proteins with altered cysteine oxidation or PTM status, we used a desthiobiotin iodoacetamide (DBIA) probe, which selectively labels cysteines with unmodified and preserved thiols. Using these unbiased chemoproteomic strategies, we identified proteins with reduced Cys reactivity to DBIA in response to 6-OHDA-induced oxidative stress. Many of these proteins are critically involved in biological processes linked to cell stress responses (e.g., mitochondrial oxidative stress and apoptosis). Furthermore, we found that two key Cys on UCHL1 (a deubiquitinase critically involved in neurodegeneration) exhibited enhanced reactivity under oxidative stress conditions. Our study defines the remodeling of the Cys proteome under 6-OHDA-induced oxidative stress conditions. Furthermore, these findings suggest potential cysteine-mediated regulatory mechanisms in response to oxidative stress, providing a valuable resource for further exploration of cysteine modifications in the context of neurodegenerative signaling.
PXD068388	41000665	Mistranslating tRNA variants impact the proteome and phosphoproteome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Mistranslating tRNA variants impact on the proteome and phosphoproteome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae - phosphoproteome DDA and DIA data	Saccharomyces cerevisiae, mistranslation, phosphoproteome, tRNAs, translation fidelity	Transfer RNAs (tRNAs) ensure accurate decoding of the genetic code. However, mutations in tRNAs can lead to mis-incorporation of an amino acid that differs from the genetic message in a process known as mistranslation. As mistranslating tRNAs modify how the genetic message is decoded, they have potential as therapeutic tools for diseases caused by nonsense and missense mutations. Despite this, they also produce proteome-wide mis-made proteins which can disrupt proteostasis. To better understand the impact of mistranslating tRNA variants, we profile the proteome and phosphoproteome of yeast expressing three different mistranslating tRNAs. While the overall impacts were similar, the extent of growth defects and proteome changes varied with the substitution type. Although the global impacts were modest, mistranslation influenced key cellular processes, including proteostasis, cell cycle and translation. These findings highlight the need to consider cellular consequences when developing mistranslating tRNAs for therapeutic applications.
PXD066005	41001631	Generative Deep Learning Pipeline Yields Potent Gram-Negative Antibiotics. 	Generative Deep Learning Pipeline Yields Potent Gram-negative Antibiotics	Gram-negative, MRSA, antibiotics, automated synthesis, de novo drug design, deep learning, drug discovery, machine learning	The escalating crisis of multiresistant bacteria demands the rapid discovery of novel antibiotics that transcend the limitations imposed by the biased chemical space of current libraries. To address this challenge, we introduce an innovative deep learning-driven pipeline for de novo antibiotic design. Our unique approach leverages a chemical language model to generate structurally unprecedented antibiotic candidates. The model was trained on a diverse chemical space of drug-like molecules and natural products. We then applied transfer learning using a data set of diverse antibiotic scaffolds to refine its generative capabilities. Using predictive modeling and expert curation, we prioritized the most promising compounds for synthesis. This pipeline identified a lead candidate with potent activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. We then performed iterative refinement by synthesizing 40 derivatives of the lead compound. This effort produced a suite of active compounds, with 30 showing activity against S. aureus and 17 against Escherichia coli. Among these, lead compound D8 exhibited remarkable submicromolar and single-digit micromolar potency against the aforementioned pathogens, respectively. Mechanistic investigations point to the reductive generation of reactive species as its primary mode of action. This work validates a deep-learning pipeline that explores chemical space to generate antibiotic candidates. This process yields a potent nitrofuran derivative and a set of experimentally validated scaffolds to seed future antibiotic development.
PXD051153	41002943	Characterisation of an allosteric site in PLCgamma enzymes and implications for development of their specific inhibitors. 	HDX-MS analysis of hPLCgamma1 binding interactions with a small molecule compound	HDX-MS, hPLCgamma1	PLCgamma enzymes are key components of intracellular signal transduction processes and are involved in disease development, including immune dysregulation, specific cancer types, and neurodegeneration. Although recognised as important targets for intervention, validated pharmacological tools are lacking. Here, we demonstrate that inhibitory nucleotides bind directly to an allosteric site at the interface between the PLC-core and regulatory-array unique for PLCgamma, underlying their specificity for the PLCgamma family. This binding site overlaps with the PLCgamma autoinhibitory interface, suggesting that the inhibitory impact of nucleotides involves stabilization of autoinhibition. We have also analysed disease-linked variants of PLCgamma1 and PLCgamma2 to show that multiple mechanisms could underpin their gain-of-function phenotype. While sensitivity of these variants to physiological nucleotide inhibition is reduced, we identified artificial nucleotide compounds that can inhibit such variants not only in vitro but also in cell-based assays. Therefore, our findings suggest a route for development of isozyme specific PLCgamma inhibitors allowing further studies of their roles in health and disease.
PXD067848	41003002	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Extracellular Vesicles from Donkey Colostrum and Mature Milk. 	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Extracellular Vesicles from Donkey Colostrum and Mature Milk	colostrum, donkey milk, extracellular vesicles, molecular cargo	Background/Objectives: Donkey milk (DM) has been considered a valuable alternative to human and bovine counterparts as well as to infant formulas. Milk extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been proposed to influence key biological processes. The purpose of this study is to provide a comprehensive characterization of the protein composition of extracellular vesicles (EVs) by extending quantitative proteomic comparisons to EVs derived from donkey colostrum (DC) and mature donkey milk (MDM). Methods: The EVs were isolated from DC and MDM samples, characterized, and subjected to proteomic analysis using the tandem mass tag-based quantitative approach. Results: In addition to typical milk proteins and EV markers, EVs from DC and MDM both contain components associated with the immune system, immune response, or promoting tissue repair, and assisting with communication between the infant and their environment. The EVs from DC were enriched in proteins associated with protein turnover, specific defense functions, and regenerative processes. Conclusions: Overall, the results can contribute to the broader characterization of the overall protein composition of DC and MDM and might help to predict the beneficial effects of the corresponding EVs on various mammalian cells. They may also provide valuable insights for the development of novel DM-based products for food, pharmaceutical, and biotechnological applications.
PXD048473	41003242	Unconventional binding of Calmodulin to CHK2 kinase inhibits catalytic activity. 	HDX-MS Analysis of CHK2 Incubated with Calmodulin	CHK2, Calmodulin, HDX-MS	Calmodulin (CaM) serves an essential role in eukaryotic cells as a Ca2+ sensor. Ca2+ binding leads to conformation changes in CaM that enable engagement of a repertoire of enzymes and the regulation of their catalytic activities. Classically, Ca2+-CaM binds to an inhibitory pseudosubstrate sequence C-terminal to the kinase domain in members of the Ca2+-CaM dependent protein kinase (CAMK) family, and relieves inhibition to promote catalytic activity. Here, we report an unexpected mechanism by which CaM can bind CHK2 kinase to inhibit its kinase activity. Using biochemical, biophysical, and structural mass spectrometry, we identify a direct interaction of Ca2+-CaM with the CHK2 kinase domain that suppresses CHK2 catalytic activity in vitro and identify K373 in CHK2 as crucial for cell proliferation in human cells following DNA damage. Our findings add direct suppression of kinase activity to the repertoire of CaM's functions, complementing the paradigmatic mechanism of promoting kinase activity through autoinhibitory domain sequestration.
PXD066010	41003411	Intraoperative Biologization of beta-TCP and PCL-TCP by Autologous Proteins. 	Characterization of the adsorbed protein layer on orthopedic biomaterials and regenerative effects after the first patient contact	PCL, intraoperative protein adsorption, beta-TCP	Protein adsorption on orthopedic biomaterials during the initial intraoperative contact critically influences biological responses and osseointegration. Osteoconductive grafts such as beta-tricalcium phosphate (beta-TCP) and poly (epsilon-caprolactone)-beta-TCP (PCL-TCP) can be functionally activated by exposure to autologous tissue. However, the composition and relevance of the resulting protein layer still remain unclear. In this study involving 10 patients undergoing primary total hip arthroplasty, beta-TCP and PCL-TCP samples were incubated both in the femoral medullary cavity and within a surgical tissue collector harvesting autologous tissue (blood, bone fragments, muscle, and fat). Surface morphology was assessed microscopically, and protein adsorption was characterized via high-resolution LC-MS/MS with subsequent bioinformatics and statistical analysis. Both materials adsorbed over 2000 different autologous proteins. beta-TCP showed higher overall protein concentrations, while PCL-TCP demonstrated greater proteomic diversity and incubation method-dependent shifts in protein profiles, influenced by surface roughness and wettability. Samples incubated in the tissue collector exhibited less protein variability and smaller material-specific differences compared to incubation in the femoral cavity, particularly for PCL-TCP. Predominant proteins were linked to immune regulation, stress response, and protein metabolism. These findings emphasize the impact of material properties and incubation environment on protein adsorption, with ex vivo incubation leading to more consistent protein adsorption patterns.
PXD066729	41006250	Secretins of type-two secretion systems are necessary for exopolymeric slime secretion in cyanobacteria and myxobacteria. 	Identification of bacterial secretins	Cyanobacteria, carbohydrate, myxobacteria, secretin, secretion	Cyanobacteria and myxobacteria display gliding motility associated with the secretion of an exopolymeric slime through nozzle-like structures. Here, we use biochemical and structural assays to show that these nozzles are composed of secretins of the PilQ/GspD family, which are known to form outer membrane gates in type-two secretion systems (T2SSs) and other bacterial protein secretion systems. We show that gspD is an essential gene in Myxococcus xanthus, and its downregulation by conditional knockdown renders this bacterium defective in both slime secretion and gliding motility. In cyanobacteria, available data suggest that the exopolymeric slime is a polysaccharide, although the precise nature of the slime in myxobacteria remains unclear. Our results, therefore, indicate that secretins may be required for the secretion of non-proteinaceous polymers in certain bacteria.
PXD061760	41006735	Importin-7 promotes tension-induced osteogenesis by regulating RUNX2 nuclear translocation during orthodontic tooth movement. 	Importin-7 Promotes Tension-Induced Osteogenesis by Regulating RUNX2 Nuclear Translocation during Orthodontic Tooth Movement	IPO7, RUNX2, alveolar bone remodeling, mechanotransduction, nuclear translocation, tooth movement	Orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) is primarily driven by alveolar bone remodeling, wherein tension-induced osteogenesis plays a central role. Importin7 (IPO7) has been identified as a highly mechanoresponsive nuclear transport receptor (NTR). However, its role in regulating tension-induced osteogenesis during OTM and its underlying mechanism remains elusive. In the present study, cyclic tensile strain and a rat OTM model were used to investigate the role of IPO7. The results revealed that IPO7 was significantly expressed both in vitro and in vivo following exposure to mechanical stretch. Moreover, IPO7 knockdown inhibited tension-induced osteogenesis in BMSCs. Upon mechanical force stimulation, IPO7 translocated from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. Furthermore, immunoprecipitation (IP) coupled with mass spectrometry (MS) was performed and demonstrated that RUNX2 was one of the IPO7-interacting proteins related to osteogenesis. Although RUNX2 has been established to translocate to the nucleus to facilitate osteogenesis, whether it is IPO7 that regulate RUNX2 nuclear input during tension-induced osteogenesis remains to be determined. Then, the interaction between IPO7 and RUNX2 was further validated via co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) and colocalization assays in BMSCs using immunofluorescence. Taken together, this study demonstrates that IPO7 promotes tension-induced osteogenesis by regulating the nucleoplasmic localization of RUNX2. Thus, targeting IPO7 may represent a prospective therapeutic strategy for enhancing alveolar bone remodeling and the efficacy of orthodontic treatment.
PXD066998	41006761	Immunoproteasome remodeling in senescing human macrophages reveals the loss of PA28alphabeta capping as a hallmark of immunosenescence. 	Immunoproteasome remodeling in senescing human macrophages reveals the loss of PA28alphabeta capping as a hallmark of immunosenescence	DDA, Human macrophages, LFQ, MSMS, Orbitrap, Proteome Discoverer	Aging negatively impacts proteasome activity and/or content, and this impairment contributes to disrupted protein homeostasis and cellular dysfunction. However, little is known about proteasome complex dynamics during aging, particularly in the context of immunosenescence. Indeed, only limited data are available on the immunoproteasome, a specialized variant expressed in immune cells. We establish an in vitro model of monocyte-derived human macrophages that develop a senescence-like phenotype upon long-term culture. Our data demonstrate that immunoproteasome complexes undergo deep structural and functional alterations, with the downregulation of immunosubunit expression at the mRNA and protein level, uncapping of the 20S catalytic particle by the PA28alphabeta regulator, and loss of activity. Immunosubunits are partly replaced by their constitutive counterparts with a shift toward the building of 19S-capped 20S complexes to maintain proteostasis. Similar proteasome dynamics are found in the lymph nodes of aged C57BL/6 and BTBR mice, the latter of which have a naturally activated immune system. Overall, these findings propose long-term cultures of human monocyte-derived macrophages as a model to study macrophage senescence. They also provide a molecular rationale for immunoproteasome dysfunction with remodeling of the proteasome, indicating that the loss of the PA28alphabeta regulator is a critical event and a hallmark of immunosenescence.
PXD061105	41006785	High-throughput proteome integral solubility alteration assay for low cell input using One-Tip. 	Towards sensitive, streamlined high throughput protein thermal stability analysis for low sample input	PISA LC-MS Proteomics	Mass spectrometry-based versions of the cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), like proteome integral solubility alteration (PISA), enable simultaneous monitoring of thousands of proteins for drug-target engagement. These methods are constrained in throughput and scalability, while the sample requirement limits the applicability to widely available material. Here, we combine PISA with the One-Tip method to simplify and streamline sample preparation. Using the mass spectrometry-compatible n-Dodecyl-beta-D-Maltoside (DDM) non-ionic detergent for cell lysis in PISA sample preparation enables direct transfer to One-Tip with decreasing cell requirements down to 200 cells per microL. One-Tip provides similar depth and higher reproducibility, with lower material and solvent usage and a faster proteolytic digestion compared to a conventional sample cleaning and digestion protocol, making it a cost-effective, fast, and user-friendly option. To demonstrate its scalability, we applied One-Tip-PISA in a 96-well plate format, profiling a kinase inhibitor panel, allowing cell treatment to injection within 12 h, enhancing workflow efficiency and accessibility for a wide range of laboratories.
PXD061426	41007373	Dysregulation of Protein Kinase CaMKI Leads to Autism-Related Phenotypes in Synaptic Connectivity, Sleep, Sociality, and Aging-Dependent Degeneration in Drosophila. 	CaMKI dysregulation leads to autism-related phenotypes in precise synaptic connectivity, sleep, social behavior, and aging-dependent degeneration in Drosophila	CAMK4, Drosophila, Label Free, autism, neuronal development	Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) encompasses a range of conditions, primarily marked by deficits in social behaviors, along with several comorbidities such as sleep abnormalities and motor dysfunction. Recent studies have identified genetic risk factors associated with ASD, including the CAMK4 (calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase 4). However, the molecular mechanisms linking CAMK4 dysregulation and ASD-associated phenotypes remain poorly understood. Here, we used Drosophila melanogaster as a model system to investigate ASD-associated phenotypes in flies with dysregulated CaMKI, the fly homolog of mammalian CAMK4. We show that CaMKI manipulations affect sleep, circadian rhythmicity, and social behavior. Consistent with the higher prevalence of dementia observed in autistic patients, we also observed a significantly enhanced behavioral decline in motor performance and dendritic degeneration in flies expressing RNAi-based CaMKI knockdown in flight motoneurons, suggesting a link between developmental and degenerative processes. As aberrant synaptic pruning is hypothesized to underlie the synaptic phenotypes observed in brains of autistic patients, we examined synaptic phenotypes following CaMKI manipulations using the larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ) and observed miswiring phenotypes suggesting aberrant synaptic refinement. We performed shotgun mass-spectrometry proteomics and identified various molecular candidates, particularly molecules involved in cytoskeleton regulation and chemorepulsion, likely to regulate the phenotypes described here. Thus, our results suggest that CaMKI plays a role in developmental processes and influences aging-dependent degenerative processes, possibly providing mechanistic insight into the genetic basis of ASD etiology and the development of effective treatments.
PXD061842	41009554	Insights into the Metabolic Adaptations of a Carbapenem-Resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae Strain on Exposure to Sublethal Concentrations of Ertapenem. 	Insights of the metabolic adaptation to low concentrations of ertapenem of a carbapenem resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae strain	Antibiotic resistance, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Quantitative proteomics	Klebsiella pneumoniae strains that are resistant to carbapenems are of great concern. Exposure to low concentrations of antibiotics may influence tolerance to antibiotics. Novel antibiotics and treatment options are thus needed, and this need is exacerbated by the rapid and global spread of antibiotic resistance. In this study, we determined the global proteome changes in a K. pneumoniae strain (CCUG 70747) carrying carbapenem resistance genes when exposed to low concentrations of ertapenem. Quantitative proteomics was achieved by the tandem mass tag labeling of peptides generated by trypsin proteolysis and mass spectrometry analysis. Bioinformatics analyses were used to observe changes in protein abundance, as well as the gene ontology (GO) terms and pathways associated with the differentially expressed proteins. The number of proteins detected with significant differential abundance were 87 at the highest concentration applied and 61 in the lowest concentration, all compared with the strain cultured without any antibiotics present. Several of these proteins, as well as the GO terms and pathways associated with the proteins, were linked to mechanisms of antibiotic resistance. However, this strain encodes a carbapenemase and other beta-lactamases, and thus, as expected, presented a reasonably modest adaptation in the global proteome upon exposure to the low concentrations of ertapenem applied. Nevertheless, our study identifies pathways that may lead to adaptation under sublethal concentrations of antibiotics leading to strains with higher tolerance.
PXD065327	41009641	Proteomic Analysis Uncovers Enhanced Inflammatory Phenotype and Distinct Metabolic Changes in IDH1 Mutant Glioma Cells. 	Proteomic analysis uncovers enhanced inflammatory pheno-type and distinct metabolic changes in IDH1 mutant glioma cells	DNA and histone demethylases, DNA repair, Glioma biomarkers, RNA, antigen presentation, interferon signaling, isocitrate dehydrogenase mutations	Isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) mutations are key drivers of glioma biology, influencing tumor aggressiveness and treatment response. To elucidate their molecular impact, we performed proteome analysis on patient-derived (PD) and U87MG glioma cell models with either mutant or wild-type IDH1. We quantified over 6000 protein groups per model, identifying 1594 differentially expressed proteins in PD-AS (IDH1MUT) vs. PD-GB (IDH1WT) and 904 in U87MUT vs. U87WT. Both IDH1MUT models exhibited enhanced MHC antigen presentation and interferon signaling, indicative of an altered immune microenvironment. However, metabolic alterations were model-dependent: PD-AS cells shifted toward glycolysis and purine salvage, while U87MUT cells retained oxidative phosphorylation, potentially due to D2-hydroxyglutarate (2OHG)-mediated HIF1A stabilization. We also observed a predominance of downregulated DNA repair proteins in IDH1MUT models, particularly those involved in homologous recombination. In contrast, RB1 and ASMTL were strongly upregulated in both IDH1MUT models, implicating them in DNA repair and cellular stress responses. We also found distinct expression patterns of proteins regulating histone methylation in IDH1MUT cells, favoring increased methylation of H3K4, H3K9, and H3K36. A key driver of this may be the upregulation of SETD2 in PD-AS, an H3K4 and H3K36 trimethyltransferase linked to the recruitment of HIF1A as well as DNA mismatch repair proteins. This study uncovers candidate biomarkers and pathways relevant to glioma progression and therapeutic targeting, but also underscores the complexity of predicting glioma pathogenesis and treatment responses based on IDH1 mutation status. While proteome profiling provides valuable insights, a comprehensive understanding of IDH1MUT gliomas will likely require integrative multi-omics approaches, including DNA/RNA methylation profiling, histone and protein post-translational modification analyses, and targeted DNA damage and repair assays.
PXD060262	41009717	Proteomics Integrated with Transcriptomics of Clubroot Resistant and Susceptible Brassica napus in Response to Plasmodiophora brassicae Infection. 	Proteomics analysis integrated with transcriptomics of clubroot resistant and susceptible Brassica napus near-isogenic lines in response to Plasmodiophora brassicae infection	Brassica napus, clubroot	Clubroot disease, caused by Plasmodiophora brassicae, is a threat to Brassica crops; therefore, understanding of host-resistance is important for developing clubroot-resistant cultivars. Using multi-omics analysis of clubroot-resistant (CR) and -susceptible (CS) near-isogenic lines (NILs) of B. napus, carrying the resistance of turnip (B. rapa var. rapifera), we characterized the host resistance mechanisms. Through proteome analysis, we identified 6626 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) (2353 in CR-NILs, 4273 in CS-NILs) (q < 0.05), of which 50 in CR- and 62 in CS-NILs were detected across the disease developmental stages. Notable proteins included those involved in reactive oxygen species scavenging (BnaA09T0647200WE)], cell-wall modifications (BnaA04T0244300WE) and glucosinolate biosynthesis (BnaA01T0266700WE) in the CR-NILs. Additionally, disease-resistance proteins like ENHANCED DISEASE RESISTANCE 2-like (BnaA03T0055600WE) and hairpin-induced family protein YLS9 (BnaA08T0237900WE) showed increased abundance in CR-NILs. In contrast, CS-NILs exhibited decreased abundance of defense-related proteins, including proteins containing CUPIN domain (BnaA09T0578800WE) and LACCASE (BnaA02T0019200WE). Integration of proteome data with transcriptome data revealed 33 genes in CR- and 32 in CS-NILs showing a consistent pattern, including the genes related to PLANT INVERTASE/PECTIN METHYLESTERASE INHIBITOR (BnaC04T0003100WE), KELCH MOTIF (BnaC02T0374800WE), LACCASE (BnaA02T0019200WE), and antioxidant-related transcripts [GLUTATHIONE S-TRANSFERASES (BnaA03T0280900WE) and 4-HYDROXYPHENYLPYRUVATE DIOXYGENASE (BnaA09T0641500WE)]. Our findings offer valuable new targets for breeding clubroot-resistant B. napus.
PXD034112	41009792	Reproducibility Crossroads: Impact of Statistical Choices on Proteomics Functional Enrichment. 	Quantitative proteome analysis of biological nitrogen fixation and phosphorous mobilization in Azotobacter chroococcum NCIMB 8003	Azotobacter chroococcum, Biological nitrogen fixation, phosphorous mobilization	Quantitative proteomics relies on robust statistical methods for differential expression, critically impacting downstream functional enrichment. This meta-analysis systematically investigated how statistical hypothesis testing approaches and criteria for defining biological relevance influence functional enrichment concordance. We reanalyzed five independent label-free quantitative proteomics datasets using diverse frequentist (t-test, Limma, DEqMS, MSstats) and Bayesian (rstanarm) approaches. Concordance of Gene Ontology (GO) and KEGG pathways was assessed using Jaccard indices and correlation metrics, grouping comparisons by statistical test and biological relevance consistency. The results demonstrated highly significant differences in similarity distributions among the comparison groups. Comparisons varying only hypothesis testing methods (with constant relevance criteria, FC or Bayesian) showed the highest consistency. Conversely, comparisons with differing biological relevance criteria (or varied methodological choices) yielded significantly lower consistency, highlighting this definition's critical impact on GO term overlaps. KEGG pathways displayed more uniform, method-insensitive concordance. Sensitivity analysis confirmed the findings' robustness, underscoring that methodological choices profoundly influence functional enrichment outcomes. This work emphasizes the critical need for transparency and careful consideration of analytical decisions in proteomics research to ensure reproducible and biologically sound interpretations.
PXD059166	41015045	A Bacteroides fragilis protease activates host PAR2 to induce intestinal pain and inflammation. 	A Bacteroides fragilis protease activates host PAR2 to induce intestinal pain and inflammation	Bacteroides fragilis, activity-based protein profiiling, chemical proteomics	Protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR2) is a central regulator of intestinal barrier function, inflammation, and pain. Upregulated intestinal proteolysis and PAR2 signaling are implicated in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), conditions often associated with gut microbiome alterations. To identify potential bacterial regulators of PAR2 activity, we developed a functional assay for PAR2 processing to screen a library of diverse gut microbes. We identify multiple bacteria that secrete proteases capable of cleaving host PAR2. Using chemoproteomic profiling with a covalent irreversible inhibitor, we uncovered a previously uncharacterized Bacteroides fragilis serine protease 1 (Bfp1) and show that it cleaves and activates PAR2 in multicellular and murine models. PAR2 cleavage by Bfp1 disrupts the intestinal barrier, sensitizes nociceptors, and triggers colonic inflammation and abdominal pain. Collectively, our findings uncover Bfp1-mediated PAR2 processing as an axis of host-commensal interaction in the gut that has the potential to be targeted for therapeutic intervention in IBD or IBS.
PXD061990	41017761	Identification of Methylglyoxal Reactive Proteins with Photocaged Glycating Agents. 	Identification of methylglyoxal reactive proteins with photocaged glycating agents	A549 cell line, E coli, advanced-glycation end products, photocleavable reagent	Methylglyoxal is a highly reactive metabolite that is formed spontaneously in the glycolytic pathway. The side chains of various amino acid residues react with methylglyoxal to form advanced-glycation end products (AGEs). This enzyme-independent process introduces post-translational modifications onto the proteins and it is long thought that the resulting AGEs primarily inhibit proteins. More recent studies have shown that these AGEs can act in signaling and feedback loops and that a large number of proteins react reversibly with methylglyoxal. These findings lead to a renewed interest in methylglyoxal-induced AGEs and lead to the development of novel tools and methodologies that can be used to identify the modified proteins. Many of studies are nowadays still performed by adding methylglyoxal exogenously, often in a high concentration, despite the high reactivity of methylglyoxal. Herein, new photocaged-methylglyoxal derivatives are reported that allow the direct release of methylglyoxal in the sample of interest by irradiating the photocaged probe with UV light. It is shown that this labeling approach is more efficient. A far larger number of proteins are labeled with the photocaged probes than with the chemically activated probes. The here reported approach should allow studying in situ glycation under physiological more relevant conditions.
PXD051722	41018626	Isomeric Differences in Nanoparticle's Surface Chemistry Alter Macrophage Interactions In Vitro Due to Protein Corona. 	Isomeric Differences in Nanoparticle's Surface Chemistry Alters Macrophage Interactions In Vitro Due to Protein Corona	Protein corona	The interactions of nanoparticles (NPs) with macrophages after intravenous injection are critical in determining their biodistribution and pharmacokinetics. The formation of protein corona (PC) on the nanoparticles, often a result of NP-plasma protein interactions, influences macrophage response, thereby directly determining the NPs' fate in vivo. While the effect of NPs' surface chemistry on protein corona formation and macrophage interaction is extensively studied, the results are often confounded by the effects of surface charge and hydrophobicity. Therefore, to assess the impact of NPs' surface chemistry alone on protein corona and NP-macrophage interactions, we developed gold (Au) NPs surface-modified with the isomeric amino acids leucine (Leu) and isoleucine (Iso Leu), which have similar isoelectric points and hydropathy indices. The synthesized NPs had similar sizes, zeta potentials, hydrophobicities, and morphology. Incubation of the NPs in plasma under flow conditions resulted in a protein corona (PC) that differed in amount and composition. Pathway analysis showed that these variations in the PC corresponded to the activation of different phagocytic and inflammatory pathways. These in silico analyses were confirmed in macrophages, which showed higher uptake of the Leu-AuNP-PC complex compared to Iso Leu-AuNP-PC and a corresponding increase in inflammatory cytokines. These studies demonstrate the sensitivity of the PC to subtle changes in the surface chemistry of NPs, which could have significant in vivo implications for the clinical application of NPs.
PXD055872	41018649	Global Proteome Analysis of a Three-Dimensional Human Chondrocyte Cell Culture System Infected with Chikungunya Virus (CHIKV) Reveals Distinct Immune and Inflammatory Signatures. 	Global proteome characterization of a three-dimensional human chondrocyte cell culture system during chikungunya virus (CHIKV) infection reveals distinct immune and inflammatory signatures	2-Dimension (2D) monolayer, 3-Dimension (3D) spheroid cell culture, Chikungunya virus (CHIKV), Chondrocytes	Chikungunya disease (CHIKD) presents as an acute viral fever with severe joint pain, which may progress into a chronic arthritic condition that can last for months or even years. The cell tropism of chikungunya virus (CHIKV) infection is well studied; however, the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of chronicity, especially in the joints, remain poorly understood. Primary chondrocytes were isolated from human joint samples, characterized and grown both as monolayers and as 3D spheroids. These cultures were infected with chikungunya virus (CHIKV) at different multiplicity of infections*(MOIs), and a temporal analysis of infection in these distinct types of culture systems was conducted. Further, the global proteome was obtained from these two kinds of culture systems upon infection, and the proteomes were analyzed in detail to understand the impact of CHIKV on these culture systems. Chondrocytes grown as 3D spheroids were able to sustain CHIKV for extended periods of time, i.e., as long as 168 h, without compromising cellular integrity. Proteomic analysis revealed distinct protein regulation patterns during CHIKV infection, with the changes in 3D spheroids closely resembling those in the natural joint tissue microenvironment. Our study has, for the first time, presented a bird's-eye view of the global proteome changes in human chondrocytes in response to CHIKV infection and further established the usefulness of the 3D chondrocyte culture system in understanding CHIKV infection.
PXD060866	41019300	Involvement of RNase J in CRISPR RNA maturation in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. 	Involvement of RNase J in CRISPR RNA maturation and degradosome formation in cyanobacteria	CRISPR-Cas systems, RNA structure, RNA:RNA interaction, cyanobacteria, degradosome, gene expression regulation, ribonuclease J	Many bacteria and archaea use CRISPR-Cas systems, which provide RNA-based, adaptive, and inheritable immune defenses against invading viruses and other foreign genetic elements. The proper processing of CRISPR guide RNAs (crRNAs) is a crucial step in the maturation of the defense complexes and is frequently performed by specialized ribonucleases encoded by cas genes. However, some systems employ enzymes associated with degradosome or housekeeping functions, such as RNase III or the endoribonuclease RNase E. Here, the endo- and 5'-exoribonuclease RNase J was identified as an additional enzyme involved in crRNA maturation, acting jointly with RNase E in the crRNA maturation of a type III-Bv CRISPR-Cas system, and possibly together with a further RNase in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. Co-IP experiments revealed a small set of proteins that were co-enriched with RNase J, among them the exoribonuclease polyribonucleotide nucleotidyltransferase (PNPase). Despite a measured, strong 3' exonucleolytic activity of the recombinant enzyme, PNPase was not confirmed to contribute to crRNA maturation. However, the co-IP results indicate that PNPase in Synechocystis is an enzyme that can recruit either RNase E or RNase J, together with additional proteins.
PXD065453	41019995	A novel cytotoxic anti-B7-H3 affibody with therapeutic potential in acute myeloid leukemia. 	LC-ESI-MS/MS on a purified recombinant protein sample to confirm its amino acid sequence and a certain cleavage site	AML, Affibody, Antibodies (B/D-HPP), B7-H3, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cytotoxin, Human Proteome Project, LC-ESI-MS/MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), Recombinant	Introduction: Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a group of very aggressive hematological malignancies, with dismal long-term survival rates and little therapeutic recourse presently. The transmembrane ligand B7-H3 is a known therapeutic target, biomarker of response and correlated with an unfavorable prognosis in several malignancies, including AML, due to acquired resistance to immune checkpoint-targeting therapies. Therefore, developing therapeutic strategies with improved efficacy to overcome this obstacle constitutes an unmet need. Our study entails the design, production and in vitro testing of a novel recombinant Affibody with high affinity for B7-H3 coupled with the cytotoxic peptide Magainin-2, known for its membranolytic properties and potent antimicrobial and antitumor activity. Methods: We expressed the conjugate in Escherichia coli, affinity purified it and confirmed its sequence by nanoLC-MS/MS. B7-H3-positive AML representative THP-1 cells and B7-H3-negative B-lymphoblastic RAJI cells were used for the experiments. The IC50 of the cytotoxic conjugate was determined through MTS assay and its necrotic, apoptotic and antiproliferative activities were evaluated by flow cytometry and Western blot. Results: Overall, the results show that our cytotoxic anti-B7-H3 affibody possesses strong antiproliferative and cell death-inducing activity that is highly specific to B7-H3-expressing AML cells (IC50 against THP-1 cells was 26.35 microM). Moreover, this observed activity of our conjugate is significantly more potent than the previously described activity of Magainin-2 alone. Conclusion: In conclusion, we designed, produced and evaluated a novel anti-B7-H3 cytotoxic affibody-drug conjugate (AfDC) that, from these preliminary in vitro data, shows high potential for translation to the therapy of AML, warranting further preclinical and translational exploration, including pharmacokinetic and in vivo efficacy studies.
PXD064062	41020501	Stable Cas9 expression regulates cell growth by facilitating mTORC2 activation. 	Stable Cas9 Expression on Cell Growth Regulation Through mTORC2 Activation Facilitation	DU145, MDA-MB-231	Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR), widely used for gene editing, relies on bacterial endonucleases like Cas9 to study gene functions and develop therapies. However, its potential effects on mammalian cellular behavior remain unclear. Here, we systematically profiled effects of stable Cas9 expression on growth of 32 cell lines spanning 9 cancer types and non-cancerous cells, finding growth alterations in a subset. To investigate mechanisms, we established the SpCas9 interactome in DU145 and MDA-MB-231 cells, both showing Cas9-enhanced growth, and identified ribosomal proteins as the top shared interactors. RNA-seq analysis revealed that Cas9 expression in DU145 cells activated PI3K signaling. Mechanistic studies showed that ribosomal proteins, including RPL26 and RPL23a, bind to Sin1, a core mTORC2 component, leading to mTORC2 activation. Notably, SpCas9 interacts with both RPL26/RPL23a and Sin1, acting as a scaffold to stabilize their association and enhance mTORC2 activation, even in the absence of growth factors. Our study systematically characterizes Cas9's effects on cell growth regulation and uncovers a novel Cas9-ribosome-mTORC2 signaling axis that promotes cell growth. These findings underscore the need to consider unintended cellular effects in CRISPR applications and highlight the importance of engineering safer Cas9 variants for biomedical research and clinical therapies.
PXD044320	41022736	Proteolytic activities of extracellular vesicles attenuate A-synuclein aggregation. 	PROTEOLYTIC ACTIVITIES OF EXTRACELLULAR VESICLES ATTENUATE A-SYNUCLEIN AGGREGATION AND MODULATE ITS TOXICITY	Extracellular vesicles, a-synuclein, proteases	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are nano-sized lipid vesicles released into the extracellular space. We investigated the role of mouse brain-derived EVs in alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) degradation and pathology transmission. Using sucrose gradient isolation and biochemical characterization, we found that EVs harbor active proteases that cleave both monomeric alpha-syn and pre-formed fibrils (PFFs). Protease activity and inhibitor profiling identified cathepsins B and S as key enzymes mediating this cleavage. EV-mediated proteolysis reduced the seeding capacity of alpha-syn PFFs in vitro and in vivo, whereas protease inhibition enhanced aggregation. Proteomic analysis revealed a restricted protease repertoire within EV cargo. Our findings suggest that EVs regulate extracellular alpha-syn levels via proteolysis, thereby modulating its prion-like spreading potential. We suggest that EVs represent a novel post-translational mechanism to regulate the levels of extracellular alpha-syn and may thus affect the spreading of alpha-syn pathology. Targeting this proteolytic capacity may offer new therapeutic interventions for mitigating synucleinopathies.
PXD065925	41023273	HDAC3 mediates retinal endothelial cell metabolic reprogramming and angiogenesis. 	HDAC3 mediates retinal endothelial cell metabolic reprogramming and angiogenesis	HDAC3, HK2, Retinopathy, angiogenesis, endothelial cells, glycolysis, mitochondrial fission, oxygen-glucose deprivation, proteomic analysis	Pathological retinal neovascularization (NV) contributes to vision loss in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and retinopathy of prematurity, which are the leading causes of blindness in working-age adults and children, respectively. Retinal hypoxia is a key driver of pathological neovascularization that results in uncontrolled vessel sprouting and the formation of immature and leaky blood vessels. Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor and laser therapies are the standard of care to mitigate vision loss, but their limited effectiveness underlies the need to identify new therapeutic targets. The goal of the current study was to define the role of the enzyme histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) in the pathogenesis of experimental NV. Pathological neovascularization was induced by subjecting C57BL/6 J mouse pups to oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR). Retinal tissues were analyzed by Western blotting and immunofluorescent labeling was conducted on mouse retinal flatmounts and human retinal sections from patients with DR. In vitro studies used cultured bovine retinal endothelial cells (REC) subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) followed by reoxygenation (R). Cells were treated with the HDAC3 inhibitor, RGFP966, the mitochondrial fission inhibitor, Mdivi-1 or DMSO as a control. Endpoints included assays of cell migration, untargeted proteomic analysis, Seahorse analysis of glycolysis, and mitochondrial morphology using MitoTracker dye. Using the methods described above, we found that HDAC3 expression was increased in retinal vessels of OIR mice and human DR retinal samples. HDAC3 also was upregulated in REC following OGD/R. Treatment with RGFP966 (2, 8 muM) attenuated OGD/R-induced angiogenesis as determined by cell migration. In confirmation, siRNA-mediated HDAC3 knockdown attenuated REC migration whereas HDAC3 overexpression increased it. OGD/R induced a strong upregulation of the rate-limiting glycolysis enzyme, hexokinase 2 (HK2), as determined by untargeted proteomic analysis, which correlated with increased glycolysis and mitochondrial fission. Treatment with RGFP966 or Mdivi-1 (5 muM), blocked HK2 upregulation, suppressed glycolytic flux, and reduced mitochondrial fission. Our findings indicate that HDAC3 plays a crucial role in pathological neovascularization by driving endothelial cell metabolic reprogramming toward glycolysis via the induction of mitochondrial fission and HK2 signaling. Targeting HDAC3 or its downstream metabolic pathways may offer a promising therapeutic strategy for mitigating pathological NV. Retinal endothelial cells (REC) respond to oxygen glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) injury by increasing the expression of HDAC3 which, in turn, upregulates hexokinase 2 (HK2) and mitochondrial fission. These then go on to metabolically reprogram the REC toward a more glycolytic phenotype and promote the process of pathological angiogenesis of the retina. Inhibiting HDAC3 by RGFP966 protects against the OGD/R-induced metabolic changes. In a similar fashion, the inhibition of mitochondrial fission with Mdivi-1 mitigates the glycolytic shift and HK2 expression. These findings suggest a working model in which HDAC3-induced mitochondrial fission upregulates HK2, induces glycolysis and promotes REC pathological angiogenesis.
PXD065847	41023441	The deubiquitinase USP17LA negatively regulates T-cell activation and attenuates anti-tumor immunity. 	Proteomic Analysis of USP17LA-Interacting Proteins in 293T Cells	293T, Nano-HPLC-MS, USP17LA	T-cell activation is essential for effective immune responses, yet its precise regulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood. In this study, we show that the deubiquitinases of the Ubiquitin-Specific Peptidase 17-like (USP17L) family are significantly upregulated following T-cell stimulation. Using CRISPR-mediated gene knockout mice, we demonstrate that USP17LA, but not USP17LB, acts as a negative regulator of T-cell activation. Loss of Usp17la leads to increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, enhanced T-cell proliferation and effector functions, without affecting T-cell development or homeostasis. Furthermore, Usp17la deletion augments TCR signaling and anti-tumor immunity, improving T-cell-mediated tumor surveillance in murine tumor models. Mechanistically, proteomic analysis revealed that USP17LA strongly associates with cadherin-binding and calmodulin-binding pathways. Notably, USP17LA interacts with RACK1 and prevents its ubiquitin-dependent degradation, thereby promoting RACK1-mediated suppression of NFAT activity and the subsequent inhibition of T-cell function. These findings establish USP17LA as a pivotal modulator of T-cell activation and suggest that targeting USP17LA could enhance anti-tumor immunity, offering a potential strategy for cancer immunotherapy.
PXD058009	41023502	Phosphoproteomics of osimertinib-tolerant persister cells reveals targetable kinase-substrate signatures. 	Phosphoproteomics landscape of lung DTP	DTP, Huamn, Lung	Osimertinib is the first-line therapy for EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer, but acquired resistance emerges in most patients and remains a major barrier for complete cure. This phenomenon is most likely associated with the drug-tolerant persister (DTP) cell phenotype, a reversible state that enables survival under treatment and leads to irreversible drug resistance. To uncover the molecular mechanism driving this distinct phenotype, we applied data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) to establish the dynamic proteomic and phosphoproteomic landscape in the osimertinib DTPs. While osimertinib initially blocks EGFR signaling, ribosome synthesis and protein translation related pathways arise in DTP phase, and resistance developed through the reactivation of EGFR downstream pathways and anti-apoptotic mechanisms such as YAP1 and mTOR-BAD hyperphosphorylation, as validated by growth combination assays. Kinase enrichment revealed elevated phosphorylation of multiple CDK1 substrates in DTP phase and pharmacological or genetic inhibition of CDK1-mediated SAMHD1 activation significantly impair DTP growth and survival. This study illuminates the dynamic landscape underlying the DTPs biology and identifies biomarker and new targets to potentially prevent or delay the onset of resistance.
PXD060148	41023975	Comparative analysis of commercial human primary mesangial cell, implications for experimental design. 	Comparative analysis of commercial human primary mesangial cell, implications for experimental design.	PDGF-BB Primary human mesangial cells mesangium glomerulus, quantitative proteomics	BACKGROUND: Mesangial cells (MCs) are involved in several glomerular diseases such as IgA nephropathy and diabetic kidney disease. In vitro work on human MCs is mainly conducted on primary MCs. However, cells from different donors could be significantly different, thus potentially affecting the outcome of the experiments. METHOD: We have compared commercially available primary human MCs from two different sources: HMCv1 and HMCv2. The cells were characterized using qPCR, western blot, and immunofluorescence. Response to PDGF-BB was assessed with proliferation assays, proteomics, and qPCR. Response to angiotensin II was assessed through contractility assay and response to IL-1beta, diabetic milieu and TGFbeta1 with qPCR. RESULTS: Cells from both sources expressed mesangial markers. HMCv1, but not HMCv2, showed significant contractility in response to angiotensin II. Both HMCv1 and 2 significantly increased their proliferation rate in response to PDGF-BB. Proteomics revealed a stronger response to PDGF-BB for HMCv1 in respect to HMCv2, though similar pathways were regulated in both. IL-1beta stimulus was stronger in HMCv1 in terms of increased expression of IL6 and CCL2/MCP1 mRNA. Diabetic milieu increased expression of IL-6 for both HMCv1 and 2, but significantly higher for HMCv1. TGFbeta1 gave similar results in terms of IL-6 expression for cells from both sources. In addition, a list of 144 potential mesangial markers was compiled, that can be used for identification of MCs in omics data. CONCLUSION: This study shows that there are broad differences between sources of primary human MCs. The potential differences between clones of primary MCs need to be carefully considered when conducting in vitro experiments.
PXD065205	41024750	High conservation of translation-enabling RNA editing sites in hyper-editing ferns implies they are not selectively neutral. 	High conservation of translationally significant RNA editing sites in hyper-editing ferns implies they are not selectively neutral	Masrsieal, RNA Editing	RNA editing is essential for processing transcripts in plant chloroplasts and mitochondria. Levels of RNA editing vary between lineages but some hornworts, lycophytes and ferns have an extraordinary abundance of RNA editing. A feature of 'hyper-editing' species is the prevalence of RNA editing events that promote translation by creating start codons or removing stop codons via C-to-U or U-to-C editing respectively. These 'translation-enabling' RNA editing events may play roles in regulating organelle gene expression. To investigate the importance of translation-enabling RNA editing events, we generated DNA and RNA sequence libraries for four Salviniales water ferns: Azolla rubra, Azolla pinnata, Marsilea mutica and Salvinia molesta. We assembled chloroplast genomes, mitochondrial genes and transcriptomes, and identified RNA editing sites and candidate RNA editing factors. We re-analysed sequence data of Azolla filiculoides and conducted a comparative analysis of RNA editing in chloroplasts and mitochondrial transcripts. Estimates of pyrimidine transition rates show that translation-enabling RNA editing sites are more conserved than other nonsynonymous editing sites, suggesting an emergent role in organelle gene expression that is not selectively neutral. This makes these events rare examples of RNA editing conferring adaptive advantage, in contrast to the prevailing view that RNA editing arises via constructive neutral evolutionary processes. Shotgun proteomics of Marsilea mutica chloroplast thylakoid fractions verified the expected consequences of RNA editing on translation of chloroplast transcripts and implies that mechanisms exist to avoid translation of partially edited transcripts. Start codon editing may be one of those mechanisms.
PXD066721	41026902	Elevated atmospheric CO2-induced reprogramming leads to decreased seed protein and nutritional quality in forest trees. 	Comparative protein profiles in acorns collected from elevated CO2 and ambient CO2.	Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Quercus, acorns	While the global increases in atmospheric CO2 levels have had a beneficial effect on plant growth, the negative impacts of this CO2 fertilisation effect on seed quality are often overlooked. Using data from acorns produced by mature oak (Quercus robur) trees in the eighth year of elevated CO2 (eCO2), we present evidence of negative consequences for seed quality. The acorns produced by the near-200-year-old oak trees under eCO2 at the Free Air Carbon dioxide (FACE) facility at the Birmingham Institute for Forest Research (BIFoR) had higher phytate levels but a decreased protein content. Quantitative label-free proteomics identified 335 proteins in all acorns, but 9 proteins were undetectable in acorns produced under eCO2 compared to ambient air (aCO2), and 1 protein was uniquely detected in the eCO2 acorns. Further subsets of proteins were identified with either higher or lower abundance in eCO2 than aCO2 acorns. Proteins that were more abundant in the acorns produced under eCO2 include allene oxide cyclase and phosphomannomutase. RNA-seq analysis revealed that 154 transcripts were more abundant in the eCO2 acorns compared to those grown under aCO2, while 54 were much less abundant. Transcripts encoding several transcription factors and phytohormone signalling proteins, as well as trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase were increased in eCO2 acorns. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that the transcriptome and proteome profiles of acorns produced under eCO2 are significantly changed compared to those produced in aCO2, with important implications for seed metabolism, particularly those underpinning the observed changes in seed protein and phytate levels.
PXD062542	41028049	Proteomic analysis of brain and spinal cord tissue reveals distinct immune and mitochondrial processes between human and mouse ALS models. 	Proteomic analysis of patient tissue reveals parallels and discrepancies in immune and mitochondrial processes across mouse models of motor neurone disease	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Immune-mediated pathology, Mitochondrial dysfunction, Motor neurone disease, Neurodegeneration, TDP-43, TMT-proteomics.	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease resulting in the progressive loss of motor neurons in the brain and spine. More than 95% of cases are pathologically characterized by the cytoplasmic accumulation of hyperphosphorylated and ubiquitinated transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43). Multiple mouse models with TDP-43 accumulation have been developed, however, whether they recapitulate molecular features of ALS pathology is unclear. Given the lack of curative treatment for ALS, there is an urgent need to identify the precise biological processes contributing to disease pathogenesis for the development of effective therapeutic treatments. Thus, in this study we employed label-based untargeted proteomics to characterize the ALS proteome and related biological processes in the spinal cord and brain of TDP-43(Q331K) mice, a transgenic mouse model of ALS and the motor cortex and the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spinal cord regions from humans. In humans, we observed highly overlapping responses across the four tissues examined, primarily related to the upregulation of immune processes and the downregulation of mitochondrial function. In contrast, TDP-43(Q331K) mice demonstrate a lack of enrichment for immune activation and the opposite regulation of mitochondrial processes. A meta-analysis of previously published mouse datasets identified the Ubqln2 knock-out mouse model as showing stronger parallels with our late-stage human ALS. Overall, this study provides in-depth analysis of the site-specific dysregulated proteomes and their associated functional processes across species. Thereby, identifying potential therapeutic targets while emphasizing the limitations of specific mouse models at certain timepoints in recapitulating ALS-related processes for future model development.
PXD066833	41028816	Uncovering a fibroblast differentiation-based keloid classification by integration of single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing. 	Uncovering a Fibroblast Differentiation-Based Keloid Classification by Integration of Single-cell and Bulk RNA Sequencing	Differentiation, Fibroblasts, Keloids, Molecular Classification	Keloids are dermal fibroproliferative skin disorders caused by abnormal wound healing, resulting in impaired skin function and aesthetic defects. Abnormal fibroblast proliferation and excessive collagen deposition are involved in keloid formation. This study investigated the role of fibroblast differentiation in keloid development. Single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing data of keloids were comprehensively analyzed, and 25 clinically relevant differentially expressed fibroblast-differentiation-related genes (DEFDRGs) were identified. Based on DEFDRGs, a keloid diagnostic classification system comprising three subtypes was constructed, indicating that DEFDRGs could serve as therapeutic targets. Additionally, multiple microarray datasets, protein sequencing data, and immunohistochemical analyses of key markers in clinical keloid samples were used for further verification. In conclusion, this study established a molecular classification of keloids based on fibroblast differentiation, contributing to the further understanding of keloid pathogenesis and providing new insights for diagnosis and treatment.
PXD067890	41030313	Endoglin alleviates neuropathic pain by protecting the blood-spinal cord barrier through the TGF-beta/Smad2 signaling pathway. 	TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis of serum from patients with postherpetic neuralgia reveals a key role of Endoglin in neuropathic pain via TGF-beta/Smad2 signaling	Biomarker, Blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB), Endoglin (CD105), Neuropathic pain, Quantitative proteomics, TGF-beta/Smad2 signaling, Tandem mass tag (TMT), ostherpetic neuralgia (PHN)	Introduction: Central neuroinflammation is pivotal in neuropathic pain pathogenesis, with blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB) dysfunction recognized as a trigger for neuroinflammation and pain, though molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Methods: Through comparative clinical studies measuring serum endoglin in postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) patients versus healthy controls, and animal investigations using spared nerve injury (SNI) rat models with recombinant endoglin intervention, we assessed mechanical/thermal hyperalgesia, microglial activation, inflammatory cytokines, BSCB permeability, and TGF-betaRI/Smad2/NR2B phosphorylation. Results: PHN patients exhibited lower serum endoglin versus controls; SNI rats showed reduced spinal endoglin compared to sham controls. Recombinant endoglin alleviated hyperalgesia while reversing microglial activation, inflammation, BSCB impairment, and NR2B phosphorylation. SNI decreased spinal TGF-betaRI expression and Smad2 phosphorylation. Discussion: These findings demonstrate that endoglin reduction disrupts BSCB integrity via TGF-beta/Smad2 pathway inhibition in endothelial cells, driving microglial activation, neuroinflammation, and NR2B phosphorylation, thereby elucidating a key pain mechanism and identifying endoglin as a therapeutic target.
PXD059040	41032589	Molecular basis of the biogenesis of a protein organelle for ethanolamine utilization. 	Molecular basis of the biogenesis of a protein organelle for ethanolamine utilization	salmonella	Many pathogenic bacteria use proteinaceous ethanolamine utilization microcompartments (Eut BMCs) to catabolize ethanolamine. This ability gives pathogens a competitive edge over commensal microbiota, which can drive virulence in the inflamed gut. Despite such a critical function, the molecular mechanisms underlying the synthesis of Eut BMCs remain elusive. We report a systematic study for dissecting the molecular basis underlying Eut BMC assembly in Salmonella. We determined the functions of individual constituent proteins in the structure and function of Eut BMCs and demonstrated that EutQ is essential for cargo encapsulation and Eut BMC formation through specific association with the shell and cargo enzymes. We found that Eut proteins can self-assemble to form cargo and shell aggregates independently in vivo and that the biogenesis of Eut BMCs follows a "shell-initiated" pathway. Cargo enzymes exhibit dynamic liquid-like organization within the Eut BMC. Our findings provide mechanistic insights into the structure and assembly of the Eut BMC that serves as a paradigm for membraneless organelles.
PXD064425	41033462	Zscan4 as a candidate conveyor of early developmental defects in O-GlcNAc transferase intellectual disability. 	Zscan4 as a candidate conveyor of early developmental defects in O-GlcNAc transferase intellectual disability	O-GlcNAc transferase, TMT	Variants in the human beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) transferase (OGT) gene give rise to an intellectual disability (ID) syndrome termed OGT congenital disorder of glycosylation (OGT-CDG). The mechanisms by which loss of OGT and/or protein O-GlcNAcylation lead to this syndrome are not understood, but symptoms associated with the syndrome suggest a developmental origin. Here, we establish and characterise two lines of mouse embryonic stem cells carrying different patient mutations and show that these mutations lead to disrupted O-GlcNAc homeostasis. Using quantitative proteomics on these cells in the pluripotent state, we identify candidate proteins/pathways that could underpin this syndrome. In addition to the increased levels of OGT and decreased levels of OGA reflecting disrupted O-GlcNAc homeostasis, we find that expression of the ID gene Zscan4 is upregulated. This is associated with increased levels of the OGT:Ten Eleven (Tet) - protein complex that regulates DNA methylation and Zscan4 expression. These data uncover a potential mechanism contributing to the developmental aspects of OGT-CDG.
PXD059138	41033464	Proteomic portrait of degranulation program in human circulating neutrophils upon multi-inflammatory and infectious activation. 	Proteomic analysis of human circulating neutrophils upon multi states	Neutrophils, label-free DIA	Neutrophils respond rapidly to inflammation and infection via defense mechanisms, including degranulation, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation (known as 'NETosis'). As the most abundant neutrophil components, granule proteins constitute the major mediators of neutrophil effector functions and likely orchestrate their functional diversity. However, a systematic profile of these proteins, particularly their temporal release dynamics during inflammatory responses, remains uncharacterized. Here, we performed a 'multi-state' proteomic study to explore circulating neutrophils' dynamic responses to diverse infectious and inflammatory signals over time. Circulating neutrophils exhibited both conserved and stimulus-specific protein expression programs. Through integrated characterization of the cellular and secretory proteome landscapes, we delineated the release patterns of canonical granule proteins and identified inflammatory mediators, including soluble membrane receptors. Notably, granule membrane receptors were translocated to the cell surface and shed via proteolytic cleavage, highlighting their dynamic regulation and diversity. These findings revealed complexity of the neutrophil degranulation program, demonstrating its stimulus-dependent and temporally layered nature. Our study provides a functional atlas of neutrophil degranulation upon inflammation, which would strengthen our understanding on the neutrophil activation in inflammation and facilitating the exploration of inflammation management therapies.
PXD064230	41033654	Extruded Limnospira platensis with enzyme supplementation shifts the broiler muscle proteome toward enhanced energy metabolism pathways. 	Breast muscle proteome of broilers fed with 15 % dietary incorporation of Limnospira platensis	Broilers, Extrusion, L.platensis, Muscle proteome	Limnospira platensis (Spirulina) is known for its nutritional and bioactive profile, but its high-level dietary inclusion effects in broilers, particularly post-extrusion and enzyme pre-treatment, remain underexplored. We investigated how 15 %L. platensis raw (MA), extruded (MAE) or extruded with pancreatin (0.20 %) and lysozyme (0.01 %) (MAEM) affects the pectoralis major proteome of Ross 308 broilers. Birds were fed until day 35, then muscle proteins were prepared by filter-aided sample preparation, TMT 6-plex labelling and analysed by LC-MS/MS. Statistical analysis identified 26 differentially abundant proteins (p < 0.05, >= 2 peptides). MAEM samples clustered separately, showing increased abundance of NDUFA10 (Complex I; + 1.30-fold), COX5B (Complex IV; + 1.25-fold) and glycogen phosphorylase (+ 1.40-fold). Enrichment analysis revealed up-regulation of ATP synthesis, oxidative phosphorylation and glycogen catabolism in L. platensis groups, whereas control diets featured proteins linked to fatty-acid beta-oxidation and myofibrillar assembly. These results indicate that extrusion combined with enzyme treatment enhances nutrient bioavailability and shifts the broiler muscle proteome toward energy-metabolism pathways without compromising performance. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD064230). SIGNIFICANCE: The incorporation of Spirulina (Limnospira platensis) as a sustainable alternative to conventional feed ingredients is gaining attention in poultry nutrition. However, its specific effects on broiler's muscle proteome, as well as the impact of higher Spirulina inclusion levels on animal performance, remain largely unexplored. Herein, we investigated how extruded L. platensis, with and without enzyme supplementation, influences muscle protein expression. Results revealed a metabolic shift toward enhanced mitochondrial ATP production and glycogen metabolism when L. platensis was incorporated into the diets, suggesting improved energy efficiency and nutrient utilisation. These findings provide valuable insight into the biological mechanisms underlying muscle development in broilers fed microalgae-based diets. More broadly, they highlight the potential of combining pre-treated microalga ingredients as a strategy to optimise animal performance and health in the framework of poultry production.
PXD067801	41034324	Novel peptides from the edible bivalve Ruditapes decussatus target apoptosis, autophagy, and FGF19-FGFR4 signaling in human cancer cell lines. 	Novel peptides from the edible bivalve Ruditapes decussatus target apoptosis, autophagy, and FGF19-FGFR4 signaling in human cancer cell lines	Anticancer activity, Bioactive peptides, Bivalves, Natural agents	Bioactive peptides have recently emerged as promising candidates for cancer treatment due to their selective cytotoxicity toward cancer cells. The bivalve mollusk Ruditapes decussatus contains bioactive compounds that have not been thoroughly investigated for their potential anticancer properties. In this study, isolation and purification of peptide mixtures from R. decussatus were performed using FPLC chromatography followed by de novo sequence analysis. Using de novo peptide sequencing, a total of 135 peptides (ranging from 2681.6 to 5925.12 Da) were identified, of which 57 peptides (42%) were predicted to exhibit anticancer potential upon analysis with AntiCP 2.0, highlighting their possible therapeutic utility (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD067801). Additionally, fractions were tested against liver (HepG2) and colorectal (HT-29) cancer cell lines, as well as normal human hepatocytes and VERO (obtained from kidney) cells, to evaluate their cytotoxic effects. Fractions 2 and 3 showed significant anticancer activity against both cancer cell lines, while exhibiting minimal cytotoxicity toward normal cells. These fractions induced apoptosis, as evidenced by the downregulation of Bcl-2 and upregulation of caspase-3, and also activated autophagy, marked by increased Beclin-1 expression. Flow cytometry analysis revealed enhanced apoptotic cell death and G1/S phase cell cycle arrest in the treated cancer cells. Morphological analysis further confirmed the presence of apoptotic changes. Overall, the peptides derived from R. decussatus demonstrated the ability to induce apoptosis and cell cycle arrest in cancer cells, with a highly selective effect on colorectal carcinoma, suggesting their potential as anticancer agents for further investigation.
PXD067210	41036225	Proteome changes during in vitro culture adaptation of Toxoplasma gondii archetypal II and III field isolates. 	Differentially and constantly expressed proteins identified through proteomic analysis of different Toxoplasma gondii field isolates carried out upon short- or long-term in vitro culture	Equivalence tests, eukaryote cell, model system, patho-biodiversity, target deconvolution, vaccine development	Introduction: Rapid in vitro culture adaptation of recently obtained Toxoplasma gondii isolates leading to deep changes in relevant phenotypic traits has been demonstrated earlier. Few reports exist on the molecular bases that govern this adaptation. Herein, we analyzed the T. gondii proteomes of different isolates at two timepoints during cell culture adaptation. Methods: The differential proteomes of six recently obtained archetypal European T. gondii Type II (TgShSp1 (Genotype ToxoDB#3), TgShSp2 (#1), TgShSp3 (#3) and TgShSp16 (#3)) and Type III (TgShSp24 (#2) and TgPigSp1(#2)) isolates maintained at low (10-16) and high (50-53) passage numbers in Vero cells were determined by label free liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Results: Among these isolates, 2.3% and 10.2% of proteins were differentially or constantly abundant when comparing low and high passage numbers. Constant proteins included components involved in essential cellular processes such as energy metabolism or protein synthesis, many of them identified as drug and vaccine targets. Interestingly, differentially abundant proteins were clearly linked to phenotypic changes associated to in vitro adaptation: loss of ability to spontaneously form cysts at high passages and decreased expression of cyst and bradyzoite markers (BAG1, Enolase 1, and SRS35A), while culture adaptation was associated with increased abundance of recognized virulence factors such as GRA15, GRA16, TEEGR and NSM. Conclusion: Our results highlight the changes at the proteomic level that take place in recently obtained isolates after in vitro culture adaptation, an important feature that should be considered during T. gondii investigations.
PXD060475	41036624	KRAS-induced STN1 (OBFC1) promotes proper CTC1-STN1-TEN1 complex-independent DNA double-strand break repair and cell cycle checkpoint maintenance in pancreatic cancer. 	Identification of STN1 interactiome in response to DNA damage in pancreatic cancer cells	DNA-damage repair, IP-MS, STN1, pancreatic cancer	KRAS activating mutations occur in 90%-95% of pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PC) and contribute to tumor progression and resistance to therapy, including radiotherapy. A screen in isogenic cells revealed that KRAS activation positively modulates STN1 expression, a component of the CTC1-STN1-TEN1 (CST) complex. We find that STN1 is significantly upregulated in PC and its elevation is correlated with KRAS oncogenic mutations, while inhibition of KRAS signaling decreases STN1 expression. Interestingly, depletion of STN1 increases DNA damage and replication stress, and sensitizes PC cells to ionizing radiation independent of CTC1 and TEN1. STN1 silencing reduces both homologous recombination and non-homologous end joining repair of double-strand breaks (DSBs), suggesting STN1 ensures proper DSB repair. Furthermore, knockdown of STN1 impairs cell cycle arrest at G2/M phase in response to ionizing radiation, which is accompanied by increased mitotic catastrophe. Proteomic analysis reveals that STN1 physically interacts with proteins important for DNA repair, replication, and cell cycle progression, including ATM, DICER, CEP164, and CEP250. In particular, STN1 appears to stabilize ATM expression and promote proper ATM signaling after DNA damage. Our findings have revealed a novel CST complex-independent role of STN1 in DSB repair and suggest STN1 may be a promising target for cancer therapy.
PXD058542	41037683	Laser-activated nanoparticles rewire tumor microenvironment enhancing PD-1 blockade and T cell response in cholangiocarcinoma. 	Activated gold-decorated nanoparticles enhance PD-1 blockade and promote cytotoxic T cell anti-tumor responses in cholangiocarcinoma	Cholangiocarcinoma, Data Independent Acquisition	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Immunotherapy has continued to revolutionize cancer treatment, achieving remarkable progress over the past decade. However, in most solid tumors, its effectiveness is often impaired because of immune resistance driven by the tumor microenvironment (TME). In fibrotic cancers, such as cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), the extracellular matrix (ECM) and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) form a dense, rigid stroma that hinders immune cell infiltration and promotes immunosuppression. Overcoming these physical and biological barriers is crucial for fully unleashing the potential of immunotherapeutic approaches. APPROACH RESULTS: We developed a dual-action strategy combining photothermal therapy (PTT) using gold-decorated iron oxide nanoflowers (GIONFs) and PD-1 immune checkpoint blockade. This approach was evaluated in preclinical models of CCA to assess its impact on ECM remodeling, CAF modulation, immune cell activation, and tumor growth.The combinatorial strategy effectively reduced ECM stiffness, reprogrammed CAF subsets, and enhanced cytotoxic T-cell infiltration. In preclinical CCA models, treated tumors shift from immune-cold to immune-hot states. This combination amplifies anti-tumor immune responses, decreases immunosuppressive stromal signatures, and improves tumor control. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings emphasize the therapeutic potential of combining nanotechnology and immunotherapy to reshape the TME and overcome immunotherapy resistance in fibrotic tumors, such as CCA. Targeting both ECM and immune checkpoints has emerged as a promising and versatile strategy to enhance the efficacy of immunotherapy against desmoplastic cancers.
PXD061934	41038282	Breaking Boundaries in Histone Modification MS-based Detection: A Tailored Search Strategy for Unrestricted identification of novel epigenetic marks. 	Breaking Boundaries in Histone Modification MS-based Detection: A Tailored Search Strategy for Unrestricted identification of novel epigenetic marks	Bioinformatics, Epigenetics, Histone Post-Translational Modifications, Open Search	Histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) play a crucial role in regulating gene expression and maintaining DNA integrity, and their aberrations are linked to various diseases, including cancer. While lysine acetylation and methylation have been extensively studied, recent research has uncovered additional PTMs that significantly contribute to chromatin structure and function. Mass spectrometry (MS) is the most effective analytical method for studying histone PTMs; however, computational limitations often restrict the analysis to common modifications. Unrestrictive search strategies have the potential to enable a more comprehensive characterization of the histone modification landscape. In this work, we systematically assess the application of unrestrictive search approaches to histone data. After evaluating the limitations of these methods, we develop a novel bioinformatics workflow, named HiP-Frag (Histone PTM analysis with FragPipe), which enables the identification of 96 sites decorated with uncommon PTMs on core histones-60 of which were previously unreported-as well as 55 histone marks on linker histones, including 13 novel ones, purified from human cell lines and primary samples. The expanded histone PTM analysis enabled by this strategy is among the first to extract previously unexplored epigenetic information from MS raw data. This approach paves the way for a facilitated and more streamlined identification of uncommon and yet unannotated histone modifications, supporting a deeper dissection of the histone code and the understanding of the potential biological role of the novel epigenetic marks.
PXD067193	41038817	Identification of a RAB32-LRMDA-Commander membrane trafficking complex reveals the molecular mechanism of human oculocutaneous albinism type 7. 	Identification of a RAB32-LRMDA-Commander membrane trafficking complex reveals the molecular mechanism of human oculocutaneous albinism type 7	LRMDA, Melanocyte, RAB32, Retriever, TMT label	The endosomal Commander assembly associates with the sorting nexin-17 (SNX17) cargo adaptor to regulate cell surface recycling of internalised integral proteins including integrins and lipoprotein receptors. Here, we identify leucine rich melanocyte differentiation associated (LRMDA) as a Commander binding protein. We reveal that LRMDA and SNX17 share a common mechanism of Commander association, and that LRMDA simultaneously associates with Commander and active RAB32, establishing distinct RAB32-LRMDA-Commander and SNX17-Commander assemblies. Functional analysis in melanocytes reveals distinct roles for RAB32-LRMDA-Commander and SNX17-Commander in melanosome biogenesis. We reveal how LRMDA mutations, causative for oculocutaneous albinism type 7, a hypopigmentation disorder accompanied by poor visual acuity, uncouple RAB32 and Commander binding thereby establishing the mechanistic basis of this disease. Our discovery of this alternative Commander assembly highlights the plasticity of Commander function in human pigmentation and extends the Commander function beyond the SNX17-mediated regulation of cell surface proteome.
PXD059671	41039818	Heterogeneity of Extracellular Vesicles and Non-Vesicular Nanoparticles in Glioblastoma. 	Diversity and Heterogeneity of Extracellular Vesicles and Brain-Penetrating Amembranous Non-Vesicular Nanoparticles in Glioblastoma	EGFR, Glioblastoma, exomeres, extracellular nanoparticles, extracellular vesicles, supermeres	It is increasingly clear that intercellular communication is largely mediated by lipid-bilayer, membrane-bound extracellular vesicles (EVs) and amembranous, non-vesicular extracellular particles (NVEPs), including exomeres and the recently identified supermeres. To elucidate the cargo and functional roles of these carriers, we performed a comprehensive analysis of their lipid, protein and RNA content in the context of colorectal cancer and glioblastoma (GBM). Our results demonstrate that EVs exhibit distinct density profiles correlated with specific biomolecular signatures. Moreover, EVs and NVEPs display notable differences in their protein and RNA composition, which confer distinct functional attributes. Supermeres are notably enriched in components involved in extracellular matrix remodeling and possess the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier, a process dependent on their intact structure and RNA content. Once in the central nervous system (CNS), they preferentially engage with microglia and suppress TGFbeta1 expression, suggesting a role in modulating microglial immune activity. Furthermore, systemically administered exogenous supermeres selectively accumulate in GBM tumors in vivo. Together, these findings highlight supermeres as a promising vehicle for delivering therapeutics to the CNS and brain tumors.
PXD046841	41040952	Adrenergic signals influence proteomic responses in breast cancer cells. 	Adrenergic Signaling and Proteomic Responses in Breast Cancer Spheroids: Implications for Tumor Microenvironment and Therapeutic Strategies	adrenergic signaling, breast cancer, cancer, noradrenalin, propranolol	Introduction: Breast cancer remains a major health challenge due to its molecular heterogeneity and complex interactions with the tumor microenvironment. Adrenergic signaling, mediated by stress hormones such as noradrenaline, has emerged as a potential regulator of cancer progression, influencing cell proliferation, cell adhesion, migration, and invasion. Methods: This study investigates the effects of adrenergic modulation on breast cancer spheroids from basal-like (MDA-MB-231, BT549) and luminal-like (T47D, MCF7) cell lines, using 3D culture systems as a more physiologically relevant model compared to traditional 2D monolayer cultures. The 3D spheroid model better recapitulates the structural complexity of tumors, providing insights into cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions that influence signaling pathways and drug responses. Results: Noradrenaline treatment significantly reduced spheroid size, invasion capacity, and the expression of EMT-related markers and integrins in MDA-MB-231 cells. These effects were partially reversed by propranolol, a non-selective beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist. Luminal-like spheroids, characterized by low ADRB2 abundance, displayed limited responsiveness to adrenergic modulation. Proteomic analysis revealed distinct subtype-specific responses, with basal-like spheroids showing pronounced alterations in pathways related to proliferation, cytoskeletal dynamics, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and metabolism, whereas luminal-like spheroids exhibited minimal changes. Discussion: Our findings reveal heterogeneity in adrenergic receptor signaling across basal-like and luminal-like breast cancer cell lines, and also within the basal-like subgroup. This diversity underscores the complexity of adrenergic signaling in breast cancer and highlights the advantages of 3D culture systems. These results provide valuable insights into the subtype-specific patterns of response to adrenergic signaling that contribute to tumor progression and may inform future studies including evaluation of therapeutic strategies.
PXD059875	41041046	Integrative spatially resolved proteomic and metabolomic imaging reveals synovitis endotypes implicated in osteoarthritis progression. 	Human synovium regional proteomics analysis	LCM, regional proteomics, synovium	Rationale: Synovial fibrosis, driven by myofibroblast activation and extracellular matrix remodelling, is fundamental in osteoarthritis (OA) pathogenesis but remains poorly understood due to the spatial heterogeneity of synovial inflammation (synovitis). Accurate molecular endotyping of synovial inflammation is essential for effective treatment of OA given its multifactorial nature, yet it requires integrating multiple layers of information with spatial context due to the significant heterogeneity of the tissue. Methods: In this proof-of-concept study, we leveraged MALDI mass spectrometry imaging to achieve spatial metabolomic maps that complement high-content proteomic profiles. Microflow liquid chromatography was employed to improve the robustness and throughput of spatial proteomics. By coupling these spatially resolved datasets, we establish a pseudo time trajectory of heterogeneous synovitis in human knee OA using an integrative framework of spatially resolved proteomics and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging. Results: Clustering 3534 proteins and 79 energy metabolites from spatial proteomic and metabolomic image datasets reveals four distinct functional stages of OA synovitis, i.e., quiescent, microvasculopathic, pre-fibrotic, and post-fibrotic stages, which enables construction of a corresponding pseudo time. Network analyses elucidate the functional links among these stages, highlighting an immune-metabolic axis from endothelial injury and microvascular thrombosis toward myofibroblast activation. Conclusions: This integrative multi-omics imaging approach informs the inflammatory endotype of OA, supporting a vascular aetiology of synovial fibrosis and offering mechanistic insights that could inform more targeted therapeutic strategies. Validation in larger, stratified patient cohorts will be critical to refine our findings and accelerate their clinical usages.
PXD060153	41041068	Trimmed N-glycans define aggressive gastric cancer and predict clinical outcomes. 	Aggressive Gastric Cancer Overexpresses Trimmed N-Glycans and Exhibits Distinct Glycoproteome Signatures Predictive of Poor Prognosis	Cancer Glycobiology, Gastric Cancer, Glycome, Glycoproteome, Precision Oncology	Rationale: Gastric cancer (GC) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, particularly in advanced stages where prognosis and targeted treatment remain challenging. The glycocalyx, a dense network of glycans and glycoproteins, is critical for tumor progression and immune evasion, yet its molecular signatures are poorly understood. This study investigates glycan-based biomarkers of aggressiveness, focusing on paucimannosidic N-glycans, a previously underexplored glycosylation pattern in cancer. Methods: High-throughput N-glycome analysis was performed on gastric tumors of varying aggressiveness, followed by Galanthus Nivalis Lectin (GNL) immunostaining to assess paucimannosidic glycans across tumor stages. Comparative analysis was performed against clinically relevant GC biomarkers (E-cadherin, p53, MSI, sTn, sLeA). TCGA analysis correlated key paucimannose-associated glycosyltransferases with clinical outcomes. Glycoproteomics identified glycoproteins carrying paucimannoses, later validated using immunoassays in tumor tissues for clinical relevance. Additionally, serum samples were analyzed to evaluate the non-invasive potential of GNL reactivity and associated glycoproteins. Results: Aggressive gastric tumors were significantly enriched in paucimannosidic N-glycans, a feature not previously reported in this malignancy. Lectin immunoblotting confirmed their disease specificity, with expression increasing with tumor progression. GNL staining outperformed established biomarkers in prognostic accuracy. TCGA analysis of more than 400 cases showed a strong correlation between high paucimannose-associated glycosyltransferase expression and poor prognosis. Glycoproteomics unexpectedly revealed paucimannose N-glycans primarily on intracellular ribosomal proteins, though key membrane proteins like MMP9 displayed aberrant paucimannosylation. MMP9 expression increased with tumor stage and grade, with tumors co-expressing MMP9 and paucimannosidic glycans exhibiting the worst prognosis. In serum, only MMP9 demonstrated diagnostic potential as a circulating biomarker, whereas GNL did not show a significant association. Conclusions: This study provides the first comprehensive characterization of the GC glycome, linking paucimannosidic N-glycans to tumor aggressiveness and poor clinical outcome. These glycans demonstrated superior prognostic performance compared to established clinical biomarkers. Their association with MMP9 further suggests a key role in disease progression. Together, these findings suggest that alterations in N-glycosylation, including paucimannosylated glycoproteins, hold promise for future prognostic and therapeutic applications in gastric cancer.
PXD065042	41042594	The late chromatoid body component TSSK2 is involved in translational regulation in elongating spermatids in mice. 	The late chromatoid body component TSSK2 associates with translational machinery in elongating spermatids in mice	RNP granules, Spermatogenesis, TSSK2, chromatoid body, elongating spermatids, male fertility, translation	In brief: Temporally regulated translation is critical for late steps of spermatogenesis due to transcriptional silencing during chromatin condensation. This study shows that the function of the cytoplasmic granule, the late chromatoid body, is connected to the translational regulation in condensing spermatids. Abstract: Spermatogenesis culminates in a dramatic morphological transformation, including a tight compaction of the chromatin and nuclear re-shaping that largely silences transcription. Due to transcriptional silencing, the production of the sperm-specific proteins needed for the morphological transformation requires active storage and translational regulation of mRNAs transcribed in earlier cell types. The germline-specific ribonucleoprotein (RNP) granule, the chromatoid body (CB), accumulates RNAs and has a role in RNA regulation in early haploid cells (round spermatids). In late haploid cells (elongating spermatids), the CB is transformed to so-called late-CB, whose function in RNA regulation has remained elusive. Here we characterized the function of the late-CB by identifying proteins and RNAs interacting with the known late-CB marker, Testis-Specific Serine Kinase 2 (TSSK2). We showed that TSSK2 and the late-CB associates with translation initiation factors and ribosomal proteins. Furthermore, we revealed an association of TSSK2 with a specific set of mRNAs that are enriched in polysome fractions in elongating spermatids, supporting the role of the late-CB in the temporally regulated translation. These results link the function of the late-CB to the RNA regulation during late spermatogenesis for the first time, providing important novel information about the RNA regulatory processes required for spermatogenesis and male fertility.
PXD056278	41043513	Proteomic analysis of human topoisomerases reveals their distinct and diverse cellular functions. 	MS-based analysis of the interacting proteins of human topoisomerases (TOP3A, TOP3B)	protein interaction, topoisomerases	Topoisomerases are essential for resolving topological stress in DNA during key cellular processes. In human cells, six topoisomerases perform specialized yet overlapping functions to manage these challenges. To investigate their distinct and shared roles, as well as their involvement in DNA damage repair, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of the human topoisomerase-associated protein landscape. Using tandem affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry, we mapped the protein-protein interaction networks of five human topoisomerases under both normal and stressed conditions. Our analysis identified several key interactions that may regulate topoisomerase function. Notably, TOP1 interacts with PUM3, which undergoes a similar relocalization from nucleoli to nucleoplasm following treatment with a TOP1 poison. Additionally, we uncovered novel interactions of TOP3A with NSMCE4A, YTHDC2, and NDUFAF7, as well as a previously uncharacterized interaction between TOP3B and the mitochondrial membrane protein TDRKH (TDRD2). We further examined dynamic changes in these interactomes in response to TOP1 and TOP2 poisons and replication stress, distinguishing between interactions in chromatin and soluble fractions. These findings provide new insights into the regulation and functional coordination of human topoisomerases, offering potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets for topoisomerase inhibitors in cancer treatment.
PXD057225	41044071	Molecular insights into how the motions of the beta-barrel and POTRA domains of BamA are coupled for efficient function. 	Proteomics analysis of E. coli expressing BamA variants	BAM, E coli	The beta-barrel assembly machinery (BAM) inserts beta-barrel proteins into the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria, forming an essential permeability barrier. The core BAM component, BamA, is a beta-barrel protein with an N-terminal periplasmic extension comprising five polypeptide transport-associated (POTRA) domains. Whilst BamA's structure is well characterised, it remains unclear how beta-barrel and POTRA domain motions are coordinated. Using BamA variants with mutations in the hinge region between these two domains, we demonstrate that hinge flexibility is required for BAM function. Cryo-electron microscopy suggests that hinge rigidity impairs function by structurally decoupling these domains. A screen for spontaneous suppressors identified a mutation at position T434 in an extracellular loop of BamA, which has been previously shown to suppress BAM defects. Studying this variant provides insights into its function as a general rescue mechanism. Our findings underscore how BamA's sequence has been evolutionarily optimised for efficient function.
PXD060359	41044210	ID8 cells manifest phenotypic plasticity and molecular heterogeneity of high-grade serous ovarian cancer in response to the local tissue niche. 	ID8 cells manifest phenotypic plasticity and molecular heterogeneity of high-grade serous ovarian cancer in response to the local tissue niche ID8 cells manifest phenotypic plasticity and molecular heterogeneity of high-grade serous ovarian cancer in resp	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), D8, Human Proteome Project, Phenotypic plasticity, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), ascites.	Spontaneously transformed mouse ovarian surface epithelial cell line ID8 generates a syngeneic mouse model, recapitulating the primary and metastatic stages of the malignancy hence, frequently used in pre-clinical evaluation. Due to inherent phenotypic plasticity, primary and metastatic tumors show contrasting phenotypic features dictated by the tissue niche. To address the tumor heterogeneity within the model we stratified it into a specific molecular subtype, which would provide an accurate setting for interpretation of experimental data. Stratification was performed on ID8 cell line and ID8 generated xenografts based on immunostaining, live cell imaging, histopathology, transcriptomics and proteomics. Tumor microenvironment (TME) investigation for each xenograft was done through flow cytometry analysis. ID8 cells present epithelial/mesenchymal (E/M) phenotype. Phenotypic plasticity retention in them causes class switching of ID8 cells in response to niche alteration, from E/M (in culture) to intermediate epithelial (iE) in orthotopic tumors while intermediate mesenchymal (iM) in subcutaneous tumors. Metastasis of ID8 primary tumor resulted into differentiated mesenchymal phenotype in ascites while differentiated epithelial phenotype in secondary intestinal tumors. Immune profiling of primary and secondary xenografts revealed differences in immune repertoire of tumors, highlighting subcutaneous tumor model to be inappropriate as compared to orthotopic model. Local tissue niche modulates the phenotype of tumors generated, transitioning through intermediate states towards a final commitment to either an epithelial or mesenchymal state that recapitulates the reported class switching in patient tumors. During disease progression, such heterogeneity of tumor cells at different niche(s) and their cross-talks with discrete TME at each site, will pose challenges for effective therapy.
PXD057069	41047763	Muscle Cathepsin B Treatment Improves Behavioral and Neurogenic Deficits in a Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease. 	Muscle Cathepsin B benefits Alzheimer's Disease mice	Alzheimers disease, Cathepsin B, organ cross-talk	Increasing evidence indicates skeletal muscle function is associated with cognition. Muscle-secreted protease Cathepsin B (Ctsb) is linked to memory in animals and humans, but has an unclear role in neurodegenerative diseases. To address this question, we utilized an AAV-vector-mediated approach to express Ctsb in skeletal muscle of APP/PS1 Alzheimer's disease (AD) model mice. Mice were treated with Ctsb at 4 months of age, followed by behavioral analyses 6 months thereafter. Here we show that muscle-targeted Ctsb treatment results in long-term improvements in motor coordination, memory function, and adult hippocampal neurogenesis, while plaque pathology and neuroinflammation remain unchanged. Additionally, in AD mice, Ctsb treatment normalizes hippocampal, muscle, and plasma proteomic profiles to resemble that of wildtype (WT) controls. In AD mice, Ctsb increases the abundance of hippocampal proteins involved in mRNA metabolism and protein synthesis, including those relevant to adult neurogenesis and memory function. Furthermore, Ctsb treatment enhances plasma metabolic and mitochondrial processes. In muscle, Ctsb treatment elevates protein translation in AD mice, whereas in WT mice mitochondrial proteins decrease. In WT mice, Ctsb treatment causes memory deficits and results in protein profiles across tissues that are comparable to AD control mice. Overall, the biological changes in the treatment groups are consistent with effects on memory function. Thus, skeletal muscle Ctsb application has potential as an AD therapeutic intervention.
PXD053080	41049757	USP20 as a super-enhancer-regulated gene drives T-ALL progression via HIF1A deubiquitination. 	USP20 promotes T-ALL evolution by deubiquitinating modified HIF1A	HIF1A, USP20	T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is a highly aggressive hematologic malignancy with a poor prognosis, despite advancements in treatment. Many patients struggle with relapse or refractory disease. Investigating the role of the super-enhancer (SE) regulated gene ubiquitin-specific protease 20 (USP20) in T-ALL could enhance targeted therapies and improve clinical outcomes. Analysis of histone H3 lysine 27 acetylation (H3K27ac) chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) data from six T-ALL cell lines and seven pediatric samples identified USP20 as an SE-regulated driver gene. Utilizing the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE) and BloodSpot databases, it was found that USP20 is specifically highly expressed in T-ALL. Knocking down USP20 with short hairpin RNA (shRNA) increased apoptosis and inhibited proliferation in T-ALL cells. In vivo studies showed that USP20 knockdown reduced tumor growth and improved survival. The USP20 inhibitor GSK2643943A demonstrated similar anti-tumor effects. Mass spectrometry, RNA-Seq, and immunoprecipitation revealed that USP20 interacted with hypoxia-inducible factor 1 subunit alpha (HIF1A) and stabilized it by deubiquitination. Cleavage under targets and tagmentation (CUT&Tag) results indicated that USP20 co-localized with HIF1A, jointly modulating target genes in T-ALL. This study identifies USP20 as a therapeutic target in T-ALL and suggests GSK2643943A as a potential treatment strategy.
PXD061290	41050081	Discovery and Characterization of Novel IKZF1/3 Glue Degraders against Multiple Hematological Cancer Cell Lines. 	Discovery of novel CRBN ligands by virtual screening and biological evaluation against multiple hematological cancer cell lines	CRBN ligands, Hematological cancer, IMiDs, antitumor evaluation, molecular docking	Objectives: Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), functioning as molecular glue degraders, have been approved for treating various hematological malignancies; however, the inevitable acquired drug resistance resulting from their skeletal similarity and hematological toxicities poses significant obstacles to their clinical treatment. The study aimed to develop degraders with potent efficiency and low toxicity. Methods: Phenotypic profiling, elaborate structure-activity relationships (SAR), rational drug design and degradation profiles investigations, quantitative proteomics analysis and cell-based functional studies, and pharmacokinetic studies were conducted to develop more potent degraders. Results: This study developed novel CRBN-binding moieties through methylene deletion in lenalidomide's isoindole core. Lead compounds MGD-A7 and MGD-C9 demonstrated superior antiproliferative efficacy vs. IMiDs, with submicromolar potency. MGD-A7 and MGD-C9 significantly and selectively induced the degradation of Ikaros Family Zinc Finger Proteins 1 and 3 (IKZF1/3) with nanomolar potency via a CRBN-dependent pathway. Mechanistically, MGD-A7 and MGD-C9 dramatically induced cell apoptosis and G1 cell cycle arrest and MGD-C9 exhibited favorable pharmacokinetic properties in vivo. Furthermore, MGD-C9 exhibited significant synergistic effects with standard-of-care agents in various hematological malignancy cells. Conclusions: These results indicate that MGD-C9 could act as a highly effective CRBN ligand and is expected to become a candidate drug for the treatment of hematological malignancies.
PXD051362	41050936	FTO inhibition attenuates renal fibrosis by downregulating ferroptosis activator ACSL4 and profibrotic factor TGFBI. 	FTO inhibition attenuates obstruction-induced kidney fibrosis by downregulating ferroptosis activator ACSL4 and profibrotic factor TGFBI	FTO, HK2, ferroptosis, kidney fibrosis	Renal fibrosis (RF) is the main pathological feature and a potential therapeutic target of chronic kidney disease (CKD), a prevalent health problem causing a high economic burden to the health care system. Fat mass and obesity-associated (FTO) inhibition, either genetically or pharmacologically, significantly reduced collagen deposition, lipid peroxidation, and ferroptosis marker expression after unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) compared with sham-operated controls in mice. In murine and human kidney epithelial cells as well as in human embryonic stem cell-derived kidney organoids, FTO inhibition reduced erastin-induced ferroptosis by decreasing lipid peroxidation and reactive oxygen species production by downregulating the ferroptosis driver ACSL4. Moreover, FTO inhibition directly downregulated TGFBI, which was strongly associated with reduced M2 macrophage accumulation after UUO. Our results provide a strong rationale for targeting FTO to alleviate RF in patients subjected to obstruction-related kidney injury, thereby reducing the prevalence of CKD and associated treatment costs and improving the quality of life.
PXD062888	41053051	Targeting mitochondrial translation and OXPHOS in high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma eliminates stem-like cells. 	Orbitrap proteomic analysis of five distinct molecular subtypes of High Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma (HGSOC) under serum deprived and serum fed conditions	A4, CaOV3, High Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma (HGSOC), OVCA420, OVCAR3, OVMZ6, Serum starvation, ovarian cancer	Ex vivo stem cell self-renewal and maintenance is supported by absence of serum-derived mitogens. In the present study, we sought to elucidate the proteomes of stem-like cells grown in serum-free media across a panel of high-grade serous ovarian cancer cell lines, which encompass a gradient from epithelial, intermediate and mesenchymal cell phenotypes to recapitulate the heterogeneity of the disease. MaxQuant-based label-free quantification of proteins identified that despite their different cellular and molecular architectures, all phenotypes exhibited mitochondria- and stemness-related pathways under conditions of serum starvation, although the specific proteins involved were discrete to each phenotype. This suggests that common cellular programs in a disease can be mediated through variable biological networks that generates molecular heterogeneity. We further explored if these pathways are inter-related, co-regulated or just incidentally associated in response to an environment depleted of growth factors and mitogens. Irrespective of their phenotype, cell lines on serum-starvation displayed an increased amount of mitochondrial DNA, mitochondrial biogenesis and mitochondrial activity with a switch from glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation fuelled by the fatty acid oxidation. Ultra-structural studies implicated this metabolic fluctuation was regulated by dynamic mitochondrial remodelling. This also led us to explore a possible therapeutic strategy of targeting mitochondrial function to restrict tumor regenerative potential and disease recurrence. Conclusively, these new avenues contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of ovarian cancer.
PXD061689	41053113	SDC4 drives fibrotic remodeling of the intervertebral disc under altered spinal loading. 	SDC4 drives fibrotic remodeling of the intervertebral disc under altered spinal loading	Intervertebral disc, Nucleus pulposus, SDC4, Syndecan 4	Alterations in physiological loading of the spine are deleterious to intervertebral disc health. The base of the mouse caudal spine region Ca3-6 that naturally experiences increased flexion, showed adaptive tissue remodeling, reminiscent of disc degeneration in young adult mice. Given the role of Syndecan 4 (SDC4), a cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycan in disc matrix turnover and mechanosensing, we investigated if deletion could mitigate this loading-dependent phenotype. Notably, at spinal levels Ca3-6, Sdc4-knockout (KO) mice did not exhibit increased collagen fibril and fibronectin deposition in the nucleus pulposus (NP) compartment or showed the alterations in collagen crosslinks observed in wild-type mice. Similarly, unlike wild-type mice, NP cells in Sdc4-KO mice retained transgelin (TAGLN) expression and showed absence of collagen type X (COL10) deposition, pointing to the preservation of their notochordal characteristics. Proteomic analysis revealed that NP tissues responded to the altered loading by increasing the abundance of proteins associated with extracellular matrix remodeling, chondrocyte development, and contractility. Similarly, downregulated proteins suggested decreased vesicle transport, autophagy-related pathway, and RNA quality control regulation. Notably, NP proteome from Sdc4-KO suggested that increased dynamin-mediated endocytosis, autophagy-related pathway, and RNA and DNA quality control may underscore the protection from adaptive tissue remodeling caused by this naturally observed altered loading. Our study highlights the important role of SDC4 in fine-tuning cellular homeostasis and extracellular matrix production in disc environment subjected to altered loading.
PXD065722	41053170	Discovery of a CNS active GSK3 degrader using orthogonally reactive linker screening. 	Discovery of a CNS active GSK3 degrader using orthogonally reactive linker screening	Central Nervous System, Direct-to-Biology, Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3, Targeted Protein Degradation	Bifunctional targeted protein degraders, also known as Proteolysis Targeting Chimeras (PROTACs), are an emerging drug modality that may offer a new approach for treating neurodegenerative diseases. Identifying chemical starting points for PROTACs remains a largely empirical process and the design rules for identifying Central Nervous System (CNS) active PROTACs have yet to be established. Here we demonstrate a concept of using orthogonally reactive linker reagents, that allow the construction of screening libraries whereby the E3 ligase binder, the target protein binder and the linker can be simultaneously varied and tested directly in cellular assays. This approach enabled the discovery of Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 (GSK3) PROTACs which are CNS in vivo active in female mice. Our findings provide opportunities to investigate the role of GSK3 paralogs in cellular and in vivo disease models and for the rapid discovery of in vivo quality bifunctional chemical probes for CNS disease concepts.
PXD035143	41053424	NAA60 facilitates LRRC8A- and LRRC8D-mediated platinum drug uptake. 	Plasma membrane analysis of NAA60-deficient mouse mammary tumor cells	NAA60, Plasma membrane isolation	The platinum-based drugs cis- and carboplatin, which are crucial for treating cancers with DNA repair defects, like those caused by BRCA1/2 mutations, rely on the volume-regulated anion channel subunits LRRC8A and LRRC8D for about 50% of cellular drug uptake. Yet, the precise mechanisms of how LRRC8A and LRRC8D mediate this function are largely unknown. Here, we identify NAA60, an N-terminal acetyltransferase, which localizes to the Golgi apparatus to affect LRRC8A and LRRC8D function. Our data suggest that NAA60 acetylates the LRRC8A/D N-termini, and its loss decreases cis- and carboplatin uptake resulting in drug resistance of otherwise hypersensitive BRCA1;p53-deficient cells and tumors. Furthermore, we mimicked the absence of the neutralizing acetyl moiety that is observed after loss of NAA60 by introducing positively charged amino acids at the N-termini of LRRC8A/D, which indeed decreased cis- and carboplatin sensitivity. Our findings highlight the importance of N-terminal acetylation by NAA60 for effective platinum drug uptake, offering new insights into overcoming drug resistance.
PXD051201	41053566	Dissecting sexual dimorphism in aortic valve stenosis by proteomics. 	Dissecting Sexual Dimorphism in Aortic Valve Stenosis by Proteomics	DIA, aortic valve, sex dimorphism	BACKGROUND: The treatment of aortic valve stenosis (AVS) remains limited to aortic valve replacement (AVR). No pharmacotherapy has yet proven efficacious, and its development is challenged by sexual dimorphism. Women display extensive valve fibrosis, and men present remarkably higher valve calcification. To accelerate the development of sex-personalised therapies, deeper molecular insights are needed. Hence, we aimed to characterise AVS sexual dimorphism using proteomics. METHODS: Fifty surgically excised valves (50% women) were homogenised, and the proteins were quantified by LC-MS/MS. The influence of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in sexual dimorphism was appraised using bioinformatics. DEPs were validated using immunohistochemistry, qRT-PCR and ELISA, with 30 additional valves. RESULTS: We quantified ~ 4,000 proteins and 76 DEPs between sexes. CD163, CD74, and NADPH oxidase-2 (NOX2) were more abundant in men's valves and central in a protein-protein interaction network. Functional enrichment analysis (FEA) supported increased lipoprotein binding and macrophage activation in men's valves, confirmed by increased CD74 + cell infiltration (immunohistochemistry). Aminopeptidase N, coagulation factor XIII, and metalloreductase STEAP4 were more abundant in men's valves at the transcript and protein levels. FEA indicated a women-specific dysregulation of spliceosomal proteins that may dictate a pro-fibrotic phenotype, which was observed histologically. A higher glutathione peroxidase-1/NOX2 ratio (ELISA) was found in women, suggesting increased protection against oxidative stress. CONCLUSIONS: Proteomics confirms sexual dimorphism in AVS. Women displayed a higher degree of fibrotic remodelling, whereas men displayed greater immune cell infiltration and were less protected from oxidation, favouring calcification. Proteomics identified putative targets for a sex-personalised AVS modulation.
PXD031457	41053825	Integrated multi-omics highlights alterations of gut microbiome functions in prodromal and idiopathic Parkinson's disease. 	Integrated multi-omics highlights alterations of gut microbiome functions in prodromal and idiopathic Parkinson's disease	Archaea, Microbiome, Parkinson	BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with gut microbiome shifts. These shifts are mainly described at taxonomic level, but the functional consequences remain unclear. To obtain insight into the functional disruptions of the gut microbiome in PD, we used an integrated multi-omics approach, comparing gut microbiomes of individuals with PD, prodromal PD, and healthy controls. RESULTS: Meta-metabolomics, the most discriminatory and robust omics level, was selected to Guide the analysis. We identified 11 metabolites that were differentially abundant between the groups, among which beta-glutamate was increased in PD and prodromal PD, and correlated with the transcriptional activities of Methanobrevibacter smithii and Clostridium spp. We identified decreases in transcripts, but not in gene abundances, related to glutamate metabolism, bile acids biosynthesis, chemotaxis, and flagellar assembly in PD, particularly in keystone genera such as Roseburia, Agathobacter, and Blautia. Our findings, integrated into the Expobiome map, reveal multifactorial microbiome alterations which converge with PD pathways. CONCLUSION: Our study highlights the apparent disruption of microbial gene expression in PD, particularly in genes associated to mobility. Moreover, we showcase the importance of investigating the gut microbiome's functional dimensions to better resolve microbiome-host interactions in health and disease.
PXD060418	41055712	TRPV6 channel function is involved in endometrial epithelial cell Ca(2+) signaling and female mouse fecundity. 	TRPV6 essentially contributes to Ca2+ influx in endometrial epithelial cells and female mouse fecundity	MEEC, MESC, TRPV6, endometrium, fecundity	The Ca(2+)-selective transient receptor potential vanilloid 6 (TRPV6) channel plays a fundamental role in the female and male murine reproductive system. We have previously shown that TRPV6 is essential for male fertility, and necessary for a proper placental Ca(2+) transport, embryonic bone development and calcification, as well as for extracellular matrix formation in the placental labyrinth. Here, we show that lack of functional TRPV6 results in impaired fecundity in female mice with increased latency to first pregnancy, longer interpregnancy intervals and fewer and smaller litters. In mouse endometrium the TRPV6 protein is expressed in epithelial cells (MEECs). Using patch clamp recording and Ca(2+) imaging, we show TRPV6-dependent whole-cell currents and that TRPV6 contributes to cytoplasmic Ca(2+) signaling in MEECs. MEECs lacking functional TRPV6 Ca(2+) channels reveal a significantly reduced frequency of spontaneous cytosolic Ca(2+) oscillations, shown in isolated cells and in situ in whole mount uterus preparations. Our results reveal a previously unknown physiological role for TRPV6 in the regulation of endometrial Ca(2+) homeostasis and its impact on female fecundity in mice, providing a molecular and cellular framework for further investigation of reproductive disorders, such as those associated with defective Ca(2+) regulation in women.
PXD059782	41055961	The septin cytoskeleton is a novel regulator of intestinal epithelial barrier integrity and mucosal inflammation. 	SEPT9 APMS from DLD-1 cells associated with intestinal epithelium	AP-MS, Co-IP, DLD-1, IP-MS, Intestinal Epithelial Cells, SEPT9	Intestinal epithelial barrier-integrity is essential for human health, and its disruption induces and exacerbates intestinal inflammatory disorders. While the epithelial cytoskeleton is critical for maintaining gut barrier-integrity, the role of septins- a family of GTP-binding, cytoskeletal proteins- is largely unknown. This highlights an important knowledge gap as dysfunction of septins, and specifically septin 9 (SEPT9), is associated with intestinal pathologies. We determined that SEPT9 localizes to the apical junctions of intestinal epithelial cells (IECs), overlapping with both tight and adherens junctions. IEC-specific ablation of SEPT9 in mice resulted in leaky gut, due to mislocalization of junctional proteins, and increased susceptibility to experimental colitis. Consistently, SEPT9 expression was significantly reduced in intestinal mucosa of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients. Using affinity-purification mass spectrometry, super-resolution imaging, and genetic knockout, we determined that SEPT9 interacts with and is necessary to recruit non-muscle myosin IIC (NMIIC) to the IEC peri-junctional actomyosin belt. Loss of NMIIC also caused IEC barrier disruption. In summary, SEPT9 regulates intestinal barrier-integrity by supporting the assembly of tight and adherens junctions through NMIIC recruitment to the actomyosin belt. The septin cytoskeleton safeguards the intestinal mucosa during acute inflammation, and its disruption in IBD suggests a loss of this protective function.
PXD055544	41056506	Recurrent immunogenic neoantigens and their cognate T-cell receptors in treatment-resistant metastatic prostate cancer. 	Recurrent immunogenic neoantigens and their cognate T-cell receptors in treatment-resistant metastatic prostate cancer 	Neopeptide, T cell receptor, Treatment resistance	New approaches that generate long-lasting therapeutic responses in therapy-resistant metastatic cancer patients are urgently needed. To address this challenge, we developed SpotNeoMet, a novel data-driven pipeline that systematically identifies recurrently presented neopeptides in treatment-resistant patients. We identified seven therapy resistance mutations predicted to produce neo-peptides presented by common HLAs. Using HLA-immunopeptidomics, we discovered three novel neopeptides derived from Androgen Receptor (AR) H875Y, a common metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) mutation. We validated these neoantigens as highly immunogenic and then isolated and characterized cognate T-cell receptors (TCRs) from healthy donor peripheral blood mononuclear cells. We demonstrated that AR H875Y specific TCRs are highly specific and kill prostate cancer cells presenting AR neo-peptides in vitro and in vivo. Our new pipeline identifies novel immunotherapy targets and potential treatment options for mCRPC patients. Moreover, SpotNeoMet offers a systematic route to identify 'HLA-peptide' pairs and their cognate TCRs across treatment-resistant cancers.
PXD067178	41057874	Endothelial cell-derived apoptotic bodies modulate innate and adaptive immune responses during inflammation. 	Endothelial cell-derived apoptotic bodies modulate innate and adaptive immune responses during inflammation	Endothelial, Inflammation Apoptosis	Endothelial cells (ECs) act as gatekeepers and signalling hubs that coordinate communication between blood vessels and surrounding tissues by regulating vascular tone, immune responses and numerous other physiological processes. During vascular inflammation commonly associated with aging, atherosclerosis, diabetes and autoimmunity, a range of biological, environmental and physical stressors can induce activation and apoptosis of ECs. Apoptotic bodies (ApoBDs) are large (~ 1-5 mum), membrane-bound extracellular vesicles generated solely through apoptotic cell disassembly, that are increasingly recognised as mediators of intercellular communication via the transfer of bioactive molecules to target cells. Although EC apoptosis is a central feature of vascular inflammatory disorders, the formation of EC-derived ApoBDs and their immunomodulatory roles when formed in an inflammatory environment, remains poorly defined. This study aimed to characterise the functional properties of EC-derived ApoBDs generated under inflammatory conditions in vitro. A proteomics analysis of EC-derived ApoBDs revealed that EC-ApoBDs generated during inflammation ('iApoBDs') were enriched in inflammatory cytokines/chemokines, adhesion molecules and antigen presentation machinery compared with non-inflammatory ('ApoBD') controls. Functionally, iApoBDs promoted monocyte chemotaxis via the release of MCP-1, while altered expression of the adhesion molecule ICAM-1 enhanced efferocytosis by macrophages in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, iApoBDs generated from antigen-pulsed HUVECs promoted IFN-* expression by peptide specific CD8 T cells in an in vitro model of antigen presentation. These findings demonstrate that within an inflammatory setting, apoptotic ECs can participate in continued communication with their environment via the generation of ApoBDs, thereby modulating innate and adaptive immune processes. The formation of ApoBDs by ECs may serve as a target for therapeutic interventions in inflammatory vascular diseases.
PXD056416	41060914	Relation between proteome characterization and semen quality in Italian chicken breeds. 	Relation between proteome characterization and semen quality in Italian chicken breeds	nanoLC-MS/MS	The conservation of local chicken breeds is essential to safeguard genetic biodiversity and promote sustainable poultry production. Sperm cryopreservation is a key tool for the long-term maintenance of genetic diversity by enabling the storage of male gametes from endangered or valuable breeders for future use in conservation and breeding programs. However, significant variability in semen quality and fertility across breeds limits the effectiveness of cryopreservation protocols. This study aimed to explore the relationship between sperm protein composition and semen quality in five Italian chicken breeds, Bionda Piemontese (BP), Bianca di Saluzzo (BS), Mericanel della Brianza (MB), Pepoi (Pe), and Robusta Maculata (R), known for distinct reproductive traits. Semen samples were analyzed for volume, concentration, membrane integrity, and sperm motility, and for sperm proteomes by a label-free shotgun proteomics approach, to characterize potential molecular pathways associated with semen quality. Significant inter-breed differences were observed in semen parameters; Pe roosters showed the highest semen volume and concentration, but lower values in kinematic traits, including curvilinear velocity (VCL), straight-line velocity (VSL), and average path velocity (VAP). RM and MB exhibited the most favorable sperm membrane integrity, progressive sperm motility and sperm kinematic profile, with high VCL, VSL, VAP, linearity and wobble, despite lower semen volume. The remaining breeds showed intermediate values across most traits. Overall, results suggest breed-specific patterns and a potential trade-off between semen quantity and sperm motion efficiency. Proteomic analysis showed that proteins involved in energy metabolism, cytoskeletal dynamics, and membrane integrity were differentially abundant across breeds and correlated with specific semen traits. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis revealed enrichment of pathways such as the HSP90 chaperone cycle, TP53 transcriptional regulation, and insulin-like growth factor signaling in association with sperm motility and quality. Our findings demonstrate that sperm proteomes are associated with breed-specific fertility traits. This study provides new insights into the molecular basis of semen quality variability and biological conservation of avian genetic resources.
PXD061719	41062068	SH2-mediated steric occlusion of the C2 domain regulates autoinhibition of SHIP1 inositol 5-phosphatase. 	Analysis of mini-SHIP1 with pY Peptide by HDX-MS	HDX-MS, SHIP1	The Src homology 2 (SH2) domain containing inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP1) is an immune cell specific enzyme that regulates phosphatidylinositol-(3,4,5)-trisphosphate signaling at the plasma membrane following receptor activation. SHIP1 plays an important role in processes such as directed cell migration, endocytosis, and cortical membrane oscillations. Alterations in SHIP1 expression have been shown to perturb myeloid cell chemotaxis and differentiation. In the brain, SHIP1 regulate microglial cell behaviors, which has been linked to Alzheimer's disease. Understanding the structural and functional relationships of SHIP1 is critical for developing ways to modulate SHIP1 membrane localization and lipid phosphatase activity during immune cell signaling. Recently, we discovered that the N-terminal SH2 domain of SHIP1 suppresses lipid phosphatase activity. SHIP1 autoinhibition can be relieved through interactions with receptor-derived phosphotyrosine (pY) peptides presented on membranes or in solution. Using hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) we identified intramolecular contacts between the N-terminal SH2 domain and CBL1 motif of the C2 domain that limit SHIP1 membrane localization and activity. Single molecule measurements of purified SHIP1 on supported lipid bilayers and in neutrophil-like cells support a model in which the SH2 domain blocks membrane binding of the central catalytic module. Mutations that disrupt autoinhibition enhance the membrane binding frequency and increase the catalytic efficiency of SHIP1. Although dimerization of SHIP1 enhances membrane localization and the apparent phosphatase activity, it is not required for SHIP1 autoinhibition. Overall, our results provide new insight concerning SHIP1's structural organization, membrane binding dynamics, and the mechanism of autoinhibition.
PXD067277	41062510	Enhancing peptide identification in metaproteomics through curriculum learning in deep learning. 	Enhancing Peptide Identification in Metaproteomics through Curriculum Learning in Deep Learning	human gut, marine, soil	Metaproteomics offers a powerful window into the active functions of microbial communities, but accurately identifying peptides remains challenging due to the size and incompleteness of protein databases derived from metagenomes. These databases often contain vastly more sequences than those from single organisms, creating a computational bottleneck in peptide-spectrum match (PSM) filtering. Here we present WinnowNet, a deep learning-based method for PSM filtering, available in two versions: one using transformers and the other convolutional neural networks. Both variants are designed to handle the unordered nature of PSM data and are trained using a curriculum learning strategy that moves from simple to complex examples. WinnowNet consistently achieves more true identifications at equivalent false discovery rates compared to leading tools, including Percolator, MS(2)Rescore, and DeepFilter, and outperforms filters integrated into popular analysis pipelines. It also uncovers more gut microbiome biomarkers related to diet and health, highlighting its potential to support advances in personalized medicine.
PXD059176	41062932	Spatial proteomics to discover aging-associated alterations in the renal tubulointerstitium. 	Spatial proteomics to discover aging-associated alterations in the renal tubulointerstitium	FFPE, Kidney, LCM	The preservation of tissue architecture and morphology in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues enables spatial resolution at the cellular and sub-cellular levels. Laser capture microdissection (LCM) combined with liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry analysis permits collection of tissue areas with spatial context for proteome profiling from FFPE slides. In this study, we performed proteome profiling of non-diseased renal tubulointerstitial tissue in a cohort of young (< 40 years) and old (> 70 years) individuals with the goal of spatially correlating the histomorphology to the proteomic profile. To perform in-depth characterization of renal tubulointerstitium and to identify renal aging-associated proteins, a multiplexing strategy using tandem mass tags (TMT) was employed, resulting in the quantitation of 7,355 proteins. Our approach allowed for identification of proteins with low abundance such as fibrocystin and ninein-like protein. Notably, 162 solute carrier proteins from 47 solute carrier families were identified, which were enriched in proximal and distal tubule cells. Finally, we discovered a proteomic signature associated with renal aging, which includes metalloproteinase inhibitor 3, nicotinamide N-methyltransferase, matrix metallopeptidase 7, phenazine biosynthesis-like domain-containing protein and solute carrier family 23 member 1. Overall, our study demonstrates the power of LCM combined with proteomics to leverage archived FFPE tissue samples for investigating proteomic alterations in the renal tubulointerstitium with age at a high depth of proteome coverage.
PXD065004	41063342	Teamwork of clustered low-affinity kappaB sites and accessory factors regulates transcriptional strength of NF-kappaB RelA dimers. 	Teamwork of clustered low affinity B sites and accessory factors regulates transcriptional strength of NF-B RelA dimers	NF-kappa B (NF-B), cofactor, promoter, transcription, B DNA	Non-consensus binding sites of transcription factors (TFs) are often observed within the regulatory elements of genes; however, their effect on transcriptional strength is unclear. Within the promoters and enhancers of NF-kappaB-responsive genes, we identified clusters of non-consensus kappaB DNA sites, many exhibiting low affinity for NF-kappaB in vitro. Deletion of these sites demonstrated their collective critical role in transcription. We explored how these "weak" kappaB sites exert their influence, especially given the typically low nuclear concentrations of NF-kappaB. Using proteomics approaches, we identified additional nuclear factors, including other DNA-binding TFs, that could interact with kappaB site-bound NF-kappaB RelA. ChIP-seq and RNA-seq analyses suggest that these accessory TFs, referred to as the TF-cofactors of NF-kappaB, facilitate dynamic recruitment of NF-kappaB to the clustered weak kappaB sites. Overall, the occupancy of NF-kappaB at promoters and enhancers appears to be defined by a collective contribution from all kappaB sites, both weak and strong, in association with specific cofactors. This congregation of multiple factors within dynamic transcriptional complexes is likely a common feature of transcriptional programs.
PXD059878	41063346	KAT5-mediated acetylation of PC4 facilitates DNA repair by promoting chromatin reorganization. 	KAT5-mediated acetylation of PC4 facilitates DNA repair by promoting chromatin reorganization	Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM), DNA damage, Lysine acetyltransferases (KATs), Positive coactivator 4 (PC4), non-histone chromatin protein	Human positive coactivator 4 (PC4) is a highly abundant non-histone chromatin protein involved in diverse cellular processes, including transcription regulation, genome organization, autophagy, B-cell differentiation, neurogenesis, DNA repair, etc. Most PC4 is phosphorylated in cells, which interacts with core histones and the linker histone H1 to confer the compact heterochromatin state of the genome. Knocking down PC4 at both cellular and organismal levels leads to significant chromatin decondensation, altered epigenetic landscape, enhanced autophagy, and increased DNA damage susceptibility. Here, we report that besides p300, PC4 also gets acetylated by DNA repair, facilitating lysine acetyltransferase KAT5 (Tip60) at a specific lysine residue (PC4K80) when the cells are subjected to DNA damage. The vulnerability of DNA in PC4 devoid cells was substantially reduced by reintroducing wild-type PC4 to the cells but not the mutant PC4 (PC4K80R), defective in KAT5-mediated acetylation. High-resolution microscopy techniques, including transmission electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy, are employed to visualize chromatin structural changes in response to DNA damage and repair in a Tip60-mediated PC4 acetylation-dependent manner. Presumably, KAT5-mediated acetylation of PC4 at K80 residue facilitates access to the damaged DNA by altering chromatin structures at damage sites, thus promoting DNA repair. This process could be highly significant both in cancer and in aging.
PXD058251	41063441	Proteomic Profiling of Extracellular Vesicles Distinguishes Prostate Cancer Molecular Subtypes. 	The proteome landscape of extracellular vesicles from prostate cancer cell lines	DatasetType:Proteomics, Extracellular Vesicles, Prostate Cancer	Prostate cancer is the most common non-cutaneous cancer among men in the United States. Most prostate cancers are driven by androgen receptor (AR) signalling, but there are an increasing number of cases that lose AR and gain neuroendocrine (NE) features (AR-/NE+) or lack both (AR-/NE-). These latter subtypes are particularly aggressive and lethal. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have shown great potential as biomarkers for non-invasive liquid biopsy assays, as EVs contain biomolecules from their cells of origin. Here, we used a shotgun proteomics approach with mass spectrometry to interrogate the global proteome of EVs isolated from prostate cancer cell lines reflecting diverse clinical subtypes, including AR-/NE+ and AR-/NE- models. We identified 3952 EV proteins, which clustered largely by tumour subtype and provided enough proteomic coverage to derive classic gene signatures of AR or NE identity that are of high relevance for prostate cancer prognostication. EVs isolated from AR+ cells displayed high levels of proteins regulated by AR and mTOR signalling. EVs isolated from AR-/NE+ cells contained known NE markers such as SYP and CHGA, whereas EVs from AR-/NE- models were enriched in basal cell markers and proteins that regulate epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). We integrated our cell line data with recently published EV proteomics data from 27 advanced prostate cancer patients and found 2733 overlapping proteins, including cell surface markers relevant to prostate cancer, AR activity indicators, and proteins enriched in specific subtypes (AR+, AR-/NE-, AR-/NE+). This approach may be useful for rare cancer subtypes, such as prostate cancers that lose AR-related features and gain NE features, to optimise the use of these liquid biopsy samples for clinical decision making.
PXD031055	41064949	A Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Mycobacterial PknG-Mediated Host Immune Evasion. 	Phosphoproteomics reveals alternative roles of PknG in mycobacterial pathogenesis	Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Phosphoproteomics, Phosphorylation, Post-translational modifications, Serine/Threonine Protein Kinases, Substrate identification	Pathogenic mycobacteria, such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis, modulate the host immune system to evade clearance and promote long-term persistence, leading to disease progression or latent infection. Understanding how these mycobacteria evade elimination is key to uncovering the molecular mechanisms of infection. Protein kinase G (PknG) in pathogenic mycobacteria plays a critical role in avoiding macrophage clearance by inhibiting phagosome-lysosome fusion; however, the exact mechanism is not completely understood. To investigate the role of PknG during early events of macrophage infection, RAW 264.7 macrophages were infected with Mycobacterium bovis BCG wild-type and PknG knockout mutant strains. Phosphoproteomic analysis, including TiO2-based phosphopeptide enrichment and LC-MS/MS, identified 3003 phosphosites across 1638 host proteins. Differential expression analysis revealed 143 phosphosites significantly altered between wild-type and mutant infections, with 95 exhibiting increased phosphorylation in the presence of PknG. Additionally, 34 phosphosites were exclusively phosphorylated in the presence of PknG. Functional analysis demonstrated that PknG kinase activity reprograms normal macrophage function by interfering with host cytoskeletal organization, phagosome maturation, and programmed cell death, establishing a new role for PknG in directing the fate of mycobacteria within macrophages. Differentially phosphorylated proteins in this study serve as a foundation for further validation and the assignment of PknG host substrate assignment.
PXD067550	41068261	HSPA4 restrains transferrin in dopaminergic neurons to attenuate ferroptosis in a Parkinson's disease model. 	HSPA4 restrains transferrin in dopaminergic neurons to attenuate ferroptosis in a Parkinson's disease model	Dopaminergic neurons, Ferroptosis, HSPA4, Parkinson's disease, Transferrin	Heat shock protein A4 (HSPA4) is a molecular chaperone belonging to the heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) family. This study aims to investigate the antiferroptotic effects of HSPA4 in a Parkinson's disease (PD) model and explore the underlying mechanisms. Here we show that HSPA4 overexpression reduces ferroptosis in erastin-treated SH-SY5Y cells and primary dopaminergic neurons, while HSPA4 knockdown exacerbates ferroptosis. In MPTP-induced PD model mice, HSPA4 rectifies behavioral defects, prevents the loss of dopaminergic neurons, and alleviates ferroptosis. Mechanistically, HSPA4 interacts with transferrin in the cytoplasm and inhibits its export from the cell. Consequently, extracellular iron cannot be transported into cells due to a lack of transferrin, thereby attenuating ferroptosis in dopaminergic neurons and slowing PD progression. By restraining transferrin in dopaminergic neurons, HSPA4 reduces ferroptosis and alleviates parkinsonism in a PD mouse model. Therefore, HSPA4 might present a potential therapeutic target for the development of PD treatments.
PXD060613	41068275	Tizoxanide associated with anti-virulent activity controls fire blight disease caused by Erwinia amylovora in Malus asiatica. 	Comparative proteomics for investigating the effect of tizoxanide treatment in Erwinia amylovora	erwinia amylovora	Erwinia amylovora is a causative pathogen of fire blight disease, affecting apple, pear, and other rosaceous plants. This study aimed to discover new anti-virulence agents to control this plant bacterial disease by preventing its pathogenesis. To this end, 2485 small molecules were screened for targeting the type III secretion system (T3SS) which is a critical virulence factor in E. amylovora. Our screening identified tizoxanide as a potent inhibitor, significantly reducing the promoter activity of hrpA, which encodes the Hrp pilus protein essential for T3SS function. Beyond T3SS inhibition, tizoxanide also exhibited inhibitory effects on other virulence factors by down-regulating genes associated with these functions. Given its broad effects on various virulence factors, we conducted a proteomic analysis of E. amylovora treated with tizoxanide, and the results revealed differentially expressed proteins related to cell metabolism and pathogenesis. In a plant infection model, spray treatment with tizoxanide effectively protected Chinese pearleaf crabapple seedlings against E. amylovora. Furthermore, a synthesized tizoxanide derivative containing an isoxazole moiety further enhanced hrpA promoter inhibition and disease control efficacy compared to the tizoxanide. Taken together, our results highlight the potential of tizoxanide as an anti-virulence agent to prevent plant disease caused by E. amylovora.
PXD066393	41068872	Integrated fibre-specific methylome and proteome profiling of human skeletal muscle across males and females with fibre-type deconvolution. 	Integrated Fibre-Specific Methylome and Proteome Profiling of Human Skeletal Muscle Across Males and Females with Fibre-Type Deconvolution.	DNA methylation, Deconvolution, EPICv2 Infinium array, Human skeletal muscle, Muscle fibres, MyoMETH, MyoTYPE., Type I (slow-twitch), Type II (fast-twitch)	BACKGROUND: Skeletal muscle is an important organ for health and movement, largely driven by specific muscle fibres. However, the comparison of fibre-type-specific DNA methylation and protein abundance from the same sample presents challenges. By combining previous methodological approaches we were able to directly compare the methylome and proteome in Type I and Type II human skeletal muscle fibres in males and females. METHODS: We assessed the methylome using the EPICv2 Infinium array and the proteome using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) from Type I and Type II fibre pools from both males ( n = 7  ) and females ( n = 5  ). RESULTS: We identified 5,689 robust differentially methylated regions (Fisher P-value < 0.001  ) and found strong relationships between methylation and protein abundance in key contractile and metabolic genes. Further, we generated a reference matrix of Type I and Type II fibres and leveraged deconvolution algorithms to accurately estimate fibre-type proportions using whole-muscle DNA methylation data, providing a method to correct for fibre-type in future studies. These results are presented primarily as a resource for others to utilise. CONCLUSION: We provide integrated methylome and proteome profiles of human muscle fibre-types generalisable to both male and females as a freely accessible interactive repository, MyoMETH ( https://myometh.net ), allowing further investigation into fibre regulation. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD066393 and the Gene Expression Omnibus at GSE304045 .
PXD064948	41069381	A proteomics investigation of primary human articular chondrocyte isolation. 	Impact of collagenase treatment on the proteome and transcriptome of human articular chondrocytes	chondrocytes, collagenase, osteoarthritis, phenotype, transcriptomic	Objective: Human primary articular chondrocytes (hPACs) are routinely isolated from articular cartilage for pre-clinical OA research. Collagenase digest of tissue is an essential step, yet the impact of lengthy enzymatic incubation on the hPAC phenotype is unclear. We aimed to delineate this through proteomic analysis. Design: hPACs were isolated from human knee cartilage (n = 4) from patients undergoing total knee replacement. Collagenase treatment was performed with or without prior fixation of the tissue. Proteomes were quantified using LC-MS/MS. The Proteomic Ruler was employed to estimate protein copy numbers and cell protein masses. Significant differences in protein intensities were determined using paired t-testing and Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Proteomic data were integrated with existing transcriptomes (GSE217871) of hPACs and ground cartilage (ex vivo) RNA. Results: Following collagenase treatment, we identified 498 differentially expressed proteins (DEP) in the unfixed cells. We observed depletion of FOXO signaling and enrichment of ribosomal RNA processing, indicative of increased cell cycle progression. This was supported by depletion of cell cycle inhibitors including CDKN1C. Transcriptomic analysis identified 3937 differentially expressed genes (DEG), and a 53 % overlap in DEP and DEG. Propidium iodide staining did not identify significant differences in cell cycle between fixed and unfixed hPACs. Conclusions: We identified shifts in the proteome and transcriptome of hPACs following collagenase digest, supporting the use of tissue fixation before extracting nucleic acids for analysis where possible. Despite widespread expression changes, hPACs largely retain their chondrocyte phenotype. These datasets and analyses will serve as a valuable resource for the OA and cartilage research community.
PXD065863	41070140	Pathogenic diversity of Cryptococcus in Galleria mellonella extends beyond classical virulence factors. 	Classical virulence factors do not defineCryptococcuspathogenic diversity	Cryptococcus, Virulence, diversity, pathogenic	Pathogenic determinants in the Cryptococcus genus have been extensively studied, often using standard laboratory isolates. Here, we analyzed the virulence of ten Cryptococcus isolates from diverse sources, species, and genotypes. These isolates exhibited marked differences in their ability to colonize and kill the invertebrate host Galleria mellonella, as well as in their interactions with hemocytes. Capsule formation also varied widely among isolates, with no clear correlation between virulence in G. mellonella and source of isolation, species, fungal burden, capsule size, or interaction with larval hemocytes. To further investigate the basis of this pathogenic diversity, we selected two hypervirulent isolates (C. deuterogattii and C. neoformans) and two hypovirulent isolates (C. gattii and C. neoformans) for in-depth analysis. Differences in the induction of antimicrobial peptides during infection did not account for the observed variation in virulence. Genomic analysis of capsule-related genes, scanning electron microscopy of capsule morphology in vitro and in vivo, and nuclear magnetic resonance of the major capsular polysaccharide all revealed high variability among isolates, but none of these features correlated with virulence. Proteomic profiling of cellular extracts showed that virulent strains were enriched in proteins associated with oxidative processes. Supplementation with an antioxidant during infection increased the virulence of hypovirulent isolates in G. mellonella. These results reveal a high pathogenic diversity in Cryptococcus that goes beyond its classical virulence factors.
PXD059789	41070614	Adipocyte-derived extracellular vesicles sustain mitochondrial metabolism in breast cancer cells: New insights into the cross-talk between cancer cells and the tumor microenvironment. 	3T3-L1A-derived Extracellular Vesicles Impact the Proteomic Profile of Breast Cancer Cells	DIA, Extracellular vescicles, FASP, breast cancer, mitochondrial metabolism, orbitrap	Adipocytes represent the most prominent component of breast tissue stroma and are recognized as significant contributors to the observed association between obesity and breast cancer (BC). It has been widely reported that dysfunctional adipose tissue in obesity has a profound effect on the biology of BC via the secretion of several bioactive molecules. Recently, extracellular vesicles (EVs), a heterogeneous group of membrane-enclosed structures, have been recognized as key players in adipocyte-BC cell communication. We previously demonstrated that adipocyte-derived EVs promoted BC proliferation, migration, invasion, stemness and traits of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition through the activation of hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha). The present study, to further understand the impact of EVs in breast adiponcosis, investigated the effects of adipocyte-derived EVs on the BC proteome. By employing liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and different bioinformatic tools (such as Proteomap, STRING, FunRich, Reactome and MsigDB), it was found that adipocyte-derived EVs regulated the expression of multiple proteins implicated in metabolic processes. Adipocyte-derived EVs shifted cell metabolism towards oxidative phosphorylation in estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) BC cell lines, including MCF-7, ZR-75-1 and BT-474 BC cells, through an increased mitochondrial activity along with an enhanced ATP production. These findings were extended by treating BC cells with EVs isolated from the serum of patients with BC classified as normal weight (NW-EVs) and overweight or obese (OW/Ob-EVs). Treatment of BC cells with OW/Ob-EVs resulted in a significant increase of mitochondrial activity and ATP production compared with NW-EVs. Of note, inhibition of HIF-1alpha expression/activity reversed the effects of both adipocyte-derived EVs and OW/Ob-EVs on BC cell metabolism. In conclusion, the present study underscored the pivotal role of EVs in the BC-obesity link, highlighting their involvement in driving metabolic reprogramming in ER+ BC cells through HIF-1alpha.
PXD060809	41070926	Protein Metabolism Underlying Heat Tolerance in Contrasting Creeping Bentgrass Lines: Insights From Gel-Free Proteomics and Polyubiquitin-Omics. 	Protein Metabolism Underlying Heat Tolerance in Contrasting Creeping Bentgass Lines: Insights From Gel-Free Proteomics	creeping bentgrass, gel-free proteomics, heat stress, polyubiquitin-omics, proteostasis	One of the major disfunctions in heat-stressed plants is enhanced protein damage. Creeping bentgrass (Agrositis stolonifera L.) is an economically important perennial grass species but it is sensitive to high temperatures. Several experimental lines of creeping bentgrass varied in response for physiological traits, total protein content, and protein degradation rates in response to heat stress. The ubiquitin-proteasome system plays a crucial role in the removal of damaged proteins, and there is a critical need to better understand the changes in proteins that occur during heat stress. Hence, we aimed to estimate change in global protein accumulations by performing gel-free proteomics, and polyubiquitin-omics to identify proteins that have been polyubiquitinated and targeted to the ubiquitin-proteasome system with Tandem Ubiquitin Binding Entities in contrasting lines exposed to heat. We found that metabolic processes, like photosynthesis, antioxidant defense and protein refolding could be regulating heat tolerance in creeping bentgrass. Heat-tolerant line S11 729-10 was able to maintain proteins involved in the light reactions of photosynthesis, while enhancing antioxidant proteins, particularly during the later phase of heat stress. This contributed to its improved performance, including greater cell membrane integrity as well as healthier light harvesting components. Additionally, the faster turnover of key polyubiquitinated antioxidant proteins in S11 729-10 likely represents a critical mechanism for protecting against oxidative damage. This is the first time that polyubiquitin-omics has been utilized in turfgrass. These findings provide insights into protein metabolism during heat stress that could be utilized to help develop new cultivars with enhanced tolerance to heat.
PXD038003	41071973	Extracellular Vesicles as Novel Biomarkers for Tumor Association in Intermediate-Risk Paraneoplastic Neurologic Syndromes. 	Treatment choice matters in multiple sclerosis: The role of extracellular vesicles in predicting treatment response.	Blood, Exosomes, Extracellular VesBiomarkers, Extracellular Vesicles, Intracerebral Hemorrhage, Multiple Sclerosis, Proteomic Analysis, Rat, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Subcortical Stroke.icles	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Paraneoplastic neurologic syndromes (PNS) are cancer-related neurologic disorders caused by an autoimmune response targeting both the tumor and the nervous system. Identifying new biomarkers for early cancer detection could improve treatment outcomes. Tumor-derived cells release extracellular vesicles (EVs) carrying tumor-specific molecular signatures, which can help distinguish patients with cancer even in early stages. The aim of this study was to assess the potential of EVs as biomarkers to enhance cancer detection in patients with PNS. METHODS: This observational and multicenter study included 27 patients with tumor-associated PNS, 26 with suspected PNS without a tumor, 35 with cancer, and 32 healthy controls. Subsequently, among the patients with PNS, individuals were subclassified according to the PNS-Care Score as definite, probable, possible, and non-PNS. Total EVs were isolated from blood by precipitation and from B cells, T cells, and neurons by immunoisolation. To identify a biomarker for diagnostic refinement and clinical stratification, EV levels, size, and protein content were compared across study groups. To find a tumor biomarker in intermediate-risk cases, the possible association between EV protein content and cancer detection in intermediate-risk syndromes was analyzed. RESULTS: Patients with tumor-associated PNS showed significantly higher circulating EV levels compared with those with suspected PNS without evidence of a tumor (p = 0.028). Moreover, total EV levels, along with B cell-derived EVs, effectively differentiated patients with definite PNS from those with probable (p = 0.05) and possible (p = 0.006) PNS. A cutoff value of 2.10 x 10(10) particles/mL EVs was identified, above which diagnosis of PNS was definite, with 86% sensitivity and 81% specificity. Proteomic analysis identified specific proteins, including ACADM, HPT, ACTBL, and CCAR2, as markers of definite PNS, differentiating such patients from those with probable and possible PNS, contributing to diagnostic refinement for clinical stratification. It is important to note that increased levels of EVs and CD44 distinguished intermediate-risk cases with tumors from those without. DISCUSSION: EVs may act as tumor biomarkers in patients with PNS, even in intermediate-risk cases. CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class IV evidence that higher circulating blood levels of EVs can distinguish between tumor-associated PNS from suspected PNS without tumor.
PXD058550	41072919	Actn4 links inactive Integrin alpha5 with actin in zebrafish somites. 	Targeted mass spectrum on activation-state-dependent Integrin alpha 5	Integrin alpha 5, actin adaptor, integrin, integrin actin linker, integrin activation, zebrafish somite	Integrins are key plasma membrane proteins mediating cell-ECM adhesion and communication and rely on a conformational change for their activation and bidirectional signaling. However, there are few in vivo studies of integrin activation. Here, we identify Integrin alpha5 (Itgalpha5) associated proteins in the physiological setting of zebrafish somite morphogenesis. Using label-free mass spectrometry, we compared Itgalpha5-associated proteins in different integrin activation states. As expected, we found active Itgalpha5 enriched extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Surprisingly, inactive Itgalpha5 incapable of binding ligand recruited actin cytoskeletal proteins as efficiently as the active integrin. We validated Itgalpha5's linking to actin adaptors using Parallel Reaction Monitoring (PRM). We then focused on alpha-actinin 4 (Actn4), an actin cross-linker, which we find preferentially associates with inactive Itgalpha5. Along zebrafish somite boundaries, Itgalpha5 and Actn4 displayed on and off co-localization, and Actn4 showed a stronger correlation with wild-type and inactive Itgalpha5 compared with the active Itgalpha5. We also found that deleting the actin binding domain (Actn4(ABDdel)) resulted in cytoplasmic retention and loss of colocalization with Itgalpha5. These findings suggest that Itgalpha5 and Actn4 cooperate during somite boundary formation and that actin cytoskeleton reorganization facilitates their colocalization. Furthermore, we showed ligand binding deficient Itgalpha5 associated with Paxillin a (Pxna), a scaffold protein highly enriched at somite boundaries and strongly correlated with activated Itgalpha5. This study provides novel insights into in vivo integrin activation and integrin-actin interactions and broadens our understanding of integrin's role in tissue morphogenesis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD024942, PXD065495, PXD058516, PXD058550, PXD058747.
PXD058417	41074974	Temporal and protein-specific S-palmitoylation supports synaptic and neural network plasticity. 	S-palmitoylation of synaptic proteins in rat synaptoneurosomes	Acyl-biotin exchange, LTP stimulation, S-palmitoylation, Synaptoneurosomes	BACKGROUND: Synaptic plasticity, a fundamental process underlying learning and memory, depends on activity-driven changes in neural connectivity. S-palmitoylation, a reversible post-translational lipid modification, modulates synaptic protein function by influencing protein conformation, localization, trafficking, and molecular interactions. Despite its known significance in neuronal function, the temporal and protein-specific dynamics of S-palmitoylation during synaptic plasticity remain poorly understood. METHODOLOGY & PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Using electrophysiological methods, molecular biology, proteomics, and imaging across various models (neuronal cultures, hippocampal slices, and synaptoneurosomes), we investigated S-palmitoylation during synaptic activity. Induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) resulted in protein-specific palmitoylation changes without altering global levels. In hippocampal slices, synaptophysin and PSD95 displayed distinct temporal patterns of palmitoylation, influenced by LTP. Deacylation experiments using N-(tert-butyl)hydroxylamine (NtBuHA) demonstrated that protein S-palmitoylation is crucial for organizing neuronal spiking and enabling LTP, particularly in the stratum radiatum. Mass spectrometry of synaptoneurosomes revealed a palmitoylome including over 700 proteins, with stimulation-induced predominant depalmitoylation. Differentially palmitoylated proteins were associated with synaptic vesicle cycling, cytoskeletal dynamics, and neurotransmitter release. What is interesting is that synaptoneurosomes contained active palmitoylation machinery, supporting rapid, target-specific responses to NMDA receptor activation. CONCLUSIONS: Temporal and protein-specific S-palmitoylation emerges as a vital mechanism for synaptic plasticity, contributing to neuronal network function and memory formation. These findings elucidate how palmitoylation acts as a dynamic regulator of synaptic activity and offer insights into its regulation. The study highlights the potential of targeting palmitoylation pathways for enhancing neuronal function.
PXD068369	41076630	Molecular mechanisms governing the formation of distinct Upf1-containing complexes in yeast. 	Molecular mechanisms governing the formation of distinct Upf1-containing complexes in yeast	AlphaFold, Nonsense-mediated decay, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Upf1, biochemical reconstitution, cryo-EM, endogenous purification	Upf1 is a master regulator of nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), an mRNA surveillance and degradation pathway conserved from yeast to human. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Upf1 exists in two distinct complexes with factors that mediate NMD activation or 5'-3' mRNA degradation. We combined endogenous purifications and biochemical reconstitutions of yeast Upf1 complexes with structural analyses and biochemical assays to elucidate the molecular mechanisms driving the organization of the Upf1-5'-3' and Upf1-2-3 complexes. We show that yeast Upf1 is in a constitutive complex, whereby its CH, RecA, and C-terminal domains interact with the mRNA decapping factor Dcp2, NMD-associated proteins Nmd4 and Ebs1, and the 5'-3' exoribonuclease Xrn1, respectively. Together, the interacting surfaces and closed conformation of Upf1 in the Upf1-5'-3' complex sterically obstruct the binding of Upf2-3. Our work points to a major restructuring upon recruitment of these factors during NMD and provides insights into evolutionary divergence amongst species.
PXD058790	41078586	Multi-Omics Analysis and Nephroseq Database of Genes Related to Kidney Function in Diabetic Nephropathy Patients to Predict Potential Target Drugs. 	Multi-omics analysis combined with the Nephroseq database reveals that FN1 and three other genes are closely related to renal function in diabetic nephropathy.	Transcriptomics, diabetic nephropathy, empagliflozin, liraglutide, type 2 diabetes	Purpose: Diabetic nephropathy (DN), a major complication of type 2 diabetes and leading cause of end-stage renal disease, lacks complete molecular understanding. To elucidate the mechanisms underlying kidney injury in DN, we analyzed mRNA and protein expression changes in mouse kidney tissue, aiming to provide a theoretical foundation for drug development. Methods: C57BL/6 mice were divided into two groups: a normal control group and a diabetes model group. The type 2 diabetes model was established using a high-fat diet (HFD) combined with streptozotocin (STZ). Fasting blood glucose levels and glucose tolerance tests were performed to evaluate glucose metabolism. Kidney tissues were collected, with the left kidney rapidly frozen in liquid nitrogen for transcriptomic and proteomic analyses, and the right kidney fixed in paraformaldehyde for subsequent preparation of paraffin-embedded blocks and staining. Results: Diabetic nephropathy (DN) mice showed significant transcriptomic and proteomic alterations in kidney tissues compared to controls. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 4156 upregulated and 1121 downregulated genes, while proteomic analysis identified 887 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs: 687 upregulated, 200 downregulated). 240 genes were synchronously upregulated and 111 synchronously downregulated at both levels, functionally linked to cellular immunity, autophagy, inflammation, and lipid metabolism. CytoHubba identified 10 hub genes: FN1, TTR, APOA1, ITGB2, APOE, PTPRC, STAT3, VTN, ICAM1, and ANXA2. Nephroseq database analysis of human DN patients showed FN1, STAT3, ICAM1, and ANXA2 were significantly upregulated and APOA1 was significantly downregulated in kidney tissues. Furthermore, FN1, ICAM1, and ANXA2 negatively correlated with eGFR, while APOA1 positively correlated with eGFR. Conclusion: Diabetic mice exhibited varying degrees of pathological changes in the kidneys. Combined transcriptomic and proteomic analyses highlighted four genes-FN1, ICAM1, ANXA2, and APOA1-as potential therapeutic targets for improving diabetic nephropathy.
PXD052595	41079930	GPX1 expression promotes stemness and aggressiveness in myxoid liposarcomas. 	Proteomic charaterization of GPX1 depletion in sarcoma models	CSCs, GPX1, Sarcoma	The sarcomagenic process initiates when mesenchymal stromal/stem cells (MSCs) or MSC-derived cells undergo tumoral transformation. Besides, sarcoma evolution is partly driven by the emergence of subpopulations of cancer stem cells (CSCs), which are strongly associated with more aggressive behaviors. Therefore, the characterization of CSC will contribute to the development of more effective therapies against sarcomas. Here, we compared the proteomes of adherent and CSC-enriched tumorsphere cultures in a tumor progression model of myxoid liposarcoma composed of three cell lines showing increasing aggressiveness after being serially transplanted in mice. We found that the expression of the antioxidant enzyme GPX1 increased constantly during the CSC-enrichment process in this model and other sarcoma lines. Depletion of GPX1 resulted in decreased proliferation and tumorsphere-forming potential and dramatically reduced tumor-formation ability in vivo. Conversely, GPX1 overexpression resulted in increased proliferation and tumorsphere formation. According to these findings, GPX1 expression in sarcoma patients was associated with aggressive phenotypes and worse prognosis. A proteomic analysis revealed that these effects were associated with the downregulation of interferon-mediated response, the IL6/JAK/STAT3 axis and the NFkappaB-mediated signaling in GPX1-silenced cells. Overall, these results suggest that GPX1 expression may serve as a functional marker of aggressive CSC subpopulations in sarcomas.
PXD068424	41080604	MHC class II presentation of FVIII-AnnexinA5 fusion proteins internalized by antigen presenting cells. 	MHC class II presentation of FVIII-AnnexinA5 fusion proteins internalized by antigen presenting cells	Annexin A5, FVIII, Phosphatidylserine, antigen presentation, immune response	Introduction: The development of neutralizing antibodies (inhibitors) against coagulation factor VIII (FVIII) remains the most serious complication in the treatment of hemophilia A. While immune tolerance induction (ITI) is the standard strategy to eliminate these antibodies, it fails in approximately 30% of patients with severe hemophilia A, underscoring the need for innovative approaches to promote FVIII-specific tolerance. Methods: To address this challenge, we generated fusion proteins composed of A2, A3-C1-C2 (light chain, LCh), and C2 domains of FVIII linked to Annexin A5 (AnxA5), a protein that binds phosphatidylserine (PS), a hallmark of apoptotic cells. Results: ELISA confirmed high-affinity binding of all fusion proteins to immobilized PS. To model PS exposure in vitro, red blood cells (RBCs) were treated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), leading to the release of PS-exposing microvesicles. Flow cytometry showed that FVIII-AnxA5 fusion proteins selectively bound to PS-exposing microvesicles but not to intact RBCs. Using mass spectrometry-based immunopeptidomics, we demonstrated that macrophages pulsed with FVIII-AnxA5 fusion proteins efficiently processed and presented FVIII-derived peptides on HLA-DR molecules. Conclusions: These findings suggest that FVIII-AnxA5 fusion proteins can engage apoptotic cell clearance pathways to facilitate antigen presentation in a potentially tolerogenic context. This strategy may offer a novel means of inducing immune tolerance to FVIII in hemophilia A.
PXD066932	41083434	Microbial binding module employs sophisticated clustered saccharide patches to selectively adhere to mucins. 	Microbial binding module employs sophisticated  clustered saccharide patches to selectively adhere to mucins	MALDI, intact	The mucus lining wet body surfaces forms the interphase and barrier for the microbiota and resident microbiomes. Large mucin proteins densely decorated with O-glycans make up the mucus lining to entrap, feed and shape the microbiota, and repress biofilm formation and virulence. How mucins exert these effects is poorly understood and critical is how the microbiota recognize, sense, and break down mucins. Here, we provide structural molecular evidence that a small mucin-binding module designated X409 recognizes clustered saccharide patches comprised of rows of inner monosaccharides in adjacent O-glycans. These patches are unique to mucins and binding to these provides an elegant mechanism to retain adherence to mucins despite trimming of O-glycans during microbial scavenging of monosaccharides from mucins. Realization of clustered saccharide patch-binding motifs provides a hitherto overlooked scenario of contextual glycan epitopes and impetus for discovery of new classes of glycan-binding proteins.
PXD057155	41087496	Altered pattern of proteolysis in rhegmatogenous retinal detachment by mining of N-termini datasets from vitreous humor proteome. 	ALTERED PATTERN OF PROTEOLYSIS OF EXTRACELLULAR PROTEINS IN RHEGMATOGENOUS RETINAL DETACHMENT BY MINING OF TRYPTIC AND N-TERMINI DATASETS FROM VITREOUS HUMOR PROTEOME	DDA, Eye, Ocular Fluids, UHPLC-MS, Vitreous Humor	Rhegmatogenous Retinal Detachment (RRD) is a severe ocular condition characterized by the detachment of the neurosensory retina from the retinal pigment epithelium and caused by retinal tears. Pars Plana Vitrectomy (PPV) is the standard surgical procedure for RRD, and is intended to remove the vitreous gel, which shapes the eye, and provides mechanical and nutritional support to the retina. The study of the vitreous proteome isolated from RRD patients may help decipher the pathobiology of the disease and that of its complications, such as proliferative vitreo-retinopathy (PVR), which predispose to recurrent retinal detachment (observed in 20% of cases), a sight threatening condition. Herein, we set up a pilot shot-gun proteomics study (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD057155) to investigate the perturbations of vitreous proteome comparing RRD patients (n = 8) to patients affected by idiopathic Epiretinal Membranes (ERM), used as controls (n = 8). Spectra were first searched and analyzed to identify proteome perturbations. Thereafter, starting from the hypothesis that RRD could be sustained by altered proteolytic processing of structural and non-structural elements of vitreous gel, N- and C-termini were mined to uncover endogenous proteolytic events. Our search revealed a comprehensive array of proteolytic events and sites across numerous proteins. While some of these were previously documented in different biological samples (like plasma, cell models, etc.), our findings point to new, potentially specific cleavage sites on macromolecular components unique to the vitreous fluid and retinal layers (e.g., interphotoreceptor matrix proteoglycan 1 and 2). Comparison between the N- and C-termini landscapes and the perturbations of global proteome highlighted robust alterations of the repertoire of cleaved proteins between RRD patients and reference control subjects. Additional immunoblotting studies on a selection of proteins envisage that RRD is characterized by unbalanced proteolysis of structural and non-structural components involved in the regulation of immune processes, proteolytic control and, particularly, angiogenesis.
PXD064682	41087568	Signaling pathways contributing to the transcriptional response to alkalinization in Komagataella phaffii: role of the transcription factors Crz1 and Rim101. 	The contribution of the transcription factors Crz1 and Rim101 to the response to alkalinization in Komagataella phaffii	Crz1, LC-MS, LFQ	Promoters able to respond to moderate alkalinization in the industrially relevant yeast Komagataella phaffii have been proposed as a tool for the design of novel methanol-free platforms for heterologous protein expression. However, the molecular bases of such response are unknown. We identify here the transcription factors Crz1 and Rim101 in K. phaffii and use CRISPR/Cas9 techniques to create single and double mutant strains. While crz1 cells are strongly sensitive to Ca(2+) ions, mildly sensitive to alkaline pH and hypertolerant to SDS, rim101 cells are markedly hypersensitive to Na(+) and Li(+) ions, to alkaline pH and to SDS. RNA-seq analysis revealed that mutation of RIM101 affects 55% of alkaline pH-responsive genes, whereas lack of Crz1 alters only 11% of these. Thirty-eight genes are co-regulated by both Crz1 and Rim101. The PMC1 vacuolar Ca(2+)-ATPase is regulated by Crz1, whereas the ENA2 Na(+)-ATPase, the PHO89 and PHO84 phosphate transporters, and diverse genes involved in iron homeostasis are Rim101-dependent. These effects were confirmed by proteomic analyses after 3 h of alkalinization. Therefore, Rim101 appears as a major player in the transcriptional response to alkalinization and, together with Crz1, they account for nearly 60% of the alkaline pH transcriptional response in K. phaffii.
PXD055206	41088801	Neurodevelopmental Impact of Prenatal Stress: A Proteomic Analysis of Myelination Disruptions in the Avian Embryo. 	Neurodevelopmental Impact of Prenatal Stress: A Proteomic Analysis of Myelination Disruptions in the Avian Embryo	corticosterone, gallus gallus domesticus, myelin, prenatal stress	Prenatal stress, mediated by elevated glucocorticoid (GC) levels, is a relevant modulator of fetal brain development and a known risk factor for neurodevelopmental disorders. Using the avian embryo as a vertebrate model, we injected corticosterone into the yolk on embryonic day 6 (E6) and assessed neurodevelopmental outcomes at day 14 (E14). Through deep proteomic profiling - quantifying over 6500 proteins - we uncovered a robust molecular signature of stress-induced disruption. Key myelin-associated proteins (myelin basic protein [MBP], PLP1, 2',3'-cyclic-nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase [CNP]) were markedly downregulated, indicating impaired oligodendrocyte maturation. These proteomic shifts were corroborated by immunohistochemistry and qPCR. Pathway-level analysis pointed to altered MAPK and AKT signaling as putative mediators of the observed phenotype. Our findings mirror previous mammalian data while highlighting the avian model's unique suitability for mechanistic dissection of prenatal stress effects. This study offers new insight into how early GC exposure impairs glial development, with broader implications for understanding the molecular origins of stress-linked brain vulnerability.
PXD064497	41090760	Conditional ATXN2L-Null in Adult Frontal Cortex CamK2a+ Neurons Does Not Cause Cell Death but Restricts Spontaneous Mobility and Affects the Alternative Splicing Pathway. 	Conditional ATXN2L-nConditional ATXN2L-null in adult frontal cortex CamK2a+ neurons does not cause cell death, but restricts spontaneous mobility, and affects the alternative splicing pathway	MRPL14, NAA38, NSUN2, Poly(A)-binding protein, RPS3, SRSF11, label-free mass spectrometry, open field locomotion, ribonucleoproteins, stress granules	The Ataxin-2-like (ATXN2L) protein is required to survive embryonic development, as documented in mice with the constitutive absence of the ATXN2L Lsm, LsmAD, and PAM2 domains due to knock-out (KO) of exons 5-8 with a frameshift. Its less abundant paralog, Ataxin-2 (ATXN2), has an extended N-terminus, where a polyglutamine domain is prone to expansions, mediating vulnerability to the polygenic adult motor neuron disease ALS (Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis) or causing the monogenic neurodegenerative processes of Spinocerebellar Ataxia Type 2 (SCA2), depending on larger mutation sizes. Here, we elucidated the physiological function of ATXN2L by deleting the LsmAD and PAM2 motifs via loxP-mediated KO of exons 10-17 with a frameshift. Crossing heterozygous floxed mice with constitutive Cre-deleter animals confirmed embryonic lethality among offspring. Crossing with CamK2a-CreERT2 mice and injecting tamoxifen for conditional deletion achieved chimeric ATXN2L absence in CamK2a-positive frontal cortex neurons and reduced spontaneous horizontal movement. Global proteome profiling of frontal cortex homogenate showed ATXN2L levels decreased to 75% and dysregulations enriched in the alternative splicing pathway. Nuclear proteins with Sm domains are critical to performing splicing; therefore, our data suggest that the Like-Sm (Lsm, LsmAD) domains in ATXN2L serve a role in splice regulation, despite their perinuclear location.
PXD064451	41090787	Opioid System Antagonism Alters Vascular Proteome and Collagen Deposition in ApoE(-/-) Mice. 	The effect of opioid system inhibition on the Hmmr and Col1a1/ Col3a1 gene expression in relation to atherosclerotic plaque formation in aorta.	aorta, naloxone, opioid system	Atherosclerosis is common cardiovascular disease, leading to complications such as myocardial infarction and stroke. The main causes of these diseases are lipid accumulation and inflammation in large arteries. In this study, we investigated whether opioid receptor blockade impacts factors involved in atherosclerosis development. We administered naloxone to 8-week-old and 36-week-old ApoE(-/-) mice, then examined the expression of Col1a1, and Col3a1 in the aorta, as well as the influence of naloxone administration on aortic collagen layer thickness and proteomic changes in the aorta. Additionally, we assessed the impact of naloxone on the splenic T-cell populations. The results showed that Col3a1 expression decreased in young mice but increased in older mice. In 36-week-old mice, naloxone administration led to an increase in aortic collagen layer thickness, but remained unchanged in young mice. Proteomic analysis identified 587 proteins that were altered following naloxone treatment. Our studies suggest that the opioid system is an important factor in atherosclerosis development.
PXD058851	41091598	CMTR1 directs mitochondrial dynamics during T cell activation through epitranscriptomic regulation of splice isoforms. 	TMT proteomics of Cmtr1 cKO activated CD4 T cells	T cell lymphocyte CMTR1 cap RNA	During T cell activation, mitochondrial biogenesis and cellular metabolism are altered to meet the elevated energy demands of protein synthesis, rapid proliferation, and effector T cell function. The mechanisms coupling mitochondrial dynamics to T cell status are unclear. Here, we report that RNA cap methyltransferase 1 (CMTR1) is induced in activated T cells, methylating the first nucleotide on mRNA and U2 small nuclear RNA (snRNA), a component of the spliceosome. Using transcriptomic analyses, we identify a functional splicing module regulating mitochondrial dynamics in T cells, which alters the isoforms of proteins controlling mitochondrial fission and fusion. Through epitranscriptomic control of U2 snRNA and splicing, CMTR1 directs protein isoform selection during T cell activation to promote the development of longer mitochondria with increased respiratory capacity. Thus, CMTR1 upregulation supports the energetic demands of T cell activation, survival, and immune responses.
PXD064642	41091621	Hijacking Extracellular Targeted Protein Degrader-Drug Conjugates for Enhanced Drug Delivery. 	Low Density Lipoprotein Receptor Targeting Chimeras for Membrane Protein Degradation and Enhanced Drug Delivery	Antibody based degradation, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP)	Antibody-based therapeutics encompass diverse modalities for targeting tumor cells. Among these, antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) and extracellular targeted protein degradation (eTPD) specifically depend on efficient lysosomal trafficking for activity. A major limitation of ADCs is their reliance on antigens with efficient internalization, while eTPD approaches, although capable of trafficking diverse targets to lysosomes, lack cytotoxic potency. To address this, we developed degrader-drug conjugates (DDCs), leveraging the endocytic and recycling activities of eTPD to enhance lysosomal delivery. We utilized fast internalizers, the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) and the chemokine receptor (CXCR7), to enhance lysosomal delivery. LDLR-based degraders enabled efficient and selective degradation of diverse extracellular membrane proteins, while DDCs with cytotoxic payload enhanced cytotoxicity compared to conventional ADCs in vitro. This dual modality addresses key challenges of inadequate internalization in conventional ADCs and cytotoxic potency in current eTPD strategies. Our findings demonstrate that DDCs provide additional optionality for developing next-generation antibody therapeutics with broader utility and improved efficacy in cancer treatment.
PXD067623	41091888	Impact of intermittent lead exposure on hominid brain evolution. 	Impact of intermittent lead exposure on hominid brain evolution	Hominid brain evolution, Lead exposure, NOVA1-FOXP2 axis	Gene-environmental interactions shape the evolution of brain architecture and function. Neuro-oncological ventral antigen 1 (NOVA1) is one gene that distinguishes modern humans from extinct hominids. However, the evolutionary pressures that selected the modern NOVA1 allele remain elusive. Here, we show using fossil teeth that several hominids (Australopithecus africanus, Paranthropus robustus, early Homo sp., Gigantopithecus blacki, Pongo sp., Homo neanderthalensis, and Homo sapiens) were consistently exposed to lead over 2 million years, contradicting the idea that lead exposure is solely a modern phenomenon. Moreover, lead exposure on human brain organoids carrying the archaic NOVA1 variant disrupts FOXP2 expression in cortical and thalamic organoids, a gene crucial for the development of human speech and language abilities. Overall, the fossil, cellular, and molecular data support that lead exposure may have contributed to the impact of social and behavioral functioning during evolution, likely affording modern humans a survival advantage.
PXD067843	41096593	Safety and Regenerative Properties of Immortalized Human Mesenchymal Stromal Cell Secretome. 	Secretome of hTERT-Immortalized Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells	hTERT, mesenchymal stem cells, secretome	The secretome of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) can efficiently stimulate regeneration and therefore is a tempting remedy for "cell-free cellular therapy". However, the usage of primary MSC cultures as secretome producers for translation studies has obvious obstacles, including the rapid aging of MSC cultures, the need for a large number of verified donors, and donor-to-donor variability of secretome content. MSCs immortalization makes it possible to overcome those limitations and to obtain secretome-producing cultures with a prolonged lifetime. However, the efficacy and safety of such secretomes are critical issues that limit their usage as therapeutic agents. In this study, we tested in large detail how the immortalization of MSC cultures affects the content, biological activity and safety of their secretome. MSCs immortalization via the overexpression of human TERT gene does not significantly alter the qualitative and quantitative composition of their secretome or its activity according to the results of proteomic analysis, ELISA, qPCR and functional tests in vitro. Moreover, we have demonstrated that the secretome of immortalized MSCs does not contain detectable amounts of telomerase and does not possess any transforming activity. Altogether, our data suggest that immortalized MSC cultures may become a reliable source for obtaining standardized active secretome in large-scale quantities for clinical use.
PXD064784	41096842	SCAMP3-Driven Regulation of ERK1/2 and Autophagy Phosphoproteomics Signatures in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. 	SCAMP3-Driven Regulation of ERK1/2 and Autophagy Phosphoproteomics Signatures in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer	AKT/mTOR, ERK1/2, SCAMP3, Triple Negative Breast Cancer, autophagy	Extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) inhibitors show therapeutic potential in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), but resistance through compensatory signaling limits their efficacy. We previously identified the secretory carrier membrane protein 3 (SCAMP3) as a regulator of TNBC progression and ERK1/2 activation. Here, we investigated the role of SCAMP3 in ERK1/2 signaling and therapeutic response using TMT-based LC-MS/MS phosphoproteomics of wild-type (WT) and SCAMP3 knockout (SC3KO) SUM-149 cells under basal conditions, after epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulation, and during ERK1/2 inhibition with MK-8353. A total of 4408 phosphosites were quantified, with 1093 significantly changed. SC3KO abolished residual ERK activity under MK-8353 and affected the compensatory activation of oncogenic pathways observed in WT cells. SC3KO reduced the phosphorylation of ERK feedback regulators RAF proto-oncogene serine/threonine-protein kinase Raf-1 (S43) and the dual-specificity mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 2 (MEK2) (T394), affected other ERK targets, including nucleoporins, transcription factors, and metabolic enzymes triosephosphate isomerase (TPI1) (S21) and ATP-citrate lyase (ACLY) (S455). SCAMP3 loss also impaired the mammalian target of rapamycin complex I (mTORC1) signaling and disrupted autophagic flux, evidenced by elevated sequestosome-1 (SQSTM1/p62) and microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 (LC3B-II) with reduced levels of the autophagosome lysosome maturation marker, Rab7A. Beyond ERK substrates, SC3KO affected phosphorylation events mediated by other kinases. These findings position SCAMP3 as a central coordinator of ERK signaling and autophagy. Our results support SCAMP3 as a potential therapeutic target to enhance ERK1/2 inhibitor clinical efficacy and overcome adaptive resistance mechanisms in TNBC.
PXD037989	41099700	Codon specific readthrough as a mechanism of BRCA2 restoration in acquired PARP inhibitor and chemotherapy resistance. 	Codon Specific Readthrough as a Mechanism of BRCA2 Restoration in Acquired PARP Inhibitor and Chemotherapy Resistance	BRCA2, ovarian cancer, translational readthrough	BRCA2 mutations contribute to the pathogenesis and treatment sensitivity of a subset of ovarian, breast, prostate, and pancreatic cancers. When these cancers become therapy resistant, secondary mutations that restore the BRCA2 open reading frame are found in half the cases, but other causes of resistance remain incompletely understood. Here, we identified translational readthrough of a premature termination codon (PTC) as a cause of resistance to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPis) and cisplatin in cells derived from the BRCA2-mutated ovarian cancer line PEO1 by PARPi selection. Despite persistence of the signature 4965C > G (p.Y1655X) BRCA2 mutation, low-level expression of full-length BRCA2 protein was detectable in these cells by immunoblotting and tandem mass spectrometry. Either BRCA2 knockdown or gene interruption 5' or 3' to the PTC restored treatment sensitivity, implicating BRCA2 in the resistance. Reporter assays demonstrated UAG-selective readthrough in the resistant clones but not parental cells. Moreover, custom searching of global proteomic data indicated readthrough of stop codons, particularly UAGs, in additional proteins in the resistant clones. Finally, multi-omic analysis identified multiple changes in the nonsense-mediated decay and termination machineries that favor readthrough. Accordingly, the present results identify PTC readthrough as a potential mechanism of drug resistance in cells with BRCA2 nonsense mutations.
PXD061604	41102525	Identifying TP53RK as a key regulator of colorectal cancer survival and a potential therapeutic target. 	Global and phosphoproteomics in control and TP53RK-deficient HT29 cells	HT29, TMT, TP53RK, cell line	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, necessitating the development of novel therapeutic strategies. In the present study, we identified TP53-regulating kinase (TP53RK) as a critical regulator of CRC cell survival and proliferation using a custom clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 library screen targeting serine/threonine kinase-related genes. TP53RK was significantly overexpressed in CRC tissues and was correlated with copy number amplification. Functional validation revealed that TP53RK depletion induced DNA replication stress, apoptosis, and cell cycle arrest, independent from p53 status. Mechanistically, TP53RK stabilized cell division cycle 7 (CDC7), a key kinase regulating DNA replication origin activation, ensuring robust minichromosome maintenance complex protein (MCM) phosphorylation and replication fork progression. Disruption of the TP53RK-CDC7 axis led to reduced MCM2 enrichment at replication origins and impaired DNA replication dynamics. Moreover, TP53RK overexpression sensitized cells to DNA replication stress (aphidicolin) and CDC7 inhibition (XL413), highlighting its potential as a therapeutic strategy. These findings establish TP53RK as a pivotal regulator of DNA replication fidelity and genomic stability, thereby providing a promising therapeutic target for CRC.
PXD062200	41102702	Crosstalk between tumor endothelial cells and cancer cells is important for metastasis initiation. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of murine endothelial cell lines: normal brain microvascular cell line vs tumor endothelial cell line (b.End5)	Endothelial Cells, NECs, Secretome, TECs	BACKGROUND: Metastasis is a major contributor of cancer-related mortality and involves complex crosstalk between cancer cells and stromal cells modulated by various cytokines and growth factors. While the endothelium is essential for supplying nutrients and oxygen, little is known about its role in metastasis initiation. Determining the effect of endothelial-derived angiocrine factors on cancer cells may explain the mechanisms regulating metastasis initiation. RESULTS: In this study, we investigated the role of normal endothelial cells (NEC) and tumor endothelial cells (TEC) in regulating the rate-limiting steps of metastasis initiation. First, we demonstrated that TEC have a higher proliferation, migration, and angiogenic potential than NEC. TEC-conditioned media significantly promoted chemotaxis, invasion, and proliferation of cancer cells relative to NEC-conditioned media. Additionally, TEC facilitated faster cell-cell adhesion to tumor cells than NEC. Mass spectrometry analysis of endothelial cell secretome revealed higher levels of PDGF-AA, PDGF-C, and VEGFA in TEC-conditioned medium, which were associated with enriched PI3K-AKT, MAPK, and RAS signaling pathways, as well as regulation of actin cytoskeleton and focal adhesion. In vitro functional studies using recombinant proteins showed that PDGF-AA and PDGF-C significantly promoted cancer cell chemotaxis and invasion without affecting proliferation. However, unlike VEGFA, PDGF-AA and PDGF-C did not affect endothelial cell tube formation or vascular permeability. Interestingly, neutralization of TEC-derived PDGF-C signficantly inhibited tumor cell chemotaxis and invasion, and attenuated EphA2/AKT/P38/ERK signaling in vitro. In vivo, the co-injection of TEC and 4T1 cells resulted in significantly higher primary breast tumor growth and liver metastasis in an orthotopic mouse model. CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that crosstalk between cancer cells and TEC, partly through angiocrine factors in the TME, induces the rate-limiting steps of metastasis initiation.
PXD067302	41105917	Dynamics of the CD9 interactome during bacterial infection of epithelial cells by proximity labelling proteomics. 	Dynamics of the CD9 interactome during bacterial infection of epithelial cells by proximity labelling proteomics	CDE9, Neisseria meningitidis, Staphylococcus aureus	Bacterial species utilise different receptors at the cell membrane to adhere to cells. Previously, we demonstrated that interference with CD9, a human tetraspanin, reduces adherence of multiple species of bacteria to cells. CD9 is not a receptor but organises numerous commandeered host proteins at the cell membrane; however, the full interactome has not yet been delineated. Using a CD9 proximity labelling model, a first for CD9, we observed a diverse interactome, with 710 enriched proteins in uninfected cells. Proximal proteins were associated with various cellular processes, including extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interactions and tight junctions. Several known bacterial receptors were also detected, including CD44, CD46 and CD147. The interactome was dynamic during infection with two distinct bacterial species, Neisseria meningitidis and Staphylococcus aureus. In total, 12 human proteins were enriched during meningococcal infection, compared to one during staphylococcal infection, demonstrating different host factor requirements during CD9-mediated bacterial adherence. CD44 or CD147 knockdown reduced staphylococcal and meningococcal adherence, respectively, but not vice versa. However, in combination with CD9 interference, no additive effects were observed, demonstrating association of these proteins during infection. We have developed a tool that measures changes within the CD9 interactome, demonstrated CD9 as a universal organiser of bacterial 'adhesion platforms', and shown efficacy of a disrupting CD9-derived peptide.
PXD068664	41107828	Targeting PURPL RNA enabled rejuvenation of senescence cells via epigenetic reprogramming. 	Targeting PURPL RNA Enabled Rejuvenation of Senescence Cells via Epigenetic Reprogramming	CARPID, PURPL, RNA binding protein	Cellular senescence is a fundamental driver of ageing and age-related diseases, characterized by irreversible growth arrest and profound epigenetic alterations. While long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as key regulators of senescence, their potential for senescent cell rejuvenation remains unexplored. Here, we identify the ageing-associated lncRNA PURPL as an epigenetic regulator that controls cellular rejuvenation through H3K9me3-mediated transcriptional silencing. CRISPRi-mediated PURPL depletion produces striking rejuvenation effects, resulting in restored youthful cell morphology, as well as suppression of senescence markers such as p21 and SA-beta-gal. Conversely, PURPL overexpression accelerates cellular senescence, recapitulating the transcriptional and phenotypic hallmarks of ageing. Mechanistically, nuclear-localized PURPL regulates H3K9me3 deposition at 411 genomic loci including SERPINE1 (PAI-1) and EGR1, which are key senescence drivers. PURPL-mediated H3K9me3 loss at these loci derepresses their transcription, establishing a pro-senescence gene expression program. These findings reveal that PURPL is an epigenetic modulator of senescence and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for age-related pathologies.
PXD066425	41109437	Comprehensive analysis of the inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase from Flavobacterium PL002 and its coupling with SERS as a path for the selective detection of thiram. 	Mass spectrometry study of the adduct formed by F-ALDH with thiram	aldehyde dehydrogenase, enzyme inhibition, thiram	The selective detection of dithiocarbamate fungicides in food and agricultural products presents significant analytical challenges. While Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) has been extensively investigated to address this, detection systems based on enzymatic inhibition remain underexplored. Using thiram as a model dithiocarbamate, the present work explores the potential application of a cold-active aldehyde dehydrogenase from Flavobacterium PL002 for the development of specific, inhibition-based analytical methods. A molecular modelling and docking study confirmed that thiram fits into the binding pocket of the enzyme. An irreversible inhibition mechanism was inferred for thiram based on enzymatic kinetics studies. The mechanism was supported by SERS, mass spectrometry measurements and tests with reducing agents. A simple assay for the detection of the fungicide was developed and compared to a SERS-based procedure. The advantages and the practical limitations of the two methods were revealed by studying the detection of thiram from the surface of fungicide-spiked tomatoes. By coupling enzymatic inhibition with SERS, the selectivity for the detection of individual fungicides can be increased, as illustrated by comparing thiram with ziram, a structurally related compound. The study serves as basis for the development of analytical methods for the selective detection of thiram.
PXD050107	41111916	Kir5.1-modulated potassium flux stimulates an anabolic kidney phenotype. 	Quantitative Proteomics of the kidney AKT-mediated response to a potassium-deficient diet	kidney, potassium deficiency	The kidney maintains systemic potassium (K(+)) balance through energy-intensive epithelial transport processes. Under K(+)-restricted conditions, kidney epithelial cells proliferate to accommodate profound increases in transport. Tissue reorganization to minimize systemic K(+) loss is essential for survival, yet metabolic details remain obscure. Here, we demonstrate that the most-activated kidney pathways under low K(+) conditions are those governing metabolism, including carbohydrate- and glutamine-based processes and fatty acid synthesis. We identify that reduced K(+) intake stimulates glycolytic flux in the renal cortex to increase amino acid abundance, de novo fatty acid synthesis, and organ expansion. Using a novel mouse model harboring a dominant-negative Kir5.1 channel, we show that each of these steps is dependent on intact basolateral Kir channel flux to initiate rapid kidney growth. Results identify details of a low K(+)-simulated anabolic kidney program requiring Kir channel function and highlight a therapeutic role for targeting Kir channels to modulate cell physiology and metabolism.
PXD065782	41118578	The multimerization pathway of the glucocorticoid receptor. 	The multimerization pathway of the glucocorticoid receptor	glucocorticoid receptor, glucocorticoid resistance, homodimerization, nuclear receptor, quaternary structure, steroid receptor, transcription factor	The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is a leading drug target due to its antiinflammatory and immunosuppressive roles. The functional oligomeric conformation of full-length GR (FL-GR), which is key for its biological activity, remains disputed. Here we present a new crystal structure of agonist-bound GR ligand-binding domain (GR-LBD) comprising eight copies of a noncanonical dimer. We verified the biological relevance of this dimer for receptor multimerization in wild-type and selected FL-GR mutants using molecular dynamics and crosslinking-mass spectrometry together with fluorescence microscopy and transcriptomic analysis in living cells. Self-association of this GR-LBD basic dimer in two mutually exclusive assemblies reveals clues for FL-GR multimerization and activity in cells. We propose a model for the structure of multidomain GR based on our new data and suggest a detailed oligomerization pathway. This model reconciles all currently available structural and functional information and provides a more comprehensive understanding of the rare disorder, generalized glucocorticoid resistance.
PXD063770	41120256	APOA1 binding protein promotes lymphatic cell fate and lymphangiogenesis by relieving caveolae-mediated inhibition of VEGFR3 signaling. 	Lymphangiogenesis by Relieving Caveolae-Mediated Inhibition of VEGFR3 Signaling	AIBP, Caveolae, Lymphangiogenesis, VEGFR3	The lymphatic system maintains tissue fluid balance, and its dysfunction can result in lymphedema. Although cholesterol is essential for cellular function, its role in lymphatic development has remained unknown. Here, we identify APOA1 binding protein (AIBP) as a key regulator that promotes lymphatic endothelial cell fate specification and lymphangiogenesis. Mechanistically, AIBP reduces plasma membrane cholesterol content, thereby enhancing VEGFR3 signaling by disrupting caveolae-small plasma membrane invaginations formed by the scaffolding protein caveolin-1 (CAV-1)-and relieving CAV-1-mediated inhibition. In zebrafish and mice, AIBP loss impairs VEGFR3 signaling and lymphatic development, defects that can be rescued by CAV-1 deletion or by a VEGFR3 mutant (VEGFR3(AAA)) lacking CAV-1 binding. Administration of recombinant AIBP augments VEGFC-induced lymphangiogenesis and accelerates the resolution of secondary lymphedema in adult mice. These findings define the AIBP-CAV-1 axis as a regulator of VEGFR3 signaling and lymphatic growth, offering potential therapeutic opportunities for treating lymphatic dysfunction.
PXD064001	41120844	Identification of Cdc45-interacting partners uncovers two Leishmania donovani proteins involved in DNA replication. 	Analysis of proteins immunoprecipitated with anti-FLAG antibodies from Leishmania donovani promastigotes expressing Cdc45-FLAG or carrying empty vector	Cdc45-FLAG, Immunoprecipitation, LC-MS, Leishmania donovani	BACKGROUND: Among fatalities due to parasitic diseases, deaths due to Leishmaniases rank second only to those caused by malaria. Endemic to 90 countries, more than a billion people are at risk of Leishmania infection. While there are no vaccines against Leishmaniases, treatments are available. However, the complexities of the treatment regimens, their high costs and toxic side effects, and most importantly the emerging problem of drug resistance, have continued to thrust forward research into this parasite's cellular processes. The parasite is digenetic, reproducing by binary fission in both hosts, with DNA replication being central to the process. The absence of many conserved DNA replication proteins in Leishmania suggests the possibility of parasite-specific proteins being involved in the process. This investigation aimed to identify such proteins. METHODS: Using Leishmania donovani Cdc45, a component of the eukaryotic replicative helicase, as bait in immunoprecipitation reactions coupled to mass spectrometry, we looked for proteins that are a part of the Leishmania replisome. One of the promising candidates, annotated "hypothetical protein" in the Leishmania genome database, shared partial structural homology with Timeless of human, C. elegans and Drosophila, and hence we named it "LdTIM-like". A second candidate, annotated "PIF1-like" in the genome database, was named "LdPIF6" based on sequence homology with T.brucei PIF6. Their possible involvement in DNA replication was examined by creating genomic knockouts and analyzing resultant phenotypes. RESULTS: LdTIM-like and LdPIF6 were constitutively nuclear, in keeping with a possible role in DNA replication. We found tim-like and pif6 were essential for parasite survival. Single allele knockouts lowered tim-like/pif6 expression significantly, and resulted in slower parasite growth. The mutant parasites took considerably longer to navigate S phase, and pulse-labelling with EdU revealed that the time taken by the mutant cell populations to complete DNA replication was significantly extended. The mutant parasites survived poorly in host macrophages as well. CONCLUSIONS: Considering that these two proteins: LdTIM-like and LdPIF6, are essential to the parasite, coupled to their limited homology with human proteins, they could be investigated as potential sites for therapeutic intervention in future in-depth studies.
PXD064523	41121127	Biopsy proteome-based classification of T cell-mediated kidney allograft rejection. 	Biopsy proteome-based classification of T-cell-mediated kidney allograft rejection	T-cell mediated rejection, borderline rejection, immunohistochemical staining, kidney transplant rejection, mass spectrometry proteomics	BACKGROUND: T cell-mediated rejection (TCMR) remains a challenge in kidney transplantation. Based on a histopathological biopsy examination, patients can be classified into groups such as no rejection (NR), borderline rejection (BR; Banff category 3), and acute rejection (AR; Banff category 4). Yet, this classification is not sufficient, since for the borderline cases a number of patients may require a clinical intervention. Thus, a robust classification by biopsy proteome profiling may provide a solution. METHODS: In this work, kidney tissue from patients classified into NR, BR, and AR were subjected to MS-based proteomic profiling. Subsequently, a panel of four proteins (GNB4, PDK1, AGXT, CD73) was selected for validation by immunohistochemistry (IHC). This retrospective study was approved by the Bioethics Committee of the Medical University of Gdansk, no. NKBBN/201/2021. RESULTS: Proteomic analysis identified 2547 proteins whose abundance profiles demonstrated strong concordance between the BR and AR groups. In a quantitative comparison between the BR and AR groups, GNB4 and AGXT emerged as significantly differentiating. Moreover, AGXT was indicated as a potential biomarker following ROC analysis. PDK1 and CD73 were found to best classify the samples in a binary analysis. IHC confirmed only upregulation of GNB4 in immune cells and PDK1 in macrophages, with no significant changes in the tubular epithelium. CONCLUSIONS: Thus, GNB4 and PDK1 in immune cells and macrophages have been identified as a potential target for further extensive studies. If their relevance were to be confirmed in a larger patient cohort, their IHC analysis could serve as an extension of established histopathological classification in the context of kidney transplant rejection.
PXD064536	41122818	Evaluation of a Prototype Orbitrap Astral Zoom Mass Spectrometer for Quantitative Proteomics-Beyond Identification Lists. 	Evaluation of a modified Orbitrap Astral Zoom prototype for quantitative proteomics - Beyond identification lists	astral, astral zoom, calibration, instrument comparison, ions, poisson statistics	Mass spectrometry instrumentation continues to evolve rapidly, yet quantifying these advances beyond conventional peptide and protein detections remains challenging. Here, we evaluate a modified Orbitrap Astral Zoom mass spectrometer (MS) prototype and compare its performance to the standard Orbitrap Astral MS. Across a range of acquisition methods and sample inputs, the prototype instrument outperformed the standard Orbitrap Astral MS in precursor and protein identifications, ion beam utilization, and quantitative precision. To enable meaningful cross-platform comparisons, we implemented an ion calibration framework that converts signal intensity from arbitrary units to ions per second. This benchmarking strategy showed that the prototype sampled 23.1% more ions per peptide than the original Orbitrap Astral MS. This increase in the ion beam utilization resulted in improved sensitivity and quantitative precision. To make these metrics broadly accessible, we added new metrics to the Skyline document grid to report the number of ions measured in a spectrum at the apex of the elution peak or the sum of ions between the peak integration boundaries. Taken together, our results demonstrate the Orbitrap Astral Zoom prototype as a high-performance platform for data-independent acquisition proteomics and establish a generalizable framework for evaluation of MS performance based on the number of ions detected for each analyte. Data are available on Panorama Public and ProteomeXchange under the identifier PXD064536.
PXD061353	41124041	Challenging the Paradigm: Non-Canonical Exoprotease Cheating in Clinical Pseudomonas aeruginosa Isolates. 	Exoproteome of clinical isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa with limited cheating ability	Exoproteases, bacteria, population collapse, quorum-sensing	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a model for studying social behaviors in bacteria, such as the exploitation of exoprotease by social cheaters. The current paradigm holds that continuous culture of exoprotease-producing individuals with protein as the sole carbon source selects for exoprotease-non-producers-mutants with an impaired quorum-sensing regulator, LasR, which controls exoprotease expression. However, recent studies with reveal that some isolates lacking functional LasR still produce exoproteases under the control of another regulator, RhlR. Here, we extended this study to two clinical strains, AUS 411 and AUS 531, isolated from cystic fibrosis patients and harboring functional LasR. Surprisingly, in AUS 411, exoprotease-non-producers appeared from the first growth passage, but most cells lost exoprotease production only transiently, with stable non-producers isolated only in late passages. In contrast, AUS 531 slowly selected stable non-producers with limited cheating ability, which neither accumulated to high proportions nor caused population collapses. Contrary to the paradigm, these non-producers had no inactivating mutations in lasR yet were more fit than laboratory-derived lasR deletion mutants in both casein and casamino acid media. Our findings demonstrate that social behavior can differ significantly from that in reference strains, suggesting that some P. aeruginosa strains evolve quorum-sensing networks with robust resistance to exploitation.
PXD060867	41124105	Dissecting the RAD51-BRC4 Interaction Landscape through Integrative Molecular Simulations and Experimental Biophysics. 	Dissecting the RAD51-BRC4 Interaction Landscape through Integrative Molecular Simulations and Experimental Biophysics	None	The interaction between the RAD51 and BRCA2 proteins is central to homologous recombination (HR), a crucial pathway ensuring high-fidelity DNA repair. Recruitment of RAD51 involves eight highly conserved regions on BRCA2, named BRC repeats. The interaction between the fourth BRC repeat (BRC4) and the RAD51 C-terminal domain has been structurally characterized, while the complex of full-length RAD51 with the peptide remains elusive. This gap limits our understanding of cytosolic RAD51 recruitment driven by the BRCA2 BRC repeats, which is one of the first crucial steps in HR. Here, we report an integrative experimental and in silico approach to reconstruct the conformational ensemble in solution for full-length RAD51 in complex with BRC4. We combined AlphaFold2, cross-linking mass spectrometry, and small-angle X-ray scattering data with molecular dynamics simulations. Our results show that the full-length RAD51-BRC4 complex is a mixture of compact and elongated conformations and allow for the identification of key residues at the interface between the RAD51 N-terminus and BRC4, mediating complex conformational dynamics. Our evidence provides robust atomic-level insights into the RAD51-BRC4 interaction, shedding light on the molecular features that govern the recognition between these two proteins, while unveiling novel hotspots for developing novel anticancer agents.
PXD062573	41124677	Host Cell-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Regulate Iron Uptake in Recipient Macrophages during Mycobacterium abscessus Infection. 	Proteomic analysis for microvesicles isolated from uninfected or M.ab-infected RAW 264.7 cells	Microvesicles, Mycobacterium abscessus	The role of host cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) in host-pathogen interactions remains to be defined during mycobacterial infection. In this study, we characterized EVs from mouse RAW 264.7 cells uninfected or infected with Mycobacterium abscessus (M.ab), one of the most common nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) pathogens in humans. Our results show that M.ab infection increased the release of EVs but had no effect on the size distribution and total protein abundance of EVs from RAW 264.7 cells. Interestingly, EVs released by M.ab-infected RAW 264.7 cells significantly enhanced M.ab growth within recipient macrophages in cell culture. The proteomic analysis found that transferrin receptor was enriched in EVs from M.ab-infected RAW 264.7 cells compared to EVs from uninfected cells. Iron assay further indicates that EVs from M.ab-infected RAW 264.7 cells increased total iron level in recipient macrophages but not EVs from uninfected RAW 264.7 cells. However, iron abundance within EVs remained similar across both conditions. Finally, EVs from M.ab-infected RAW 264.7 cells failed to improve M.ab growth within recipient macrophages in the presence of an iron-chelating agent, deferoxamine, in cell culture. Therefore, our data suggest that M.ab-infected mouse macrophages likely regulate M.ab growth by upregulating iron uptake in recipient cells via released EVs.
PXD058337	41125229	Considering Measurement Time and Depth in diaPASEF Plasma Proteomics. 	Spectral Libraries in proteomics	Data independent acquisition, Plasma Proteomics, Spectral library, timsTOF HT	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based plasma proteomics is a powerful approach to unraveling the biology or pathophysiology in large clinical cohorts. Implementation of data-independent acquisition in combination with ion mobility approaches (diaPASEF) has enabled high-throughput analysis with increasing proteomic depth. DIA-based methods are dependent upon experimental or in-silico-generated spectral libraries, yet there is a lack of consensus in the field about which library produces superior results in regard to protein and peptide identifications and quantifications. Here, we evaluated approaches for building a spectral library in plasma proteomics on a timsTOF HT system. Furthermore, the relationship between measurement time, library depth, and number of protein and peptide identification for high-throughput plasma proteomics applications was assessed. As expected, an increase in the measurement time invested in the spectral library enhanced the number of identifications. At the protein level, in silico libraries provided decreased depth compared to the most extensive experimental library. However, the experimental library enhanced the number of peptide identifications by 14% compared to that of the in silico library. With the field increasingly moving to peptide-centric approaches, an experimental library allows for deeper assessment in peptide-based studies.
PXD063726	41130953	Targeted degradation of endogenous YAP by nanobody bioPROTAC inhibits tumor progression. 	LC-MS data of IM95 gastric cancer cells following YAP degradation by bioPROTAC	YAP, bioPROTAC, gastric cancer cells	Yes-associated protein (YAP), a key effector of the Hippo pathway, regulates gene expression and promotes tumorigenesis. YAP is conventionally considered "undruggable", however, targeted protein degradation offers a promising approach to address the challenges associated with targeting this oncogenic protein. In this study, through naive nanobody phage library screening, we identify multiple nanobodies against human YAP with high affinity and specificity. The YAP nanobody is then fused to the RING domain of RNF4, creating a bio-Proteolysis-Targeting Chimera (bioPROTAC) molecule capable of selectively targeting endogenous YAP for ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Notably, the constructed YAP bioPROTAC demonstrates significant YAP degradation and anticancer efficacy in various YAP-dependent cancers both in vitro and in vivo. Nanoparticles and adeno-associated virus (AAV) can effectively deliver the encoding gene of YAP bioPROTAC, achieving YAP degradation in tumors. Collectively, our study provides a proof-of-concept that the YAP nanobody-bioPROTAC approach can effectively degrade endogenous YAP via the ubiquitin-proteasome system, highlighting a feasible strategy for "undruggable" YAP-dependent cancers.
PXD061684	41132037	Easy Proteomics Sample Preparation: Technical Repeatability and Workflow Optimization Across 8 Biological Matrices in a New Core Facility Setting. 	Proteomics of a human saliva sample, LC-MSMS	NKUAProt001, nanoelute2, saliva, timsTOF fleX	Bottom-up proteomics relies on efficient and repeatable sample preparation for accurate protein identification and precise quantification. This study evaluates the performance of adapted SPEED (Sample Preparation by Easy Extraction and Digestion) protocol, a simplified, detergent-free approach tailored for various biological matrices, including lysis-resistant samples. Protein extraction and denaturation steps were refined for 8 biological matrices enabling standardized, cheap, and scalable proteomics analysis on 96-well plates. For tissue samples requiring downstream applications like Western blotting, we used a low-detergent RIPA buffer. Notably, the protocols demonstrate remarkable down-scalability, enabling robust proteomics measurements from as few as 3000 cells per sample for preparation and even down to 300 cells per LC-MS/MS analysis. Key advancements include a 30-min nanoLC-MS/MS run, achieving a 15-20 samples-per-day throughput, and leveraging the power of diaPASEF using thoroughly optimized DIA-windows to enhance proteome coverage. These adaptations streamline workflows, enabling proteomics analyses in matrices with challenging physical and biochemical properties. This study underscores the importance of early-stage optimization and feasibility testing in proteomics pipelines to inform study design and sample selection. By showcasing robust, scalable adaptations of the SPEED protocol, we provide a foundation for reproducible, high-throughput proteomic studies across diverse biological contexts.
PXD067788	41132646	circWWC3 enhances the progression of triple-negative breast cancer by interacting with vimentin to regulate the secretion of CSF2. 	Identify proteins that interact with hsa_circ_0001910 using mass spectrometry.	Breast cancer, hsa_circ_0001910,Proteomics profiling	Introduction: Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have been reported to be important in the development and progression of breast cancer. Nevertheless, the biological functions and mechanisms underlying the action of circRNAs in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) remain poorly understood. The present study aimed to explore the role of hsa_circ_0001910 (also termed circWWC3) interacting with vimentin in regulating the secretion of Colony Stimulating Factor 2 (CSF2) and its effects on the malignant biological behavior of triple-negative breast cancer as well as the cytotoxic activity of NK cells. Methods: RNA-Seq was utilized to investigate potential circRNAs involved in five pairs of breast cancer (BC) tissues and their corresponding normal tissues. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was conducted to verify the relationship between circWWC3 expression and patient clinical pathological parameters, as well as its intracellular localization. Gain- and loss-of-function assays were conducted to investigate the biological functions of circWWC3 in TNBC. A microarray analysis of mRNA expression profiles was conducted to explore the downstream target genes of circWWC3. RNA pull-down assays, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and mass spectrometry were carried out to uncover the proteins interacting with circWWC3. Rescue experiments were performed to investigate the potential regulatory role of circWWC3 in the progression of TNBC in vivo and in virto. Results: In our present study, Circular RNA sequencing analysis revealed that the expression of circWWC3 was significantly upregulated in breast cancer (BC). FISH assay results indicated that circWWC3 is highly expressed in TNBC, and its elevated expression is associated with the patient's T stage and lymph node metastasis, and it is primarily localized in the cytoplasm. The results of gain- and loss-of-function assays indicate that knockdown of circWWC3 significantly suppressed the proliferation, invasion, and migration of TNBC cells, while enhancing the killing efficiency of NK-92MI cells against TNBC cells. In contrast, overexpression of circWWC3 exhibited the opposite effects. The microarray analysis data indicated that CSF2 may be a downstream target of circWWC3. Interaction of circWWC3 with vimentin and their downstream target genes was confirmed by RNA pull-down, RIP, and mass spectrometry. Rescue experiments confirmed that vimentin knockdown partially counteracted the tumor-promoting effects of circWWC3. Further analysis revealed that circWWC3 upregulates CSF2 secretion mainly through its interaction with vimentin, a core component of the Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) signaling pathway, thereby facilitating the malignant progression of TNBC. Conclusion: Overall, our findings reveal that elevated expression of circWWC3 serves a role in the malignant progression of TNBC by directly interacting with the S56 phosphorylation site of vimentin, an interaction that is associated with increased secretion of CSF2. Furthermore, circWWC3 emerges as a potential biomarker for breast cancer diagnosis and presents an attractive therapeutic target for the treatment of TNBC.
PXD063320	41133621	Proteomic Characterization of Primary Human Pancreatic Cancer Cell Lines Following Long-Term Exposure to Gemcitabine. 	Proteomic analysis of gemcitabine-resistant (GemR) versus paired control human pancreatic cancer cells (PCCs)	Pancreatic cancer, gemcitabine resistance, proteome profiling	BACKGROUND: Gemcitabine (GEM) remains a cornerstone in the treatment of pancreatic cancer. Upon exposure to GEM, pancreatic cancer cells (PCCs) tend to adapt quickly to outcompete drug-induced cytotoxicity, thereby contributing to treatment failure. Thus, understanding GEM-induced molecular changes in PCCs is important. METHODS: Three primary PCC lines (PCC-1, PCC-2, PCC-7) and Mia PaCa-2 cultured for 40 passages (p) in the absence (control) or presence of GEM (GemR) were assessed for phenotypic changes. Proteome profiles for all PCCs at p10, p20, p25, p30, p35, and p40 were obtained using mass spectrometry (MS). Protein expression was determined using immunoblotting. Differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were evaluated for enrichment of functional and biological attributes and protein-protein interactions. RESULTS: GEM sensitivity and growth were both reduced in GemR versus paired controls for all four PCC lines. MS mapped > 7000 proteins in each PCC line, and the abundance of 70-83% of these was found to be significantly altered when comparing all sample groups. Proteomic changes in GemR versus paired controls differed remarkably among the PCCs and were affected by passaging and treatment duration. DAPs at p40 were mostly related to metabolic pathways, including nucleotide metabolism and diverse cell growth processes. Several closely related DAPs and multiple hub proteins in each PCC line were identified. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, this study revealed cell-line-specific, heterogeneous changes in proteome profiles of PCCs following their long-term exposure to GEM, and these were likely affected by treatment duration, dosage, and passaging.
PXD060886	41134633	A cytoplasmic motif in HLA-E that drives clathrin-mediated endocytosis and VCP-associated postendocytic trafficking. 	A cytoplasmic tail motif directs HLA-E to clathrin-mediated endocytosis and valosin-containing-protein-mediated recycling	HLA-E, Proximity Labelling	Human Leukocyte Antigen E (HLA-E) is a nonclassical MHC class I molecule that exhibits dual immunological functions in regulating natural killer (NK) cells and T cells through unusual trafficking patterns. We previously reported that HLA-E surface expression is low and transient due to its cytoplasmic tail and dominant VL9 peptide, making it a dynamic indicator of cellular status for NK cell surveillance. Here, we identify a sequence motif in the HLA-E cytoplasmic tail that enables rapid internalization via clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) through interaction with the adaptor protein 2 (AP-2) complex. Following internalization, HLA-E is routed to endosomes, where the same cytoplasmic motif and peptide loading together facilitate its reappearance on the cell surface-a process influenced by valosin-containing protein (VCP). Our findings reveal previously unrecognized endosomal trafficking pathways and regulatory mechanisms that distinguish HLA-E from classical HLA class I molecules, with broad implications for understanding the immunoregulatory roles of HLA-E.
PXD066846	41134669	BET family BRD3 initiates DSB-induced chromatin remodeling with TIP60 to promote R-loop-mediated HR. 	Flag-tagged BRD3 HEK293 immunoprecipitation	PPI	Mechanisms for genome stability in actively transcribed regions are essential for cellular homeostasis; however, these mechanisms are poorly understood. Herein, we identify the bromodomain and extraterminal domain (BET) family BRD3 as the genome caretaker in actively transcribed chromatin. We identify the protein network between BRD3 and chromatin remodeler TIP60. During transcription, BRD3 localizes to actively transcribed chromatin through its N-terminal bromodomains. Following DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) at the actively transcribed chromatin, the C-terminal extraterminal (ET) domain of BRD3 recruits CHD4 via its KIKL-like motifs to replace HP1 with the TIP60 (Tat-interactive protein, 60 kDa) complex, promoting H4K16 acetylation and MBTD1 recruitment, which creates chromatin barriers to 53BP1. This process recruits BRCA1 and R-loop-processing factors to promote R-loop-mediated homologous recombination (HR) and suppress 53BP1 and mutagenic non-homologous end-joining. Our study elucidates the mechanism by which BRD3 initiates DSB-induced chromatin remodeling by CHD4 and TIP60 to promote R-loop-mediated HR on actively transcribed chromatin to maintain genome stability.
PXD028969	41137792	Secretome and Transcriptome Analyses Reveal New Potential Virulence Factors during Cryptosporidium parvum Invasion. 	Secretome profiling of Cryptosporidium sporozoites in the initial interaction processes with host epithelial cells	Cryptospordium, Sporozoites, secrete proteins	Cryptosporidium parvum is a major cause of life-threatening diarrheal disease in young children and immunocompromised individuals. During the initial infection, C. parvum secretes a large number of virulence proteins that help the parasite invade host cells. However, little is known about these secretory proteins (SPs). Here, we mapped C. parvum SPs during early invasion (3 and 6 h postinfection) by secretomics analyses. A total of 396 SPs were identified. The cgd1_330 was identified as a homologue of Toxoplasma gondii CDC48 protein family, an AAA(+) ATPase critical for organellar protein import. This homology suggests cgd1_330 may play an important role in the survival and protein transport processes of Cryptosporidium. Transcriptome analysis was made to further figure out the expression patterns of these SPs. 70 putative microneme/rhoptry effectors were uncovered, including 59 novel candidates. Quantitative RT-PCR and Western blotting confirmed the expression of CpHSP70 and TRAP-C1 aligned with the secretomics/transcriptomic results. Our study provides a secretome atlas for C. parvum. The identification of cgd1_330 as a putative protein transporter and the expanded microneme/rhoptry repertoire offer new targets for therapeutic intervention against cryptosporidiosis.
PXD065699	41138668	Hyperactivity of the non-canonical inflammasome in SPG11 and SPG48. 	Hyperactivity of the non-canonical inflammasome promotes neuroinflammation in Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia type SPG11 and SPG48	SPG11, SPG48, bone marrow derived macrophages, neuroinflammation	BACKGROUND: Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) denotes a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative spastic gait disorders. Variants in SPG11 cause the most common autosomal recessive HSP also known as SPG11. The gene product Spatacsin interacts with the adaptor protein complex 5 (AP5). Because neurodegeneration in SPG11 is accompanied by marked neuro-inflammation, we hypothesised that Spatacsin may play a cell-autonomous role in pro-inflammatory cells. METHODS: Inflammasome activation was assessed in primary microglia and bone-marrow-derived-macrophages (BMDMs) from wild-type, Spg11, and Ap5z1 knockout (KO) mice and monocyte-derived-macrophages (MDMs) from patients with SPG11 mutations. Wild-type and Spg11 KO mice were used to study microglia activation and LPS-induced inflammatory responses in vivo. FINDINGS: We show that microglia activation is more pronounced in pre-symptomatic Spg11 KO compared with control mice following systemic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge. Our subsequent studies demonstrate that the activation of the non-canonical inflammasome results in a stronger inflammatory response in primary microglia and BMDMs from Spg11 KO mice, while the canonical pathway is unaffected. These findings are also observed in MDMs isolated from patients carrying loss-of-function SPG11 mutations. In vivo, LPS triggers a much stronger inflammatory response and leads to drastically increased lethality in Spg11 KO mice. Mass spectrometry of activated BMDMs unveils a massive downregulation of AP5 subunits upon disruption of Spg11. Notably, the disruption of its zeta-subunit Ap5z1, which is associated with SPG48, also sensitises the non-canonical inflammasome. INTERPRETATION: Our findings suggest that a hyper-reactivity of the non-canonical inflammasome in innate immune cells contributes to neuro-inflammation in SPG11 and SPG48. FUNDING: Please see Acknowledgements.
PXD065010	41140144	Genomic, Proteomic, and Biochemical Study of Pleurotus pulmonarius Secretome and Its Role in Biomass Saccharification. 	Genomic, Proteomic, and Biochemical Study of Pleurotus pulmonarius Secretome and Its Role in Biomass Saccharification	None	Pleurotus species include edible mushrooms that grow on a range of lignocellulosic substrates by secreting hydrolytic and oxidative enzymes. This flexibility offers opportunities to valorize agro-industrial residues for sustainable production of food and biomaterials. In this study, we analyzed the genome of Pleurotus pulmonarius and its biocatalytic potential for lignocellulose saccharification using proteomics and biochemical assays. The fungus was cultivated on beechwood, corn stover, and xylose. Beechwood induced the richest secretome with abundant oxidases. The corn stover secretome had fewer proteins but was focused on carbohydrate-acting enzymes, with abundant polysaccharide-degrading and accessory enzymes. Despite lower enzyme diversity, corn stover secretome achieved higher lignocellulose saccharification, further improved by oxidoreductase inhibition. Supplementing an industrial cellulase cocktail with P. pulmonarius corn stover secretomes enhanced sugar release by 40%. These findings highlight the dynamic enzymatic response of P. pulmonarius to lignocellulosic substrates and its potential in biomass valorization and the design of enzymatic cocktails.
PXD051205	41141506	Liquid Biopsy-Multiomics Link Adhesion Pathway Dysregulation to Kidney Injury Severity. 	Integrated multiomics implicates dysregulation of ECM and cell adhesion pathways as drivers of severe COVID-associated kidney injury	COVID-19, TMT-16machine learning, kidney organoids, multiomics, urine proteomics	Introduction: Severe acute kidney injury (AKI) is strongly associated with the risk of developing chronic kidney disease; however, little is known about the cell type-specific mechanisms driving kidney injury severity. Methods: In this multicenter observational study, we used clinically obtained liquid biopsy proteomics and machine learning (ML) to predict severe outcomes in patients with COVID-associated and non-COVID AKI. Further, we orthogonally combined 169 urine proteomics with 437 plasma proteomics samples and 40 urine sediment single-cell transcriptomics samples to identify complementary dysregulated mechanisms. Results: Using a 10-fold cross-validated random forest algorithm, we identified a set of urinary proteins that demonstrate predictive power for both discovery and validation set with AUC of 87% and 76%, respectively. These predictive proteomics features obtained demonstrate that cell adhesion and autophagy-associated pathways are uniquely impacted in severe AKI. Differentially abundant proteins (DAPSs) associated with these pathways are highly expressed in cells of the juxtamedullary nephron, endothelial cells (ECs), and podocytes, indicating that these kidney cell types could be potential targets. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis in the in vitro model of kidney organoids infected with SARS-CoV-2 reveal dysregulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) organization in multiple nephron segments, recapitulating the clinically observed fibrotic response across multiomics datasets. Ligand-receptor interaction analysis of the podocyte and tubule organoid clusters shows significant reduction and loss of interaction between integrins and basement membrane receptors in the infected kidney organoids. Conclusion: Collectively, these data suggest that ECM degradation and adhesion-associated mechanisms could be the main driver of severe kidney injury.
PXD055562	41141540	Proteomic Analysis of Circulating IgA1-Containing Immune Complexes in Patients with IgA Nephropathy. 	Serum proteomic analysis of circulating IgA1-containing immune complexes in patients with IgA nephropathy	IgA nephropathy, LC-MS, complement, glomerular disease, immune complexes, orbitrap, raw, serum	Introduction: IgA1-containing immune complexes (IgA1-IC) consisting of galactose-deficient IgA1 (Gal-deficient IgA1) and IgG autoantibodies are central to the pathogenesis of IgA nephropathy (IgAN). These IgA1-IC form in circulation, and additional proteins may be added before the deposition in the glomeruli. However, the composition of these circulating IgA1-IC is not fully understood. To address this gap in knowledge, we developed a novel proteomic workflow. Methods: IgA1-IC from sera of patients with IgAN and healthy controls (HCs) were isolated by lectin-affinity chromatography followed by size-exclusion chromatography (SEC). IgA1 yield and molecular integrity were assessed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. After proteolytic digestion, IgA1-IC samples were analyzed by using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). LC-MS results were analyzed by label-free quantification (LFQ) to identify proteins in IgA1-IC of patients with IgAN versus HCs versus proteomes of monomeric IgA1 (mIgA1) and polymeric IgA1 (pIgA1). Results: We ascertained that 22 proteins were more abundant in the chromatographic fractions with IgA1-IC from patients with IgAN compared with similar fractions from HCs and other, uncomplexed IgA1 molecular forms. These proteins encompassed immunoglobulins, several complement proteins, including those with regulatory functions, and apolipoproteins. In addition, the identified proteins were validated by use of orthogonal serum preparation and analysis of previously published proteomics data. Conclusion: Our new workflow better characterized the serum IgA1-IC of patients with IgAN by identifying proteins with elevated abundance in IgA1-IC in patients with IgAN, including complement components and apolipoproteins. Complement proteins identified in this study indicate that the alternative and lectin pathways are involved, but not the classical pathway.
PXD068894	41144767	Transcriptomics and Neuropeptidomics of the Cockroach Rhyparobia maderae to Characterize the Neuropeptide Landscape of the Cockroach's Circadian Clock. 	Neuropeptidomics of the cockroach Rhyparobia maderae to characterize the neuropeptide landscape of the cockroach's circadian clock	LC-MS mass spectrometry, circadian clock, insect, neuropeptidomics	The circadian clock of Rhyparobia maderae is the accessory medulla (AME) in the optic lobes of the brain. Controlled by compound ocular photoreceptors, the cockroach clock orchestrates circadian rhythms in physiology and behavior synchronized with environmental light-dark cycles. Approximately 240 neurons, rich in partially colocalized neuropeptides, innervate the AME. Since the identity and function of most of these neuropeptides are unknown in the cockroach, the transcriptome of the Madeira cockroach was prepared, revealing 68 neuropeptides, neuropeptide-like and protein hormone genes. To identify the neuropeptidome, a combination of analyses of brain/retrocerebral complex extracts by Q-Exactive Orbitrap mass spectrometry (MS) and direct tissue profiling of different parts of the nervous system by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) MS was used. The resulting data set revealed 192 mature neuropeptides, with 155 identified for the first time and 57 precursor peptides. The AME neuropeptidomic profile revealed 166 mature neuropeptides with potential bioactive circadian clock functions. The precision of our MS data was validated by immunostaining, as illustrated by an example of immunoreactive patterns for proctolin in AME neurons. This peptidergic data set serves as the foundation for future research on neuropeptide-based functional studies that regulate the timing of disparate neuronal circuits.
PXD062355	41145412	Mode of action of a DCAF16-recruiting targeted glue that can selectively degrade BRD9. 	Selective degradation of BRD9 by a DCAF16-recruiting targeted glue: mode of action elucidation and in vivo proof of concept	HEK293 IP-MS, TMT	Molecular glue degraders for therapeutic target proteins are emerging as a strategy in drug discovery. Here, we modify a BRD9 ligand with specific chemical fragments to create degrader compounds that we call Targeted Glues. When bound to the target protein, these create an altered protein-ligand interface that is recognised by a ligase. This interaction between the target and the E3 ligase leads to protein degradation and is stabilised by a reversible covalent interaction between our molecule and a specific cysteine in the ligase. By screening a library of BRD9 targeted compounds we discover AMPTX1, a potent selective and reversibly covalent BRD9 degrader. In cells, AMPTX-1 selectively recruits the E3 ligase, DCAF16, to BRD9 and drives BRD9 degradation, as demonstrated by co-immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry. BRD9 degradation is primarily dependent on the engagement of the surface Cys58 of DCAF16; the formation of a covalent adduct to DCAF16 is facilitated by ternary complex formation with BRD9. BRD9 degradation is also achieved in vivo with AMPTX-1 in a mouse xenograft model after oral dosing due to the drug-like, orally bioavailable properties of the compound. This supports the concept that covalent recruitment of DCAF16 is a viable approach in the development of therapeutic degraders.
PXD056757	41145465	LINC01198 activates Hippo signaling to stimulate IL-1beta autocrine for driving vemurafenib resistance by associating with TAOK1/2 in melanoma. 	Proteins that directly interact with the full-length LINC01198, with EGFP as a control, in vemurafenib-resistant melanoma cells.	LINC01198, melanoma, vemurafenib resistence	Vemurafenib (VEM) is an important targeted drug for treating melanoma harboring BRAF-V600E mutation. Despite its remarkable curative efficacy in early clinical treatment, most patients developed drug resistance within one year. Nevertheless, the critical factors driving vemurafenib resistance and mechanisms leading to treatment failure in melanoma are debating and inconclusive. In this study, we established vemurafenib-resistance melanoma cell strain together with acute vemurafenib treatment and characterized LINC01198 as the only one LncRNA up-regulated in both of stable vemurafenib-resistant and acute vemurafenib-treated melanoma cells. Functionally, loss of LINC01198 significantly compromised melanoma resistance against vemurafenib. Mechanistically, LINC01198 directly associates with TAOK1/2 to inhibit TAOK1/2 phosphorylation and thereby elicits Hippo signaling through TAOK/LATS axis, which redistributes YAP/TAZ into nucleus and promotes the expression and secretion of IL-1beta to support vemurafenib resistance in melanoma. Our study not only identifies LINC01198 as a potent indicator and critical factor for driving vemurafenib resistance, but also suggests a series of therapeutic targets for tackling vemurafenib resistance in melanoma.
PXD062127	41145488	Chemotherapy enhances HMGA1 secretion through the mutant p53-CK2 axis in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cells. 	Chemotherapy enhances HMGA1 secretion through the mutant p53-CK2 axis in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cells.	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, TP53, supernatants, tumor microenvironment	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains one of the most aggressive and lethal cancers, with limited therapeutic options and a dismal prognosis. A critical driver of its progression is mutant p53 (mutp53), which alters the tumor microenvironment (TME) by influencing crucial pro-tumoral signaling factors. Given the potential of secretome profiling to reveal novel biomarkers and druggable targets, we investigated the role of the mutp53-driven secretome in PDAC cells and its implications for disease progression. Through mass-spectrometry (MS) analysis, we identified a set of secreted proteins modulated by mutp53, with the nuclear high mobility group A1 (HMGA1) serving as a central regulator. HMGA1 is a transcription factor involved in several cellular processes and found to be upregulated in different tumors, but its extracellular role in cancer remains largely unexplored. We demonstrate that mutp53-driven HMGA1 secretion promotes PDAC cell hyperproliferation, where HMGA1 deficiency significantly impairs tumor growth highlighting a critical role of this protein in tumor aggressiveness. Notably, we discovered that chemotherapy enhances HMGA1 secretion specifically in TP53-mutant PDAC cells through a mechanism dependent on Casein Kinase 2 (CK2) activity. To unravel the downstream oncogenic signaling triggered by secreted HMGA1, we conducted phosphoproteomic analysis, identifying hyperphosphorylation of Nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1), as a pivotal event that further amplifies tumor cell proliferation. Collectively, our findings reveal that a panel of chemotherapeutic agents stimulate a novel mutp53-dependent CK2-HMGA1-NPM1 axis that fuels PDAC proliferation in an autocrine/paracrine manner. Targeting this pathway at multiple levels emerges as a promising therapeutic strategy to counteract mutp53-driven tumor progression and improve patient outcomes.
PXD054538	41145500	Conserved hydrophilic checkpoints tune FocA-mediated formate:H(+) symport. 	Conserved hydrophilic checkpoints tune FocA-1 mediated formate:H+ symport	Cryo EM, FocA, XLMS, formate-nitrite transporter	FocA belongs to the widespread, evolutionarily ancient formate-nitrite transporter (FNT) family of pentameric anion channels and translocates formic acid bidirectionally. Here, we identify compartmentalized polarity distribution across the complete FocA pore structure - resolved at 2.56 Aa - mirrored against a two-fold axis with H209 at its center. A FocA-H209N variant that exhibits an efflux-only channel-like function in vivo reveals a density consistent with formate located directly at N209, abolishing the channel's amphiphilicity. Pyruvate formate-lyase, which generates formate, orients at the cytoplasmic face where formate delivery is regulated by conformational changes in the FocA vestibule. Comparisons with other FNTs suggest a tuning mechanism of formate-specific transport via checkpoints enriched in hydrophilic residues.
PXD041522	41145507	Spatial N-glycan rearrangement on alpha5beta1 integrin nucleates galectin-3 oligomers to determine endocytic fate. 	Dynamic N-glycan rearrangement nucleates galectin-3 oligomers and drives endocytosis	Cross-Link, Glycoprotein, Structural	Membrane glycoproteins frequently adopt different conformations when altering between active and inactive states. Here, we discover a molecular switch that exploits dynamic spatial rearrangements of N-glycans during such conformational transitions to control protein function. For the conformationally switchable cell adhesion glycoprotein alpha5beta1 integrin, we find that only the bent-closed state arranges N-glycans to nucleate the formation of up to tetrameric oligomers of the glycan-binding protein galectin-3. We propose a structural model of how these galectin-3 oligomers are built and how they clamp the bent-closed state to select it for endocytic uptake and subsequent retrograde trafficking to the Golgi for polarized distribution in cells. Our findings reveal the dynamic regulation of the glycan landscape at the cell surface to achieve oligomerization of galectin-3. Galectin-3 oligomers are thereby identified as functional decoders of defined spatial patterns of N-glycans on specifically the bent-closed conformational state of alpha5beta1 integrin and possibly other integrin family members.
PXD056011	41146223	AAV-mediated delivery of a proliferation inducing ligand (APRIL) to cortical neurons limits inflammation and demyelination in the corpus callosum of the cuprizone mouse model. 	Magnetic resonance imaging and transcriptome-proteome integration analysis demonstrate improved disease-outcome in the cuprizone mouse model following AAV-mediated delivery of A Proliferation Inducing Ligand	APRIL, Adeno-associated Virus, Cuprizone, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Neuroinflammation, Neuroprotection, Transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: A Proliferation-Inducing Ligand (APRIL) is a tumour necrosis factor superfamily member with multiple effector roles in the peripheral and central nervous system (CNS). In the CNS, APRIL helps maintain immune homeostasis and supports neuronal survival, yet whether it can therapeutically modulate acute neuro-inflammatory and neurodegenerative processes is unclear. To investigate this in a severe neuro-inflammatory context, we tested whether local APRIL delivery can influence microglial/astrocytic responses and demyelination in the cuprizone (CPZ) mouse model of neuro-inflammation and demyelination. METHODS: We applied adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated gene transfer to drive APRIL expression by cortical neurons positioned directly above the splenium of the corpus callosum. Following CPZ intoxication, we evaluated microglial and astrocytic activation and myelin content by in vivo T2 and diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and validated them by post-mortem quantitative immunohistochemistry (IHC) and bulk transcriptomic and proteomic profiling. RESULTS: T2 and diffusion MRI, corroborated by quantitative IHC, demonstrated that secretion of APRIL by cortical neurons attenuated CPZ-induced microglial recruitment and demyelination in the splenium, but not in the cortex. Integrated transcriptome-proteome analysis of splenium and cortex, further supported by IHC, highlighted astroglial lipid-metabolic circuitry - marked by the astrocytic fatty-acid-binding protein 7 (Fabp7) - as a candidate axis underlying APRIL's effects to reduce inflammatory cell recruitment and myelin preservation. CONCLUSIONS: AAV-mediated expression of APRIL by cortical neuron counteracted microglial recruitment and demyelination in the splenium of CPZ-treated mice. Our multi-omics integration analysis nominated several pathways, including Fabp7-linked astrocytic lipid metabolism, to elucidate APRIL's mechanism of action. Together, these findings provide a framework for the mechanistic dissection of APRIL's therapeutic potential and further translational evaluation in CNS pathologies characterised by acute neuro-inflammatory responses.
PXD067691	41147948	Temporal Analysis of Tear Fluid Proteome Reveals Critical Corneal Repair Events After Photorefractive Surgery. 	Temporal analysis of tear fluid proteome reveals critical corneal repair events after photorefractive surgery	Tear film, cornea, epithelium, wound healing	Purpose: To map time-resolved tear proteome changes during corneal epithelial wound healing after photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) and nominate tear-based biomarker panels with translational potential. Methods: Tears from 10 healthy adults were collected before PRK (Pre), ~30-60 minutes after PRK (D0), and day 3 (D3) using Schirmer strips. Proteins were extracted (SP3), trypsin-digested, and analyzed by DIA on an Evosep One-timsTOF HT platform. DIA-NN (1% FDR) provided identification/quantification. Paired contrasts (Pre vs. D0; Pre vs. D3) defined differentially abundant proteins (adjusted P < 0.05; |fold change|>=2) for pathway enrichment. A stringent screen (adjusted P < 0.001; FC>2.5) and UniProt-based annotation distinguished secreted versus intracellular candidates. Results: Across 2025 identified proteins, 909 (~45%) were significantly modulated. D0 tears showed an "injury/ECM" program (e.g., TGFBI, lumican, keratocan, fibrinogen chains, complement C8B, APOA1), whereas D3 shifted toward remodeling and epithelial polarity with regulated proteolysis (e.g., SERPINA3, MMP7, THBS1, MUC5B, CXCL17). A subset persisted across time points (e.g., A2M, haptoglobin, OLFML3). Intracellular signatures paralleled phase transitions: D0 was enriched for chromatin/DNA-repair and RNA-binding proteins (histones, XRCC5/Ku80, HNRNPs), whereas D3 highlighted transport/cytoskeletal factors linked to apical remodeling and fluid/ion handling (AQP5, NHERF1/EBP50, ANO1/TMEM16A, ACTN1, RDX). H6PD was elevated at both D0 and D3. Conclusions: Time-stamped, tear-accessible biomarker panels emerge from this analysis: early-injury (TGFBI, lumican/keratocan, fibrinogen/complement), sustained (A2M, haptoglobin, OLFML3), and late-remodeling/epithelial (SERPINA3, MMP7, THBS1, MUC5B, CXCL17), with complementary intracellular markers (AQP5/NHERF1/ANO1). These candidates may support perioperative monitoring, risk stratification (delayed closure, stromal haze), and phase-adapted therapy after PRK, warranting prospective clinical validation.
PXD066288	41149912	From Isolation to Genomics: Characterization of Aspergillus uvarum HT4 as a Novel Producer of Extracellular Tannase. 	Exploring the Potential of Aspergillus uvarum for Tannase Production using  genomic and proteomic Insights	Aspergillus uvarum, Tannase	Tannases (tannin acyl hydrolases, EC 3.1.1.20) are enzymes of industrial interest due to their ability to hydrolyze hydrolyzable tannins into bioactive compounds like gallic acid. In this study fungal strains capable of producing extracellular tannase were isolated and identified. From tannin-rich substrates, 24 fungal isolates were obtained, of which 17 showed tannase activity. Molecular identification based on calmodulin gene sequencing identified three species of tannase-producing black aspergilli: Aspergillus luchuensis, A. niger (formerly A. welwitschiae), and A. uvarum. The isolate A. uvarum HT4 exhibited the highest extracellular tannase activity (182 U/mL) and was selected for further study. Whole-genome sequencing of HT4 revealed 15 putative tannase genes, most sharing high identity with A. uvarum CBS 121591. Two divergent genes appeared to be acquired via horizontal gene transfer from Aspergillus brunneoviolaceus and Penicillium angulare. Proteomic analysis of the secretome confirmed the expression of two extracellular tannases. The enzyme showed optimal activity at pH 5.0-6.0 and 40-50 degreesC. Secretome analysis revealed hydrolytic enzymes typical of saprophytic fungi in lignocellulose-rich environments. Importantly, no biosynthetic gene clusters of major mycotoxins were detected, supporting the biosafety of HT4 for industrial applications.
PXD062481	41150187	Proteome Analysis of the Six-Eyed Sand-Spider Sicarius thomisoides Venom. 	Proteome of the six eyes sand-spider Sicarius thomisoides venom	Sicarius spider, venom proteome	Spiders of the Sicarius genera (Araneae: Sicariidae) are commonly known as six-eyed sand spiders. Of the species described in Latin America, the species S. thomisoides has previously been shown to possess venom with a toxic potential comparable to that observed in the venom of the spider L. laeta. Although identifying the phospholipase D activity in the venom of S. thomisoides, it is still unknown what other components are part of the venom. In this study, we described the identification of the main protein components of S. thomisoides venom, revealing that the phospholipase D family were the majority toxins, followed by Astacin-like metalloproteinases and serine proteases. Additionally, the presence of CRISP-type allergens and peptides from the U-PHTX-Pmx family was identified for the first time in venoms from Sicarius genera. Identifying the components of the Sicarius spider venom is an essential step to understanding its toxicological potential.
PXD068418	41150532	Cerebellar Mechanisms Underlying Autism-like Cognitive Deficits in Mouse Offspring with Prenatal Valproic Acid Exposure. 	Cerebellar Mechanisms Underlying Autism-Like Cognitive Deficits in Mouse Offspring with Prenatal Valproic Acid Exposure	Autism spectrum disorder (ASD), cerebellum, valproic acid	Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex neurodevelopmental condition characterized by impairments in social communication and repetitive behaviors, involving various brain regions. Emerging evidence highlights the critical role of the cerebellum in the pathophysiology of autism; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study aimed to establish a prenatal valproic acid (VPA)-induced mouse model of ASD and explore the potential molecular mechanisms underlying cerebellar ASD-like phenotypes through DIA-based proteomics and bioinformatics analyses. Significant cognitive impairment and anxiety-like behaviors were detected using an open field test and novel object test following VPA exposure, respectively. Additionally, reduced numbers of Purkinje cells with irregular arrangement were observed in the cerebellum. Furthermore, cerebellar proteomics analyses revealed that they identified 193 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) involved in multiple pathways, including axon guidance, glutamatergic synapse, long-term potentiation, and calcium signaling, among others. Notably, dysfunction of glutamate receptor signaling and disruptions in axon-guidance signaling appear to be major molecular mechanisms underlying cerebellar impairment. Together, these findings suggest that Grin2b may serve as a critical molecule linking synaptic neurotransmission and neurodevelopmental disorders. Thus, Grin2b may represent a potential therapeutic target for addressing cognitive impairment in ASD.
PXD056553	41151856	Lipid Metabolic Reprogramming During Progression to Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer Identified by Quantitative Proteomics. 	Quantitative proteomic and lipidomic analysis of LNCaP and C4-2 cell lines during CRPC progression	GC-MS/MS, Prostate cancer, lipidomics	BACKGROUND/AIM: The progression of hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (HSPC) to castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) as a result of resistance to androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) remains a major challenge in prostate cancer treatment. MATERIALS AND METHODS: To explore the underlying mechanisms, we performed deep comparative proteomic profiling of HSPC and CRPC cell lines. LNCaP and C4-2 cell lines were cultured in isotopically labeled medium, combined, and digested, followed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and bioinformatic analyses. RESULTS: Using SILAC-based proteomic analysis, 3,578 proteins were identified, with 2,474 quantified. In C4-2 cells, 41 proteins were significantly up-regulated, while 201 were down-regulated (fold-change >1.5 or <1.5-1, p<0.05). KEGG pathway analysis linked the increased proteins to fatty acid metabolism and biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids. Lipidomic analysis showed a significant rise in fatty acids like DHA, palmitic acid, stearic acid, and arachidic acid, aligning with the proteomic findings. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that fatty acids play a key role in HSPC's progression to CRPC, possibly indicating that CRPC cells themselves may generate fatty acids.
PXD063266	41151862	Global Profiling of Lysine Lactylation in Prostate Cancer Cells. 	Global profiling of lysine lactylation in prostate cancer cells	Post-translational modification, Prostate	BACKGROUND/AIM: Lysine lactylation (Kla) is a recently identified post-translational modification derived from lactate that regulates diverse biological processes. Although Kla has been studied in several cancers, its role in prostate cancer (PC) remains unclear. The objective of this study is to profile Kla in PC in order to explore the mechanisms involved in PC progression. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed global Kla profiling in PC-3M prostate cancer cells using affinity enrichment with anti-Kla antibodies, followed by LC-MS/MS. Bioinformatics analyses were conducted to explore the functional roles of Kla-modified proteins. RESULTS: We identified 681 Kla sites across 379 proteins, with modifications predominantly located in nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins. Enrichment analysis indicated Kla involvement in mRNA splicing, chromatin organization, and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. Several multifunctional proteins, including AHNAK and nucleolin (NCL) harbor multiple Kla sites. Motif analysis indicated conserved amino acid patterns surrounding Kla sites. Notably, PC-3M cells showed reduced expression of sirtuin (SIRT)3, SIRT5, and SIRT6, which may underlie elevated Kla levels. CONCLUSION: This study presents the first comprehensive Kla landscape in PCa, suggesting its potential regulatory role in tumor progression. These findings provide a valuable resource for future studies and support Kla as a possible target for therapeutic intervention in prostate cancer.
PXD061968	41152331	Cerebrospinal fluid proteomic analysis of long-term antihypertensive treatment with amlodipine and atenolol in hypertensive rats. 	Cerebrospinal fluid proteomic analysis of long-term antihypertensive treatment with amlodipine and atenolol in hypertensive rats.	CSF, hypertensia, rat proteome	Midlife hypertension has been identified as a risk factor for the development of dementia, however, the underlying mechanism of this correlation remains unclear. In this study, we analyzed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) that had been treated with either amlodipine or atenolol for one year and compared these to normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY). Mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of the CSF samples was conducted to identify both the impact of hypertension as well as antihypertensive treatment on CSF proteomics. Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure were increased in hypertensive rats, and both medications lowered blood pressure compared to untreated SHR rats. The analysis of the CSF proteome revealed that hypertension resulted in alterations to processes associated with the development of the central nervous system, inflammation and blood coagulation. The latter included proteins such as YKL-40, KNG1, DAG1, and members of the Serpin family. Amlodipine treatment resulted in changes to proteins involved in gas transport (including CA2, HBB, and HBA1), whereas atenolol treatment led to changes in the complement and coagulation cascade (including CFH, KNG1, APOE, and AHSG). A comparison of the two antihypertensive treatments revealed alterations in pathways associated with cell adhesion, central nervous system development, and vascular development. These findings show that hypertension and long-term treatment with antihypertensive medications elicit distinct effects on the CSF proteome.
PXD050835	41154525	Proteomic Changes in the Cytoplasmatic Fraction of Weaned Piglets' Liver and Kidney Under Antioxidant and Mycotoxin Diets. 	SWATH proteomics analysis of pig liver and kidney cytosolic fraction	DIA, SWATH, kidney, liver, pig	Mycotoxin contamination represents a major risk to both human and animal health. Antioxidants can mitigate some of these effects through free radical scavenging, reduction in oxidative stress, and anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory actions. This work investigated the potential of antioxidants derived from grapeseed and sea buckthorn to mitigate the adverse effects of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) and ochratoxin A (OTA) in weaned piglets. An unbiased Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA) proteomic approach was used to analyse the impact of OTA- and AFB1-contaminated diets on liver and kidney cytoplasmic metabolism, particularly focusing on the conjugation phase. Our results indicate that several toxic effects of these mycotoxins were partially alleviated by dietary antioxidant supplementation. Additionally, in kidneys, some of the effects are synergistically amplified, such as proteins involved in fatty acid degradation, peroxisome, PPAR signalling, translation, the TCA cycle, and excretion pathways. Inclusion of antioxidants in the animal diet can have beneficial effects. Nevertheless, caution is advised; synergistic effects can occur with potentially more serious consequences than the effects of mycotoxins alone.
PXD068453	41155280	Characterization of Corneal Defects in ATG7-Deficient Mice. 	Characterisation of corneal defects in ATG7-deficient mice	autophagy, cornea, limbal stem cells	Regulated proteolysis via autophagy is essential for cellular homeostasis, yet the specific role of autophagy-related gene 7 (ATG7) in corneal epithelial maintenance remains unclear. Using a conditional knockout mouse model (Atg7(f/f) K14Cre(+/-)), we investigated the impact of ATG7 deficiency on corneal epithelial autophagy, morphology, and vascular dynamics. Loss of ATG7 disrupted autophagosome formation, evidenced by increased LC3B expression but reduced LC3B-positive puncta and absence of autophagosomes ultrastructurally. Although gross corneal morphology was preserved, ATG7 deficiency led to thickened epithelium and increased peripheral lymphatic vessel sprouting, indicating a pro-inflammatory and pro-lymphangiogenic microenvironment. Proteomic analysis revealed upregulation of RAB8, TM9S3, and RETR3, suggesting activation of compensatory pathways such as exophagy, reticulophagy, and Golgiphagy. Inflammatory and angiogenic components were downregulated, suggesting a moderate loss of inhibitory capacity based on the lymphatic phenotypes observed. At the same time, while these two compensatory changes occur, other proteins that positively regulate lysosome formation are reduced, resulting in a phenotype linked to deficient autophagy. These findings demonstrate that ATG7-mediated autophagy maintains corneal epithelial homeostasis and immune privilege, with implications for understanding corneal inflammation and lymphangiogenesis in ocular surface diseases.
PXD062318	41155404	Plasma Protein Biomarkers to Detect Early Gastric Preneoplasia and Cancer: A Prospective Study. 	Plasma protein biomarkers for the early detection of gastric preneoplasia and cancer: a prospective study	Depletion, Q Exactive HF, plasma	Gastric cancer (GC) often presents a poor prognosis due to its asymptomatic phenotype at early stages. Upper endoscopy, which is the current gold standard to diagnose GC, is invasive with limited sensitivity for detecting gastric preneoplasia. Non-invasive biomarkers, such as blood circulating proteins, offer a promising alternative for the early detection of gastric lesions. In this prospective study, we identified plasma protein biomarkers for gastric preneoplasia and cancer using mass spectrometry-based proteomics in an exploratory cohort (n = 39). Fifteen promising protein candidates emerged to distinguish patient categories and were further confirmed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) in plasma samples from a validation cohort of 138 participants. Our predictive models demonstrated high classification performance with a minimal set of biomarkers. A four-protein panel (ARG1, CA2, F13A1, S100A12) achieved 94.1-98.2% AUROC (95% CI) for distinguishing cancer from non-cancer cases, while a five-protein panel (ARG1, CA2, HPT, MAN2A1, LBP) reached 97.3-99.5% AUROC (95% CI) for distinguishing cancer or preneoplasia from healthy or non-atrophic gastritis cases on the full cohort. Leveraging simple blood sampling, this strategy holds promise to detect high-risk gastric lesions, even at asymptomatic stages. Such an approach could significantly improve early detection and clinical management of GC, offering direct benefit for patients.
PXD069084	41155513	Proteomic Profiling of Cardiomyocytes Revealed Potential Radioprotective Effects of Different Resveratrol Pretreatment Regimens. 	Proteomic profiles in cardiomyocytes exposed to ionizing radiation and resveratrol: potential radioprotective mechanisms of the different resveratrol pretreatment regimens	radiation, radioprotection, resveratrol	Resveratrol may protect against radiation by modulating cellular metabolism and enhancing the cellular response to stress. Here, we explored its effects on human cardiomyocytes exposed to ionizing radiation. Resveratrol (5 microM) was administered for 1, 7, and 30 days before a single 2 Gy dose of irradiation, and then radiation toxicity and changes in the proteome were evaluated. Extended resveratrol treatment (7 or 30 days) induced more profound proteomic changes than one-day treatment and partially counteracted toxic effects of radiation, leading to increased cell survival, reduced cell death, and fewer cells arrested in the G1 phase. Though resveratrol administration itself had a greater impact on the proteome than radiation alone, we identified three subsets of proteins differently affected by radiation depending on the resveratrol context. The first subset (84 differentially expressed proteins; DEPs) represented proteins influenced by radiation in all resveratrol pretreatment regimens. The second subset (228 DEPs), linked to DNA repair, cell cycle checkpoints, and apoptosis, was affected by radiation only in the absence of resveratrol preconditioning, indicating the compound's protective effect. The third subset (252 DEPs) involved in metabolism regulation appeared only after extended resveratrol preconditioning. In conclusion, the results demonstrate that hypothetical time-dependent cardioprotective effects of resveratrol are linked to significant proteomic reprogramming of cardiomyocytes caused by long-term pretreatment.
PXD062603	41158440	Functional divergence of MdpS and MdpS2 reveals mucin-targeting strategies in Streptococcus oralis. 	MdpS and MdpS2 structurally and functionally diverge to regulate Streptococcus oralis mucin degradation	MUC5B, Oral microbiome, Streptococcus oralis, biofilm dynamics, mucin degradation, mucin degrading proteases	Background: Mucin degradation is essential for understanding oral microbial adaptation, yet the enzymes involved remain incompletely understood. Herein, we have characterised two mucin-degrading proteases, MdpS and MdpS2, from the oral commensal Streptococcus oralis. Materials and methods: MdpS2 was characterised using physicochemical assays and substrate profiling and was compared to MdpS. Further Mdp characterisation included structural modelling, and functional assays analysing the gene expression during biofilm growth on salivary MUC5B, enzyme-induced biofilm dispersal, and mucus degradation analysed through nanoLC-MS/MS, sedimentation profiling, and microrheology. Results: MdpS2 shared conformational homology with MdpS despite low sequence identity and showed greater tolerance to pH and sodium chloride. Both genes were significantly upregulated during late stationary biofilm phase. MdpS and MdpS2 hydrolysed MUC5B extensively, with overlapping but distinct hydrolysis patterns. MdpS2 promoted biofilm dispersal and caused a pronounced reduction in MUC5B size and compactness. Microrheology showed selective modulation of MUC5B-rich mucus by MdpS2, while MdpS affected both MUC5B and MUC5AC networks. Conclusions: MdpS and MdpS2 exhibit complementary biochemical and functional profiles, supporting their roles in mucin degradation and biofilm remodelling. These findings advance our understanding of how early colonizing streptococci may interact with mucosal surfaces, influence biofilm dynamics and oral ecology, and suggest potential applications in targeting mucus-related disorders.
PXD061152	41158618	Metabolic resilience governs sex-specific pain recovery during hormonal aging: a multi-omics study of neuropathy in mice. 	Age-Linked Variations in Adipose Tissue Responses to Nerve Injury in a murine model: Sex-Specific Patterns Over Time	Gender, LC-MS	Introduction: Biological aging and sex interact to shape systemic metabolism, yet their role in chronic pain resolution remains unexplored. We hypothesized that metabolic resilience-the ability to flexibly switch fuel sources and maintain energy homeostasis-rules successful recovery from nerve injury in a sex-dependent manner during aging. Methods: In 12-month-old male and female mice, corresponding to the perimenopausal phase in females and the onset of hormonal decline in both sexes, we induced sciatic nerve chronic constriction injury and performed multi-omics profiling during Wallerian degeneration, a phase known to trigger long-term neurobiological remodeling. Results: Aging females exhibited early activation of fatty acid oxidation, increased resting energy expenditure, upregulation of mitochondrial redox enzymes and circulating progesterone and corticosterone. Proteomic and metabolomic analysis revealed pentose phosphate pathway enrichment and gluconeogenesis, supporting redox balance and metabolic flexibility. Conversely, males displayed persistent glycolytic reliance, long-chain acylcarnitine accumulation, suppression of adiponectin and PPARgamma, indicating metabolic inflexibility. Longitudinal behavioral analysis revealed that aging females recovered earlier and more fully than aging males, reversing the pattern previously shown in our adult mouse study, where females developed persistent pain and males recovered rapidly. Discussion: These patterns highlight a non-linear, sex-specific interaction between biological aging and injury response, where hormonal decline reprograms the metabolic trajectory and reshapes pain outcomes. Metabolic resilience governs sex-specific recovery following nerve injury by directing early systemic adaptations that precede and predict long-term pain trajectories. These results define mechanistically anchored, sex- and age-specific biomarkers, and propose preclinical targets for timely, personalized interventions in age-associated neuropathic pain.
PXD061757	41158711	Biofabrication of a 3D human skeletal muscle microenvironment to study the early steps of fibrosis. 	Biofabrication of a 3D Human Skeletal Muscle Microenvironment to Study the Early Steps of Fibrosis	Biofabrication, Endothelial-mesenchymal transition, Microphysiological system, Microvascular network, Skeletal muscle	Image 1.
PXD060878	41161382	Mapping the intracellular HMGB1 interactome and alterations induced by Toll-like receptor 4 activation. 	Mapping the intracellular HMGB1 interactome and alterations induced by Toll-like receptor 4 activation	None	The evolutionary conserved, mammalian protein HMGB1 is involved in chromatin-related mechanisms, autophagy and in sensing of immunogenic DNA. HMGB1 translocates from the nucleus to the cytosol in stressed myeloid cells, implicating functional changes. However, the role of intracellular HMGB1 in homeostatic conditions and alterations caused by stress remains largely unexplored. To better understand the intracellular roles of HMGB1, we defined the HMGB1 interactome in resting and LPS-stressed monocytic THP-1 cells using BioID-based proximity proteomics. We identified >100 proteins as parts of the HMGB1 interactome, where the majority were previously unknown interactors. Eight proteins significantly differed between resting and LPS-stressed cells; CACTIN, EIF4G3, GNA12, HSPB1, KOW domain-containing protein, MTHFD11, TADA2B and TPD52L2. Selected HMGB1 interactors were computationally docked to HMGB1, and interactions were confirmed in vitro by proximity ligation assays. Several proteins have implications in cell migration, which was verified experimentally in HMGB1 knockout and shRNA-mediated knockdown cells. HMGB1 deficiency led to an increase in migration compared to wildtype cells or scrambled shRNA control. Furthermore, larger cell size and dysregulated actin polymerization were evident in these cells. In conclusion, we have for the first time identified the intracellular HMGB1 interactome and could identify previously undescribed HMGB1-protein interactions. Our results reveal previously undescribed homeostatic intracellular roles of HMGB1 in addition to changes caused by cell stress. Our study forms a gateway for future research on HMGB1 functions, both as a pivotal protein for mammalian cell homeostasis and in cellular stress responses.
PXD067296	41162413	Regulation of ADP-ribosyltransferase activity by ART domain dimerization in PARP15. 	Regulation of ADP-ribosyltransferase activity by ART domain dimerization in PARP15	PARP15, crosslinking mass spectrometry	PARP15 is a mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase that targets an unknown set of proteins as well as RNA. Its evolutionary relationship with PARP14 suggests roles in antiviral defence; its localization to stress granules points to functions in the regulation of translation. Here we show that the transferase domain of PARP15 dimerizes in solution; the formation of dimers is a prerequisite for catalytic activity and monomeric mutant variants of the domain are inactive. In cells, dimer-disrupting mutations abrogate catalytic activity and alter the subcellular localization of the full-length protein. Using biophysical methods, including X-ray crystallography and HDX-MS, we provide evidence for a regulatory mechanism by which dimerization enables correct target engagement rather than NAD(+) co-substrate binding, and by which the two protomers of the dimer operate independently of one another. Together, our results uncover a regulatory mechanism in a PARP family enzyme.
PXD042319	41165044	R405W Desmin Knock-In Mice Highlight Alterations of Mitochondria, Protein Quality Control and Myofibrils in Myofibrillar Myopathy. 	muscular changes upon desmin mutation	demin, fiber, muscle, tissue	BACKGROUND: Mutations in the desmin gene cause skeletal myopathies and cardiomyopathies. The objective of this study was to elucidate the molecular pathology induced by the expression of R405W mutant desmin in murine skeletal muscle. METHODS: A comprehensive characterization of the skeletal muscle pathology in hetero- and homozygous R405W desmin knock-in mice was performed. This included grip strength, blood acylcarnitine and amino acid, histological, ultrastructural, immunofluorescence, immunoblot, ribosomal stalling, RNA sequencing and proteomic analyses. RESULTS: Both hetero- and homozygous R405W desmin knock-in mice showed classical myopathological features of a myofibrillar myopathy with desmin-positive protein aggregation, degenerative changes of the myofibrillar apparatus and mitochondrial alterations. Muscle weakness and increased blood concentrations of acylcarnitines and amino acids were only present in homozygous animals. During its translation, mutant desmin did not induce terminal ribosomal stalling. Analyses of RNA sequencing and proteomic data from soleus muscle of 3-month-old mice depicted 59 up- and 3 down-regulated mRNAs and 101 up- and 18 down-regulated proteins that were shared between the heterozygous and homozygous genotypes in the respective omics datasets compared to the wild-type genotype. Combined analysis of the omics data demonstrated 187 significantly dysregulated candidates distributed across four groups of regulation. A down-regulation on the mRNA and protein levels was observed for a multitude of mitochondrial proteins including essential proton gradient-dependent carriers. Up-regulation on both omics levels was present for the transcription factor Mlf1, which is a binding partner of protein quality control related Dnajb6. Down-regulated on mRNA but up-regulated on the protein level was the sarcomeric lesion marker Xirp2 (xin actin-binding repeat-containing protein 2), whereas Ces2c (acylcarnitine hydrolase) was regulated in the opposite way. CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrates that the expression of mutant desmin results in a myofibrillar myopathy in hetero- and homozygous R405W desmin knock-in mice. Combined morphological, transcriptomic and proteomic analyses helped decipher the complex pattern of early pathological changes induced by the expression of mutant desmin. Our findings highlight the importance of major mitochondrial alterations, including essential proton gradient-dependent carriers as well as Dnajb6-related protein quality control and Xin-related myofibrillar damage, in the molecular pathogenesis of desminopathies.
PXD037627	41166287	Identification of natural Zika virus peptides presented on the surface of paediatric brain tumour cells by HLA class I. 	Immunopeptidomics of a brain tumour cell line to identify HLA presented Zika peptides	HLA, Zika, brain, peptidome	Despite decades of research, survival from brain cancer has scarcely improved and is drastically lower than that of other cancers. Novel therapies, such as immunotherapy, hold great promise for treating brain tumours and are desperately needed. Zika virus (ZIKV) infects and kills aggressive cancer cells with stem-like properties (CSCs) from both paediatric and adult brain tumours. Whilst T cell recruitment into ZIKV-infected brain tumours is becoming well documented, the specific mechanisms through which they are activated are poorly understood. We address this by employing a combined global proteome and immunopeptidome mass spectrometry approach to describe, for the first time, human leukocyte antigen (HLA) presentation of ZIKV peptides on the surface of infected brain tumour cells. We first show that antigen processing and presentation by HLA class I (HLA-I) is the top enriched immune response pathway in the global proteome of aggressive paediatric USP7-ATRT brain tumour cells following ZIKV infection. We identify USP7-ATRT cells as a desirable immunopeptidome model as they express the globally common HLA-A allotype (A*02:01). We predict the majority of our 19 identified ZIKV peptides to strongly bind and be presented by HLA-A*02:01. We observe a trend between immunopeptide presentation and cellular ZIKV protein abundance, with nearly half of the peptides arising from the most abundant viral protein; non-structural protein 3 (NS3). We show the ZIKV NS3 helicase domain to be a particularly rich source of peptides. Finally, we verify that the 19 ZIKV peptides identified here are not predicted to mimic peptides of the human proteome. The ZIKV peptides we identify here are novel targets for immunotherapy, and our findings provide potential insight into the efficacious cytotoxic T cell response that oncolytic ZIKV virotherapy can induce against brain tumours.
PXD057149	41167980	Mesenchymal Colorectal Cancers Secrete Vesicles With Unique Cargo That Can Be Used for Liquid Biopsy Based Diagnostics. 	Mesenchymal Colorectal Cancers Secrete Vesicles With Unique Cargo That Can Be Used For Liquid Biopsy Based Diagnostics	Colorectal cancer, TSPAN4, TSPAN8, consensus molecular subtypes, diagnostic tool, miRNA signature, proteomic analysis, tumor-derived extracellular vesicles	Tumour-derived extracellular vesicles (TEVs) play a crucial role in cancer progression, metastasis and therapy resistance but their distinct profiles across different cancer stages and molecular subtypes remain underexplored. This study initially analysed TEVs from all CMS subtypes in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells and continued focusing on the epithelial (CMS2) and mesenchymal (CMS4) subtypes using six cell lines and clinical samples. Investigation of the cargo of vesicles secreted by the two subtypes revealed significant differences in mRNA, miRNA, and protein profiles between the two subtypes. Notably, CMS2 predominantly secreted smaller, Tetraspanin-8 (TSPAN8) enriched EVs, while CMS4 produced both larger and smaller EVs, enriched in TSPAN4. This underscores the complexity of vesicle heterogeneity between these subtypes. Additionally, we assessed miRNA profiles from plasma-derived bulk TEVs in CRC patients. Our integrative analysis identified a subtype-specific miRNA signature, indicating that TEVs from CMS2 and CMS4 cells can be detected in circulation and may serve as potential diagnostic tool for CRC.
PXD057420	41168352	Stage-specific TRIM10 expression regulates erythroid maturation. 	Identification of TRIM10-binding proteins in HUDEP-2 cells under erythroid differentiation	Erythroid cells, HUDEP-2, PPI, TRIM10	Mammalian erythroid cells undergo extensive organelle and protein remodeling during erythropoiesis. The transcriptome and proteome of ubiquitin E3 ligases change dynamically during erythroid differentiation, yet mechanisms beyond E3 activity remain unclear. Here, we identify that tripartite motif-containing protein 10alpha (TRIM10alpha), an erythroid- and stage-specific E3 ligase, as crucial for stepwise erythroid maturation. TRIM10alpha self-association to localize on erythroblast surfaces, binding extracellular complement C1q, which facilitates pyrenocyte encapsulation and macrophage recognition. Surface C1q interacts with EpoR to promote lysosomal degradation, and its depletion prolongs Epo signaling. Notably, cytosolic TRIM10alpha enhances hemoglobin (Hb) maturation and sequesters Hb aggregates under oxidative conditions. Ultimately, TRIM10alpha self-ubiquitination and its binding to p62 are anticipated to lead to TRIM10alpha degradation, promoting the removal of Hb aggregates via autophagy. In contrast to TRIM10alpha, an alternatively spliced TRIM10beta, which is barely expressed in human tissues and cells, forms deleterious aggregates, suggesting that evolutionary suppression of TRIM10beta supports erythroid homeostasis. Our findings propose that aberrant TRIM10 expression drives erythroid-related diseases and highlight TRIM10 as a potential biomarker or therapeutic target.
PXD062176	41170200	Affinity-based protein profiling of the antiviral natural product nanchangmycin. 	Identification of Nanchangmycin protein targets	Label Free, MSFragger, Nanchangmycin, probe	Nanchangmycin is a natural product with broad-spectrum activity against various organisms, exhibiting antibiotic, antiviral, anticancer, and antifibrotic effects. Nanchangmycin belongs to the family of polyether ionophores and is proposed to exert its therapeutic effects by altering ion gradients across biological membranes. Although this therapeutic mechanism has been well characterised in cancer models, it does not fully explain how nanchangmycin inhibits Zika virus infection, as recently reported. The specific molecular targets responsible for mediating nanchangmycin's antiviral activity remain unknown. Here, we designed a photoreactive clickable nanchangmycin probe and employed chemical proteomics to identify protein targets of nanchangmycin related to Zika virus infection in human cells. Among the most prominent targets was the protein SEC11A, a key component of the signal peptidase complex, which is essential for cleaving and processing Zika virus proteins. We showed that nanchangmycin blocks the cleavage of a Zika virus polyprotein, suggesting a novel mechanism for nanchangmycin-mediated inhibition of Zika virus infection.
PXD059913	41170290	Multiomics profiling reveals that P. gingivalis-induced extracellular vesicle reprogramming promotes immune evasion in colorectal cancer through autophagy-mediated STING degradation. 	Proteomics profile of large extracellular vesicles derived from P. gingivalis-infected HCT116 cells	Colorectal cancer, P. gingivalis, extracellular vesicles	Objective: Porphyromonas gingivalis (P. gingivalis) infection is a recognized pathogenic factor in colorectal cancer (CRC), and extracellular vesicles (EVs) are key mediators within the tumor microenvironment. However, the molecular composition of large extracellular vesicles (lEVs) derived from P. gingivalis-infected cancer cells remains poorly characterized. This study aimed to comprehensively define the molecular cargo alterations in lEVs secreted by CRC cells in response to P. gingivalis infection. Methods: An integrated multiomics approach was employed to analyze lEVs secreted by P. gingivalis-infected HCT116 colorectal cancer cells. miRNA sequencing and quantitative proteomics were used to profile miRNA and protein expression, respectively. Bioinformatic analyses identified differentially expressed molecules. Mechanistic studies involving immunoblotting and autophagy inhibition were conducted to validate and explore key findings. Results: P. gingivalis infection induced significant cargo remodeling in HCT116-derived lEVs. miRNA sequencing identified 223 miRNAs, among which 28 were differentially expressed. Notably, six novel miRNAs were specifically upregulated in lEVs from infected cells. Quantitative proteomics revealed 1,210 significantly altered proteins. Strikingly, 981 proteins were downregulated, including the critical antitumor immune regulator STING (stimulator of interferon genes). STING downregulation in infected HCT116 cells was confirmed, and P. gingivalis infection was shown to promote STING degradation via autophagy, explaining its reduced incorporation into lEVs. Conclusion: This integrated multiomics analysis demonstrates that P. gingivalis infection profoundly remodels the molecular landscape of CRC cell-derived lEVs. The specific depletion of immune-stimulating factors, most notably STING, within lEVs suggests a novel mechanism by which this pathobiont may contribute to immune evasion and promote tumor progression in P. gingivalis-associated colorectal cancer.
PXD057575	41171095	PCMD-1 stabilizes the PCM scaffold and facilitates centriole separation. 	Delayed protein translocation protects mitochondria against toxic CAT-tailed proteins	mitochondria, quality control	Centrosomes are highly dynamic organelles, and maintaining their stability is crucial for spindle pole integrity and bipolar spindle formation. Centrosomes consist of a pair of centrioles surrounded by the PCM. In Caenorhabditis elegans, interactions between the scaffold protein SPD-5 and kinase PLK-1 are essential for PCM formation. However, how PCM stability is established and maintained remains unclear. We address this by analyzing the function of PCMD-1, a protein mainly localizing to centrioles. We show that CDK-1 primes PCMD-1 for PLK-1 phosphorylation. Mutations in PLK-1 docking sites abolish PCMD-1 phosphorylation and SPD-5 binding in vitro and destabilize the PCM scaffold in vivo. As a result, microtubule-pulling forces cannot be relayed to centrioles, delaying their separation. Our findings reveal that PCMD-1 is critical for PCM stability and timely centriole separation during PCM disassembly. We propose that PCMD-1 initiates scaffold assembly by biasing the PCM core toward intrinsic order, acting as a seed that propagates throughout the scaffold to ensure structural integrity.
PXD066386	41173820	G6PD deficiency in brain induces schizophrenia-like behaviors and synaptic dysfunction. 	Proteomic analysis of Emx1-G6PD CKO mouse cortex	Cerebral cortex, G6PD	Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder characterized by aberrant brain development, influenced by genetic and environmental factors, with an incompletely understood etiology. Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), a critical enzyme in the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP), facilitates NADPH production for biosynthesis and redox homeostasis. Recent studies suggests that PPP inhibition and consequent oxidative stress contribute to schizophrenia pathogenesis. While clinical investigations have proposed a link between G6PD deficiency and schizophrenia, the underlying biological mechanisms remain unestablished. We here demonstrate that brain-specific G6PD knockout induces schizophrenia-like behaviors in mice, establishing a direct association between G6PD deficiency and schizophrenia. Proteomic analysis revealed aberrant synaptic protein expression in the knockout mice. These mice also exhibited synaptic impairments, including reduced presynaptic vesicles and diminished dendritic spines. Our findings suggest that G6PD deficiency disrupts synaptic homeostasis, contributing to schizophrenia-like behaviors. Our study provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of schizophrenia, identifying G6PD as an important regulator of synaptic function and a potential therapeutic target.
PXD059099	41173829	Neuropathy-associated Tecpr2 mutation knock-in mice reveal endolysosomal loss of function phenotypes in neurons and microglia. 	TECPR2 knock-in mice proteomics	BiCAP, EndoIP, HSAN9, TECPR2, microglia	Mutations in the gene encoding Tectonic beta-propeller repeat-containing repeat protein 2 (TECPR2) cause hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy subtype 9 (HSAN9) which is a fatal neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorder involving the sensory and peripheral nervous system. TECPR2 is ubiquitously expressed and linked to trafficking and sorting within the cell, however, its functional role remains poorly defined. Moreover, molecular insights into pathogenic mechanisms underlying HSAN9 are lacking. Here, we report a novel mouse model which harbors a HSAN9-associated nonsense mutation that causes loss of TECPR2 expression. Mice show altered gait, highly region-specific axonal dystrophy, and extensive local gliosis. The affected medulla area prominently features swollen axons filled with amorphous protein aggregates, glycogen granules, single and double membrane vesicles as well as aberrant organelles including ER and mitochondria whose proteome is distinctly altered. Despite the locally restricted pathology the neuronal demise is detectable in the cerebrospinal fluid and responded to by damage-associated microglia. However, their capacity to clear neuronal debris seems attenuated. Overall, neuronal and microglia phenotypes point to a dysfunctional endolysosomal system when TECPR2 is missing. This was confirmed in TECPR2 knockout cells and linked to TECPR2's interaction with the homotypic fusion and protein sorting (HOPS)-tethering complex. Collectively, we uncovered a role of TECPR2 in endolysosome maintenance which seems relevant for healthy neurons in a particular brain region.
PXD033069	41173878	CLN7 protein functions at the interface between endolysosomes and stress granules to promote cell survival. 	Batten's Disease proteomics using iTRAQ LC-MS/MS	Battens, CLN7, NPCs, iPSCs	Inherited biallelic mutations in the CLN7 gene result in the variant late infantile onset neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, a subtype of Batten disease (BD), a severe and fatal childhood neurodegenerative disease. Intriguingly, CLN7 genetic variants have also been associated with retinopathies, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and frontotemporal dementia. CLN7 encodes a transmembrane protein localizing to endolysosomal membranes with outward-facing chloride channel activity. Loss of CLN7 function results in cortical neurons accumulating swollen lipofuscin-containing lysosomes, leading to neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. The molecular mechanisms underlying CLN7 BD neuropathology are not completely understood. We have generated iPSC lines from two CLN7 BD patients and age-matched unaffected controls to interrogate intracellular molecular phenotypes in iPSC-derived neural progenitor cells (iNPC). Taking a multi-omics approach we have identified disease-modified activities in endolysosomal transport in iNPC(BD) that lead to lysosomal dysfunction and decreased mitophagy, resulting in the accumulation of metabolically defective mitochondria. We further observe a breakdown in nuclear functions that centre on RNA processing and nuclear export, linking to CLN7 protein interactions at the stress granule. We have identified dual and distinct functions for CLN7, promoting cell survival during the cellular stress response. CLN7 loss of function in BD results in neuronal apoptosis.
PXD062999	41174467	Comprehensive proteome profiling of cytochrome P450 isoforms in cancer models. 	Comprehensive Proteome Profiling of Cytochrome P450 Isoforms in Cancer Models	Biomarkers, CYP450 enzymes, Colorectal Cancer, GEL-LC-MS, Head and neck cancer, Personalized therapy	BACKGROUND: Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes are essential for drug metabolism, xenobiotic detoxification, and procarcinogen activation, playing a pivotal role in both normal physiology and cancer biology. Their expression varies significantly across tissues and tumour types, reflecting the metabolic heterogeneity of cancers. Understanding these variations is critical for developing targeted therapies, optimizing drug efficacy, and minimizing toxicity. This study aimed to comprehensively profile CYP450 expression across colorectal cancer (CRC), head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), breast cancer, and hepatic cancer models using proteomic techniques. METHODS: We analysed various cancer models (cell lines, xenografts, and patient tissue biopsies) using gel electrophoresis coupled with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (GEL-LC-MS). Equal amounts of protein were separated by gel electrophoresis, and the 45-65 kDa molecular weight range was analysed on the Orbitrap Fusion Mass Spectrometer. RESULTS: Distinct CYP450 expression profiles were observed across cancer types. In CRC, CYP2W1 and CYP2S1 were highly expressed, while CYP1B1 and CYP2W1 were prominent in HNSCC, highlighting their potential as biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Breast cancer models predominantly expressed CYP2J2 and CYP2S1, whereas CYP3A and CYP2C subfamily members were enriched in hepatic cancer, underscoring their roles in xenobiotic metabolism and drug clearance. CONCLUSION: This study provides the first comprehensive semi-quantitative proteomic map of CYP450 isoforms across multiple cancer models. The findings reveal metabolic heterogeneity and identify clinically relevant targets, offering a foundation for future functional studies and personalized therapeutic strategies.
PXD064727	41177179	Ribosomal protein L5 (RPL5/uL18) I60V mutation is associated to increased translation and modulates drug sensitivity in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. 	Ribosomal protein L5 (RPL5/uL18) I60V mutation is associated to increased translation and modulates drug sensitivity in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells	Cancer, ribosomes, target therapy	Somatic mutations in ribosomal proteins (RPs), including RPL5, have been reported in approximately 10 % of pediatric patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). In cancer, the incorporation of mutant RPs into ribosomes often disrupts canonical ribosome function, thereby contributing to disease development. In this study, we aimed to characterize the effects of the RPL5-I60V mutation in the context of T-ALL, focusing on its impact on translation and cellular responses to a panel of compounds in vitro. Using CRISPR-Cas9, we generated a homozygous knock-in mutant in Jurkat cells and investigated its effects on ribosome biogenesis. We observed both quantitative and qualitative alterations in the production of the large ribosomal subunit. Ribosomes containing the mutant RPL5 protein exhibited intrinsically increased protein synthesis activity, which correlated with enhanced cellular proliferation. We then evaluated the response of these mutant cells to a panel of compounds targeting protein synthesis at various levels-including an MNK1 inhibitor, metformin, silvestrol, homoharringtonine, anisomycin, resveratrol, and hygromycin B-as well as cytarabine, a chemotherapeutic agent commonly used in T-ALL treatment. Our results showed that the RPL5-I60V mutation confers increased sensitivity to most of these compounds, with the exception of hygromycin B. This study advances our understanding of how oncoribosomes contribute to cancer pathogenesis and highlights the therapeutic potential of directly or indirectly targeting altered ribosomes, offering insights for the development of personalized treatment strategies.
PXD061492	41177882	Decoding epithelial regeneration in the cornea: multi-omic analysis reveals cellular plasticity as central mechanism. 	Decoding the molecular complexity governing corneal wound closure in vivo	cornea, epithelium, epitranscriptomics, lacrimal gland, tears, transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: Rapid and efficient epithelial regeneration is fundamental for tissue homeostasis and proper function. As the outermost ocular structure, the cornea is transparent, multilayered, and vital for clear vision. Due to its exposed position, the cornea frequently undergoes various forms of injury affecting either the epithelium itself or its surrounding microenvironment, including corneal innervation and the tear film. Corneal abrasion, occurring commonly through trauma or as part of refractive surgical procedures, is typically viewed as a minor event since it usually resolves rapidly. Consequently, the cornea serves as an excellent model for studying epithelial wound healing. However, complications such as persistent epithelial defects or corneal opacity can develop, underscoring critical gaps in understanding the underlying molecular mechanisms. METHODS: Utilizing a unilateral corneal abrasion mouse model, we conducted a comprehensive multi-omics analysis, integrating transcriptomics, proteomics, and epitranscriptomics, to dissect the dynamic molecular responses post-injury in both wounded and contralateral tissues. To elucidate the role of the tear film, we performed additional studies involving lacrimal gland ablation combined with corneal injury. We applied RNA sequencing to profile transcriptomic changes in corneal and lacrimal gland tissues, and mass spectrometry to study tear proteomics and epitranscriptomic modifications. RESULTS: We revealed a major modulation of the cornea transcriptome after abrasion, suggesting a regulation of pathways including JAK-STAT, Wnt and TGF-beta, and a reduction of nucleoside modifications. The lacrimal gland transcriptome and tears proteome were also significantly affected. Plus, we highlighted a bilateralization, both in the cornea transcriptome and tears proteome. In the tear-deficient conditions, the wound closure rate and molecular responses were altered, and the bilateralization was impacted, with an increased matrix remodeling and a modulation of keratins expression. CONCLUSIONS: Our multi-omics analyses revealed extensive epithelial cellular plasticity as a key mechanism driving rapid wound closure, characterized by profound remodeling of transcriptional networks and RNA modifications. Importantly, we uncovered a previously underappreciated role of the lacrimal gland and tear film in mediating bilateral molecular responses following unilateral injury, emphasizing their pivotal roles in tissue regeneration. Additionally, we identified novel regulatory roles for RNA methylation events and critical signaling pathways implicated in epithelial healing.
PXD069257	41178061	Identifying overtraining biomarkers through proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles derived from the central nervous system of male mice. 	Identifying overtraining biomarkers through proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles derived from the central nervous system of male mice	Biomarker, CNS-fatigue, Extracellular vesicle, Overtraining, Proteomic analysis	Overtraining, which results in central nervous system (CNS)-fatigue-related symptoms, leads to a long-term decline in performance. This study investigated CNS-derived EV protein content under overtraining conditions to identify potential biomarkers. Eight-week-old C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into three groups: sedentary (SED, n = 7), exercise control (EX, n = 8), and overtraining (OT, n = 9) groups. The OT group underwent an 8-week downhill treadmill-based overtraining induction protocol. Exercise capacity was assessed using the incremental load, exhaustion, grip strength, and rotarod tests, while motor deficits, depression and anxiety were assessed using the nest building test. Proinflammatory cytokines were measured in blood plasma, skeletal muscle, and brain tissue. CNS-derived EVs were isolated using a two-step EV isolation protocol. Isolated EVs underwent proteomic analyses. Mice exhibited a significant decrease in aerobic exercise capacity, high-intensity exercise tolerance, and muscular strength. OT increased quadriceps IL-6 and hypothalamic IL-1beta/TNFalpha compared to EX. Plasma IL-2 levels tended to be higher in OT than in EX. Proteomic analysis of CNS-derived EVs revealed a decrease in lipid metabolism-related proteins and an increase in stress-related proteins. Valosin-containing proteins and catalase, which are upregulated in organs under oxidative stress, were increased. Therefore, CNS-derived EV protein contents indicated CNS fatigue under overtraining conditions.
PXD064657	41179170	Exposure to Tebuconazole Drives Cross-Resistance to Clinical Triazoles in Aspergillus fumigatus. 	Exposure to Tebuconazole Drives Cross-Resistance to Clinical Triazoles in Aspergillus fumigatus	Aspergillus, clinical azole, cross-resistance, enzyme inhibitor, ergosterol, triazole	Multiazole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus threatens antifungal therapy. This study investigated the impact of prolonged exposure to the agricultural triazole tebuconazole (TEB) on the susceptibility of A. fumigatus to clinical triazoles and its resistance mechanisms. After 28 days, resistant strains emerged with substantial increases in minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs): up to 128x for itraconazole, 64x for posaconazole, and 16x for voriconazole. In the absence of TEB, resistance was maintained and associated with maintenance of CYP51A activity, with stable ergosterol levels and efflux pump activity. Among the 193 upregulated proteins identified in proteomics, 14 were related to resistance, 5 to the ergosterol biosynthesis pathway, 7 to the efflux pump activity, and 2 to the heat shock response pathway. These results demonstrate that agricultural triazoles can induce stable and multidrug-resistant phenotypes, emphasizing the need for surveillance of antifungal resistance in environmental and clinical settings.
PXD062847	41179295	RAD23B Promotes Colorectal Cancer Metastasis via the Talin1/Integrin/PI3K/AKT/MMP9 Axis. 	SW480 cells were analyzed with RDA23B IP by mass spectrometry	SW480 RAD23B IPMASS	Background: Radiation sensitive 23 homolog B (RAD23B), a DNA repair-related protein, plays a contributory role in the development of multiple malignancies. This study aimed to explore the role of RAD23B in promoting colorectal cancer (CRC) metastasis and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms. Methods: RAD23B was overexpressed in CRC cell lines SW480 and HCT-8, with empty vectors serving as controls. Invasion, cell proliferation, and migration were assessed using CCK-8 and Transwell assays. A xenograft mouse model was used to evaluate metastatic potential in vivo. Immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS) and transcriptomic analysis by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) were performed to identify signaling pathways regulated by RAD23B. Western blotting was used to analyze the expression of RAD23B, Talin1, Integrins alphav/beta1, PI3K, p-PI3K, AKT, p-AKT, and MMP9. Immunohistochemistry was conducted to examine RAD23B and Integrin beta1 expression in CRC tissues. Results: RAD23B overexpression notably enhanced CRC migration, cell proliferation, and invasion both in vitro and in vivo. IP-MS, RNA-seq, and protein analysis revealed that RAD23B upregulated Talin1 and Integrins alphav/beta1, resulting in an activation of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Moreover, RAD23B promoted MMP9 expression, contributing to enhanced invasive potential. Conclusion: RAD23B facilitates CRC metastasis through activation of the Talin1/Integrin alphav/beta1/PI3K/AKT/MMP9 signaling axis. These results provide novel insights into the role of RAD23B in CRC progression and identify it as a potential therapeutic target.
PXD052459	41180314	Condition-dependent resource allocation strategy governed by CodY regulator in Bacillus subtilis. 	Bacillus subtilis wild type and codY-null strain 	B. subtilis, nutrient limitation	To thrive in nature, bacteria have to rapidly proliferate in favorable conditions while constantly adapt to the fluctuating nutrient environments. However, the molecular players that ensure rapid growth of bacteria in favorable conditions remain poorly understood. Here, we focus on the growth physiology of Bacillus subtilis and find that codY knockout strongly compromises cell growth in rich medium. Global proteome allocation analysis has shown that codY knockout causes a "waste" of cellular resources by stimulating unnecessary expression of many proteins, further reducing the cellular investment on translation machinery. Therefore, CodY-dependent repression is crucial in ensuring rapid growth of B. subtilis in rich medium. On the other hand, the relief of CodY-dependent repression could promote the bacterial adaption during transition from rich medium to minimal medium by shifting resource allocation from ribosome synthesis to amino acid biosynthesis. In addition, the relief of CodY-dependent repression in minimal medium also stimulates pathways of alternative functions such as motility and biosynthesis of secondary metabolites. Our study has thus revealed the pivotal role of CodY in bacterial growth control via governing the condition-dependent resource allocation of B. subtilis, further shedding light on the fundamental molecular strategy of bacteria to achieve fitness maximization.
PXD061267	41182317	Endocrine, Metabolic, and Skeletal Muscle Proteomic Responses During Energy Deficit With Concomitant Aerobic Exercise in Humans. 	D2O proteome dynamics in response to energy deficit	Deuterium Oxide Labelling, Skeletal Muscle	Energy deficit is a potent physiological stressor that has shaped human evolution and can improve lifespan and healthspan in a wide range of species. Preserving locomotive capacity was likely essential for survival during the human hunter-gatherer period but surprisingly little is known about the molecular effects of energy deficit on human skeletal muscle, which is a key tissue for locomotion and metabolic health. Here we show that after a 5-day 78% reduction in energy availability with concomitant aerobic exercise in healthy men there was a profound modulation of skeletal muscle phenotype alongside increases in fat oxidation at rest and during exercise and a 2.1 +/- 0.8 kg loss of fat free mass and 0.8 +/- 0.6 kg of fat mass. We used stable isotope (D2O) labelling and peptide mass spectrometry to investigate the abundance and turnover rates of individual proteins. Abundance (1469 proteins) and synthesis rate (736 proteins) data discovered a shift toward a more oxidative phenotype and reorganization of cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix structure during energy deficit. Mitochondrial components: TCA, electron transport chain and beta-oxidation, were prominently represented amongst proteins that increased in abundance and synthesis rate, as well as proteins related to mitochondrial proteostasis, remodeling and quality-control such as BDH1 and LONP1. Changes in muscle metabolic pathways occurred alongside a reduction in extracellular matrix proteins, which may counteract the age-related muscle fibrosis. Our results suggest that muscle metabolic pathways are not only preserved but positively affected during periods of concomitant low energy availability and exercise.
PXD060044	41184253	Atypical cadherin CELSR2 acts as a therapeutic target for glioma through WNT3A/beta-catenin signaling. 	Human glioma cells CELSR2 knock-down LC-MSMS	CELSE2, Human glioma	Glioma is the most common primary brain tumors and has a high recurrence and mortality rate after surgery. Most gliomas are of astrocytic origin. We recently demonstrated that Celsr2 is essential for injury-induced responses and functions of astrocytes, while its role in the development and treatment of gliomas remains unexplored. In this study, an increase of CELSR2 expression was identified in patient glioma samples and glioma cell lines, and higher levels of CELSR2 correlate with poorer patient survival as indicated by TCGA data. In cultured glioma cells, CELSR2 knockdown reduced proliferation and caused cell cycle arrest, which was further supported by proteomic analysis. CELSR2 knockdown inhibited Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, and the effect could be reversed by activating beta-catenin using GSK-3beta inhibitor in glioma cells. WNT3A efficiently enhanced the proliferation of glioma cells and activated the downstream signaling, which were significantly compromised by CELSR2 knockdown. We developed magnetic nanoparticles loaded with CELSR2-siRNA, which suppressed tumor growth in glioma-inoculated nude mice. In conclusion, CELSR2 positively regulates glioma development through WNT3A/beta-catenin signaling and inhibiting CESLR2 is a novel therapeutic strategy for gliomas.
PXD062994	41184751	Sulfur starvation induces an Fe-replete response and attenuates virulence pathways in Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1. 	Sulfur Starvation Induces an Fe-Replete Response and Attenuates Virulence Pathways in Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1	Fe-Replete, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Virulence Pathways, oxidative stress, sulfur	BACKGROUND: Understanding bacterial responses to nutrient limitation is critical for developing targeted antimicrobial strategies. Sulfur starvation uniquely induces not only genes responsible for sulfur scavenging but also prominent antioxidant defenses. However, the biological rationale behind the simultaneous induction of antioxidants during sulfur limitation remains largely unexplored. Our study addresses this gap by integrating transcriptomic, proteomic, and targeted metabolomic data from Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 grown under sulfur-free conditions. RESULTS: As anticipated, transcripts and proteins involved in sulfur assimilation and metabolism-including members of the msu, ssu, and cys operons-were upregulated, along with key antioxidant enzymes such as Ohr, LsfA, and SodB. Unexpectedly, however, genes encoding iron uptake systems (pyoverdine, pyochelin, and heme metabolism operons) were markedly downregulated, while iron storage proteins (BfrB, Dps, and PA4880) were elevated, indicating an iron-replete metabolic state. Further targeted metabolic profiling and iron quantification assays confirmed reduced Fe acquisition and diminished extracellular levels of siderophore and phenazine metabolites. This shift in iron homeostasis correlated with the repression of multiple virulence factors regulated by Fur and PrrF, including quorum-sensing components, efflux pumps, and phenazine biosynthesis enzymes. CONCLUSION: Our integrative analysis reveals that sulfur starvation critically regulates iron homeostasis by linking reduced Fe uptake to the induction of antioxidant defenses. This iron-buffering response likely mitigates oxidative damage from unincorporated Fe, representing a protective metabolic adaptation. Additionally, the concurrent attenuation of virulence pathways suggests that targeting sulfur metabolism could disrupt iron-dependent virulence gene regulation, offering therapeutic insights into nutritional immunity strategies. Collectively, our findings uncover a novel sulfur-iron axis that plays a central role in oxidative stress management and pathogenicity modulation in bacteria.
PXD061144	41188494	Comparative evaluation of Olink Explore 3072 and mass spectrometry with peptide fractionation for plasma proteomics. 	In-depth plasma proteomics of patients with suspected lung cancer (lung adenocarcinoma and non-cancer controls) with HiRIEF LC-MS/MS	None	Plasma proteomics technologies are advancing rapidly, offering new opportunities for biomarker discovery and precision medicine. Direct comparisons of available technologies are needed to understand how platform selection affects downstream findings. We compared the performance of a peptide fractionation-based mass spectrometry method (HiRIEF LC-MS/MS) and the Olink Explore 3072 proximity extension assays on 88 plasma samples, analyzing 1129 proteins with both methods. The platforms exhibited complementary proteome coverage, high precision, and concordance in estimating sex differences in protein levels. Quantitative agreement between platforms was moderate (median correlation 0.59, interquartile range 0.33-0.75), mainly influenced by technical factors. Finally, we present a publicly available tool for peptide-level analysis of platform agreement and demonstrate its utility in clarifying cross-platform discrepancies in protein and proteoform measurements. Our findings provide insights for platform selection and study design, and highlight the value of combining mass spectrometry and affinity-based approaches for more comprehensive and reliable plasma proteome profiling.
PXD065556	41189704	Banxia-Xiexin Decoction Ameliorates Colitis-Associated Colorectal Cancer by Modulating Inflammatory Responses and the Complement and Coagulation Cascade Pathway. 	Integrated Metabolomics and Proteomics Analysis Reveals the Mechanisms of Banxia-Xiexin Decoction in Colitis-Associated Colorectal Cancer	Banxia-Xiexin decoction, coagulation cascade, colitis-associated colorectal cancer, serum metabolomics	Purpose: Colitis-associated colorectal cancer (CAC), a subtype of colorectal cancer arising from chronic colonic inflammation, currently lacks specific therapeutic agents. Banxia-Xiexin decoction (BXD), a traditional Chinese medicine, is clinically used for gastritis and ulcerative colitis; however, its efficacy and underlying mechanisms in CAC remain unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of BXD against CAC and elucidate its molecular mechanisms. Methods: A CAC mouse model was induced using azoxymethane/dextran sulfate sodium (AOM/DSS). Mice received BXD at low, medium, and high doses (0.95, 1.9, or 3.8 g/kg/day) by oral gavage from day 21 to day 70, or sulfasalazine (0.6 g/kg/day) as a positive control. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by disease index (DI), histopathology, and inflammatory cytokine levels (TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-1beta, IFN-gamma). Metabolomic profiling and proteomic analysis were performed to identify altered metabolic pathways and differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Key pathway-related genes were validated by qRT-PCR. Results: BXD treatment significantly alleviated clinical symptoms, attenuated colonic inflammation, and reduced both tumor number and size compared with the model group. Inflammatory cytokines were markedly decreased. Metabolomics revealed modulation of amino acid and glycerophospholipid metabolism, while proteomics identified DEPs enriched in the complement and coagulation cascades. Expression of key proteins (C3,Fgg, Cpb2, Cfh) and corresponding mRNAs was reversed by BXD. Conclusion: BXD may ameliorate CAC by modulating inflammatory responses and glycerophospholipid metabolism, with particular involvement of the complement and coagulation cascades. These findings provide mechanistic insight into the potential anti-CAC effects of BXD and support its further investigation for clinical application.
PXD065550	41189876	Toxicological and nutritional evaluation of plant cell cultures from scurvy grass (Cochlearia danica) and rowan (Sorbus aucuparia). 	Evaluation of Acute and Subacute Toxicity of Plant Cell Cultures of Scurvy Grass (Cochlearia danica) and Rowan (Sorbus aucuparia) as Food by Oral Administration in Mice	Cochlearia danica, Plant cell cultures, Sorbus aucuparia, acute toxicity, safety, subacute toxicity	Introduction: Plant cell culture (PCC) technology is currently being developed to produce plant foods partially decoupled from traditional agriculture practices. By now, the safety of the ingredients produced by PCC technology for food or nutritional purposes has to be tested. Materials and methods: In this study, the oral safety and toxicity of two novel PCCs, scurvy grass (SG) (Cochlearia danica) and rowan (RW) (Sorbus aucuparia), and to characterize the macro- and micronutrient quality, including proteomic profiles, to identify potential allergens. Results: Nutritional composition analysis showed that both SG and RW PCCs profiles are comparable to other berry cell lines with a good amount of protein, dietary fibre and vitamins. Potential allergens were identified via proteomics based on structural similarity. The acute and subacute toxicity profiles of the PCC samples were evaluated based on OECD guidelines. For both PCCs, no deaths, behavioral changes, nor metabolic effects were observed at 2000 mg/kg. In the 28-day repeated oral exposure subacute toxicity study, no mortality or significant adverse clinical, hematological, or metabolic effects were observed for either SG or RW. Discussion: These findings indicate that the no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) for both PCCs exceeds 2000 mg/kg. Overall, our findings indicate that the consumption of these PCCs could be considered safe and non-toxic, although further assessments on potential allergens and phytohormone accumulation are necessary to fully ensure consumer safety. This study highlights the oral safety of PCCs for consideration as a novel food ingredient and serve as a basis for evaluating toxicological impacts of PCCs.
PXD065786	41190777	Investigating the conformational landscape of human histidine-rich glycoprotein using amide HDX-MS. 	HDX-MS of Human Histidine Rich Glycoprotein (HRG)	HDX-MS, HRG, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS)	Histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG) is a multi-domain plasma protein involved in immune modulation, angiogenesis, coagulation and fibrinolysis. Despite its broad biological relevance, structural investigations into HRG have yielded only limited information, with no experimentally resolved three-dimensional structures of the intact protein to date. In this study, we integrate hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) with predictive insights from AlphaFold to map the conformational landscape of HRG in solution under near-native conditions. The N1/N2 domains displayed low solvent exchange overall. However, specific regions of high-solvent exchange were also apparent providing evidence for more dynamic stretches of secondary structure and the presence of flexible loops within these regions. Our findings also reveal extensive solvent accessibility and rapid exchange kinetics within the histidine-rich region, proline-rich regions and large segments of the C-terminal domain, strongly indicating intrinsic disorder across these domains. These findings support a model in which structural flexibility underlies HRG's capacity to engage with a wide range of molecular partners. This integrative approach offers new insight into the conformational architecture of HRG and lays the groundwork for uncovering the molecular mechanisms governing its biological activity.
PXD037573	41193622	Phosphoproteomic profiling highlights CDC42 and CDK2 as key players in the regulation of the TGF-beta pathway in ALMS1 and BBS1 knockout models. 	Phosphoproteomic profiling highlights CDC42 and CDK2 as key players in the regulation of the TGF-beta pathway in ALMS1 and BBS1.	ALMS1, Alstrm syndrome, BBS1, Bardet-Biedl syndrome., TGF-beta, ciliopathies, phosphoproteomics	The primary cilium is a sensory organelle that extends from the plasma membrane. It plays a vital role in physiological and developmental processes by controlling different signalling pathways such as WNT, Sonic hedgehog (SHh), and transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta). Ciliary dysfunction has been related to different pathologies such as Alstroem (ALMS) or Bardet-Biedl (BBS) syndrome. The leading cause of death in adults with these syndromes is chronic kidney disease (CKD), which is characterised by fibrotic and inflammatory processes often involving the TGF-beta pathway. Using genomic editing with CRISPR-CAS9 and phosphoproteomics we have studied the TGF-beta signalling pathway in knockout (KO) models for ALMS1 and BBS1 genes. We have developed a network diffusion-based analysis pipeline to expand the data initially obtained and to be able to determine which processes were deregulated in TGF-beta pathway. Finally, we have analysed protein-protein and kinase-substrate interactions to prioritise candidate genes in the regulation of the TGF-beta pathway in ALMS and BBS. Analysis of differentially phosphorylated proteins identified 10 candidate proteins in the ALMS1 KO model and 41 in the BBS1 KO model. After network expansion using a random walk with a restart algorithm, we were able to identify the TGF-beta signalling pathway together with other related processes such as endocytosis in the case of ALMS1 or the regulation of the extracellular matrix in BBS1. Protein interaction analyses demonstrated the involvement of CDC42 as a central protein in the interactome in ALMS1 and CDK2 in the case of BBS1. In conclusion, the depletion of ALMS1 and BBS1 affects the TGF-beta signalling pathway, conditioning the phosphorylation and activation of several proteins, including CDC42 in the case of ALMS1 and CDK2 in the case of BBS1.
PXD058726	41194451	Membrane IL-18 identifies a human macrophage subset with distinct proteomic and functional traits. 	Membrane IL-18 Identifies a Unique Human Macrophage Subset with Distinct Phenotypic and Functional Properties	IL-18, Macrophages, TREM2, adult cancer patients, endocytosis, pediatric neuroblastoma	This study contributes to the characterization of human macrophages in normal and pathological conditions such as cancer. We characterized a macrophage population expressing membrane-associated IL-18 (mIL-18) that shows peculiar proteomic, phenotypic, ultrastructural, and functional properties. mIL-18+ macrophages exhibit increased levels of key proteins involved in pathogen recognition, activation, migration, and endocytosis. They also display specialized functions in vesicle and actin filament transport and lipid metabolism, and have typical mitochondrial traits. Importantly, mIL-18+ cells dominate the peritoneal fluid of adult cancer patients and are present in the bone marrow of children with neuroblastoma. They express high levels of TREM2 but display heterogeneous FOLR2 expression, distinguishing distinct cell subsets with possibly different functions. Accordingly, in primary neuroblastomas, transcriptional signatures associated with mIL-18 expression show different prognostic values. Our data show that mIL-18+ macrophages, which are predominant across the tumor microenvironment, exhibit previously undetected heterogeneity, potentially impacting tumor progression in a variable manner.
PXD057304	41195167	Covalent fragment screening to inhibit the E3 ligase activity of bacterial NEL enzymes SspH1 and SspH2. 	Covalent fragment screening to inhibit the E3 ligase activity of bacterial NEL enzymes SspH1 and SspH2	Bacterial NELs, E3 ligase, Salmonella effectors, chemoproteomics, covalent fragments, fragment-based drug discovery, high throughput chemistry	As the global fight against antimicrobial resistance in bacteria becomes increasingly pressing, new tool compounds are needed to study and evaluate novel therapeutic targets. Here, cysteine-directed fragment-based drug discovery is coupled with high throughput chemistry direct-to-biology screening to target the catalytic cysteine of a family of bacterial effector proteins, the novel E3 ligases (NELs) from Salmonella and Shigella. These effector E3 ligases are attractive as potential drug targets because they are delivered into host cells during infection, have no human homologues and disrupt host immune response to infection. We successfully identify hit compounds against the SspH subfamily of NELs from Salmonella and show that these proteins are inhibited by compound treatment, representing an exciting starting point for development into specific and potent tool compounds.
PXD065321	41196696	Unraveling the immunosuppressive role of Elastase B produced by cystic fibrosis isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in an organotypic 3D lung epithelial cell model. 	Unraveling the immunosuppressive role of Elastase B produced by cystic fibrosis isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in an organotypic 3-D lung epithelial cell model	Elastase B, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, bacterial proteases, cystic fibrosis, inflammation, virulence factors	Pseudomonas aeruginosa chronically infects the lungs of people with cystic fibrosis (pwCF), where it produces a broad range of proteases that impact host immunity and inflammation. While some studies suggest these enzymes induce inflammation and may contribute to the excessive inflammatory response in pwCF, others indicate that they degrade cytokines and suppress the immune response. Here, we investigate the role of P. aeruginosa proteases in CF lung inflammation by culturing clinical isolates under physiologically relevant conditions and studying the inflammatory response in an organotypic 3D lung cell culture model. Exposure to supernatants from isolates with proteolytic activity led to cytokine degradation and reduced cytokine release in the 3D model. To identify the specific protease(s) responsible, we performed a proteomics analysis on the supernatants of the isolates with and without proteolytic activity. In total, 79 proteases were identified in the supernatants, with extracellular proteases among the most differentially expressed in the proteolytically active isolate group. Metalloprotease Elastase B (LasB) exhibited the highest level of differential expression. Therefore, we determined the contribution of LasB to the observed reduction in cytokine levels by utilizing P. aeruginosa lasB knockout mutants. Compared to the lasB mutant, the wild-type strain significantly decreased inflammation by degrading MCP-1, IL-1beta, GM-CSF, and IL-8. While this study brings to light a key role for LasB, our findings demonstrate that immunomodulation by P. aeruginosa most likely involves the combined action of multiple proteases. This study provides a foundation for future research into protease-mediated immune evasion during chronic infection.
PXD069426	41197181	Oxidation of hemoglobin to ferryl hemoglobin contributes to remodeling of the artery wall in abdominal aortic aneurysm. 	Proteomics analysis of mouse aorta samples	DatasetType:Proteomics, aorta, oxidation	Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) with potentially fatal outcomes affects cardiovascular health via inflammation-related abnormalities. We revealed the presence of the oxidized hemoglobin (Hb), ferrylHb in the circulation in patients diagnosed with ruptured AAA. The aim of our study was to identify the source of oxidation of Hb in human hemorrhaged AAA and in an angiotensin II provoked AAA model in mice leading to generation of ferrylHb and to describe its fate in the pathophysiology. We demonstrate that two electron oxidations of Hb leading to the formation of ferrylHb with the characteristics of oxidation of betaCys93, alphaCys104, and betaCys112 residues is the terminal product of the interaction of neutrophils and macrophages with Hb in the hemorrhaged AAA. This oxidized Hb, ferrylHb is taken up by neutrophils and macrophages via CD163 mediated endocytosis with subsequent activations including peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) driven NETosis, liberation of elastase, myeloperoxidase and subsequent degradation of extracellular matrix. AAA exhibits increased expression of CD163 in macrophages and neutrophils revealed to be inducible by ferrylHb involving PAD4 signaling. RNA-seq analysis demonstrated that human ruptured AAA has a unique transcriptomic profile, different from healthy aorta, with a 43 % overlap in the differential gene expressions of human macrophages exposed to ferrylHb. Among these 884 genes, we found inflammatory-, angiogenesis-, and tissue remodeling gene clusters. These data suggest that oxidation of Hb to ferryl state and the interactions of neutrophils and macrophages with ferrylHb within aortic wall contribute to AAA progression.
PXD066213	41197736	Development of an inhibitory TTC7B selective nanobody that blocks EFR3 recruitment of PI4KA. 	HDX-MS analysis of a TTC7B specific nanobody to inhibit EFR3 mediated PI4KA recruitment	HDX-MS, PI4KA, TTC7B, nanaobody	Phosphatidylinositol 4 kinase IIIalpha (PI4KIIIalpha/PI4KA) is an essential lipid kinase that plays a critical role in regulating plasma membrane identity. PI4KA is primarily recruited to the plasma membrane through the targeted recruitment by the proteins, EFR3A and EFR3B, which bind to the PI4KA accessory proteins TTC7 (TTC7A/B) and FAM126 (FAM126A/B). Here we characterised how both EFR3 isoforms interact with all possible TTC7-FAM126 combinations and developed a nanobody that specifically blocked EFR3-mediated PI4KA recruitment in TTC7B containing complexes. Most EFR3-TTC7-FAM126 combinations show similar binding affinities, with the exception of EFR3A-TTC7B-FAM126A, which binds with a ~10-fold higher affinity. Moreover, we showed that EFR3B phosphorylation markedly decreased binding to TTC7-FAM126. Using a yeast display approach, we isolated a TTC7B selective nanobody that blocked EFR3 binding. Cryo-electron microscopy and hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry showed an extended interface with both PI4KA and TTC7B that sterically blocks EFR3 binding. The nanobody caused decreased membrane recruitment both on lipid bilayers and in cells, with decreased PM production of PI4P. Collectively, these findings provide new insights into PI4KA regulation and provide a tool for manipulating PI4KA complexes, that may be valuable for therapeutic targeting.
PXD056793	41198693	Carafe enables high quality in silico spectral library generation for data-independent acquisition proteomics. 	Carafe enables high quality in silico spectral library generation for data-independent acquisition proteomics	Carafe, DIA, deep learning, spectral library generation	Data-independent acquisition (DIA)-based mass spectrometry is becoming an increasingly popular mass spectrometry acquisition strategy for carrying out quantitative proteomics experiments. Most of the popular DIA search engines make use of in silico generated spectral libraries. However, the generation of high-quality spectral libraries for DIA data analysis remains a challenge, particularly because most such libraries are generated directly from data-dependent acquisition (DDA) data or are from in silico prediction using models trained on DDA data. In this study, we introduce Carafe, a tool that generates high-quality experiment-specific in silico spectral libraries by training deep learning models directly on DIA data. We demonstrate the performance of Carafe on a wide range of DIA datasets, where we observe improved fragment ion intensity prediction and peptide detection relative to existing pretrained DDA models. To make Carafe more accessible to the community, we integrate Carafe into the widely used Skyline tool.
PXD053792	41201845	Hepatitis B virus is a stealth virus that minimizes proteomic and secretomic changes in primary human hepatocytes. 	Comparative Label-free Quantification of Changes in the Proteome and Secretome of Hepatocytes Infected with Hepatitis B Virus in Vitro	data-independent acquisition, enrichment analysis, hepatitis B virus, hepatocyte, vitronectin	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a hepatotropic DNA virus that infects over 250 million people worldwide and causes serious liver diseases. HBV infection can modulate host cellular processes, potentially inducing proteomic changes in hepatocytes. In this study, we investigated how acute HBV infection alters the proteome and secretome of primary human hepatocytes, a physiologically relevant in vitro model that retains essential liver-specific functions. Protein-level changes in cell lysates and culture supernatants were quantified 8 days post-infection using data-independent acquisition MS. We used HBV infection in the presence of the entry inhibitor bulevirtide as a control to separate the effects of productive infection from those caused by inoculum-associated components. Despite robust infection, active HBV replication induced only subtle changes in host protein levels. Orthogonal validation of MS-identified candidates confirmed reticulocalbin-2 as a novel host factor downregulated during productive HBV infection. The functional role of candidate proteins identified by MS was assessed in vitro by siRNA-mediated knockdown and measurement of viral replication markers. Knockdown had no impact on viral RNA or antigen levels, suggesting that the observed proteomic changes may reflect stress responses or broader modulation of the hepatic microenvironment. Our findings support the concept of HBV as a stealth virus and underscore the importance of carefully controlled experimental systems for studying host responses to infection in vitro.
PXD069057	41203468	Activity and dynamics of p110alpha are not differentially modulated by regulatory subunit isoforms. 	HDX-MS analysis of p110a in complex with regulatory subunits	HDX-MS, PI3Ka, p85	Class IA phosophoinositide kinases (PI3Ks) are master regulators of growth, metabolism, and immunity. The class IA PI3Ks are a heterodimer composed of a p110 catalytic subunit and one of five possible regulatory subunits (p85alpha, p85beta, p55gamma, p55alpha, p50alpha). The regulatory subunit plays critical roles in stability, inhibition, and activation of the p110 catalytic subunit. The p110alpha catalytic subunit frequently contains activating mutations in human cancer, with many of these mutations altering the interaction between catalytic and regulatory subunits. It has been found that different regulatory subunits play unique roles in human disease, but it is unknown how these different subunits regulate p110alpha. Here, using a synergy of biochemical assays and hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) we examined how the five different regulatory subunits inhibit, activate, and interact with the p110alpha catalytic subunit. We find that there are no significant differences in lipid kinase activity or in membrane recruitment between the different heterodimer complexes. HDX-MS in the presence and absence of an activating phosphopeptide also showed only minor conformational differences between different regulatory subunit complexes. Overall, our work reveals that the different regulatory subunits interact with and inhibit p110alpha in a similar fashion at a molecular level.
PXD062778	41203811	AQP7 deficiency drives adipose tissue remodeling and disrupts homeostasis. 	Deep analysis of FCS used in cell culture experiment	Fetal Calf Serum (FCS)	The aquaporin-7 (AQP7) channel mediates glycerol release from adipocytes. Genetic variants decreasing AQP7 expression are associated with adiposity and metabolic complications in humans. Using human data, mouse models, and cellular systems, we investigated how AQP7 influences adipose tissue maturation and homeostasis. Negative correlations between methylation on the AQP7 locus, expression of AQP7 in the adipose tissue and BMI were observed in humans. Mice lacking Aqp7 had increased body weight and visceral fat accumulation, due to adipocyte hypertrophy and chronic inflammation, impairing transport across the peritoneal membrane. These changes were further intensified by a high-glucose diet. Mechanistically, AQP7 deficiency disrupted the expression of genes related to adipogenesis and adipocyte function, resulting in a shift toward fibrosis and inflammation, while secreted factors from AQP7-null adipocytes promoted fibroblast activation. These findings establish AQP7 as a key regulator of adipose tissue homeostasis, metabolic dysregulation, and inflammation/fibrosis, exacerbated by glucose-induced obesity.
PXD062209	41203881	The composition and structure of the outer kinetochore KMN complex is conserved across kingdoms. 	The composition and structure of the outer kinetochore KMN complex is conserved across Kingdoms	AP-MS, KMN complex, kinetochore	In eukaryotes, chromosome segregation relies on attachment to the spindle, ensured by the kinetochore. The outer kinetochore attaches to the microtubules and is named after three sub-complexes KNL1C, MIS12C, and NDC80C (KMN). While the KMN complex comprises ten proteins in humans S. cerevisiae, its conservation in more distant eukaryotes is unclear. Here, we aimed to define the KMN complex in the plant Arabidopsis using affinity purification and identified thirteen KMN proteins. Seven were previously known to have a conserved function (atMIS12, atNNF1, atNDC80, atSPC24, atSPC25, atNUF2, and atKNL1) and six were uncharacterized. These six proteins show remote similarity to yeast/human KMN-associated proteins, whose homologs have not yet been characterized in plants. We named them atDSN1, atCSM1, atNSL1.1/.2, and atZWINT1.1/.2. We confirmed kinetochore localization for atDSN1, atCSM1, atNSL1.1, and atZWINT1.1 in planta. In addition, atDSN1, atCSM1, and ZWINT1.1/.2 are essential, further supporting their kinetochore function. AlphaFold3 predicts an alike3D organization of the KMN complex in plants and mammals. We conclude that the KMN complex is globally conserved with a matching composition and similar organization in distant eukaryotes, with some local variations, suggesting its presence in the common ancestors of all living eukaryotes.
PXD059716	41205924	Proximity labeling of the Tau repeat domain enriches RNA-binding proteins that are altered in Alzheimer's disease and related tauopathies. 	Proteomics of tau repeat domain interactome via split TurboID proximity labeling	Alzheimer's Disease, LFQ, MSFragger, Proximity Labeling, Tau	In Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other tauopathies, tau dissociates from microtubules and forms toxic aggregates that contribute to neurodegeneration. Although some of the pathological interactions of tau have been identified from postmortem brain tissue, these studies are limited by their inability to capture transient interactions. To investigate the interactome of aggregate-prone fragments of tau, we applied an in vitro proximity labeling technique using split TurboID biotin ligase (sTurbo) fused with the tau microtubule repeat domain (TauRD), a core region implicated in tau aggregation. We characterized this sTurbo TauRD tagging interactors with the requirement for both ligase fragment co-expression for robust enzyme activity and nuclear and cytoplasmic localization of the recombinant proteins. Following enrichment of biotinylated proteins and mass spectrometry, we identified over 700 TauRD interactors. Gene ontology analysis of enriched TauRD interactors highlighted processes often dysregulated in tauopathies, including spliceosome complexes, RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), and nuclear speckles. The disease relevance of these interactors was supported by integrating recombinant TauRD interactome data with human AD tau interactome datasets and protein co-expression networks from individuals with AD and related tauopathies. This revealed an overlap with the TauRD interactome and several modules enriched with RBPs and increased in AD and progressive supranuclear palsy. These findings emphasize the importance of nuclear pathways in tau pathology, such as mRNA surveillance and RNA splicing, establishing the sTurbo TauRD system as a valuable tool for exploring the tau interactome.
PXD058567	41206043	Pooled overexpression screening identifies PIPPI as a novel microprotein involved in the ER stress response. 	Pooled overexpression screening identifies PIPPI as a novel microprotein involved in the ER stress response	Integrated Stress Response, Melanoma, Microprotein	Microproteins encoded by short open reading frames (sORFs) of <100 codons have been predicted to constitute a substantial fraction of the eukaryotic proteome. However, the relevance and roles of a majority of microproteins remain undefined, as only a small fraction of these intriguing cellular players have been characterized in-depth so far. Here, we use pooled overexpression screens with a library of 11 338 sORFs to overcome the challenge of elucidating which of the thousands of putative translated sORFs are biologically functional. As a proof-of-concept, we performed a phenotypic screen to identify sORFs protecting cells from treatment with the nucleotide analogue 6-thioguanine. With this approach, we identified two cytoprotective microproteins: altDDIT3 and PIPPI. PIPPI is encoded within the LCR16a core duplicon of the Morpheus/NPIP gene cluster. We show that PIPPI modulates the cellular response to protein folding stress in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and interacts with proteins in the same pathway, including protein disulfide isomerase ERp44. PIPPI overexpression protects, while PIPPI knockdown sensitizes cells to ER stress. Besides providing mechanistic insights into a new microprotein, this study highlights the power of using pooled overexpression screens to identify functional microproteins.
PXD031967	41206398	Complete end-to-end learning from protein feature representation to protein interactome inference. 	Stable Isotope Labelling with Amino Acids in Cell Culture -  Size Exclusion Chromatography - Mass Spectrometry	MS, SILAC	BACKGROUND: Co-fractionation coupled with mass spectrometry (CF-MS) is a powerful strategy for mapping protein-protein interactions (PPIs) under near-physiological conditions. Despite recent progress, existing analysis pipelines remain constrained by reliance on handcrafted features, sensitivity to experimental noise, and an inherent focus on pairwise interactions, which limit their scalability and generalizability. To address these difficulties, we introduce FREEPII (Feature Representation Enhancement End-to-End Protein Interaction Inference), a unified deep learning framework that integrates CF-MS data with sequence-derived features to learn biologically meaningful protein-level representations for accurate and efficient inference of PPIs and protein complexes. RESULTS: FREEPII employs a convolutional neural network architecture to learn protein-level representations directly from raw data, enabling feature sharing across interaction pairs and reducing computational complexity. To enhance robustness against CF-MS noise, protein sequences are introduced as auxiliary input to enrich the feature space with complementary biological cues. The supervised protein embeddings further encode network-level context derived from complex annotations, allowing the model to capture higher-order interactions and enhance the expressive power of protein representations. Extensive benchmarking demonstrates that FREEPII consistently outperforms state-of-the-art CF-MS analysis tools, capturing more biologically coherent and discriminative protein features. Cross-dataset evaluations further reveal that integrating multimodal data from diverse experimental contexts substantially improves the generalization and sensitivity of data-driven models, offering a scalable, cross-species strategy for reliable protein interaction inference. CONCLUSIONS: FREEPII provides a unified computational framework that integrates CF-MS data and sequence-derived features to learn discriminative and biologically consistent protein representations. By leveraging multimodal inputs through a coherent deep learning architecture, the model achieves accurate and scalable inference of PPIs and protein complexes across species. Its modality-aware design and supervised protein embeddings capture higher-order interaction contexts, ensuring robust generalization and reliable discovery of novel interactions. Overall, FREEPII offers a flexible and extensible foundation for data-driven exploration of protein interaction networks.
PXD068315	41206965	Efficient enrichment of plasma-derived extracellular vesicles from small volumes of bovine blood. 	Running title: Highly pure isolation of small extracellular vesicles from bovine plasma Title: Technical note: Efficient enrichment of plasma-derived extracellular vesicles from small volumes of bovine blood	Biomarker discovery, lipoprotein removal, methodology optimization, phenotypic expressions, vesicle-associated proteins	There is a growing interest in small extracellular vesicles (sEVs). These nanoparticles, which range in diameter from 30 to 150 nm, are secreted by cells into their surrounding environment and transfer biological content to distant cells. However, the lack of consensus on sEV isolation, from bovine plasma limits their study. This work aimed to develop an optimized method to enrich sEVs from 4 mL of bovine blood plasma. To increase the yield of sEVs while reducing contamination from other particles and free proteins, sEVs were isolated from 38 bovine plasma samples of crossbred heifers using sequential centrifugation and filtration with size-exclusion chromatography. In accordance with the Minimal Information for Studies of Extracellular Vesicles (MISEV) guidelines, the sEV preparations were characterized in terms of size, particles concentration, morphology, and sEV markers. To accurately estimate particle size and distribution, we used a combination of three methods. This approach confirmed that 76% of the particles fell within the expected range of 30-150 nm for sEVs. The preparations were pure, with an average particle-to-protein ratio of 2.4 x 108 particles/microg of protein. This is comparable to or exceeds recent observations in bovine and other mammalian species when blood plasma and serum are used. Moreover, albumin, accounted for only 1.8-6.5% of the final protein abundance, indicating a 90-98% depletion relatively to raw plasma. Microscopy confirmed the presence of cup-shaped particles characteristic of sEVs. Proteomic characterization identified 417 proteins (FDR 1%, >= 2 peptides), corresponding to 372 unique homologous human gene names, including the cytosolic (HSPA8, SDCBP, ACT, TUB, GAPDH) and membrane (CD9, CD81) markers of sEVs. Of these proteins, 347 (93%) are referenced in  Vesiclepedia, an international database of sEV proteome, suggesting a strong enrichment of sEVs during the purification process. This finding is supported by the identification of 172 significantly enriched Gene Ontology terms related to sEV annotation (P < 0.01, Fisher's one-tailed test with Benjamin-Hochberg correction) such as GO:0005615 (extracellular space) and GO:1903561 (extracellular vesicle). According to the MISEV guidelines and proteomic requirements, the proposed optimized sEV enrichment protocol is suitable for 4 mL of plasma. These results pave the way for future research into the role of sEVs in relation to animal health and performance.
PXD058732	41210773	Long-Term Effects of Radiation Therapy on Cerebral Microvessel Proteome: A Six Month Post-Exposure Analysis. 	Long-Term Effects of Radiation Therapy on Cerebral Microvessel Proteome	brain, radiation therapy	Radiation therapy (RT) treats primary and metastatic brain tumors, with about one million Americans surviving beyond six months post-treatment. However, up to 90% of these survivors develop RT-induced cognitive impairment. Emerging evidence links cognitive decline to RT-induced endothelial dysfunction in brain microvessels, yet in vivo studies remain limited. Investigating the molecular and cellular pathways connecting RT, endothelial injury, and cognitive impairment is vital for developing targeted interventions. We performed quantitative proteomic analysis of cerebral microvessels from five control and five irradiated mice (12 Gy) 6 months post-RT. Bioinformatics tools, including gene ontology (GO) enrichment, Mitocarta analysis, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), and iPathwayGuide, identified affected pathways. Findings were validated by Western blotting. RT significantly altered 414 proteins, with 157 upregulated and 257 downregulated. GO analysis indicated metabolic pathway disruptions, and Mitocarta analysis revealed a significant presence of mitochondrial proteins among the dysregulated proteins. IPA identified 76 enriched canonical pathways, 34 transcription regulators, 6 nuclear receptors, and 5 growth factors involved in RT-induced damage responses. IPA predicted mitochondrial dysfunction in the irradiated group, confirmed by Western blotting. Significant proteomic changes in cerebral microvessels suggest RT-induced metabolic dysfunction in cerebral microvasculature, including oxidative phosphorylation, the TCA cycle, and glycolysis.
PXD057842	41211195	Impact of the production method on the properties of erythrocyte-derived extracellular particles: a quantitative and qualitative evaluation. 	Impact of the production method on the properties of erythrocyte-derived extracellular particles: a quantitative and qualitative evaluation	Erythrocyte-derived extracellular particles (RBCEPs), Red blood cell-derived extracellular vesicles	Red blood cell-derived extracellular particles (RBCEPs) possess many benefits in healthcare applications representing a simple and powerful platform for drug delivery. Nowadays, whether the different methods proposed to produce them could influence their properties remains poorly investigated. We compared three main types of RBCEPs: (i) naturally released during the blood bag storage (EryErythrosomes, EryEs), (ii) produced artificially through RBC sonication (NanoErythrosomes, NanoEs), and (iii) released after RBC chemical stimulation (Vesiculation-Induced EryEs, VI-EryEs). Concentration, protein amount, size distribution, and morphology (TEM) were preliminary evaluated. Then the expression of EV- and erythrocyte-associated markers was assessed by flow cytometry and western blot while proteomic analyses estimated the differences in total protein content. The efficiency of membrane functionalization was assessed by copper-free click chemistry. All three subpopulations were able to be produced on a large scale, with NanoEs being the ones with the highest concentration, polydispersity, and largest dimension. The traditional EV-associated rounded shape was found to coexist with a tubular shape. Tetraspanin expression was absent while all three formulations expressed Alix, Flotillin-1, and Tsg101. On the other hand, Glycophorin A was the only RBC marker expressed ubiquitously. The analyzed subpopulations showed three distinct proteomic signatures which defined distinct enrichment profiles of molecular functions. Finally, NanoEs turned out to be the most efficient in surface functionalization adopting a copper-free click chemistry strategy. This work provides a pioneering contribution to the study and application of RBCEPs, indicating that the isolation method can significantly impact both the quantitative and qualitative properties of these natural nanoparticles.
PXD059625	41213968	Piwil-2 represents a poor prognosticator in Merkel cell carcinomas that regulates oncoproteins, cell cycle arrest and SOX-2 expression. 	Piwil-2 is associated with advanced tumor stage and poor outcome in Merkel cell carcinomas	MCPyV, Merkel cell carcinoma, Piwil-2, SOX-2, piRNA	Merkel cell carcinomas (MCCs) are rare, highly aggressive skin cancers with poor outcome due to early lymphatic tumor spread and frequent recurrences. MCCs mostly occur in the head and neck and are mainly caused by an infection with the Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV). Increasing evidence suggests that Piwil-2 and small non-coding PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) play an important role in solid malignancies and we thought that this might also be the case for MCCs. Therefore, Piwil-2 expression was first evaluated in 27 MCC specimens and correlated with oncological outcome. We found an association with high Piwil-2 expression and advanced tumor stage, MCPyV positivity and poor outcome. Next, we utilized siRNAs for Piwil-2 knock-down in MCC cells. Downregulation of Piwil-2 caused a significant change of 202 different piRNAs and 419 proteins. Interestingly, proteins related to viral driven MCC pathways (TRRAP, BRD8, PRIM2, ORC4) were significantly downregulated. Moreover, there was a moderate cell cycle arrest of cells in the G0/G1-phase, as well as a significant upregulation of SOX-2, a key regulator of Merkel cells. Altogether, Piwil-2 poses a poor prognosticator in MCCs, which is linked to MCC oncogenesis and SOX-2. Further research is needed to better understand underlying mechanisms and to prove their clinical relevance.
PXD053973	41214136	Proteomic changes induced by acute exercise and high-intensity interval training during pregnancy: a pilot randomised controlled trial. 	HIIT and Pregnancy: Proteomic Insights into Metabolic and Immune Adaptations	HIIT, Physical activity, Pregnancy, Urine samples	Physical activity is essential for maternal health during pregnancy, with WHO guidelines recommending at least 150 min of moderate-intensity aerobic physical activity per week. However, there is a lack of data on the impact of higher-intensity exercise during pregnancy, including the potential health effects of high-intensity interval training (HIIT). In this study, we aimed to analyse the changes induced by a cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET) up to volitional exhaustion and an 8-week HIIT program on the urine proteome of pregnant women, using the SWATH-MS technique and provide insights into molecular processes influenced by HIIT. We recruited 18 women with uncomplicated singleton pregnancies between 13 and 28 weeks of gestation. All women underwent CPET to assess their peak oxygen uptake (VO2 peak), oxygen uptake at the anaerobic threshold (VO2/AT), and heart rate at the anaerobic threshold (HR/AT). Of these women, 9 participated in HIIT sessions three times for 8 weeks and were encouraged to exceed their HR/AT during the exercise intervals. Furthermore, nine women in the EDU group attended educational classes once a week and were advised to engage in moderate to vigorous physical activity independently, in accordance with current recommendations. We observed significant alterations in the urinary proteome after the CPET, with a higher scale of differentially expressed proteins compared to the changes observed after 8 weeks of the HIIT program. Notable changes included proteins involved in calcium ion binding, enzyme inhibitory activity, and immune system pathways, particularly neutrophil degranulation. Proteins such as ARSA, NPC2, MME, and CD177 showed significant regulation, indicating metabolic adaptations and immune responses. The observed downregulation of proteins, such as TFF2, associated with insulin resistance, suggests that HIIT may have potential benefits in preventing gestational diabetes. Our findings demonstrate that while CPET induces immediate metabolic and immune changes, regular HIIT leads to adaptations, reflected in a decrease in the number of altered proteins over time. Further studies are needed to confirm these findings and explore the long-term benefits of HIIT for pregnant women. Nevertheless, this pilot research provides a novel proteomic perspective on the impact of HIIT during pregnancy, underscoring its potential to improve maternal health through targeted metabolic and immune system adaptations.
PXD068695	41216884	Extracellular Vesicles From Multiple Sclerosis White Matter Exhibit Synaptic, Mitochondrial, Complement and Ageing-Related Pathway Dysregulation. 	Characterization of MS white matter derived extracellular vesicles	Human Brain	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are increasingly recognized as mediators of central nervous system (CNS) function and pathologies, including multiple sclerosis (MS). While plasma-derived EVs have been explored as biomarkers in MS, little is known about EVs in CNS tissue. Here, we characterize EVs from postmortem normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) of MS and control brains. EVs were separated by differential centrifugation followed by size exclusion chromatography and characterized using nanoflow cytometry, single-particle reflectance imaging sensing (SP-IRIS) and transmission electron microscopy. EV size, yield and morphology did not differ significantly between MS and control samples. Despite the small sample size (n = 4 per group), proteomic analyses revealed downregulation of synaptic and mitochondrial proteins and upregulation of complement and inflammatory proteins and pathways in MS NAWM EVs. This suggests that EVs reflect ongoing synaptic pathology, metabolic dysfunction and CNS-compartmentalized inflammation and that they may actively contribute to these pathological processes. Deconvolution analyses suggest a shift in EV cellular origin, with an increased astrocytic and decreased neuronal EV contribution in MS. Several proteomic changes we observed in CNS-derived EVs have also been reported in circulating EVs of people with MS, establishing this CNS tissue EV study as a valuable resource for identifying biomarker candidates for brain-derived plasma EV studies.
PXD058013	41219214	Bidirectional communication between nucleotide and substrate binding sites in a type IV multidrug ABC transporter. 	Bidirectional signaling between nucleotide and substrate binding sites in a type IV multidrug ABC transporter	BmrA, HDX-MS, multidrug transporter	ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters use ATP to transport substrates across membranes. In type IV ABC transporters, which include many multidrug resistance (MDR) pumps, communication between nucleotide-binding domains (NBDs) and transmembrane domains (TMDs) is mediated via large intracellular domains containing 'coupling helices'. However, how ATP hydrolysis and substrate transport are functionally coordinated remains unclear. In the bacterial type IV MDR transporter BmrA, we identify a conserved residue cluster at the NBD/TMD interface centered on W413. Mutation of this tryptophan uncouples ATP hydrolysis from transport activity. Mutagenesis, functional assays, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, and photo-induced electron-transfer fluorescence correlation spectroscopy show that the cluster forms a bidirectional communication hinge that relays signals between the NBD and TMD via coupling helix 2. Hinge mutations affect both local and global dynamics thereby influencing transporter activity. These findings uncover an allosteric pathway critical for functional coupling in multidomain ABC transporters.
PXD068828	41223077	Membrane-mimetic thermal proteome profiling (MM-TPP) toward mapping membrane protein-ligand dynamic interactions. 	Membrane mimetic thermal proteome profiling (MM-TPP) towards mapping  membrane protein-ligand dynamic interactions	Membrane Mimetic Thermal Proteome Profiling, Membrane Proteins, mus musculus, orbitrap exploris	Integral membrane proteins (IMPs) are central targets for small-molecule therapeutics, yet robust, unbiased, and detergent-free approaches to assess their on- and off-target interactions remain limited. Previously, we introduced the Peptidisc membrane mimetic (MM) for water-soluble stabilization of the membrane proteome and interactome (Carlson et al., eLife, 2019). In this work, we combine the Peptidisc with thermal proteome profiling (TPP) to establish membrane-mimetic thermal proteome profiling (MM-TPP), a method that enables proteome-wide mapping of membrane protein-ligand interactions. Using a membrane protein library derived from mouse liver tissue, we detected the specific effects of ATP and orthovanadate on the thermal stability of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters, as well as stability shifts driven by the hydrotropic effect of ATP and its by-products on G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). In contrast, detergent-based TPP (DB-TPP) with ATP-VO4 failed to yield specific enrichment of ATP-binding proteins, underscoring the unique capacity of MM-TPP. To further validate the approach, we demonstrated the ability of MM-TPP to detect specific ligand-induced stabilization of cognate targets, exemplified by the selective thermal stabilization of the P2RY12 receptor by 2-methylthio-ADP. Together, these findings position MM-TPP as a robust platform for uncovering both on- and off-target effects of small molecules, providing insights into the druggable membrane proteome and its stability in consequence of changing dynamic ligands.
PXD068000	41227334	Proteomics of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy Patient iPSC-Derived Skeletal Muscle Cells Reveal Differential Expression of Cytoskeletal and Extracellular Matrix Proteins. 	Proteomics of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy Patient iPSC - Derived Skeletal Muscle Cells Reveal Differential Expression of Myosin 9, Collagen 18A, Tropomyosin 1, NCAM1, BASP1 and RUVBL1	Disease Modelling, Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, Organoids, Patient Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells, Skeletal Muscle	Proteomics of dystrophic muscle samples is limited by the amount of protein that can be extracted from patient biopsies. Cells and tissues derived from patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) can be an expandable alternative source. We have patterned iPSCs from three Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) patient lines into skeletal muscle cells using a two-dimensional as well as our three-dimensional organoid differentiation system. Probes with sufficient protein amounts could be extracted and prepared for mass spectrometry. In total, 3007 proteins in 2D and 2709 proteins in 3D were detected in DMD patient probes. A total of 83 proteins in 2D and 338 proteins in 3D can be described as differentially expressed between DMD and control patient probes in a post hoc test. We have identified and we propose Myosin-9, Collagen 18A, Tropomyosin 1, BASP1, RUVBL1, and NCAM1 as proteins specifically altered in their expression in DMD for further investigation. Proteomics of skeletal muscle organoids resulted in greater consistency of results between cell lines in comparison to the two-dimensional myogenic differentiation protocol.
PXD068303	41227523	Melatonin Rescues Triclosan-Disrupted Porcine Oocyte Meiosis via Suppression of p53-Mediated Apoptosis. 	Melatonin Rescues Triclosan-Disrupted Porcine Oocyte Meiosis via Suppression of p53-Mediated Apoptosis	Apoptosis, Melatonin, Porcine oocytes, Triclosan, p53	Triclosan (TCS), a widely used environmental antimicrobial agent, poses potential risks to female reproductive health, yet its toxic effects on oocyte maturation remain inadequately characterized. In this study, we established an in vitro maturation (IVM) model of porcine oocytes to investigate TCS-induced meiotic impairment and to evaluate the rescuing effects of melatonin (MT), an endogenous indoleamine with potent antioxidant and anti-apoptotic activities. Our results demonstrated that TCS exposure significantly disrupted oocyte maturation, as evidenced by suppressed polar body extrusion and compromised cumulus expansion. Furthermore, TCS triggered early apoptosis. Proteomic analysis revealed that the p53 signaling pathway was significantly dysregulated by TCS exposure. Notably, co-treatment with MT during IVM effectively restored meiotic progression, attenuated apoptosis, and rebalanced the disrupted proteomic profile. Mechanistic investigation, validated by Western blotting, confirmed that TCS upregulated p53 and downregulated its downstream cell cycle effector CCNB1 while concurrently altering the ratio of apoptosis-related proteins BAX/BCL-2. Melatonin treatment effectively normalized the expression of these key proteins (p53, CCNB1, BAX, and BCL-2). These findings illustrate that MT rescues TCS-impaired oocyte quality through p53-dependent suppression of apoptosis and restoration of meiotic progression, providing new insights into potential strategies for mitigating environmental pollutant-induced reproductive damage.
PXD067300	41227642	Foodborne Lactic Acid Bacteria Inactivate Planktonic and Sessile Escherichia coli O157:H7 in a Meat Processing Environment: A Physiological and Proteomic Study. 	Foodborne Lactic Acid Bacteria Inactivate Planktonic and Ses-sile Escherichia coli O157:H7 in a meat processing environment: A Physiological and Proteomic Study	Biofilm, Bioprotection, EHEC, Lactic Acid Bacteria, Meat, Processing Environment	Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) forms persistent biofilms on meat processing surfaces, posing a significant cross-contamination risk. This study assessed the antagonistic capacity of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) against EHEC under meat-processing-like conditions. Three LAB strains were tested in planktonic co-culture with EHEC at 12 degreesC, all displaying bactericidal activity. In biofilm assays on stainless steel, LAB reduced EHEC biofilms without affecting their own viability. LAB cell-free supernatants further inhibited EHEC biofilms by 2.6-3.5 log CFU/cm(2), highlighting the role of secreted antagonistic compounds. Among the tested strains, Pediococcus pentosaceus CRL 2145 showed the strongest effect and was selected for deeper analysis. Fluorescence microscopy confirmed EHEC cell death within mixed biofilms. Proteomic profiling of CRL 2145 under mixed-biofilm conditions revealed 162 differentially expressed proteins, with 156 upregulated. These proteins were mainly associated with metabolism, transcription, translation, and stress response pathways, suggesting a multifactorial inhibitory mechanism involving metabolic dominance, physical competition, and secretion of antagonistic molecules. Overall, this study deepens our understanding of the molecular and physiological aspects of LAB-EHEC interaction. P. pentosaceus CRL 2145 emerges as a promising biocontrol agent that could be applied, alone or with its supernatants, to meat processing surfaces to improve food safety. Proteomic data: ProteomeXchange PXD067300.
PXD056016	41230953	The impact of hypoxia on the cellular phenotype and proteome of KGN cells. 	The impact of hypoxia on KGN cells	Granulosa cell tumor, hypoxia	Abstract: Human KGN cells are a widely studied cellular model for human granulosa cell tumors (GCTs), as well as for non-tumorous human granulosa cells. Such studies are typically performed at oxygen (O2) levels, which are equivalent to the atmospheric concentration, for practical reasons. However, in most tissues of the human body, as well as in tumors, much lower O2 levels exist. Hypoxic conditions can regulate the phenotype and the behavior of cells in a cell-type-specific way. However, how they may impact KGN cells, was not well known. The aim of this study was therefore to evaluate the consequences of a defined hypoxic condition (1% O2; 10 days) in KGN cells. Compared to cells cultured under atmospheric conditions, hypoxia reduced the numbers and increased the size of KGN cells, but did not alter cell velocity in cell migration studies. Hypoxia affected the cellular proteome of KGN cells (57 more and 75 less abundant proteins). The associated pathways indicate, among others, metabolic adaptations and mitochondrial changes evoked by hypoxia. The KGN responses may be related, in part, to the increased nuclear expression of hypoxia inducible transcription factor 1alpha (HIF1alpha). The results provide a detailed picture of hypoxia-induced changes in KGNs and are a resource for future studies. If transferable to the in situ-situation, they shed light on how variable O2 levels within the GCT microenvironment may regulate tumor cells and thereby may contribute to tumor cell heterogeneity. Lay summary: Human cells can be isolated from the body and can be kept alive in incubators, in which, mainly for practical reasons, the oxygen (O2) levels typically correspond to the surrounding atmosphere. This does, however, not reflect the condition within the human body, where much lower O2 levels exist. This study shows the importance of low O2 levels on the cellular make-up and behavior of KGN cells, which are accepted models for a group of ovarian tumors (granulosa cell tumors), as well as normal non-tumorous granulosa cells (from which they originate). We found that when KGN cells were exposed to low O2 levels, cell numbers and cell size, as well as cellular proteins and RNA changed. The experiments, revealing adaptations associated with hypoxia, may contribute to a better understanding of the normal ovary and ovarian tumors.
PXD001626	6260970	Structural polypeptides of simian rotavirus SA11 and the effect of trypsin. 	Widespread somatic L1 retrotransposition occurs early during gastrointestinal cancer evolution	L1, Retrotransposon, adenoma, carcinoma, colorectal cancer	Analysis of purified simian rotavirus has shown that it contains fewer structural polypeptide classes than previously reported. Two polypeptides (molecular weights, 62,000 and 28,000) commonly found in purified rotaviruses were, in fact, produced by cleavage of a larger structural polypeptide (molecular weight, about 88,000) by trypsin, which is usually employed to increase the yield of rotaviruses in tissue culture. Trypsin-uncleaved, double-shelled rotaviruses are probably composed of only five polypeptide classes; three in the inner layer, and two in the outer layer.
PXD036326	9537338	Upregulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase by HMG CoA reductase inhibitors. 	Arterial-Venous Endothelial Cell Cycle Proteins Differential Expression	HUVEC, S/G2/M, cell cycle, early G1, endothelial cells, late G1, proteogenomics	BACKGROUND: Oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) causes endothelial dysfunction in part by decreasing the availability of endothelial nitric oxide (NO). Although HMG CoA reductase inhibitors restore endothelial function by reducing serum cholesterol levels, it is not known whether they can also directly upregulate endothelial NO synthase (ecNOS) activity. METHODS AND RESULTS: Human saphenous vein endothelial cells were treated with ox-LDL (50 microg/mL thiobarbituric acid reactive substances 12 to 16 nmol/mg) in the presence of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors simvastatin and lovastatin. In a time-dependent manner, ox-LDL decreased ecNOS mRNA and protein levels (91+/-4% and 67+/-8% reduction after 72 hours, respectively). Both simvastatin (1 micromol/L) and lovastatin (10 micromol/L) upregulated ecNOS expression by 3.8-fold and 3.6-fold, respectively, and completely prevented its downregulation by ox-LDL. These effects of simvastatin on ecNOS expression correlated with changes in ecNOS activity. Although L-mevalonate alone did not affect ecNOS expression, cotreatment with L-mevalonate completely reversed ecNOS upregulation by simvastatin. Actinomycin D studies revealed that simvastatin stabilized ecNOS mRNA (tau1/2, 43 versus 35 hours). Nuclear run-on assays and transient transfection studies with a -1.6 kb ecNOS promoter construct showed that simvastatin did not affect ecNOS gene transcription. CONCLUSIONS: Inhibition of endothelial HMG CoA reductase upregulates ecNOS expression predominantly by posttranscriptional mechanisms. These findings suggest that HMG CoA reductase inhibitors may have beneficial effects in atherosclerosis beyond that attributed to the lowering of serum cholesterol by increasing ecNOS activity.
